A10|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.
A10|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
A10|A Framework for Brand Rejuvenation: Private Universities in Malaysia|Objective – University branding becomes critical issue due to increasing number of private universities in Malaysia. Although education efforts in Malaysia has been continuously progress, institutions have difficulties to maintain as a powerful brand in competitive industry. Methodology/Technique – Bringing back a brand that consumers already familiar can save a lot of money. While some of institutions are able to maintain its brand image, some are still struggling even to meet the break even and unable to reposition the brand. While there are past studies and experiences on brand knowledge structures in hand, it is still confusing stage for how one could rebuild the brand image to achieve the intended positioning. Findings – The academic literature is particularly sparse in addressing this, and it is a confusing issue for the practitioners. The research discovers the theoretical foundations that relate to rebranding concepts and most critical factors that contribute to rebuilding the brand image of private institutions in Malaysia. Novelty – The current study seeks to shed light on the challenges of undertaking a rebranding exercise and introduce a framework that caters to the needs of brand managers at higher education institutions in Malaysia. Type of Paper: Review.
A10|The division of labor and the extent of the market|A firm’s degree of specialization is modeled as the number of different goods it produces. When a firm chooses its degree of specialization, it faces a tradeoff between the fixed cost and the marginal cost of production. A firm’s degree of specialization is shown to increase with the extent of the market. Meanwhile, the real wage rate, as a measure of the extent of the market, is endogenously determined in the model and is shown to increase with the division of labor. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin/Heidelberg 2004
A10|Publication Performance and Number of Authors – Evidence for World Top Economists|In social sciences the measurement of performance is usually done giving the full credit of each paper to all its authors. Aiming to analyze the impact of the number of authors on the performance results, we propose an adjustment to the h-index that is flexible enough to allow the consideration of distinct co-authorship weighting schemes. We then evaluate the publication performance of the members of the departments of economics of the top 10 world universities (472 authors; 15,243 papers). Our results show that the number of authors per paper is rapidly increasing and that this dimension measurably affects the final ranking of authors even in a scientific area in which the average number of authors is lower than in physical and life sciences.
A10|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
A10|Estimation of the education influence on the population income|From the beginning of the 20th century, forming the knowledge economy, creating the human capital and providing sustainable development on basis of the development of education arrange the priorities of the economic policy in the advanced countries of the world. Some researchers show that if all other factors are constant and the portion of population having the high education in structure of economically active population grows, it will raise the labour productivities and wages of all workers including the workers having the lower education level too. In this study international research methods have been investigated for the qualitative evaluation of educational system and comparison with the achievements of other countries. Based on world countries data, authors have comparatively analyzed the indicators characterizing the welfare of population such as income and wages influenced by the education. In the study the mode of life of a population, including the relationship between the income of the population and level of their educations have been investigated through the econometric modeling. Models have been realized by means of Eviews Software on based of data for the years 1996-2017.
A10|The Assessment of Impact of Competitiveness to Economic Development|Competition plays key driving force for economic development in the efficient market economy. To achieve competitive advantage at the international level, each country needs to improve competitiveness on different economic indicators at the national level. The Global Competitiveness Report 2018 of World Economic Forum calculated the competitiveness index of countries under 98 sub-indexes. The goal of the research is econometric assessment of the impact of competitiveness to economic development in the oil rich countries, such as Azerbaijan. For the purposes of this research, the global rating of Azerbaijan was determined through calculating the volume of GDP, as well as, oil and non-oil GDP. The research was conducted by applying systematic and statistical analysis and running Excell and Eviews8 calculations. As a result, the impact of competitiveness index to the GDP (oil and non-oil GDP) at the oil rich countries, such as Azerbaijan was calculated and following outcomes were achieved: The semi-elasticity coefficient is above 1 on the volume of non-oil GDP on the competitiveness index. That means, if the competitiveness of Azerbaijan increases on the global rating then the next year non-oil GDP increases more than 1%. The improvement of the competitiveness indicators in the current year in Azerbaijan increases non-oil sector the following year. It takes time to attract investments to a country, so this outcome is expected. The semi-elasticity coefficient of the GDP volume on the competitiveness index is smaller than the semi-elasticity coefficient of the non-oil GDP at the oil rich countries. The practical importance of the research: this study can motivate other scholars to conduct reseach on the area. The innovativeness and uniqueness of the research: the impact of the competitiveness indicators on the economic growth has been assesed in Azerbaijan.
A10|Assessment of the integration relationships between science and education at the doctoral|In this article the integration between science and education has been studied. The number of indexed scientific articles in Azerbaijan is accepted as a explained variable, which is pulled up from SCOPUS scientific bibliographic base and its dependence on the number of admitted PhD students has been assesed running the econometric model. In addition, the dependence of explained variable on the GDP value, education and science has been calculated by running the econometric models. As a result, the ratio of Doctor of Science to Doctor of Philosophy has been calculated.
A10|Solving the Grid-Connected Microgrid Operation by Teaching Learning Based Optimization Algorithm|In this paper, the grid-connected operation of microgrid is investigated where the microgrid can exchange power with the main grid. The proposed problem is modeled as the mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) and is solved by an evolutionary algorithm known as the teaching learning-based optimization (TLBO). Finally, the proposed model is tested on a modified IEEE 33 bus test system to show the performance of the method.
A10|A New Nonconvex quadratic programming Technique: Practical and Fast Solver Method|There exist many problems that nonconvex which are hard to solve. To overcome the nonconvexity of the problems, this paper presents a novel YALMIP-based nonconvex quadratic programming model to overcome the nonconvex problem. The proposed method is accurate, and no need to convexify the problem. Finally, some results are presented to show the effectiveness and merit of the model.
A10|Monetary Policy in Perspective Conventional Economy and Islamic Economics|This article describes the perspective of differences between monetary policy in conventional economics and Islamic economics. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that Islamic monetary policy offers an economic system that is more resistant to monetary crises because the Islamic monetary system does not use an interest rate system so that it can stabilize prices more and be able to control inflation compared to the conventional monetary system.
A10|Poverty analysis in the macroeconomic perspective|Abstract Poverty is one of the problems in a complex and multi-dimensional economy. Therefore, efforts to alleviate poverty must be carried out comprehensively covering various aspects of people's lives. In the discussion of this journal by focusing the discussion on the relationship between inflation and poverty reduction. Price stabilization and inflation are still considered more general problems and are rarely associated with poverty reduction issues. One of the factors of increasing poverty that occurs is due to higher inflation rates and price volatility. For this reason, a comprehensive and effective macroeconomic policy is needed to reduce poverty. At this writing, the literature study is taken from library data and secondary data as support.
A10|Peluang dan Tantangan Financial Technologi Syariah di Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
A10|Opportunities and Challenges of Sharia Technology Financials in Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
A10|Price Control in Islamic Economics|In economics, we often hear the word price and its scope. In this case, the relation is how the value that becomes the transaction between the seller and the buyer is the replacement of the goods or services exchanged. The economy is one of the teachers in the country's life. The strength and weakness of a country's economic system are determined by pricing so that price stability occurs. But it is not easy to create an economy at a stable price because sometimes the demand level is higher than the supply and vice versa.
A10|Kritik atas Sistem Bunga Perbankan Konvensional dan Solusi Moneter Islam|The purpose of this study is to review some of the criticisms of the Bank's interest system. Issues related to whether bank interest including usury or not usury has been debated and is still being discussed to date by Islamic economists. But now there has been criticism from Western or Conventional Economists of the negative impact of the Bank's interest in the economy. The method used is a qualitative method using descriptive analysis and literature review. From these experiences, the Islamic Monetary System which is free from interest can be a solution to realize prosperity and guarantee economic injustice. this system is expected not only to increase the money in circulation but how to be able to improve the performance of the real sector in accordance with Islamic sharia. Because basically in the Islamic monetary system, it is not only aimed at material welfare but aims at moral well-being. There are at least five values of Islamic economic instruments that can be integrated into the economic system, namely zakat, waqf, social security, the justice system in resolving economic disputes and sharia financial institutions.
A10|Problematics in Development and Management of Money Affairs (Cash Affairs) in Indonesia|This article explains the problems in the development and management of cash waqf in Indonesia. Cash waqf by people, groups of people, and institutions or legal entities in the form of cash. Waqf cash is still debated among scholars whether it is legal or not, and managing cash waqf professionally is still a discourse and not many people or institutions can accept such waqf models. This article also discusses understanding, legal basis, problematics, management and solutions. Also discussed about cash waqf as the basis for community economic development by opening up Muslim rigidity to cash waqf, as well as the economic prospects of waqf property. The potential of waqf is one of the instruments of economic empowerment for Muslims even though management in Indonesia is still not good. But seen from the number, waqf property in Indonesia is quite large. Money waqf has played an important role as one of the new Islamic fiscal instruments in the economy. Money waqf has two functions as a means of worship and the achievement of social welfare. This article tries to explore how the problems in developing money waqf management such as the way it is distributed and its circulation and how the waqf is able to have a good impact on the surrounding community.
A10|Transaksi Jual Beli Online (E-Commerce) dalam Perspektif Hukum Islam|The more developed science and technology, the more developed methods used in the buying and selling process. E-commerce is a commercial transaction carried out between the seller and the buyer or with another party in the same agreement relationship to send a number of goods, services, or transfer of rights. This research is classified as Library Research, where data is collected by quoting in library research, literature searches are carried out rather than preparing a research framework or proposal to obtain similar research, deepening theoretical studies or sharpening methodologies. Based on the discussion of the results of the study, it can be concluded that online e-commerce is similar to the greeting contract, which is payment in advance and the item is received in the future.
A10|Solving the Economic Scheduling of Grid-Connected Microgrid Based on the Strength Pareto Approach|This paper focuses on the operation of a microgrd which is connected to the main grid and can exchange power with it. To do so, the problem is modeled using mixed-integer linear programming (MILP). In the next step, an evolutionary algorithm known as Strength Perto Algorithm (SPA) is utilized to solve the model. In the end, the performance accuracy of the method is tested on a modified IEEE 69 bus test system.
A10|Prioritization of sustainability indicators for promoting the circular economy: The case of developing countries|The concept of the circular economy has gained well-recognition across the world for the past decades. With the heightening risk of the impact of climate change, resource scarcity to meet the increasing world population, the need to transition to a more sustainable development model is urgent. The circular economy is often cited as one of the best solutions to support sustainable development. However, the diffusion of this concept in the industrial arena is still relatively slow, particularly in the developing country, which collectively exerts high potential to be the world’s largest economies and workforce. It is crucial to make sure that the development of these nations is sustainable and not bearing on the cost of future generation. Thus, this work aims to provide a comprehensive review of the circular economy concept in developing country context. Furthermore, a novel model is proposed by adopting Fuzzy Analytics Network Process (FANP) to quantify the priority weights of the sustainability indicators to provide guidelines for the industry stakeholders at different stages of industry cycle to transition toward the circular economy. The results revealed that improvement in economic performance and public acceptance are they key triggers to encourage stakeholders for sustainable development. The outcomes serve as a reference to enhance the overall decision-making process of industry stakeholders. Local authorities can adopt the recommendations to design policy and incentive that encourage the adoption of circular economy in real industry operation to spur up economic development, without neglecting environmental well-being and jeopardizing social benefits.
A10|Economy of Kalimantan: a Snapshot|This chapter aims to give a snapshot of the economies in Kalimantan provinces. Salient factors such as sharing common border with North Kalimantan, Kalimantan as Sabah’s backdoor neighbor with huge market size of over 4 times than Sabah and the relocation of Indonesia’s capital from Jakarta to Kalimantan, have stimulated the interests of many analysts to research on the structure of Kalimantan’s economy in general.
A10|Behavior Tourism of Tourist Who come to 100 ? Year ? Old Samchuk Market for Tourist Purpose Suphanburi Province, Thailand|The purposes of this research has 2 objectives, Which are studying of Behavior Tourism and the factors that have impact on Tourist Who come to 100 ? Year ? Old Samchuk Market for Tourist Purpose. The research uses questionnaire to collect data from 400 Tourist. The data analysis methods which have been used in this research are percentage calculation, mean, standard deviation and the testing of relationship of variation factors by using Chi-square The results Behavior of Tourist to find that The percentage of female is 53% and male is 47% Tourist age between 50 ? 59 years old is 33.3% of tourist who have bachelor degree is 46.5%, unmarried is 50.8%, government official is 34.3%, travel with staff is 47.3, travel for tourist purpose seminar is 55.8%, impression in uniqueness of tourist site is 49.5%, money spending for tourist per time per person amount 1000 ? 2000 baht is 5.3%. The most popular goods is food and beverage is 60.8%. The percentage of most of the tourists who travel during weekend is 70.8%, of tourists who travel between January to March is 47.8%, of tourists who get information from friend is 42.8%, of tourists who want to re-visit 100 ? Year ? Old Samchuk Market is 53.5. The factors related to goods character, tourist designation places and tourist promotion package from the government have much influent on decision making of tourist to visit 100 ? Year ? Old Samchuk Market and the analysis of factors that have correlation with tourist behavior on money spending per time per person of tourist who visit 100 ? Year ? Old Samchuk Market The Gender, age, education level, married status, career, monthly income, goods character, tourist designation places and tourist promotion package from the government have related to with tourist behavior in term of money spending per time per person at the statistical significant at 0.05 level.
A10|Education And Earnings In South Africa: An Application Of The Mincerian Function|The understanding of the interaction between education and income can never be exhausted, mainly because education remains the leading mechanism for upward social mobility. The argument is that people with higher levels of income are more likely to earn a higher income that those with lower level of education, that?s the rule, although there maybe exceptions to the rule, the numbers for such cases are arguable small. However, there exists differences in the extent to which education influences income, earnings differentials exist by countries and social groups. This paper uses data published in 2017 by Statistics South Africa collected in the general household survey (GHS) which interviewed 72291 individuals across all the 9 provinces of the country. Using a mincerian function the paper estimates returns to education in South Africa. The results show that as expected, there is a positive relationship between education and earnings. The regression results also showed that based on the South African Household data, there is significant difference by race and gender. The results set a basis for re-examining the measurement of the variable used to capture education. The fact that a unit change in years of education is used needs to be changed so that different levels of education a weighted correctly.
A10|Housing insecurity measure, a development of a validated scale using household data|Based on the literature analysis, housing insecurity does not have a universally validated measure or scale that can be used across societies and contexts to measure housing insecurity. The literature on housing and housing insecurity is marred with individualised preferences of what individual researchers or organisations appropriate to measure housing insecurity. This paper takes the first step of proposing a scale of measuring housing insecurity that can be adopted for any context be it in developed countries or developing societies. The paper recognises the economic thinking that claims that the tools of mathematics are not always appropriate in the analysis of social reality (Lawson 2015) hence cognisance of the fact that functions and calculus are not always the best, this paper still makes use of mathematical calculations involving weights and still relies on the development of constructs that can be useful in explaining the reality of housing insecurity. We ask the question, to what extent is the ontology of housing so abstract that the numbers can be misleading? It is argued in this paper that the conception of reality and hence housing insecurity can still depend on the mathematical tools to understand the ontology of housing insecurity. Going deeper this paper does not claim to belong to the pluralism, or neoclassical thought, but as anticipated, devoid of that discourse and make use and hence benefit from both mainstream economic theory and aspects utilised by the pluralist school of thought and hence makes reference to the ontology of economics.
A10|An exploratory study into consumers? perspective for establishing price strategies that maintaining consumers' good will|This research related to meal price of food truck service business. Descriptive data was collected through a questionnaire survey. Respondents were Thai people age 16 ? 35 up years. The vast majority of 226 respondents were in the age group between 21-25 years with 45.2 percent respondents. There were male 35.8 percent and female respondents 64.2 percent. This research indicated the maximum willing to pay was the maximum price at 150 baht. On the other hand, minimum willing to pay was the minimum price at 25 baht. The range of acceptable prices was between 25 - 150 baht. The resulting distribution enabled the researcher to determine upper and lower price limits for western food. The results showed that consumers considered the food to be cheap at 65 baht. If the price fell below 33 baht, the lower limit could cause the item to be judged as being of questionable quality. The consumers considered the highest price at 119 baht. If the price rose over 180 baht, the upper limit can cause the item to be judged as being too expensive, suggesting quality levels and attributes exceeding those desired by the consumers. They felt the food was cheap as felt it was expensive at 50 baht (indifference price). In term of the price stress, the indifference price (50 baht) was greater than the optimal price (35 baht). They felt some stress over price, since the price that they would most like to pay was lower than the price they view as cheap.
A10|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A10|Financing metropolitan government in Beijing City|Beijing is one of the most populous cities in the world, and its economy is still growing rapidly. It has the peculiar status of being both a province and a metropolitan city government, and it is home to the national capital. Both of these features challenge its expenditure demands and its finances. In this paper we explore the governance, service delivery and financing of the Beijing metropolitan area government. The basic question we ask is the extent to which Beijing City captures some of the advantages of being a metropolitan areawide government, and the extent to which it avoids some of the disadvantages. In particular, we are interested in whether metropolitan governance can lead to a higher rate of revenue mobilization at the local government level. Is there a next step that cities like Beijing might take to improve their fiscal position, and what can other countries learn from the Chinese experience with metropolitan government finance?
A10|Big Data, Data Mining, Machine Learning und Predictive Analytics: Ein konzeptioneller Überblick|Mit der fortschreitenden Digitalisierung von Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft wächst die Bedeutung von Big Data Analytics, maschinellem Lernen und Künstlicher Intelligenz für die Analyse und Pognose ökonomischer Trends. Allerdings werden in wirtschaftspolitischen Diskussionen diese Begriffe häufig verwendet, ohne dass jeweils klar zwischen den einzelnen Methoden und Disziplinen differenziert würde. Daher soll nachfolgend ein konzeptioneller Überblick über die Gemeinsamkeiten, Unterschiede und Interdependenzen der vielfältigen Begrifflichkeiten im Bereich Data Science gegeben werden. Denn gerade für Entscheidungsträger aus Wirtschaft und Politik kann eine grundlegende Einordnung der Konzepte eine sachgerechte Diskussion über politische Weichenstellungen erleichtern.
A10|Das vermeintliche Wissen der ökonomischen Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Ein Essay|Der Beitrag verfolgt die beiden miteinander verwandten Fragen, wie Ökonom*innen zu wissen vorgeben und warum sie überhaupt wissen wollen. Es wird argumentiert, dass sowohl die ökonomische Wissensform als auch die Motivation der Wissenden im Verlauf des 20. Jahrhunderts einen grundlegenden Wandel erfahren haben. Das Wissen wichtiger ökonomischer Lehrbücher der Gegenwart hat mit einem objektiven, dezidiert wissenschaftlich motivierten Wissen nur noch wenig gemein. Ihren Inhalten und Formen liegt vielmehr eine produktive Absicht zugrunde, die auf die Subjektivität ihrer Leser*innen zielt.
A10|How everyday ethics becomes a moral economy, and vice versa|Unrealistic assumptions underlying neo-classical economic theory have been challenged by both behavioral economics and studies of moral economy. But both challengers share certain features with neo-classical theory. Complementing them, recent work in the anthropology of ethics shows that economic behavior is not reducible to either individual psychology or collective norms. This approach is illustrated with studies of transactions taking place at the borders between market rationality and relationships among persons - organ donation and sex work. The paper argues that the inherent value accorded to social relations tends to resist instrumentalization and that the biases that dealing with other people introduce into reasoning are not flaws but part of the core functions of rationality.
A10|Sraffa’s Silenced Revival of the Classical Economists and of Marx|The standpoint of the old classical economists as well as of Marx “has been submerged and forgotten since the advent of the ‘marginal’ method” – to borrow Sraffa’s own words. The neoclassical (or ‘marginal’) paradigm, in fact, triumphantly dominated over the twentieth century (and is still dominating even now). A serious step towards the rehabilitation of the paradigm of the old classical economists was made by Sraffa (1951) with his remarkable ‘Introduction’ to Ricardo’s Principles, his seminal 1960 book Production of Commodities by Means of Commodities (PCMC) followed a few years later, as a logical completion of his long-standing work. The paper here proposed argues that Sraffa’s 1960 contribution has so far been mainly interpreted and used as a highly powered tool for destroying the foundations of neoclassical theory from a logical point of view, with the confident belief that attacking the logical side of the theory would have been sufficient to bring about its definite dismissal, which, instead, did not happen. As a consequence of all this, the revival of the classical economists and of Marx – which is one of the most characterizing feature of Sraffa’s 1960 contribution – was automatically silenced and this very fact precluded Sraffa’s theoretical framework from being used in a constructive way as a real alternative ‘vision’ to that proposed by the neoclassical market-centered paradigm. The aim of the paper is to underscore the crucial importance of Sraffa’s revival referred to above, by emphasizing its usefulness in providing a genuine alternative perspective and a radically different representation of the economy, compared with that provided by neoclassical theory. An attempt will be made to show the main features of the Sraffian framework in providing such an alternative ‘vision’ which, it will be argued, is now much needed, not least for suggesting far more sensible alternative economic policies than those so far pursued in the ceaseless turmoil of present day world economies.
A10|Earning while Working from Home: A New Employment Opportunity in the Philippines|Unemployment is global phenomenon even among advanced countries. The phenomenon of people working from home is gaining interest for many people, especially those still looking for jobs. The main purpose of this study was to explore on the work experiences of people working from home or the virtual professionals. This study employed a qualitative research design using phenomenological tradition. Twelve participants from different parts of the Philippines willingly responded to the Key Informant Interviews (KII). In terms of how the participants described their life, including the advantages, the findings revealed the following themes: Freedom, Flexibility, Family Time, Learning Experience, Convenience and Financial Advantage. As to the challenges they experienced, Internet Interruption, Distractions, and Less Social Life were the three major themes that came out. For their suggestions to those still looking for jobs, three themes emerged: Online Work, Confidence and Skills Development. The participants were happy with their work, giving the fact that they have more time with their family and enjoy other benefits. The findings of the study were sources of inspiration for those who are still jobless, for parents who want to be with their kids, but still earn a living, and even for people with disabilities (PWD). Indeed, without much government intervention and investment, the virtual professionals are finding jobs and are paving the way for combating unemployment. The implication of the study is for government and other agencies to understand this new phenomenon and to create mechanisms to support and promote it.
A10|Analysis of Export Structure of Ports Using Growth-Rate Differential Analysis|Shift-share analysis is a decomposition technique widely used in regional studies to identify sectoral growth effects of economic variables. As globalization progresses rapidly, much attention has been paid to the extension of shift-share analysis, but the most important phenomenon is to extend the traditional shift-share analysis to international trade. Henderson (1962) developed a regional growth rate differential analysis that shows growth contribution by sector.This paper analyzed the export fluctuation by factors of 10 major export items of Gwangyang Port and Incheon Port by applying shift-share analysis and growth rate differential analysis. This paper differs from the previous studies in two respects. First, it applies the shift-share analysis and the regional growth rate differential analysis so that each technique can complement each other. Second, the export weight is analyzed instead of the export amount which focuses on the existing research.In the case of Gwangyang Port, the regional allocation effect of nine items out of 10 items has a positive sign, but in the growth rate differential analysis, the competitive factors of most items have negative signs, and the analysis shows opposite results. In the case of Incheon port, the shift-share analysis shows that the industrial structure effect and regional allocation effect have positive signs in three items. However, in the regional growth rate differential analysis, both weighting factor and competitiveness factor have no positive sign. This analysis implies that both techniques should be applied together in order to accurately resolve and evaluate port export structure and competitiveness.
A10|Value of Public Goods Generated by National Sport Training Center (NSTC): The CVM Approach|This research objects to value of a public investment project, National Sport Training Center (NSTC), which generates valuable public goods and positive externalities, though such benefits are difficult to measure. It specifically describes the use of the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM) to conduct such surveys and to analyze the data to measure the benefits produced by sports public goods. The survey showed the feasibility of using the CVM to estimate willingness-to-pay for sports public goods. Also, to answered the question of how much sports are worth since the government has subsidized the construction the NSTC. The valuation of public goods are examined. The data and analysis indicate that NSTC can produce public goods such as national pride and spirit and the value of those public goods may be substantial. The study found that the willingness to pay on national pride and spirit are depended on gender, occupation, income, and attention to sports. The result shown that national spirit value averagely equals 19.24 baht per month and national pride is averagely 20.22 baht per month.
A10|Impact of Culture on Terrorist Financing: The Role of Public Governance|In this study, we investigate the role of public governance in mediating the effect of culture on terrorist financing (TF). Although culture has a significant impact on terrorism financing, the government can use the control of corruption (COC)and the rule of law (ROL) as useful tools in mitigating or eliminating this impact. We examine whether the COC and ROL can mediate the effect of culture on terrorist financing across 78 countries. We use Basel Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Index as a proxy for the risk terrorist financing, Hofstede?s cultural dimensions for culture measuring and COC and ROL as indicators for public governance. The results reveal a complete mediation for COC and ROL to the impact of culture on terrorism financing.
A10|The Role of the Legislative and Regulatory Framework in Improving the Investment Climate in the Middle East and North Africa Countries (MENA), in the Reconstruction Phase - Descriptive Study|The importance of investment appears in the development and support of the country?s economy, where developing countries sought to attract investments, Which necessarily required a package of reforms, Which began with a set of laws that set the general investment policy in many developing countries, Which aimed at investment environment attractive to investment, But the conditions in the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa region did not help achieve the desired vision that was planned.This study aims to identify and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the investment climate, In addition to studying the legal and regulatory environment related to investment, and its role in supporting the investment climate in the reconstruction phase.The importance of this study emerged in the positive role which played by the investment process in economic development in general, and determines the elements of the investment environment from the legislative and administrative aspects, It is, therefore, necessary, Intensify efforts to develop the investment climate in the next stage of reconstruction.The problem of the study is reflected in the importance of developing investment laws, Because it is the most important factor in attracting investments, and because the effectiveness of investment promotion laws have a positive and direct impact in creating the investment environment.The study confirmed, after reviewing previous studies, the need to amend the current investment promotion laws in most developing countries, simplify and standardize investment laws, add organize this lows under one investment umbrella,The study also found the volume of investment in the reconstruction phase will depend on the development that can happen in the investment laws.
A10|Framing effect and the relationship between feelings, economic expectations and risk perceptions|This study examines the impact of the framing effect on the relationships between natural feelings and economic expectations and between natural feelings and risk perceptions. Respondents estimated their levels of negative and positive feelings, their expectations for improvement in their economic status in the future and their personal risk perceptions with respect to various events. Two versions of the questionnaire (positive and negative) were administered to two groups of participants. The results suggest that risk perceptions were more optimistic on the negative version than on the positive version of the questionnaire. Yet, items regarding economic expectations were more optimistic on the positive version. The results also show that higher levels of negative feelings correlate with pessimistic economic expectations and pessimistic risk perceptions on the negative version of the questionnaire but not on the positive version. We conclude that the relationships between natural feelings and economic expectations and between natural feelings and risk perceptions depend on how the risky items and the economic expectations items are framed.
A10|Non-market services as quaternary sector of the economy|Modern economic theories develop the original three-sectors economy into four- or even five sectors economy when creating the quarternary (or even quinary) sector of the economy. The quarternary sector should play the role of ?an engine? pushing and pulling the economic growth of the respective country up. Industries included in the quaternary sector consists of intellectual activities often associated with technological innovations (called the knowledge economy) based on high degree of education of labor. Some economists go on and create the quinary sector separating activities of top executives and officials in fields as government, science, universities and culture and also activities covering childcare and education.This paper demonstrates another way of splitting the broad tertiary sector. It divides industries included in the tertiary sector into two groups: market and non-market services according to the definition of NACE or ISIC (statistical classifications used in EU or UN). The tertiary sector in the paper covers only market services. Non-market services on the other hand are represented by the quartenary sector and they comprise 4 NACE-CLIO branches. The basic idea for dividing the tertiary sector into two groups mentioned above was the similarity of market services with business activities included in the primary and secondary sectors. To some degree market services are closely connected with the performance of businesses in the primary and secondary sectors. Non-market services on the other hand, which are services provided usually free of charge or for a symbolic payment, include a special field of activities, which countries only on high economic levels ?can afford? to grant and only with inceasing economic level may enlarge and develop. The paper proves the conclusion of classical economists about changing shares of three production sectors with economic growth of a country in favor of the tertiary sector. The paper proved also a new hypothesis, namely that increasing economic level of a country is strongly linked to the growing share of non-market services, while the link to the share of market services is not so obvious.The analysis includes statistical series of data of main member countries of European Union. The mathematical background and applied analytical functions are described, as well. A specialised software IBM SPSS has been used for correlation and regression analyses. All results are presented in the form of tables and graphs.
A10|Total Factor Productivity And Manufactured Export In Nigeria|This study investigates the relationship between total factor productivity and manufactured export in Nigeria between 1973 and 2009. The study made use of time series data and adopted vector autoregressive (VAR) Model with its forecast error variance decomposition (FEVD) in investigating shock transmission among TFP and manufactured export. The study also estimates TFP in Nigeria using non-parametric approach. The empirical finding in the study revealed that TFP in Nigeria had been low and unstable, indicating a situation of poor and unstable technological growth in Nigeria. The study also found that both manufactured export and import of capital goods exhibited positive relationship with TFP in Nigeria. The findings also showed the existence of bi-directional causality between Total factor productivity and manufactured export in Nigeria. The paper recommended that government should improve technological efficiency i.e. TFP and import of capital goods in order to experience improvement in Nigeria manufactured export, government should also take drastic step in improving the growth of per capita output .
A10|Optimal Production Planning for Organic Agriculture Products: A Case Study of Turkey|Agricultural sector that has gained importance in the world. Agriculture field is critically important for the economy of every country. Countries accompany different agricultural production strategies in different regions in accordance with their priorities. The population of the world is rapidly increasing so, the need for food is also increasing. Nowadays, organic planting become a popular topic in the world. Organic agricultural production provide healthier food and more environmentally production system. In this study, a production planning model was developed based on Mean-Variance Model for the production of vegetables in Turkey, which has a significant agricultural production potential for the Aegean region. This study gives as a guide way to the manufacturers for the cultivation plans in future seasons.
A10|Voluntourism as a Pro-Poor Tourism: A Case of Volunteer Tourism in Thailand|Volunteer tourism or voluntourism is a relatively new form of tourism which is viewed as a means for poverty reduction or an approach for pro-poor tourism in the developing countries. The primary aim of this research was to examine the role of volunteer tourism in poverty alleviation. It employed an interpretive paradigm utilizing qualitative data collection methods including semi-structured interviews and participant observation. The informants included twelve volunteer tourists who were on a working vacation in Thailand, and fifteen local residents in Thailand in the communities where volunteer tourism activities took place. The findings of the research indicate that in the point of view of both the volunteer tourists and the local residents, volunteer tourism could be used as an effective means to help reduce the state of poverty in the local communities. Specifically, volunteer tourism activities helped transfer of wealth as well as better skills and knowledge from rich or developed countries to poor or developing countries. It was also perceived as a means for providing unfortunate local people with an opportunity to learn English which will enable to have a better life in the future. The research findings provide tourism practitioners, especially those related to volunteer tourism, with insights on how to organize volunteer tourism in the way that that poor people can truly benefit from such tourism activity.
A10|Readers? Satisfaction towards the Access to the On-line Graduate School Journal of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University|This research aimed to study profile and satisfaction of readers towards the accessibility of the on-line Graduate School Journal of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University and to study problems and suggestions for the access to this journal. This research utilized a quantitative research methodology. The sample consisted of 200 respondents. Data were collected with a mean of a questionnaire. Descriptive statistics were used to analyzed the collected data. The research findings indicated that most of the readers of the on-line journal were female postgraduate students of the universities, aged between 25-30 years old. Their average satisfaction was 4.18 out of 5 which means that their overall satisfaction was at the highest level. Moreover, it was also found that the readers? satisfaction depended on the fact that: (1) the content of the journal?s website covering all the needed information and being updated continuously; (2) full research papers enabling downloaded in a form of electronic files fast and easily; and (3) the information displayed on the journal?s website being clear, correct, reliable and up-to-date. The mean scores of these three factors were 4.27, 4.25, and 4.22 respectively.
A10|New EU member countries? emigration: Projections for future|New EU member states face both migrational and natural demographic decline, while the old member states compensate the negative net birth rate with the immigration. A poor level of development of the economy as well as the accession to EU encouraged net emigration from the new member states. A panel data for the 12 new member states for the period 2007 - 2016 was used to determine how the length of membership and the GDP per capita trailing behind the EU average affect the proportion of the net emigration. It has been shown that a country has to reach at least 85% of the GDP p.c. of the EU average (measured in PPS) to prevent these tendencies, but this level increases with each year of membership by 1,37%. Croatian current GDP p.c. level at 60% of the EU average, lagging more than 30 percentage points behind the non-emigration level, is one of the reasons for the up to that moment unseen level of the net emigration (0,90% of population in 2016).
A10|Green Banking In India: A Study For Sustainable Devlopment|The global warming is becoming the national as well as international problem; it hampers on destroying the natural resources. For the controlling of global warming problem there should be focus on green and ecofriendly initiatives by all. Banking sector is generally considered as environmental friendly sector in terms of the pollutions and emissions. The Indian banking business is one of the largest banking business in the world which caters to the needs of different strata of society. The development of economy in all sector have the very bad impact on environment. Until the end of twentieth century, green was just the color of money for banks in India. With the introduction of Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in 2001in the banking sector of India, banking sector took initiative towards an environment-friendly banking system. Green banking means combining operational improvements, technology and changing client habits in banking business. There is need to banks should go for green and play a pro-active role to care environmental and ecological aspects as part of their lending principle, which would force industries to go for mandated investment for environmental management. Thereafter, many initiatives were undertaken viz. use of eco-friendly papers, solar-powered ATMs, green projects, energy efficiency practices, workplace health and safety, organizing awareness campaigns, online banking systems, etc. This paper deals with the green initiatives and developments took place in the banking sector in India and sites international developments. It sites opportunities for banks in areas like carbon credit business, green financial products, core banking solutions, integrated IT environment, etc. that can lead to development in green area and overall environment. The Role of the Reserve Bank of India in formulation of policies on green banking has been focused upon for green growth.
A10|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics : a connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
A10|Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology: Connections|The paper provides a review of the literature that connects Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology, and discusses research issues that are related to the various disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, as well as conduct simulation to examine whether the estimators in their theories on estimation and hypothesis testing have good size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could apply theory to analyse some interesting issues in the seven disciplines and cognate areas.
A10|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
A10|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
A10|What economics education is missing: The real world|The global financial crisis (GFC) led to increasing distrust in economic research and the economics profession, in the process of which the current state of economics and economic education in particular were heavily criticized. Against this background we conducted a study with undergraduate students of economics in order to capture their view of economic education. The paper is based on the Documentary Method, a qualitative empirical method, which combines maximum openness with regard to the collection of empirical material coupled with maximum rigor in analysis. The empirical findings show that students enter economics curricula with (1) epistemic, (2) practical or (3) moral/political motivations for understanding and dealing with real-world problems but end up remarkably disappointed after going through the mathematical and methods-orientated introductory courses. The findings further indicate that students develop strategies to cope with their disappointment - all of them relating to their original motivation. The theoretical contextualization of the empirical findings is based on the psychological concept of cognitive dissonance.
A10|"""The market deals out profit and losses"": Wie ökonomische Standardlehrbücher das unreflektierte Denken in Metaphern fördern"|"Das Paper analysiert den bisher kaum beachteten Gebrauch von Metaphern in ökonomischen Standardlehrbüchern am Beispiel der Lehrtexte von Paul A. Samuelson und N. Gregory Mankiw. Dabei steht die metaphorische Semantik des abstrakten Konzeptes ""des Marktes"" im Zentrum der Untersuchungen. Mittels textanalytischer Methoden und mit Rückgriff auf die Conceptual Metaphor Theory verfolgen die Autorinnen die Einführung des Konzeptes ""der Markt"" als abstraktes und weitestgehend inhaltsleeres Konzept, die (Um-)Deutungen des Konzepts mithilfe von Entitätsmetaphern, Personifizierungen und Orientierungsmetaphern und die Verbindung des Begriffes mit politisch-ideologischen Wertungen. Hauptergebnisse sind: (1) Ökonomische Standardlehrbücher weisen einen massiven und stillschweigenden Gebrauch von Metaphern auf. (2) Dieser Gebrauch kann das kognitive Unbewusste der Leser_innen beeinflussen, und (3) Reflexive ökonomische Bildung kann zu einem verantwortungsvollen Umgang mit Metaphern befähigen."
A10|Regime-switching determinants of emerging markets sovereign credit risk swaps spread|"Using the Markov regime switching approach, the authors investigate the dependency of short term sovereign credit default swap (SCDS) spread changes on a nation's country-specific fundamental factors, local, regional and macroeconomic global factors. They find that the significance of the determinants of SCDS spread changes differ across the two states of our regime-switching model. Specifically, in the ""good"" state the weekly SCDS spread changes are mainly determined by local, regional and fundamental factors; whereas global variables have stronger influence in the ""bad"" regime. In particular, US market returns play a dominant role in influencing the SCDS spread change in the ""bad"" state suggesting loss aversion and flight to quality behavior of investors. The authors then examine the cross-sectional differences of the above regime switching effect based on country-specific characters and find that the regime switching effect is associated with a nation's country-specific characters such as openness, economic size, etc."
A10|The Economic Roots of the Rise of Trumpism|Donald Trump won the election in 2016 largely because enough voters in three states, all in the Rustbelt, who had voted for Barack Obama in both 2008 and 2012, switched their vote from Democratic to Republican. Economic dislocations played a crucial role in these swing states or democratic strongholds to persuade many voters to take the dramatic step to vote for an anti-establishment candidate even if that meant a leap of faith into the unknown. The sources of the dislocation were the development of a dual economy characterized at one end by low and stagnating wages, increasing debt, downward social mobility, declining relative incomes, and the hopelessness accompanying them while at the other end of the income distribution the economy was simply booming. This was longer than a three-decade process that started with Reaganomics and its tax cuts that privileged the rich and conferred immense wealth, and its concomitant, political power, on them. Reaganomics also accelerated the decline in the power of unions which had supported the middle class. The process continued under Bill Clinton’s administration and its continuing both financial deregulation and of hyper-globalization. George Bush continued to pamper the superrich with his tax policies. The process culminated with Barack Obama’s bailing out the superrich and his benign neglect of Mainstreet. Five administration’s disinterest in the social group Hillary Clinton referred to flippantly as “the deplorables” culminated in the revolt of the masses in favor of an incompetent strongman by overthrowing the establishment captured by such chants at Trump rallies as “Lock her up!”, “USA!”, “Build the wall”, or “Drain the swamp” (i.e., in Washington D.C.).
A10|Gender, Social Value Orientation, and Tax Compliance|This paper brings an important empirical contribution to the academic literature by examining whether gender differences in tax compliance are due to higher prosociality among women. We conducted a large cross-national tax compliance experiment carried out in Italy, U.K., U.S., Sweden, and Romania, and assessed tax compliance as reported income as a percentage of total earned income in the experiment. We uncover that women declare a significantly higher percentage of their income than men in all five countries. While some scholars have argued that differences in honesty between men and women is actually being mediated by the fact that women are more prosocial than men, we find that women are not more prosocial than men in all countries. Furthermore, though overall women tend to be more prosocial on average than men, SVO has no mediation effect between gender and tax compliance. We conclude then that although differences in prosociality between men and women seem to be context dependent, differences in tax compliance are indeed much more consistent.
A10|A Dialogue between a Populist and an Economist|"In this imaginary dialogue, a populist and an economist discuss the role of economic shocks to explain populism. A simple correlation between economic shocks and populism is weak. However, economic shocks can explain well the phenomenon of populism in countries with low pre-existent level of trust. This is confirmed both at the macro cross-country level and also by micro evidence obtained from surveys. Finally, this finding is consistent with the ""ideational approach"" in political science, which emphasizes how the populist narrative opposes the ""corrupt elite"" to the ""virtuous people."""
A10|Cuban Demography and Economic Consequences|Cuban Demography and Economic Consequences is part of the 2018 Annual Proceedings of The Association for the Study of the Cuban Economy.
A10|Investigación Económica En Galicia 1967-2017: Tesis Doctorales Y Estudios De Desarrollo Económico Regional, Sectorial E Internacional|Presentamos una contribución a la historia de la investigación económica en Galicia en el período 1967-2017. Este estudio incluye la referencia a numerosas Tesis Doctorales desde el comienzo de los estudios de la primera Facultad universitaria de Estudios de Economía en Galicia. Incluye una reseña histórica, Tesis Doctorales dirigidas en varias décadas, enlanzando Directores y Autores, y numerosa información y enlaces a libros, revistas, documentos y recursos electrónicos relacionados con la divulgación de la investigación económica realizada en Galicia en temas de desarrollo regional, sectorial e internacional. We present a contribution to the history of economic research in Galicia in the period 1967-2017. This study includes the reference to numerous Doctoral Theses from the beginning of the studies of the first university Faculty of Economics Studies in Galicia. It includes a historical review, Doctoral Theses directed in several decades, linking Directors and Authors, and numerous information and links to books, journals, documents and electronic resources related to the dissemination of economic research conducted in Galicia on issues of regional, sectoral and regional development. international.
A10|Demand-Side Strategy, Relational Advantage and Partner-Driven Corporate Scope: The Case for Client-Led Diversification|We advance research on corporate diversification by joining insights from the demand-side and relational views in strategy to offer a novel theory of client-led diversification. We propose that client-led diversification results from a combination of the customer-driven opportunities emphasized in the demand-side view and the creation of added value through relational assets that is a central tenet of the relational view. Furthermore, we hypothesize that suppliers’ client-specific knowledge, clients’ relational commitment to suppliers, and growth opportunities in clients’ markets (relative to the suppliers’ own markets) will magnify the client-led diversification effect. We test our hypotheses using a longitudinal dataset on patent law firms and their diversification into new domains of patent prosecution work for their corporate clients.
A10|Valuation as Promise and Care: The Use of Accounting in the Entrepreneurial Economy|This is a study of analysts’ use of accounting information for valuation purposes in a venture capital setting. This setting is characterized in terms of the distinctive scouting and coaching work of venture capital funders, and the unproven and incomplete nature of the ventures and entrepreneurs, which seek funding to scale operations, pivot into new markets, internationalize, or undertake some other kind of fundamental change. Based on interviews with entrepreneurs (project-makers) and venture funders (analysts), a four phase model of valuation is proposed. The model illuminates that, in contrast with common assumptions in the existing literature, accounting is mobilized neither to reveal truth nor constitute knowledge about the objects of investment, but to promise and to care. This paper articulates these two concepts in the context of accounting. Promising is shown to be a means not to implement a predesigned business plan and a budgeted set of activities but to commit to a new and unclear future and agree high and sometimes unrealistic expectations. Caring is shown not to be a means to predict a final fate for the organization, but to give and take, interact and sometimes discipline in order to determine what is necessary to preserve and possible to change. Understanding that what is valued is not what exists but what is possible to create helps to resolve puzzles about accounting’s uncertain and ambiguous status and significance in the entrepreneurial economy. It also and more generally illustrates how accounting operates in relation to an unknowable object and future: not as a means to know or reveal but to write and rewrite a daring and ambitious narrative in which the protagonists (here the project-maker and venture) become something else (a manager and an organization).
A10|The expansion of non-financial reporting: an exploratory study| We investigate how non-financial reporting (NFR) is defined and has expanded in recent years. First, we explore the heterogeneity in definitions and current NFR practices. We find a lack of convergence between regulators and standard-setters, as well as leading sustainable firms. Second, we examine the changes in the extent and type of NFR reported by firms over the period 2006–2016. Based on a sample of firms in South Africa, we document a significant increase in the amount of NFR, particularly between 2006 and 2011. This change appears to be driven by new environmental, human capital, performance and strategic disclosures. The relative importance of financial information in corporate reporting decreased substantially over the same period. Third, we compare reporting practices for corporate social responsibility (CSR)/sustainability information between constituents of the S&P 500 index and the EuroStoxx 600 index. We find that overall, the percentage of firms issuing CSR/sustainability reports increased dramatically between 2002 and 2015. Constituents of the U.S. stock index and growth firms are less likely to report CSR/sustainability information, whereas firms in the European stock index in environmentally sensitive industries, with high capital intensity and good CSR performance, larger and with better financial performance, are more likely to report CSR/sustainability information.
A10|Learning What is Similar: Precedents and Equilibrium Selection|"We argue that a precedent is important not only because it changes the relative frequency of a certain event, making it positive rather than zero, but also because it changes the way that relative frequencies are weighed. Specifically, agents assess probabilities of future events based on past occurrences, where not all of these occurrences are deemed equally relevant. More similar cases are weighed more heavily than less similar ones. Importantly, the similarity function is also learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"". The model can explain why a single precedent affects beliefs above and beyond its effect on relative frequencies, as well as why it is easier to establish reputation at the outset than to re-establish it after having lost it. We also apply the model to equilibrium selection in a class of games dubbed ""Statis- tical Games"", suggesting the notion of Similarity-Nash equilibria, and illustrate the impact of precedents on the play of coordination games."
A10|Second-Order Induction: Uniqueness and Complexity|"Agents make predictions based on similar past cases, while also learning the relative importance of various attributes in judging similarity. We ask whether the resulting ""empirical similarity"" is unique, and how easy it is to find it. We show that with many observations and few relevant variables, uniqueness holds. By contrast, when there are many variables relative to observations, non-uniqueness is the rule, and finding the best similarity function is computationally hard. The results are interpreted as providing conditions under which rational agents who have access to the same observations are likely to converge on the same predictions, and conditions under which they may entertain different probabilistic beliefs."
A10|Decision theory made relevant: Between the software and the shrink|Decision theory offers a formal approach to decision making, which is often viewed and taught as the rational way to approach managerial decisions. Half a century ago it generated high hopes of capturing and perhaps replacing intuition, and providing the “right” answer in practically all managerial situations. Today it seems fair to say that decision theory has not lived up to these expectations. Behavioral science provides ample evidence that managers fail to follow the dicta of decision theory, even when these are explained to them. As a result, executives often find decision theory frustrating and useless and prefer to rely on their intuition. This paper suggests that this extreme conclusion is unwarranted and calls for a re-appraisal of decision theory. We propose that it should not always be regarded as a mathematical tool that produces the answer; rather, it can be viewed as a framework for a dialog between the decision maker and the decision theorist. In one extreme, the decision theorist studies the problem and provides the “correct’’ answer. But in another, the decision theorist only challenges the decision maker's intuition and logic. In between, a whole gamut of possible dialogs exists, in which decision theory doesn't replace intuition, but supports and refines it.
A10|States and Eventualities: How to Understand Savage Without Anyone Being Hanged|"We discuss the notion of a state of the world in axiomatic decision theory, and argue that it should be viewed as an ""eventuality"" that is implicitly assumed to be independent of the process by which prefer- ences are observed. The distinction between states, which are assumed to resolve all uncertainty, and eventualities suggests certain limitations on the axiomatic approach for defining and measuring mental concepts (such as belief ) by observed choices"
A10|Seeking and Avoiding Choice Closure to Enhance Outcome Satisfaction|Consumers gain choice closure when they perceive a sense of finality over a past decision and limit comparisons between the selected and the forgone options. We investigate consumers’ ability to make strategic use of choice closure to enhance outcome satisfaction. Seven studies show that consumers experience greater satisfaction when they achieve choice closure with an inferior outcome and when they do not achieve choice closure with a superior outcome; however, they expect to be more satisfied by avoiding choice closure with an inferior outcome and by seeking it with a superior outcome. We provide a rationale for this experience–expectation contrast based on rule overgeneralization. Consumers form their expectation on an implicit rule learned and internalized in a context in which it is appropriate and advantageous: when they aim to increase satisfaction with a future choice; however, consumers erroneously apply the same implicit rule to a different context, one in which they aim to increase satisfaction with a past choice. We conclude that consumers are unlikely to be able to make strategic use of choice closure to enhance satisfaction with the outcome of a decision they have made.
A10|Right Information at the Right Time: Time Value of Information Characteristics for Environmental Technology Adoption|We examine empirically how different information types and information channels affect both the intention and the decision to adopt photovoltaic (PV) technology as affected by adoption stage. Analyzing data on a large European utility’s current and potential clients reveals how the effects of various drivers of adoption can change across phases of the adoption process. Our results challenge the common wisdom that information necessarily and homogeneously supports innovation adoption; instead, they strongly support the hypothesis that information types and channels have distinct effects on adoption rates. These results also highlight that, throughout the adoption process, the value of information changes. In addition, we clarify the effects of economic incentives on both the intention to adopt PV technology and actual adoption behavior. Our findings have critical implications for policy makers and for any technology manufacturing company that must optimize its marketing strategy and distribution channels to promote renewable energy systems.
A10|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics: A Connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
A10|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
A10|Title length|We document strong and robust negative correlations between the length of the title of an economics article and different measures of scientific quality. Analyzing all articles published between 1970 and 2011 and referenced in EconLit, we find that articles with shorter titles tend to be published in better journals, to be more cited and to be more innovative. These correlations hold controlling for unobserved time-invariant and observed time-varying characteristics of teams of authors.
A10|New insights into the US stock market reactions to energy price shocks|This paper investigates the relationship between S&P 500 prices, viewed as a US economic barometer, and a set of energy prices, including WTI, gasoline, heating, diesel and natural gas prices, using the Quantile Autoregressive Distributed Lags (QARDL) model recently developed by Cho et al. (2015). The empirical results show a negative long-and short-run relationship between WTI crude oil and Henry Hub natural gas prices on the one side and S&P 500 stock prices on the other side, only for medium and high quantiles. The findings of Wald tests indicate a nonlinear and asymmetric pass-through from energy price shocks to aggregate US stock market prices. These results show that crude oil and natural gas are key economic variables to explain short run and long run stock market dynamics. They provide further insights into how energy price shocks are transmitted to stock market prices.
A10|States and Eventualities: How to Understand Savage Without Anyone Being Hanged|"We discuss the notion of a state of the world in axiomatic decision theory, and argue that it should be viewed as an ""eventuality"" that is implicitly assumed to be independent of the process by which preferences are observed. The distinction between states, which are assumed to resolve all uncertainty, and eventualities suggests certain limitations on the axiomatic approach for defining and measuring mental concepts (such as belief ) by observed choices"
A10|Second-Order Induction: Uniqueness and Complexity|"Agents make predictions based on similar past cases, while also learning the relative importance of various attributes in judging similarity. We ask whether the resulting ""empirical similarity"" is unique, and how easy it is to find it. We show that with many observations and few relevant variables, uniqueness holds. By contrast, when there are many variables relative to observations, non-uniqueness is the rule, and finding the best similarity function is computationally hard. The results are interpreted as providing conditions under which rational agents who have access to the same observations are likely to converge on the same predictions, and conditions under which they may entertain different probabilistic beliefs."
A10|Learning What is Similar: Precedents and Equilibrium Selection|"We argue that a precedent is important not only because it changes the relative frequency of a certain event, making it positive rather than zero, but also because it changes the way that relative frequencies are weighed. Specifically, agents assess probabilities of future events based on past occurrences, where not all of these occurrences are deemed equally relevant. More similar cases are weighed more heavily than less similar ones. Importantly, the similarity function is also learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"". The model can explain why a single precedent affects beliefs above and beyond its effect on relative frequencies, as well as why it is easier to establish reputation at the outset than to re-establish it after having lost it. We also apply the model to equilibrium selection in a class of games dubbed ""Statis- tical Games"", suggesting the notion of Similarity-Nash equilibria, and illustrate the impact of precedents on the play of coordination games."
A10|Die Rolle der Computerisierung und Digitalisierung für Beschäftigung und Einkommen|Die Entwicklung der Computer und die darauf aufbauende Digitalisierung haben technologische Veränderungen ausgelöst, die die Anforderungen an und die Nachfrage nach Arbeit, aber auch das Arbeitsangebot in den letzten Dekaden stetig verändert haben. Wie groß die kausalen Effekte dieser Entwicklung auf die Einkommens- und Vermögensverteilung sind, ist in der ökonomischen Literatur bisher weder eindeutig, noch abschließend geklärt. Schwierigkeiten in der Bestimmung dieser Effekte haben sich zunächst aus dem unvollständigen Verständnis ergeben, wie die Computerisierung und die Digitalisierung die Wertschöpfung beeinflusst haben bzw. welchen Beitrag sie leisten. Dies hat zugleich zu der grundsätzlichen Frage geführt, inwiefern der technologische Wandel durch die Computerisierung und Digitalisierung mit traditionellen ökonomischen Modellen, die Arbeit, Kapital und technischen Fortschritt in der Regel als trennbare Faktoren unterscheiden und hierbei feste Relationen bzw. proportionale Effekte unterstellen, erfasst werden kann. Das Verständnis der Bedeutung und Begründung technischen Fortschritts in seinen Wirkungen für Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft ist dabei bereits Gegenstand des wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen Denkens in Wealth of Nations von Adam Smith (1776). Die Formulierung des Produktionsprozesses ausgehend von den zu tätigenden Aufgaben, unabhängig ob diese durch menschliche oder maschinelle Arbeit, durch Handel zugekauft oder an einem beliebigen Ort durchgeführt werden, ist dabei grundlegend im ökonomischen Verständnis verankert. Trotz dieser bereits recht alten Überlegungen haben die Computerisierung und die Digitalisierung dazu geführt, dass der durch sie ausgelöste technische Fortschritt sowie insbesondere die implizierten Folgen für Beschäftigung und Löhne in der aktuellen wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen Literatur nun differenzierter analysiert werden und in den vergangenen zwei Dekaden entsprechende formale Modelle entwickelt worden sind. Mit dem vorliegenden Aufsatz möchte ich eine Einordnung des technischen Fortschritts durch die Computerisierung und Digitalisierung geben. Hierzu will ich kurz auf die Entwicklungsgeschichte des Computerzeitalters eingehen, um Gemeinsamkeiten und Unterschiede zu anderen Entwicklungen zu identifizieren. Im Anschluss gebe ich einen Überblick über den Erkenntnisstand zu den Effekten auf Einkommen und Beschäftigung auf Grundlage der verfügbaren Literatur, um die Erklärungen und Begründungen zu diskutieren.
A10|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
A10|The Oil Price Collapse and the Birth of a Tourist Nation|In this paper, we have estimated hotel revenue functions at the regional level in Norway. The purpose is to investigate the effects of the oil price collapse on tourism demand. The oil industry is a dominant economic sector in Norway. Its high demand for economic resources has inflated the general price level nationally. A side effect is that the Norwegian tourism industry has struggled with poor price competitiveness. We find the downfall in oil revenues caused by the fall in crude oil prices has boosted tourism growth through a weakening of the local currency, Norwegian kroner. This result suggests that a subset of rich countries where wealth inflate prices of tourism services can have problem in developing its tourism industry.
A10|The Relativity Theory of General Economic Equilibrium|"Abstract Purpose. The purpose of this paper is to propose a new approach to the understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system. Design/methodology/approach. As a result of the dialectical analysis of fundamental economic categories of market economy it appears as the form of a complex, non-linear, functionally closed and causally open system of economic actions. These systems have a number of unique properties that are well studied by second-order cybernetics. This allows in the study of economic processes the unique research and development of this science to be involved in the interdisciplinary format. Findings. The self-organization of a market economy is carried out through the recursive processes. Recursive processes in the economic system, as well as in other complex nonlinear dynamical systems, generate ""eigenvalues"" (""fixed points""). These ""eigenvalues"" are the equilibrium prices to which through the recursive processes tend the actual market prices, thus providing a tendency of the system to the general equilibrium. However, due to constant influence on the system of random external factors, the general equilibrium is never achieved. Research limitations/implications. On the base of the created model the hidden relationships among the gross profit, gross saving, gross investment and gross consumption in debt, as well as the relationships among the other economic parameters are revealed. This is important for adequate understanding of economic reproduction, tendency to general equilibrium, genesis of economic cycles, etc. Practical implications. The proposed understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system will help to improve the applied economic models and to develop the effective economic policy. Originality/value. The original interpretation of economic self-regulation mechanism of market economy is given. The ―Symmetrical model‖ of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy."
A10|Clower’s Dual-Decision Hypothesis is economics|Though Wu (2017) has shown Clower’s Dual Decision Hypothesis leading to Keynes’ change in saving (and disequilibrium) conclusion, it is important to compare Clower’s budget constraint approach with other models, including those found in Hall’s consumption theorem and similar approach. In Clower, by assuming that, consumers may not satisfy the budget constraint, one cannot automatically assume Hall’s consumption theorem to hold. And, by showing how households need to optimize contingent on the satisfaction of their budget constraint, Clower was, in effect, creating a feedback mechanism.
A10|The reconstruction of capital theory: the true meaning of capital in a production function|The purpose of the present article is to explore the possibilities of a reconstruction of a Theory of Capital capable of taking into account the Reswitching phenomenon. In Section 1 a new measure of capital-time, for neoaustrian processes of production, is introduced. The main outcome of the use of this proposed new measure of capital is this: it can be shown that, even when Reswitching occurs, there is still always an inverse relationship between the rate of interest or profit and the quantity of capital-time. In Section 2 the results of Section 1 are extended for the case of two good technologies examples. In Section 3 a surrogate production process is introduced. By developing this surrogate production process it can be shown that in general there is an inverse relationship between the interest rate and the quantity of surrogate capital per man, the surrogate capital/output ratio, and between the interest rate and the newly defined steady-state consumption per capita. Section 4 presents further comments on the results of the previous sections. Section 5 introduces numerical examples.
A10|Measures of policy distance and inequality / disproportionality of votes and seats|"Let v be a vector of votes for parties and s a vector of their seats gained in the House of Commons or the House of Representatives. We use a single zero for the lumped category of ""Other"", of the wasted vote, for parties that got votes but no seats. Let V = 1'v be total turnout and S = 1's the total number of seats, and let w = v / V and z = s / S be the perunages (or per ten or percentages). Let d[w, z] be the inequality / disproportionality of votes and seats. This can be the angle between the vectors (AID) and the sine-diagonal (SDID) measure based upon this. Parties can also be scored with policy vector p, using a ""left-to-right"" policy scale [0, 10]. A common voter-legislative distance is the weighted average a = p' (z - w). With AID d[w, z] the present paper looks into the properties of d[p w, p z]. The latter term for variable w and z given p works as a disproportionality measure, and for variable p given w and z works as policy congruence. We can define an angular policy distance (APD) pd[w, z, p] that employs this d[p w, p z] properly. The APD is much more sensitive than the weighted average, but Sqrt[Abs[a]] has remarkably similar behaviour."
A10|Comparing the Aitchison distance and the angular distance for use as inequality or disproportionality measures for votes and seats|Votes and seats satisfy only two of seven criteria for application of the Aitchison distance. Vectors of votes and seats, say for elections for political parties the House of Representatives, can be normalised to 1 or 100%, and then have the outward appearance of compositional data. The Aitchison geometry and distance for compositional data then might be considered for votes and seats too. However, there is an essential zero when a party gets votes but doesn't gain a seat, and a zero gives an undefined logratio. In geology, changing from weights to volumes affects the percentages but not the Aitchison distance. For votes and seats there are no different scales or densities per party component however, and thus reportioning (perturbation) would be improper. Another key issue is subcompositional dominance. For votes {10, 20, 70} and seats {20, 10, 70} it is essential that we consider three parties. For a disproportionality measure we would value it positively that there is a match on 70. The Aitchison distance looks at the ratio {10, 20, 70} / {20, 10, 70} = {1/2, 2, 1} and then neglects a ratio equal to 1. In this case it essentially compares the subcompositions, i.e. votes {10, 20} and seats {20, 10}, rescales to {1/3, 2/3} and {2/3, 1/3}, and finds high disproportionality. This means that it essentially looks at a two party outcome instead of a three party outcome. It follows that votes and seats are better served by another distance measure. Suggested is the angular distance and the Sine-Diagonal Inequality / Disproportionality (SDID) measure based upon this. Users may of course apply both the angular and the Aitchison measures while being aware of the crucial differences in properties.
A10|The frame of reference for new economic thinking|After the crisis of 2018-2010, which led to the complete discrediting of neoclassical theory, the demand for new scientific ideas and an alternative vision of the most fundamental economic problems has sharply increased in economic science. At the same time, the discrediting of the neoclassical theory led to a critical attitude to the very idea of a general economic equilibrium, which is the central idea of neoclassical paradigm. The emphasis is increasingly shifting to the creation of disequilibrium models of economy. This book argues that this approach is incorrect. The wrong is not the very idea of equilibrium, but its neoclassical understanding and its concepts and equilibrium models, which are caused by false methodologies of neoclassicists. Without a preliminary dialectic analysis of economic categories and the operationally closed model of commodity-money flows of a market economy created on its basis, it is impossible to find out feedbacks that ensure the self-regulation of the economic system. The “Symmetrical model” of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy. It is shown that the evolution of market economy, which due to the immanent logic of intrasystem processes generates extreme inequality in income distribution, leads to a disruption in the harmony and symmetry of counter flows of commodity and money, thus destroying the system of positive and negative feedbacks that provide the homeostasis of economic system. This book is a collection of articles. Since each of them is a complete whole, the reader can get acquainted with the articles in any sequence, but after reading all of the articles, he will get a new non-standard understanding of functioning of a market economy. Although each article gives a complete analysis of a specific topic, nevertheless, all of them are arranged in such a sequence that they serve as different stages in the development of a single original concept, beginning with a methodology and ending with a mathematical model of a general economic equilibrium.
A10|An overview of the elementary statistics of correlation, R-squared, cosine, sine, and regression through the origin, with application to votes and seats for Parliament|The correlation between two vectors is the cosine of the angle between the centered data. While the cosine is a measure of association, the literature has spent little attention to the use of the sine as a measure of distance. A key application of the sine is a new “sine-diagonal inequality / disproportionality” (SDID) measure for votes and their assigned seats for parties for Parliament. This application has nonnegative data and uses regression through the origin (RTO) with non-centered data. Textbooks are advised to discuss this case because the geometry will improve the understanding of both regression and the distinction between descriptive statistics and statistical decision theory. Regression may better be introduced and explained by looking at the angles relevant for a vector and its estimate rather than looking at the Euclidean distance and the sum of squared errors. The paper provides an overview of the issues involved. Also a new relation between the sine and the Euclidean distance is derived.
A10|The concept of economic thought Ibn Khaldun|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis (text analysis). The results of this study indicate that the economic thought of Ibn Khaldun explains the concept of multidimensional economy involving various social aspects. Ibn Khaldun's economic concept implies an economic system that requires five components, namely sharia, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
A10|Konsep Riba menurut Ibnu Al-Qayyim al-Jauziyyah|This article uses a literature review approach focusing on explaining how the concept of usury in the view of Ibn al-Qayyim al-jawziyyah. This article asserts that usury is one of the forbidden transactions in Islam because it is recorded in the letter of Al-Baqarah verse 275, In interpreting the verse related usury, Ibn al-Qayyim explains that usury is divided into two namely usury of fadl and usury of nasiyah. Usury has become a core in conventional banking in modern times better known as flowers.
A10|Ibn Khaldun's Economic Thought|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis. The results of this study indicate the economic concept of Ibn Khaldun implying an economic system that requires five components is the Shari'a, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
A10|Military Spending Response to Defense Shocks? International Evidence|"All preceding studies that investigate the consequences of ""defense news"" shocks (like war or terrorism) on military spending assumed a permanent deviation from its growth path. Using 25 years of military spending annual data for more than hundred high, middle and low countries (based on the definitions of income levels suggested by the World Bank), this paper provide new evidence on the effect of exogenous shocks on military spending. By employing more powerful panel unit root tests that accounts for both cross-sectional dependence across countries and structural breaks, we find robust evidence supporting the stationarity of military spending for all the panels (full, high, middle and low income countries) highlighting that any exogenous shock to military spending has a temporary effect, meaning that military spending will return to its time trend. The stationary characteristic of military spending is fundamental for forecasting defence budget in response to exogenous shocks (terrorism and military conflicts)."
A10|Financial Development-Environmental Degradation Nexus in the United Arab Emirates: The Importance of Growth, Globalization and Structural Breaks|The financial development-environmental degradation nexus is revisited by incorporating economic growth, electricity consumption and economic globalization into the CO2 emissions function. The study period spans 1975QI-2014QIV in the United Arab Emirates. We have applied structural break and cointegration tests to examine unit root and cointegration between the variables. The Toda-Yamamoto causality test is employed to investigate the causal relationship between the variables, and the robustness of causality linkages is tested by applying the innovative accounting approach. Our empirical analysis shows cointegration between the series. Financial development increases CO2 emissions. Economic growth is positively linked with environmental degradation. Electricity consumption improves environmental quality. Economic globalization affects CO2 emissions negatively. The relationship between financial development and CO2 emissions is U-shaped and inverted N-shaped. Furthermore, financial development causes environmental degradation and environmental degradation causes financial development in the Granger sense.
A10|Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyyah’s Usury Concept|This article uses a literature review approach focusing on explaining how the concept of usury in the view of Ibn al-Qayyim al-jawziyyah. This article asserts that usury is one of the forbidden transactions in Islam because it is recorded in the letter of Al-Baqarah verse 275, In interpreting the verse related usury, Ibn al-Qayyim explains that usury is divided into two namely riba fadl and usury nasiyah. The usury has become a core in conventional banking in modern times better known as flowers.
A10|The Influencing Factors of CO2 Emissions and the Role of Biomass Energy Consumption: Statistical Experience from G-7 Countries|This paper examines the impact of biomass energy consumption on CO2 emissions and the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis in G-7 countries. We also incorporate capitalization, financial development and globalization measures (economic, social and political) as additional determinants of CO2 emissions. This study covers the period of 1980-2014. We apply the generalized moments method (GMM) for empirical analysis. The empirical results reveal that biomass energy consumption contributes to CO2 emissions. The EKC hypothesis is valid in G-7 countries. Capitalization is inversely linked with CO2 emissions. Financial development deteriorates environmental quality. Foreign direct investment (FDI) and trade openness improve environmental quality. Globalization increases CO2 emissions. Institutional quality improves environmental quality through effective economic and environmental policies. Urbanization impedes environmental quality. These results provide new insights for policy makers in designing comprehensive environmental policy by considering biomass energy as an economic tool for sustainable economic development and to improve environmental quality.
A10|Ibn Khaldun's Islamic economic view|Abstract The economic problem is discussed by Ibn Khaldun in his book Al Muqoddimah part V and the economic motive arises because human desire is unlimited, the goods that will satisfy his needs are very limited. Therefore, to solve economic problems must be viewed from two angles; angle strength (work, arbeid) and from the point of use. Ibn Khaldun also talks about personal business and general business. It is explained in the explanation of the terms 1 (ma'asy and Rizqy) and term 2 (tamawwul and Kasab). In currencies, Ibn Khaldun predicts that both will occur in the world's most important economies: first, being an exchanger and a measure of price, as business value (destiny); second, means of transportation, such as denizen (qaniah); and third, deposit instruments in the bank (akhirah).
A10|Electricity Consumption, Economic Growth and Trade Openness in Kazakhstan: Evidence from Cointegration and Causality|We investigate the relation between electricity consumption and economic growth by incorporating trade openness, capital, and labor in production function of Kazakhstan using annual data for 1991-2014. We apply the ARDL bounds testing and the VECM Granger causality approach to examine long run and causality relation between the variables. Our results confirm the existence of long run relation among the series. The empirical evidence reveals that electricity consumption adds in economic growth. Trade openness stimulates economic growth, and capital and labor promote economic growth, as well. The causality analysis shows that electricity consumption Granger causes economic growth and trade openness. We also document feedback effect between trade openness and economic growth. Our study provides new insights for policy makers to articulate a comprehensive economic, trade and energy policy to sustain long run economic growth in Kazakhstan.
A10|Analsis Risiko Pembiayaan Musyarakah Lembaga Keuangan Syariah<BR>[Risk Analysis Of Financing Musyarakah Sharia Financial Institutions]|In any financing there must be a risk that arises as a result of failure by a counterparty to fulfill its obligations. At commercial banks, the financing referred to loans, while in Islamic banks are called estab-financing, while for the remuneration given or received at commercial banks in the form of interest (interest loan or deposit) within a specified percentage before her. Islamic bank, measured by the level of remuneration for the results of the business system. In addition, the credit application requirements more stringent Islamic banking from banking Convent-sional so that the credit risk of Islamic banking is smaller than conventional banking. it can be said that the risk of Musharaka financing in Islamic financial institutions is a normal considering that in any business whatsoever and wherever there is definitely potential risks. However, the occurrence of certain risks that can confront can be dealt with in various ways. For example, the risk was immediately faced with how to prepare to prepare for the possibilities that occur, or by transferring the majority of dependents through insurance agencies. The same thing can be found in the risk of Musharaka financing in Islamic financial institutions. Therefore, the management of such risks is important. Similarly, risk control musyarakat financing to credit risk and risk operasilan on Islamic financial institutions should be a concern for the managers of the financial institutions.
A10|Environmental degradation in France: The effects of FDI, financial development, and energy innovations|This paper explores the determinants of carbon emissions in France by accounting for the significant role played by foreign direct investment (FDI), financial development, economic growth, energy consumption and energy research innovations in influencing CO2 emissions function. In this endeavour, we employ the novel SOR (Shahbaz et al. 2017) unit root test on French time series data over the period 1955–2016 to examine the order of integration in the presence of sharp and smooth structural breaks in the variables. We also apply the bootstrapping bounds testing approach, recently developed by McNown et al. (2018), to investigate the presence of cointegration and the empirical findings underscore the presence of cointegration among the time series. Moreover, we find that FDI has a positive impact, while energy research innovations have a negative impact, on French carbon emissions. Financial development lowers carbon emissions, thereby improving the French environmental quality. FDI degrades the environment, and thus supports the pollution-haven hypothesis in France. Similarly, financial development suggests that financial stability is a required condition for improving environmental quality, so are energy research innovations. Contrarily, energy consumption is positively linked with carbon emissions. However, the relationship between economic growth and CO2 emissions is an inverted-U, which is a validation of the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC).
A10|Рождение Макроэкономического Порядка Из Микроэкономического Хаоса<BR>[The birth of a macroeconomic order from microeconomic chaos]|В данной статье рассмотрена проблема самоорганизации экономических процессов в условиях совершенной конкуренции, основанной на взаимодействии индивидуальных и общественных экономических ценностей и рыночных цен. На основе диалектического анализа показано глубокое внутреннее единство проиозводства и потребления, спроса и предложения, полезности и затрат и др. категорий, которые обуславливают функциональную замкнутость и целостность экономической системы, как необходимое условие для понимания процесса формирования макроэкономического порядка из микроэкономического хаоса. На методологической основе диалектики дается новое понимание механизма саморегулирования рыночных процессов и экономической оптимизации. Предлагаемое теоретическое объяснение экономических процессов позволит создать более адекватные прикладные экономические модели и выработать эффективную экономическую политику. In this article, the problem of self-organization of economic processes in conditions of perfect competition, based on the interaction of individual and public economic values and market prices, is considered. On the basis of dialectical analysis, the deep internal unity of production and consumption, supply and demand, utility and costs, and other categories that determine the functional closeness and integrity of economic system as a necessary condition for to understand the formation process of a macroeconomic order from microeconomic chaos is shown. A new understanding of market processes' self-regulation mechanism and economic optimization on the methodological basis of dialectics is given. The proposed theoretical explanation of economic processes makes it possible to create more adequate applied economic models and develop an effective economic policy.
A10|The Decommissioning of the Middle Class|": The euro crisis has threatened the balance of social structures, through the impoverishment of the middle class, in almost all countries of the Old Continent. This trend has not only posed a threat to social cohesion, but it also threats the very nature of the so-called Western-style Democracy. The reason for this is that there is a class that has always been a ""cushion"" that absorbs both the vibrations of competition and the confrontation of the social elite with the socially weak, offering the latter the ability to overcome their misery. In most capitalist economies, the middle class label is based on an economic definition that is largely based on a lifestyle that is based on a certain economic robustness and endurance. With the deepening of the crisis, however, the diversity of the middle class not only has it been jeopardized, but rather, it has gradually been replaced by a new demographic category called the prekariat. This new category consists of a group of people once in the middle class and currently marginalized. All of this leads to generalized uncertainty and totally unstable political attitudes, with intense mobility at the extremes. The rapid rise of right and left-wing populism is an aspect of the threatened subjugation of the middle class strata. The consequences for societies when their layered center is lost are obvious and significant."
A10|Značaj Europskog semestra za reforme ekonomskih politika u Hrvatskoj i odabranim novim članicama EU-a. U: Višnja Samardžija (ur.). Izazovi provedbe europskih politika u Hrvatskoj. IRMO: Zagreb<BR>[The Significance of the European Semester for Economic Policy Reforms in Croatia and Selected New EU Member States. In: Višnja Samardžija (ed.). The Challenges of European Policies Implementation in Croatia. IRMO: Zagreb]|This paper analyses the significance of the European Semester for carrying out economic reforms in Croatia with the comparisons to the experiences of selected new European Union Member States. The purpose of the paper is to contribute to wider understanding of the European Semester. The starting points of the analytical approach are as follows: to investigate the aspects of the functioning of the European Semester at the EU level and its significance for the Member States, to analyse experiences of selected new Member States (including Croatia) and provide recommendations for the implementation of the European Semester in Croatia. In accordance with the POLO-Cro28 project methodology, new EU Member States in Croatia’s neighbourhood were selected for the purpose of the comparative analysis, namely the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia. Croatia shares similar economic challenges regarding economic and social issues with these countries. A further selection criterion was the equal representation of the euro-area countries (Slovakia and Slovenia) and countries that are not part of the euro-area (Czech Republic and Hungary). This paper is based on available comparative studies and academic articles, official EU documents and progress evaluations on reaching the country-specific recommendations within the European Semester (country reports), national reports (National Reform Programs and Stability or Convergence Programs) and other sources.
A10|Développement financier et croissance économique. Le cas du Maroc<BR>[Financial development and economic growth. The case of Morocco]|This article proposes to examine the relation between the development of financial intermediation and the economic growth of Morocco for the period 1980-2015. We use the autoregressive time-lag model to model the long-term and short-run dynamics of the impact of financial intermediation on Morocco's growth rate. Econometric estimates show that when measuring the financial development of the banking market by the following variable: bank credit (BC), one generally arrives at a positive and significant link between the financial development of the banking market and economic growth. Second, when we measure the financial development of the stock market by market capitalization (MC), we arrive at a positive link between the financial development of the stock market and economic growth.
A10|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|Religious war and the separation of Church and state affairs in the global north contributed in the emergence and implementation of various ideologies. Instead of its positive impact these ideologies became a source of extreme violence and corruption across the planet. Liberalism, non-intervention in the socio-economic affairs of mankind is considered as an advanced state of mankind ideological evolution and End of History. In addition, it is believed that liberalism is free from internal contradiction and which can be settle by an alternate ideology. In sharp contrast, Muslims believes that beside other one of the unresolvable contradictions between liberalism and Islam is the gnosis of human being which the present study will undertake. Question to be explored that what concept of man has been held by economists (Liberals/Islamic) in their analysis of the behaviour of individual man, and to what extent they have universalized their concept of the individual to mankind?
A10|An Enduring Platform For Public And Cooperative Economics Research: A Centennial Perspective|In this short introduction, after briefly remembering the exemplary role played by Edgard Milhaud for the birth and development of Annals, we describe the content of the current special issue devoted to the 110 years of the journal.
A10|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|After the defeat of Marxism and the triumph in the war in Iraq, pundit in the global north labelled neoliberalism as the End of History and last form of mankind ideological evolution. It is believed that neoliberalism successfully satisfied all the previous ideological contradiction. In contrast, Muslims believe that besides others one of the prominent and unresolvable contradictions between Neoliberalism and Islam is the gnosis of humanity which the present study will undertake. In this paper using the methodology of library research we will explore how the liberal and Islamic economists conceptualize man in their analysis of human behaviour and the degree to which the concept of man has been universalized.
A10|Rise of Digital Media to Triumph Brand Loyalty|Modern era of management has seen a rise in the level of customer engagement, which was not that much of importance earlier. Earlier, brands tend to compete on the products or service they offer. In the recent digital era, it is much more than what a brand has to offer. The emergence of digital media has boosted the importance of customer engagement. Now, customers can easily get in touch with the companies through digital channels. Corporations use these channels to let customers aware about their offerings, ask for suggestions and recommendations, and solve the queries of the customers. This research is focus on ascertaining the relationship between customer engagement, customer satisfaction, and customer loyalty, and to identify how these factors impacts the repeat purchases in telecommunication sector. The research is based on descriptive research design; quantitative research design was trailed for questionnaire developing 5-point Likert scale technique.
A10|Inequality Indices as Tests of Fairness|"Standard income inequality indices can be interpreted as a measure of welfare loss entailed in departures from equality of outcomes, for egalitarian social welfare functions defined on the distribution of outcomes. But such a welfare interpretation has been criticized for a long time on the grounds that these indices are snap shot outcomes-based measures which do not take into account the process generating the observed distribution. Rather than focusing on outcomes, it is argued, we should be interested in whether the underlying process is ""fair"". Following this line of argument, this paper develops statistical tests for fairness within well define income distribution generating processes and a well specified notion of fairness. We find that the likelihood ratio (LR) test for fairness versus unfairness within two such processes are proportional to Theil's first and second inequality indices respectively. The LR values may either be used as a test statistic or to approximate a Bayes factor that measures the posterior probabilities of the fair version of the processes over that of the unfair. The answer to the process versus outcomes critique is thus not to stop calculating inequality measures, but to interpret their values differently - to compare them to critical values for a test of the null hypothesis of fairness, or to use them directly as a measure of the chance that the process was fair relative to the chance it was unfair. We also apply this perspective to measurement of ""inequality of opportunity""."
A10|The Revolution of Grexit: The Plan|On July 5, 2015, Greece held a referendum for deciding on the blackmailing proposal submitted by the Institutions of the Eurogroup on 25th of June 2015. On the threshold of the credit suffocation, the Greek people did not relent and they expressed through their vote (a percentage of 61, 31% and 3.558.450 votes) their objection; one more “NO” in their history, similar to this of 28th October of 1940. However, the Greek leaders flinched to express this “NO” using tangible policies even if the short term consequences would be painful. Instead, the foreign partners, allies and friends to Greece “which belongs to the West”, still follow a strict austerity policy which has resulted in poverty of the majority of the Greek people, and in the stagflation. Igglesis Nikos, in his book “The Revolution of GREXIT: The Plan”, makes an attempt to present in a detailed way what the Greek people decided…an alternative and sustainable solution.
A10|Concordian Economics: Beyond Micro and Macroeconomics|In Concordian economics there is no distinction between micro and macro economics, because the economic process is the same for the individual person, the city, the nation, or the world, What changes is the scale, but not the structure of the process. When micro and macro economics are seen as one, it makes no sense to add monetary wealth to real wealth. It becomes then evident that monetary wealth is not wealth; monetary wealth is a legal representation of real wealth.
A10|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
A10|The Relationship Between Hong Leong Bank’s Performance with Leverage and Inflation|This paper are for recognize the relationship between risk and performance of Hong Leong Bank. Hong Leong Bank is one of the bank that have a good reputation in banking industry at Malaysia. Thus, it is important to shareholder knows the type of risk that faced by management of bank. The focused risk is leverage and external factor that are inflation by using profitability as the bank’s indicator which is by using ROA and current ratio. Aside that, the external factor such as inflation also give an impact to the performance of bank. The leverage and inflation are significant in business due to the direct and indirect relationship to the profitability. Therefore, this paper further examines if management have taken a serious step in maintaining the risk that will give any reflect to the profitability.
A10|risk and performance of amtel holdings berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Amtel Holding Berhad in the electronic sector. This study will investigate the relationship between company profitability and some specific risk factors and macroeconomic factor. The data was collected from the annual report of Amtel Holdings Berhad. Starting from 2011 until 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Amtel Holdings Berhad. For the 5 years liquidity ratio still beyond the benchmark, however the operating ratio shows the higher percentage and across the benchmark, indicates that the company is not efficient in managing their operating expenses. The additional measurement is size of asset. This variable is not significant with the liquidity risk. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity (current ratio), GDP and operating ratio. Data was analysed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression analysis and bivariate correlation shows only one factor of profitability is significant to operating ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability
A10|أثر تنويع الاستثمار الحكومي على النمو الاقتصادي في الجزائر دراسة اقتصادية قياسية للفترة : 1990-2016<BR>[The impact of diversification of government investment on economic growth in Algeria-Econometric study For the period: 1990-2016]|The purpose of this paper is to measure the impact of government investment diversification on economic growth in Algeria during the period 1990-2016 using the descriptive, analytical and econometric tools. This research is based on the theoretical study of the investment determinants and it relationship to economic growth. The relations are drawn in the form of economic models to be estimated and trying to bring them down to the reality of the Algerian economy. The results of this study showed that the size of government investments in the industrial sector (IGIND) and in the education and training sector (IGUDF) influenced Algeria's economic growth measured by the size of GDP. It can be deduced from this research that the diversification of direct (public) investments has a central, pivotal and positive role in raising economic growth rates. These results confirm the validity of theories of self-growth in the Algerian economy.
A10|Utopian Left-Wing Expectations and the Social Consequences of the 3rd Memorandum in Greece|In January 2015 the radical left SYRIZA has won the Greek national elections and formed a coalition government with Independent Greeks (ANEL), a right-wing populist party. After a seven-month negotiation with Greece’s creditors and the agreement for the implementation of a third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA announced the conduction of a second round of national elections in September 2015. After a second electoral victory, SYRIZA formed again a coalition government with ANEL. The main characteristic of SYRIZA’s pre-electoral campaign was that it has primarily focused on the commitment for austerity measures termination and on the implementation of tax alleviation. Even during the second electoral campaign in September 2015, after the agreement for the implementation of the third memorandum of fiscal adjustment, SYRIZA was promising that its implementation will be socially endued in order to reduce negative social consequences, such as those created by the previous memoranda. Practically though, after the first months of the new memorandum implementation, it is obvious that the government has introduced an unprecedented tax policy. Interestingly, this policy is not different from a traditional left logic of tax enforcement but actually leads to the implementation of horizontal austerity policies which firstly affect the socially vulnerable groups. From this point of view, while SYRIZA emphatically declare that it aims at resolving the crisis, its policies seem to deepen the depression. For instance, its inability to find alternative options to finance the social security system, leads to the implementation of restrictive policies which dismantle the welfare state. This paper aims at analyzing the policies of the first left government in Greece by focusing on the tentative social consequences of the third memorandum and at the same time, studying some of the basic factors for its electoral victory, such as populism.
A10|What are the top five journals in economics? A new meta-ranking| We construct a meta-ranking of 277 economics journals based on 22 different rankings. The ranking incorporates bibliometric indicators from four different databases (Web of Science, Scopus, Google Scholar, and RePEc). We account for the different scaling of the bibliometric indicators by standardizing each ranking score. We run a principal component analysis to assign weights to each ranking. In our meta-ranking, the top five journals are given by: Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Financial Economics, Journal of Economic Literature (JEL), Journal of Finance, and Econometrica. Additionally, leaving out the JEL as a survey journal and the finance journals in our top 10 list we confirm the perceived top five journals in the economics profession.
A10|Dynamics of electricity consumption, oil price and economic growth: Global perspective|This study uses the data from 157 countries from 1960 to 2014 to analyze the relationship between economic growth, electricity consumption, oil prices, capital, and labor. The economic growth of developing countries with industrial infrastructure has a more significant association with electricity consumption than oil prices. We use oil prices and electricity consumption jointly to study highly predictive observations for economic growth. The data are categorized by income, OECD and regional levels. The panel cointegration, long-run parameter estimation, and Pool Mean Group tests are used to analyze the cointegration and short-run and long-run relationships between the variables. The empirical results indicate the presence of cointegration between the variables. The presence of feedback effects between electricity consumption and economic growth, oil prices and economic growth is valid. These findings confirm that in spite of the oil prices, developing countries rely heavily on electricity consumption for economic growth. In the short run, growth and feedback effects suggest that more vigorous electricity policies should be implemented to attain sustainable economic growth for the long-term.
A10|Does globalization worsen environmental quality in developed economies?|We examine the causal relationship between globalization and CO2 emissions for 25 developed economies in Asia, North America, Western Europe and Oceania using both time series and panel data techniques, spanning the annual data period of 1970–2014. Because of the presence of cross-sectional dependence in the panel, we employ Pesaran’s (2007) cross-sectional augmented panel unit root (CIPS) test to ascertain unit root properties. The Westerlund (2007) cointegration test is also used to ascertain the presence of a long-run association between globalization and carbon emissions. The long-run heterogeneous panel elasticities are estimated using the Pesaran (2006) common correlated effects mean group (CCEMG) estimator and the Eberhardt and Teal (2010) augmented mean group (AMG) estimator. The causality between the variables is examined by employing the Dumitrescu and Hurlin (2012) and Emirmahmutoglu and Kose (2011) Granger causality tests. The empirical results reveal that globalization increases carbon emissions, and thus the globalization-driven carbon emissions hypothesis is valid. This empirical analysis suggests insightful policy guidelines for policy makers using ‘globalization’ as an economic tool for better long-run environmental policy.
A10|La gestion du changement dans les organisations publiques algériennes<BR>[Managing Change in Algerian Public Organizations]|With economic globalization and open borders , public organizations have known many changes in macro-economic , organizational and policy, in order not only to promote growth, but also to ensure their survive. The management is not a technical but a neutral activity inextricably linked with politics and public policy, law and issues of civil society . It is always underpinned by values and / or ideologies. Thus, change management is one of the leaders of these organizations with complex structures exposed to competition and international competitiveness is a challenge that must be addressed .In this perspective, our presentation focuses on three areas , first understand the context of the change in administration, second, we are talking about a concept that explain the practice of managing change in the organization which is the receptivity, the third axis focuses on the practice of change in the public organization in Algeria.
A10|Two conditions for the application of Lorenz curve and Gini coefficient to voting and allocated seats|The Lorenz curve and Gini coefficient are applied here to measure and graph disproportionality in outcomes for multiseat elections held in 2017. The discussion compares Proportional Representation (PR) in Holland (PR Gini 3.6%) with District Representation (DR) in France (41.6%), UK (15.6%) and Northern Ireland (NI) (36.7%). In France the first preferences of voters for political parties show from the first round in the two rounds run-off election. In UK and NI the first preferences of voters are masked because of strategic voting in the single round First Past the Post system. Thus the PR Gini values for UK and NI must be treated with caution. Some statements in the voting literature hold that the Lorenz and Gini statistics are complex to construct and calculate for voting. Instead, it appears that the application is actually straightforward. These statistics appear to enlighten the difference between PR and DR, and they highlight the disproportionality in the latter. Two conditions are advised to enhance the usefulness of the statistics and the comparability of results: (1) Order the political parties on the ratio (rather than the difference) of the share of seats to the share of votes, (2) Use turnout as the denominator for the shares, and thus include the invalid and wasted vote (no seats received) as a party of their own. The discussion also touches upon the consequences of disproportionality by DR. Quite likely Brexit derives from the UK system of DR and the discontent about (mis-) representation. Likely voting theorists from countries with DR have a bias towards DR and they are less familiar with the better democratic qualities of PR.
A10|Comparing votes and seats with a diagonal (dis-) proportionality measure, using the slope-diagonal deviation (SDD) with cosine, sine and sign|"When v is a vector of votes for parties and s is a vector of their seats gained in the House of Commons or the House of Representatives - with a single zero for the lumped category of ""Other"", of the wasted vote for parties that got votes but no seats - and when V = 1'v is total turnout and S = 1's the total number of seats, and w = v / V and z = s / S, then k = Cos[w, z] is a symmetric measure of similarity of the two vectors, θ = ArcCos[k] is the angle between the two vectors, and Sin[θ] is a measure of disproportionality along the diagonal. The geometry that uses Sin appears to be less sensitive than voters, representatives and researchers are to disproportionalities. This likely relates to the Weber-Fechner law. A disproportionality measure with improved sensitivity for human judgement is 10 √Sin[θ]. This puts an emphasis on the first digits of a scale of 10, which can be seen as an inverse (Bart Simpson) report card. The suggested measure has a sound basis in the theory of voting and statistics. The measure of 10 √Sin[θ] satisfies the properties of a metric and may be called the slope-diagonal deviation (SDD) metric. The cosine is the geometric mean of the slopes of the regressions through the origin of z given w and w given z. The sine uses the deviation of this mean from the diagonal. The paper provides (i) theoretical foundations, (ii) evaluation of the relevant literature in voting theory and statistics, (iii) example outcomes of both theoretical cases and the 2017 elections in Holland, France and the UK, and (iv) comparison to other disproportionality measures and scores on criteria. Using criteria that are accepted in the voting literature, SDD appears to be better than currently available measures. It is rather amazing that the measure has not been developed a long time ago and been used for long. My search in the textbooks and literature has its limits however. A confusing element is that voting theorists speak about ""proportionality"" only for the diagonal while in mathematics and statistics any line through the origin is proportional."
A10|Organisational structure in the progress of integration|The iron and steel industry, like the entire economy, was undergoing transformation processes in the 1990s. An inspiration for these changes was signing by Poland of the Association Agreement with the European Union in December 1991. This document sets directions for functioning of the ironworks in Poland. It resulted in the development of the ironworks restructuring processes in the years 1992, 1998, 2001–2003, aimed at the improvement of their economic efficiency. It meant seeking economic efficiency of metallurgical enterprises, also known as fundamental changes in their organisational structures. A number of literature sources, both Polish and English recognise the issue of reforms by means of restructuring employment, finances, and resources. In the 1990s and in the first decade of the 21st century, the influence of the organisational structure on the efficiency of iron and steelworks was studied more and more frequently. Their theoretical justification is found in, i.a. the works of M. Weber, H. Fayol, Zb. Zakrzewski, A. Krupski, A. Stabryła, A. Nalepka, A. Kozina and others. Scientific suggestions in publications have given rise to the discourse that organisational structures should be dealt within a social and technical aspects, as processes, sets, and events. They are one of the most important tools for the management, a factor binding the enterprise with the environment.
A10|Confucianism and the Legalism: A Model of the National Strategy of Governance in Ancient China|The Confucian school emphasizes family value, moral persuasions, and personal relations. Under Confucianism, there is a free-rider issue in the provision of efforts. Since national officials are chosen through personal relations, they may not be the most capable. The Legalist school emphasizes the usage of incentives and formal institutions. Under the Legalism, the ruler provides strong incentives to local officials which may lead to side effects because some activities are noncontractible. The cold-blood image of the Legalism may alien citizens. By exploiting the paternalistic relationship between the ruler and the ruled under Confucianism and the strength of institution-building under the Legalism, the ruler may benefit from a combination of Confucianism approach and the Legalism approach as the national strategy of governance. As each strategy has its pros and cons, which strategy of is optimal depends on factors such as the minimum enforceable level of public service and the level of institution building costs.
A10|Confucianism and the Legalism: A model of the national strategy of governance in ancient China|The Confucianism school emphasizes family value, moral persuasions, and personal relations. Under Confucianism, there is a free-rider issue in the provision of efforts. Since national officials are chosen through personal relations, they may not be the most capable. The Legalism school emphasizes the usage of incentives and formal institutions. Under the Legalism, the ruler provides strong incentives to local officials which may lead to side effects because some activities are noncontractible. The cold-blood image of the Legalism may alien citizens. By exploiting the paternalistic relationship between the ruler and the ruled under Confucianism and the strength of institution-building under the Legalism, the ruler may benefit from a combination of Confucianism approach and the Legalism approach as the national strategy of governance. As each strategy has its pros and cons, which strategy of is optimal depends on factors such as the minimum enforceable level of public service and the level of institution building costs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A10|Kształtowanie kompetencji z obszaru inteligencji emocjonalnej w procesie sukcesji współczesnych przedsiębiorstw rodzinnych<BR>[The development of competence in the area of emotional intelligence in the process of succession of modern family enterprises]|"Family enterprises are the oldest way of doing business and are one of the foundations of a global market economy. The long-term prospect of managing them through generations, as well as combining family and managerial functions, provides them with a clear identity. Succession and the planning of it is a complex process of developing and implementing a strategic plan of transferring ownership and power by the owner (or owners) of a family enterprise to a selected successor who will be able to ensure the continuation and development of the family enterprise in accordance with the adopted strategy. The competencies of the successors are the subject of numerous studies. They are of a general nature and refer to fragmentary aspects of the problem. There are no descriptions and analyses regarding the emotional intelligence competencies in the process of succession in the literature of the subject. Contemporary owners reach for non-economic values and various scientific disciplines - the law, sociology, psychology, or social economy, in order to use the knowledge in a rational way in the process of educating and shaping the personality of a future successor. The main objective of the paper by M. Dźwigoł-Barosz entitled ""The development of competencies in the area of emotional intelligence in the process of succession in contemporary family enterprises"" is an attempt to build a model of competence development in the area of emotional intelligence of successors in the process of succession in family enterprises. The author, in this research layer, agrees with the suggestions of D. Goleman that the intelligence quotient and the emotional intelligence constitute different ability groups and that people with a high intelligence quotient and a low level of emotional intelligence, as well as those with a low quotient and a high level of emotional intelligence are rarely encountered. An attempt to answer this question has been made in this paper. In the first chapter, the essence and the definition of a family enterprise in a modern market economy, both global and Polish, are discussed. The second chapter refers to the succession in a family enterprise, the essence of the matter in Polish law and business activity has been presented. The contemporary manager as a potential successor is the topic of the third chapter. In the fourth one, the model of developing the competencies of the successors in the area of emotional intelligence has been discussed."
A10|Does Clower’s Dual-Decision Hypothesis lead to the change in saving conclusion in Keynes’s General Theory?|Keynes’ General Theory (1936) is probably the most challenging economics book ever written, with an abundance of hypotheses, concepts and theories. Twenty five years after its publication, Clower proposed an insightful explanation on Keynes, the Dual-Decision Hypothesis (DDH). Hall (1978) and Flavin (1981) seemingly reached the conclusion that, under certain conditions, consumption was independent of income. In contrast, Wu (2016) has shown that, change in saving has to be a function of income growth. In fact, applying Wu’s corrected consumption for period t+1, it is possible to show DDH equations leading to Keynes’ change in saving (and disequilibrium) conclusion.
A10|Trends and Features of Research on Foreign Aid: A Literature Review|This paper reviews the economics literature on foreign aid. Aid supporters tend to emphasize results, while its detractors tend to highlight the incentives it provides (although they may still acknowledge some of aid’s positive results, particularly on public health). Like the modes to deliver it, research on foreign aid has evolved over the years. From the traditional aid-growth regressions research has refocused towards micro issues, including institutional inefficiencies or sector-specific bottlenecks. This tendency is positive, in so far as it can lead to useful policy advice that improves the way aid is given. Great gaps in knowledge remain, though. Notably, the aid market is poorly understood in aspects such as donors’ interaction with the recipient government or donors’ coordination. In terms of political economy, recipient countries’ decision making with regards to aid fungibility or the incentives provided by new types of aid (notably China’s) have been largely unexplored. Moreover, the types of public goods that improve households’ living standards are little understood. The scarcity of research on these questions is greatly due to lack of data – or even data opacity; if aid is to be better understood and improved, far greater efforts must be made in terms of collecting and sharing data.
A10|One woman, one vote. Though not in the USA, UK and France|This paper gives an economic analysis of the design of electoral systems. It particular it evaluates how political science has been dealing with this issue. The main choice is between either district representation (DR) or equal or proportional representation (EPR). It appears that DR obliterates votes so that the principle of One Woman, One Vote and also article 21 in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are violated. Holland in 1917 switched from DR to EPR but countries like the USA, UK and France still adopt DR. Brexit can be diagnosed as a result of the UK system of DR and the build-up of frustration on democracy within the UK itself. It appears that the advisory role of political scientists cannot be overlooked. Political science started in the humanities and only gradually adopted the methods of science, e.g. with the foundation of APSA in 1903. However, political science on the particular topic of electoral systems apparently still remains with its tradition in the humanities, in which assumptions are more important than analysis and hard data. Political science on electoral systems is no experimental science, since one cannot experiment with nations and their elections. The situation is similar as for macro-economics or astronomy that also are observational sciences, yet the latter fields have managed better in adopting the methods of science. A new development uses laboratory experiments, but these obviously cannot replace actual elections for the US House of Representatives or the UK House of Commons. This paper focuses on a deconstruction of a study by Carey & Hix (2011) (C&H) on an “electoral sweet spot”, that favours DR and that would mean the end of EPR. Other evidence on other studies is given in appendices. The deconstruction of the C&H study is sufficient evidence though, since it constitutes the culmination of a particular branch in political science. This branch appears to contain fundamental confusion and bias. Political science might regard this deconstruction as mere opinion but for science an empirical observation constitutes a fact. C&H also take ‘the most frequent of good outcomes’ as ‘thus the best overall’, which confuses frequency with optimality. This is more particular to their study though other political scientists are already copying this confusion instead of criticising it. Proper science should step in and assist political science to become a real science.
A10|Monetary Constitutionalism: Some Recent Developments|The volume edited by Leland Yeager more than 50 years ago and published in 1962 under the title In Search of a Monetary Constitution has turned out to be remarkably prescient since the Great Inflation was then about to begin. One might expect that in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis and Great Recession interest in monetary-constitutional matters would be revived and this has indeed been the case. In this paper an attempt is made to assess whether and to what extent scientific progress has been made in defining the nature and characteristics of a monetary constitution for the post-Crisis world. To that end some recent contributions to the literature are reviewed critically.
A10|Estimation of Environmental Kuznets Curve for CO2 emission: Role of renewable energy generation in India|The existing literature on environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) is mainly focused on finding out the optimal sustainable path for any economy. Looking at the present renewable energy generation scenario in India, this study has made an attempt to estimate the EKC for CO2 emission in India for the period of 1971–2015. Using unit root test with multiple structural breaks and autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach to cointegration, this study has found the evidence of inverted U-shaped EKC for India, with the turnaround point at USD 2937.77. The renewable energy has found to have significant negative impact on CO2 emissions, whereas for overall energy consumption, the long run elasticity is found to be higher than short run elasticity. Moreover, trade is negatively linked with carbon emissions. Based on the results, this study concludes with suitable policy prescriptions.
A10|Using decision tree classifier to predict income levels|In this study Random Forest Classifier machine learning algorithm is applied to predict income levels of individuals based on attributes including education, marital status, gender, occupation, country and others. Income levels are defined as a binary variable 0 for income
A10|Innovative ideas for improving attractiveness of forestry sector for women (survey results)|This paper aims to characterize the impact of factors affecting competitiveness and productivity in forestry sector in Bulgaria, corresponding to female’s employment, such as: formation of wages; education and training, insurable earnings for women in the sector, etc. The study is based on literature and legal framework survey, as well as on statistical analysis. The data is compared to primary results from a survey conducted in 2017 among a database of 1087 forestry enterprises in Bulgaria. The survey is a part of project № CB006.1.31.070 “Innovative cooperation initiatives in cross-border region” where Bulgarian academy of science is a leading partner. In addition it is used data from individual interviews, conducted in 2017 with employed women working in the forestry sector in Bulgaria.
A10|Economics in the Interdisciplinary Discourse|Structural functionalism sees society or other social objects as a system, as a structurally dissected integrity, in which each system unit performs a specific function, creating conditions for the normal functioning of all subsystems and of the system as a whole. The main problem that sociologists try to explain on the basis of functionalism - How does the social order under conditions of free activity of individuals, pursuing their own interests? How does a social mechanism operate that leads to mutual coordination of their actions in the public interest? As we see, sociologists of this direction see for themselves the basic scientific problem the same as, beginning from Adam Smith, economists see it in relation to the decentralized economic system. Economic theory can discover for itself many valuable ideas in very interesting scientific developments of sociologists.
A10|Economics is Thick|"Thick concepts, as understood in recent philosophy, are concepts that link fact and value in such a way that the factual part justifies the evaluation of the object described as good. Some philosophers argue that this complication in our understanding of valuative language calls on us to reconsider the maxim that ""you can't get an ought from an is."" Others argue that, since thick statements can be disentangled and treated as compounds of a descriptive and a valuative part, no such reconsideration is called for. Regardless how this disagreement is resolved, a person who uses a thick term with linguistic competence is expressing both a fact and a value (even if the value is not her own.) The terms commonly used in economics seem in this sense to be thick. Indeed, to the extent that they have to do with wants and their satisfaction, they must be thick, since a statement of want or satisfaction links fact and value in a way that is very much like the linkage that makes a term thick. Thus, as Little (1957) argued long ago, terms like ""efficient"" and ""productive"" are terms that unavoidably express facts as well as values -- they are thick. Orthodox economics clearly is a theory built of thick concepts, a thick theory. To that extent, economics per se is thick. For other schools of thought, some key concepts may also be thick, a possibility that would require inquiry largely beyond the scope of this study."
A10|Exploring The Accommodation Types Difference By Age Groups|This paper aimed to identify accommodation type that best fits for each customers? segment. The study aimed determine how difference between customers groups when choosing types of accommodation, based on a questionnaire survey and descriptive statistical analyses of ANOVA (age groups). Results obtained may serve as a useful reference for the owners of accommodation. The output of the ANOVA analysis for type of accommodation had a statistically significant difference between type means. Therefore, there is a statistically significant difference in the all types of accommodation except hotel between age groups which they had attended. Based on these results, marketing implications were suggestion and discussed.
A10|Endogenous Regional Development : The Case of One Tambol One Product in the Lower North of Thailand , Location Quotient Analysis|In 1997, the financial economic crisis hit Thailand; non-government organizations and social movements criticized the negative impacts arising from capitalism, including liberalization and globalization. As a solution to the restructuring performance, the regional development concept proved to be an alternative development paradigm which prioritizes community development. There are two types of regional development approaches: exogenous and endogenous regional development. While the first one depends heavily on the promotion by governments utilizing outside resources with legal controls, technical innovation, etc., the second one relies highly on the initiative of the local people using local resources based on local biodiversity, culture, traditions, and skills. Accordingly, the Thai government established the One Tambon, One Product (OTOP) project in 2001. The program is based on the successful experience of the One Village One Product (OVOP) movement in Japan which is a remarkable example of the endogenous regional development concept. While OVOP mainly highlights some local areas for the depopulation problem, the OTOP project in Thailand draws attention to alleviating poverty. Currently, OVOP or OTOP is becoming one of the most popular terms in many developing countries, especially in Asia and Africa. There have been several studies of OTOP projects in other regions in Thailand. Much of the previous work on the OTOP projects has concentrated on the performance of each enterprise using descriptive statistical tools. The purpose of this study was to contribute to knowledge and debate on describing the structure of the OTOP production. The annual data for the fiscal period in 2015 from the Community Development Division and the location quotient method of analysis were employed. The mathematical technique indexes the region?s revenue of OTOP to a larger reference (national) scale. The study points out that the location quotient of food and textile production of the OTOP scheme in lower northern Thailand was greater than one. In contrast, the LQs of crafts, beverages and herbs were 0.77, 0.35 and 0.44, respectively. The results revealed that the first two products are concentrated in the lower northern region compared to a larger geographic area. Therefore, the economic and workforce development planners should provide the right support to make the regional economy unique.
A10|Effects of Prices and Yields on the Choice of Farming Tobacco, Results from Uganda|Objective:Tobacco farming is important amongst smallholder farm households, and controversial within policy circles and tobacco control lobbyists. There is little knowledge about why farmers farm tobacco. We examined, cross-sectionally, why farmers grow tobacco and tested whether price and yield stimuli of tobacco and non-tobacco crops would influence the choice of farming tobacco. Methods: A cross-sectional based survey with a sample of 126 farm households (mean farm acreage 5) in the West Nile sub-region of Uganda were surveyed in 2014. We assessed the structure of their land system, access to finance, input use, production and farm expenditure of tobacco and non-tobacco crops. Regression analyses tested whether price and crop yield ratios, controlling for resources were related to the choice of growing tobacco. Results: Tobacco farmers are less likely to farm tobacco leaf if there is an increase in the price ratio of coffee to tobacco, -0.800 p
A10|The Effect of International Trade on emerging economies: The case of India|"Past and current studies indicate that, India is one of the fastest growing and most attractive economies in the world and has emerged as a desirable destination for Foreign Investment. Since 1991 India has been operating under strict policies which restricted the economy from an International trade, this drove more protectionism than open market trade. Indian government since 1991 introduced economic reform measures, to stimulate the economy. These reform measures in fiscal, reduction on the level of tariffs based on a large number of imports, exchange rate, the use of the exchange rate as the instrument for export promotion and trade policies. However, the reforms that were implemented in the Indian were not very different from the reforms undertaken by developing countries, the only alteration would be the swiftness with which they are implemented. India has one of the advantages which is the stability of its political climate. The current government and party that is in power have held the political landscape in place under control and this is providing the investor-friendly environment. India has gained influence within the global economy, this is demonstrated by India position in the international institutions like (G-8, G-20) and the free trade arrears with ASEAN, EU. This is also reflected by the by India's willingness to adopt international best practices in the production of the range of goods and services. India has attracted U$195bn in FDI over the past 5 years. ?India?s GDP for 2013, valued at US$ 1.9 trillion at current prices is the 10th largest in the world"". The Indian government has a target of 8 per cent during the current Five Year Plan (2012-2017), for their economic growth, this is based on the demonstrated ability to sustain national economic growth.?This paper will elaborate more on the rationale to explore trade in India. Economic theory and empirical evidence have clearly established the links between Trade, Productivity, and Economic growth. Countries that have large internal markets have also benefited by integrating themselves into the world economy, and thus opening up their economies like South Africa and India as one of the BRICS countries. India is projected to be the fastest-growing economy in the world over the next several decades. Trading with different countries respectively has made India what it is regarded as trading hub of today after China in the BRICS Countries."
A10|The Determinant Of Success In Basic Economics Courses Taught By Department Of Economics At The University Of Economics In Prague|In comparison with other basic courses at the University of Economics in Prague there are basic economics courses taught by the Department of Economics that regularly show higher fail rates, specifically more than 35 %. A standard evaluation should be done in time and shall use different methods. Using quantitative methods, our analysis tries to identify key determinants of students? success. The data were obtained via a questionnaire during the last lecture in WS 2016/17. As opposed to existing studies, we also consider variables that weren?t previously possible to observe, such as the use of IT technologies during lectures and studying from materials in electronic form.
A10|Brendan M. Walsh (1940-2016): The Economist at Work|Physically as well as intellectually, Brendan Walsh (BMW) bestrode the narrow world of Irish economics like a colossus for decades. In part this reflected his calm debating style, and his common-sense ability to synthesise a vast range of knowledge of the Irish economy. But it also reflected the fact that he published consistently and voluminously throughout his career.
A10|The Relative Value of AER P&P Economic Education Papers|The CEE had been allocated one session in the AER Papers and Proceedings (P&P) since 1964. In 2008, the American Economic Association evaluated the allocation of AER Papers and Proceedings sessions to various AEA Committees. In response, the CEE was asked to prepare a one-page rationale for keeping that session. Their response (Committee on Economic Education, 2008) made several important defenses of the session, including that the quality of the papers published in these sessions must speak for itself. In this paper, we propose to evaluate the relative quality of AER P&P papers through citation analysis. Using the Social Science Citation Index, the citation counts of CEE AER P&P papers are compared to other papers included in the issue.
A10|Child abuse materials as digital goods: Why we should fear new commercial forms|Psycho-sociological and legal aspects of online child sexual abuse such as criminalization, offender profiling, and rehabilitation have been thoroughly studied in the literature. The economics of the issue may appear relatively insignificant at first sight, considering the devastating effects on victims. However, understanding the child abuse materials' economic value better is crucial for developing more effective crime prevention strategies particularly for emerging threats, since the disruption of an illicit market is closely related to the perceived value of such materials. Even for relatively traditional methods like membership-only commercial websites, law enforcement responses do not appear to recognize the economic facts of child abuse materials as digital goods. Similar to the legal actions taken against conventional forms of crime, law enforcement agencies preferred to take down the markets of such materials. Thus, they diminished the demand and supply of child abuse materials by shutting down online platforms and apprehending the abusers. However, in line with technological advances, new ways of offending have emerged that make these measures almost useless. Specific characteristics and dangers of these emerging threats from an economic perspective seem underestimated or completely ignored. This paper aims to analyze the economic aspect of online child abuse materials as a type of digital goods, and it discusses how new forms of commercial sexual exploitation such as crowdfunding and webcam child prostitution challenge the widely accepted policies on the fight against online child sexual abuse.
A10|T20 resilience and inclusive growth|Severe recessions and financial crises are frequent. Their effect on the economy is persistent and often exceeds initial projections. They can also be a strong driver of widening inequality. Therefore it is important that measures be taken to minimize the risk of such events while strengthening the potential for economies to innovate and prosper (Phelps, Mass Flourishings: How Grassroots Innovation Created Jobs, Challenge and Change, 2013). An economy's resilience to crises and recessions can also be strengthened. Minimizing risks requires the accurate monitoring of home-grown vulnerabilities in real-time; coping with the consequences means identifying and putting in place policy settings and mechanisms that can help absorb the impact of a severe downturn and facilitate a swift rebound of economic activity. Strengthening resilience will also provide a key contribution to solving the global problems of rising populism, nationalism and protectionism.
A10|Assessment of the State of Implementation of Excellence Model Common Assessment Framework (CAF) 2013 by the National Institutes of Research – Development – Innovation in Romania|The paper highlights the part of the results of a research based on a questionnaire conducted at the National Institutes for Research, Development and Innovation (NIRDI) of Romania, under the coordination, under the authority or the subordination of the National Agency for Scientific Research and Innovation (NASRI), goals being pursued: Assess the current status of implementation of the Common model of excellence Self-Assessment framework (CAF) in 2013 by NIRDI in Romania; Determining the impact that the implementation of one or more management systems has on achieving excellence in research and innovation; Capacity assessment CAF 2013 model of excellence to provide enlightening information on the most important risks and challenges facing the entity being (self-) evaluation. The research was conducted in July 2016 to a representative sample of 51 of the 53 INCDI, under the coordination, under the authority or subordinate NASRI. It appears that although there is a high degree of fulfillment of the 9 criteria of the excellence model CAF 2013 NIRDI have not assimilated the spirit and the purpose of the excellence model induced by the principles of total quality management by importance (percentage) given to each criterion and sub-criterion. It appears real progress criteria results on customers and processes, products and services. At the same time there are serious shortcomings in the criteria results on the organization and results on the staff. On the one hand, based on the results analyzed, it was determined that to achieve excellence in research is not sufficient to implement two or more management systems, on the other hand it was confirmed that the results of (self-) evaluation stage of implementation of the model of excellence CAF 2013 provides significant and enlightening information to identify the principal risks and deficiencies faced by the entity (self) assessed.
A10|Imprecision|This paper surveys the various modes of imprecision and seeks to clarify the concept of imprecision, to account for the pervasiveness of the phenomena, and to explain why we have to come to terms with it throughout our cognitive affairs. The structure of these deliberations will be as follows: Having set the stage for considering imprecision (in section 1), it will briefly elaborate upon each of them (in section 2). Next comes a discussion of two of the main ramifications of imprecision, namely vagueness (section 3) and oversimplification (section 4). There follows (in section 5) a consideration of why imprecision is inevitable in our cognitive dealings, and why this feature of investigation actually admits of an evolutionary explanation. The paper concludes (in section 6) with a retrospective glance at the overall situation from a philosophical point of view. Overall, the discussion is of an analytical cast, seeking to clarify the conceptual nature and operational bearing of imprecision within the cognitive scheme of things.
A10|Distributional Neutral Welfare Ranking-Extending Pareto Principle|The well known Pareto criterion used in the context of efficiency and welfare has to do with absolute changes whereas in every domain of economic behavior inequality or relative changes has become a major concern. We propose an inequality-preserving or distribution neutral Pareto criterion-the strong Pareto superior or SPS allocation which preserves the initial distribution and makes everyone better off. Our main result is that whenever there is a gain in the aggregate value of the relevant attribute, there exists a unique counterfactual allocation which is SPS.
A10|Reactivity in Economic Science|There is a fundamental difference between the natural and the social sciences due to reactivity. This difference remains even in the age of Artificially Intelligent Learning Machines and Big Data. Many academic economists take it as a matter of course that economics should become a natural science. Such a characterization misses an essential aspect of a social science, namely reactivity, i.e. human beings systematically respond to economic data, and in particular to interventions by economic policy, in a foreseeable way. To illustrate this finding, I use three examples from quite different fields: Happiness policy, World Heritage policy, and Science policy.
A10|Capitalism and Socialism: Review of Kornai's Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy|Understanding the nature of capitalism has been a central theme of economics. The collapse of the East Bloc and the global financial crisis spurred the reemergence of the political economy as a new frontier and the revival of interest in the nature of capitalism. Kornai's book fills an important intellectual gap in understanding the dynamic nature of capitalism by comparing it with its mirror image, socialism. To further develop the themes contained in the book, serious challenges are posted theoretically and empirically, as well as in subjects, such as hybrid capitalism.
A10|Inequality Indices as Tests of Fairness|"Standard income inequality indices can be interpreted as a measure of welfare loss entailed in departures from equality of outcomes, for egalitarian social welfare functions defined on the distribution of outcomes. But such a welfare interpretation has been criticized for a long time on the grounds that these indices are snap shot outcomes-based measures which do not take into account the process generating the observed distribution. Rather than focusing on outcomes, it is argued, we should be interested in whether the underlying process is ""fair."" Following this line of argument, this paper develops statistical tests for fairness within well-defined income distribution generating processes and a well specified notion of fairness. We find that the likelihood ratio (LR) test for fairness versus unfairness within two such processes are proportional to Theil's first and second inequality indices respectively. The LR values may either be used as a test statistic or to approximate a Bayes factor that measures the posterior probabilities of the fair version of the processes over that of the unfair. The answer to the process versus outcomes critique is thus not to stop calculating inequality measures, but to interpret their values differently – to compare them to critical values for a test of the null hypothesis of fairness, or to use them directly as a measure of the chance that the process was fair relative to the chance it was unfair. We also apply this perspective to measurement of ""inequality of opportunity."""
A10|Reactivity in Economic Science|There is a fundamental difference between the natural and the social sciences due to reactivity. This difference remains even in the age of Artificially Intelligent Learning Machines and Big Data. Many academic economists take it as a matter of course that economics should become a natural science. Such a characterization misses an essential aspect of a social science, namely reactivity, i.e. human beings systematically respond to economic data, and in particular to interventions by economic policy, in a foreseeable way. To illustrate this finding, I use three examples from quite different fields: Happiness policy, World Heritage policy, and Science policy.
A10|Econometric Measurement of Earth's Transient Climate Sensitivity|How sensitive is Earth’s climate to a given increase in atmospheric greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations? This long-standing and fundamental question in climate science was recently analyzed by dynamic panel data methods using extensive spatiotemporal data of global surface temperatures, solar radiation, and GHG concentrations over the last half century to 2010 (Storelvmo et al, 2016). These methods revealed that atmospheric aerosol effects masked approximately one-third of the continental warming due to increasing GHG concentrations over this period, thereby implying greater climate sensitivity to GHGs than previously thought. The present study provides asymptotic theory justifying the use of these methods when there are stochastic process trends in both the global forcing variables, such as GHGs, and station-level trend effects from such sources as local aerosol pollutants. These asymptotics validate con dence interval construction for econometric measures of Earth’s transient climate sensitivity. The methods are applied to observational data and to data generated from three leading global climate models (GCMs) that are sampled spatio-temporally in the same way as the empirical observations. The fi ndings indicate that estimates of transient climate sensitivity produced by these GCMs lie within empirically determined con dence limits but that the GCMs uniformly underestimate the effects of aerosol induced dimming. The analysis shows the potential of econometric methods to calibrate GCM performance against observational data and to reveal the respective sensitivity parameters (GHG and non-GHG related) governing GCM temperature trends.
A10|Teaching Piketty To Undergraduates|The primary ideas in Piketty’s Capital should be incorporated into the economics curriculum. Unfortunately, its theoretical foundation—the Solow Model—when conventionally taught with a Solow diagram or analytical solution, is beyond the reach of the typical undergraduate. The model, however, can be effectively presented via simulation, with steady-state and comparative statics properties directly observed. A single, standalone, macro-enhanced Excel workbook, Capital.xlsm, is all that is needed to teach the main ideas in Piketty’s Capital. Download it here www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel or from this direct link: www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel/Capital.xlsm
A10|The Paradox of Pledgeability|We develop a model in which collateral serves to protect creditors from the claims of competing creditors. We find that borrowers rely most on collateral when cash flow pledgeability is high, because this is when it is easy to take on new debt, diluting existing creditors. Creditors thus require collateral for protection against being diluted. This causes a collateral rat race that results in all borrowing being collateralized. But collateralized borrowing has a cost: it encumbers assets, constraining future borrowing and investment, i.e. there is a collateral overhang. Our results suggest that the absolute priority rule, by which secured creditors are senior to unsecured creditors, may have an adverse effect — it may trigger the collateral rat race.
A10|Performance-Based Contracts for Energy Efficiency Projects|Energy efficiency projects are often executed by specialized entities, namely energy service companies (ESCOs). A typical ESCO's core business is conducted using performance-based contracts, whereby payment terms depend on the energy savings achieved. Despite their success in public, commercial, and industrial sectors, ESCOs in the residential sector are involved in fewer projects and face several challenges. First, an energy efficiency project often leads to changed consumption behavior; hence it is more difficult to evaluate the energy savings that are due to the project itself. The second challenge is that residential clients are more risk averse and, thus, less willing to contract for projects whose outcomes are uncertain. Third, a lack of monitoring protocols leads to ESCO's moral hazard problems. This paper studies ESCO contract design issues, focusing primarily on the residential market for energy efficiency. As opposed to other sectors, coordinating contracts do not exist. We show, however, that simple piecewise linear contracts work reasonably well. To improve their profitability, ESCOs can reduce uncertainty about the technology employed and/or develop ways of verifying post-project energy efficiency. Since policy makers are understandably keen to promote energy efficiency, we show also how regulations and monetary incentives can reduce inefficiencies in ESCOs' relationships and thereby maximize environmental benefits.
A10|NGOs and the Creation of Value in Supply Chains|"Firms and NGOs often collaborate to establish new supply chains. With a formal model, we analyze how NGOs can alleviate market failures and improve supplier economic inclusion while strategically interacting with firms. We account for the specific goals of the NGO and the need to induce collaboration between firms and their suppliers. The analysis reveals a ""valley of disappointment"", when NGO efforts benefit all actors but only marginally the firm. We also show that more powerful firms might prefer to internalize NGO functions, while firms with lower bargaining power and higher investment requirements are better off collaborating with NGOs. Finally, we study NGOs-firms matching patterns and find that firms with higher bargaining power match with NGOs holding stronger capabilities."
A10|Cases and Scenarios in Decisions Under Uncertainty|"We offer a model that combines and generalizes case-based decision theory and expected utility maximization. It is based on the premise that an agent looks ahead and assesses possible future scenarios, but may not know how to evaluate their likelihood and may not be sure that the set of scenarios is exhaustive. Consequently, she also looks back at her memory for past cases, and makes decisions so as to maximize a combined function, taking into account both scenarios and cases. We allow for non-additive set functions, both over future scenarios and over past cases, to capture (i) incompletely specified or unforeseen scenarios, (ii) ambiguity, (iii) the absence of information about counterfactuals, and (iv) some forms of case-to-rule induction (""abduction"") and statistical inference. We axiomatize this model. Learning in this model takes several forms, and, in particular, changes the relative weights of the two forms of reasoning."
A10|Impact of Average Rating on Social Media Endorsement: The Moderating Role of Rating Dispersion and Discount Threshold|This paper examines how a restaurant’s online review ratings affect consumers to endorse deal vouchers sold by the restaurant via social media before they redeem the vouchers. While the effect of the average of review ratings is straightforward, we focus on examining how the effect is moderated by the dispersion of review ratings and the discount threshold set for the group-buying deals. A comprehensive literature review suggests that a large rating dispersion can deliver two different messages to consumers (uncertainty in product quality and uniqueness of product taste) and thus may either positively or negatively moderate the effect of average rating on social media endorsement. Discount threshold may serve as a quality signal, reinforcing the effect of average rating. The empirical results show that the effect of average rating is greater when review ratings are more dispersed and discount threshold is relatively large. The findings generate important managerial and research implications.
A10|Hiring Expert Talent in a Recession: Targeted Labor Pool Sourcing and Firm Performance|Extant research suggests that hiring experts during economic downturns can improve firm financial performance. However, recessionary labor markets deepen the challenges facing hiring firms, calling to question both the firm-level benefits and the tactics of acquiring talent when demand for a firm’s business is declining. We theorize and find that hiring expert talent during a recession actually weakens firm performance in the context of knowledge-based services. Notably though, we find firms can effectively attenuate the negative hiring effect by targeting particular labor pools, underlining the significance of gaining human capital advantages through focused sourcing. We test our hypotheses using a longitudinal sample of large U.S. corporate law firms between 2002 and 2010.
A10|Resource Reconfiguration in Human-Capital-Intensive Firms|This paper examines when human-capital-intensive firms reconfigure their human assets for incoming client projects, and how clients matter to firms’ reconfiguration decisions. Using micro-data in the UK merger and acquisition (M&A) legal services industry, we find that law firms consistently reconfigure the combinations of lawyers working together on M&A mandates, forgoing synergies from tried-and-tested combinations. Firms’ reconfiguration decisions are also influenced by prior relations with clients, and client attributes. Firms are more likely to use tried-and-tested combinations of lawyers when providing services to existing clients, especially when the same lawyers have served those clients together previously. Further, the economic attractiveness of clients also decreases human asset reconfiguration. Our paper contributes to the literatures on strategic human capital and the micro-foundations of resource-based theory.
A10|An Experience-Utility Explanation of the Preference for Larger Assortments|Although choosing from large assortments has often been found to be demotivating, a robust finding in the marketing literature is that consumers generally prefer larger product assortments. Standard explanations for this preference for larger assortments have focused on reason-based considerations revolving around large assortments enabling potentially “better” choices. This paper offers a different and novel, affect-based explanation. We argue that the relative preference for larger assortments is driven in part by the greater experience utility that consumers derive from reviewing such assortments. Because most products are carriers of positive affect, consumers tend to derive greater experience utility from reviewing larger assortments compared to smaller assortments. Support for this general proposition was found across four experimental studies using different strategies to document the role of affect-based experience utility in driving the preference for larger assortments. Theoretical and substantive implications are discussed.
A10|Precedents, Reputation, and Higher-Order Induction|"We argue that a precedent is important not only because it changes the relative frequency of a certain event, making it positive rather than zero, but also because it changes the way that relative frequencies are weighed. Specifically, agents assess probabilities of future events based on past occurrences, where not all of these occurrences are deemed equally relevant. More similar cases are weighed more heavily than less similar ones. Importantly, the similarity function is also learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"". The model can explain why a single precedent affects beliefs above and beyond its effect on relative frequencies, as well as why it is easier to establish reputation at the outset than to re-establish it after having lost it. Finally, we discuss more sophisticated forms of learning, by which similarity is defined not only on cases but also on attributes, and the importance of some attributes, learnt from the data by second-order induction, can also affect the perceived importance of other attributes."
A10|Second-Order Induction and Agreement|"Agents make predictions based on similar past cases. The notion of similarity is itself learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"": past cases inform agents also about the relative importance of various attributes in judging similarity. However, there may be multiple ""optimal"" similarity functions for explaining past data. Moreover, the computation of the optimal similarity function is NP-Hard. We offer conditions under which rational agents who have access to the same observations are likely to converge on the same predictions, and conditions under which they may entertain different probabilistic beliefs."
A10|Gremlins in the Data: Identifying the Information Content of Research Subjects|Empirical demand functions (based on experimental studies, such as Choice Based Conjoint) are critical to many aspects of marketing, such as targeting and segmentation, setting prices and evaluating the potential of new products. While considerable work has been done on developing approaches for ensuring that research subjects are both honest and engaged, the reduced cost associated with collecting data in an online setting has driven many studies to be collected under conditions which leave researchers unsure of the value of the information content provided by each subject. Objective measures related to how the subject completes the study, such as latency (how quickly answers are given), can only be tied to other objective measures (such as the fit of the model or consistency of the answer) and ultimately have questionable relationship to the subject's utility function. In response to this problem, we introduce a mixture modeling framework which clusters subjects based on variances in a choice based setting (multinomial logit models). This model naturally groups subjects based on the internal consistency of their answers, where we argue that a higher level of internal consistence (hence lower variance) reflects more engaged consumers who have sufficient experience with the product category and choice task, to have well-formed utilities. This approach provides an automated way of determining which consumers are relevant. We discuss both the modeling framework and illustrate the methods using data from several commercial conjoint studies.
A10|Differential Firm Commitment to Industries Supported by Social Movement Organizations|This article theorizes about and tests the conditions under which firms’ commitment to an industry is influenced by social movement organizations (SMOs) that favor the industry. We argue that the more prominent SMOs are within an industry, the more a firm increases its commitment to that industry by expanding its operations; yet, this main effect should be moderated substantially by a firm’s idiosyncratic characteristics. The current research predicts that a firm’s location, its sensitivity to information about the industry’s potential, and its history of associations with activists determine the magnitude of the effect of SMO prominence on its strategic commitment to the industry. We test and find support for these hypotheses using a longitudinal data set of European manufacturers of solar photovoltaic cells between 1990 and 2011. The findings offer new insights for literature on social movements and organizations, as well as strategic management research.
A10|A Flexible Demand Model for Complements Using Household Production Theory|We utilize household production theory to address the problem of micro-level demand estimation across complementary goods. According to this theory, consumers buy inputs and combine them to produce final goods from which they derive utility. We use this idea to build a structural model of demand for complements that can be estimated on purchase data in the presence of corner solutions and indivisible packages. We find that, even when reusing the same functional form as some previous models of demand for substitutes, the model can accommodate very different patterns of consumer preferences over complements and lead to a flexible demand system from perfect complementarity to no complementarity. We estimate the model on purchase data from a panel of consumers and show how it can be used to increase the profitability of couponing strategies by taking into account the spillover effect of coupons on demand for complementary categories.
A10|Willing and Able: A General Model of Organizational Responses to Normative Pressures|We develop a conceptual understanding of when and how organizations respond to normative pressures. More precisely, we examine two main factors underlying the willingness and ability of organizations to respond to an issue: (1) issue salience, and (2) the cost-benefit analysis of resource mobilization. We suggest that decision-makers’ interpretation of issue salience in conjunction with their perception of the costs and benefits of taking action to address the issue generates five potential responses: symbolic compliance and symbolic conformity, substantive compliance and substantive conformity, and inaction. We extend the baseline model by examining a number of boundary conditions. By focusing on the willingness and ability of organizations to respond to normative pressures, and by adopting the issue as the unit of analysis, our model helps explain intra- as well as inter-organizational response heterogeneity to institutional complexity. We contribute to the institutional research tradition and offer useful implications for managerial practice, from strategic management to policy making.
A10|Incentive Constrained Risk Sharing, Segmentation, and Asset Pricing|Incentive problems make assets imperfectly pledgeable. Introducing these problems in an otherwise canonical general equilibrium model yields a rich set of implications. Asset markets are endogenously segmented. There is a basis going always in the same direction, as the price of any risky asset is lower than that of the replicating portfolio of Arrow securities. Equilibrium expected returns are concave in consumption betas, in line with empirical findings. As the dispersion of consumption betas of the risky assets increases, incentive constraints are relaxed and the basis reduced. When hit by adverse shocks, relatively risk tolerant agents sell the safest assets they hold.
A10|Better to Have Led and Lost than Never to Have Led at All? Competitive Dethronement, the Endowment Effect, and Risk Taking|In this paper, we develop a theoretical model and offer a first empirical test of how competitive dethronement affects managerial risk taking. Drawing on the mechanism of endowment effect and reference-dependent utility theory, we predict that former market leaders take more risks compared to, otherwise identical, competitors. We empirically test this prediction using two contexts allowing us to use different methods to operationalize risk. The first setting draws on field data from a two-month banking sales contest. The second, quasi-laboratory, data comes from an educational game. Consistent with model’s prediction, we find that dethronement is associated with increased risk taking but that the endowment effect leading to such response decays over time. In contrast, a mere decline in performance ranking does not have the same effect.
A10|Do Stakeholder Orientation and Environmental Proactivity Impact Firm Profitability?|The impact of socially responsible corporate behavior on economic performance is a major preoccupation of managers today. This article explores the links between narrowly defined constructs: stakeholder orientation, environmental proactivity and profitability, from the perspectives of stakeholder theory and resource-based theory. We collected data on the food and beverage, and household and personal products, industries. Using structural equation modeling, this paper makes two contributions. We found a negative link between companies simply having a higher stakeholder orientation and profitability. Importantly, however, environmental proactivity not only had a positive impact on profitability, but also appeared to mediate the relationship between stakeholder orientation and profitability. In other words, if a company is more environmentally proactive, it will be more attentive to a broad array of stakeholders, and this will in turn contribute positively to profitability.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A10|Organizational Adaptation|Organizational adaptation is a concept that describes both congruence within organizations, with respect to the strategies and structures deployed, and across organizations, with respect to the degrees to which organizations meet the expectations of their environments. A wide array of research traditions have explored the concept of adaptation, albeit with many different labels. This annotated bibliography tracks the foundations of organizational adaptation, its digressions, and its challenges. Such a review provides important resources for scholars interested in conducting research in organizational adaptation by identifying the multitude of perspectives that encompass adaptation.
A10|The clan and the corporation: Sustaining cooperation in China and Europe|Over the last millennium, the clan and the corporation have been the loci of cooperation in China and Europe respectively. This paper examines – analytically and historically – the cultural and institutional co-evolution that led to this bifurcation. We highlight that groups with which individuals identify are basic units of cooperation. Such loyalty groups influence institutional development because intra-group moral commitment reduces enforcement cost implying a comparative advantage in pursuing collective actions. Loyalty groups perpetuate due to positive feedbacks between morality, institutions, and the implied pattern of cooperation.
A10|Was the first industrial revolution a conjuncture in the history of the world economy?|No abstract is available for this item.
A10|Second-Order Induction and Agreement|"Agents make predictions based on similar past cases. The notion of similarity is itself learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"": past cases inform agents also about the relative importance of various attributes in judging similarity. However, there may be multiple ""optimal"" similarity functions for explaining past data. Moreover, the computation of the optimal similarity function is NP-Hard. We offer conditions under which rational agents who have access to the same observations are likely to converge on the same predictions, and conditions under which they may entertain different probabilistic beliefs."
A10|Precedents, Reputation, and Higher-Order Induction|"We argue that a precedent is important not only because it changes the relative frequency of a certain event, making it positive rather than zero, but also because it changes the way that relative frequencies are weighed. Specifically, agents assess probabilities of future events based on past occurrences, where not all of these occurrences are deemed equally relevant. More similar cases are weighed more heavily than less similar ones. Importantly, the similarity function is also learnt from experience by ""second-order induction"". The model can explain why a single precedent affects beliefs above and beyond its effect on relative frequencies, as well as why it is easier to establish reputation at the outset than to re-establish it after having lost it. Finally, we discuss more sophisticated forms of learning, by which similarity is defined not only on cases but also on attributes, and the importance of some attributes, learnt from the data by second-order induction, can also affect the perceived importance of other attributes."
A10|Analyser av tjenestebruk, reinnleggelser og mortalitet blant infarkt-, slag-, hoftebruddpasienter i Oslo, 2009-2014|Data fra Oslo kommunes fagsystem for omsorgstjenestene gir mye informasjon om kommunale helse- og omsorgstjenester og pleiebehov målt ved ADL på individnivå. Dataene har imidlertid ikke blitt analysert i detalj tidligere. Ved å koble disse dataene sammen med Norsk pasientregister og KUHR får man komplette forløp av tjenesteforbruket innen primær- og spesialisthelsetjenesten samt pleie- og omsorgssektoren. Denne rapporten ser på insidens, forløp, tjenestebruk, tid til kontakt med fastlege, samt 30-dagers reinnleggelsesrate og 30/365-dagers dødelighet for diagnosene hjerteinfarkt, slag og hoftebrudd, både for Oslo totalt og variasjon over bydelene. Oppfølgingsperioden er fra 2009-2014, totalt 6621 infarkt-, 5697 slag- og 6182 hoftebruddspasienter. Analysene for Oslo totalt har spesielt fokus på endringer i periodene før (2009-2011) og etter (2012-2014) samhandlingsreformen. Det var gjennomgående en reduksjon i forbruket av hjemmesykepleie og behandling/rehabilitering i perioden etter samhandlingsreformen sammenlignet med før, for alle tre diagnoser. Forskjellene var stort sett små, ca. 1-4%, men likevel signifikante grunnet størrelsen på datamaterialet. I følge Stortingsmelding 26 bør det for alle som skal ha hjemmetjenester gjennomføres et besøk til eller av fastlegen innen 14 dager etter utskrivning fra sykehus. Median tid til kontakt med fastlege for pasienter som ble utskrevet til hjemmet var betydelig lengre enn dette. Det var likevel en signifikant reduksjon i tiden etter samhandlingsreformen sammenlignet med før, fra 21 til 14 dager for hjerteinfarkt, fra 30 til 22 dager for slag, og fra 47 til 37 dager for hoftebrudd. Selv om det var en reduksjon i forbruket av tjenester etter samhandlingsreformen, var det ingen forskjell i reinnleggelser og dødelighet sammenliknet med perioden før reformen. Selv om det var noe variasjon i kjønns- og aldersjustert insidens over bydelene for de tre diagnosene, var det nokså små forskjeller i tjenestebruk, reinnleggelser og dødelighet etter justering for kjønn, alder, komorbiditeter og ADL-score. Det virker derfor som om tjenestetilbudet er jevnt fordelt over byen, og at kvaliteten på behandlingen målt ved reinnleggelser og korttidsdødelighet er lik uansett hvor man bor i Oslo. Tid til kontakt med fastlege var også nokså jevnt fordelt over byen, men for lang sammenlignet med anbefalingen i stortingsmeldingen.
A10|The Role of the Jordanian Banking Sector in Economic Development|The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of the Jordanian banking sector on economic development that was measured by the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It aims to identify the role of the Jordanian banking sector in the support of economic development through the study of the size of the credit facilities offered by banks. The study relied on descriptive and analytic method, as well as on field study. The population of this study represents the working banks in Jordan, which offers various banking services to the customers. The tool of the study include data of credit facilities, banking deposits for Jordanian banking sector, and gross domestic product that were collected from the annual financial status of Jordanian Central Bank for the period (2000- 2015). The study found that there is a significant statistical impact of the factors (the deposits of the banking sector, Credit facilities) on Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The study rejected the null hypothesis and accepted the alternative hypothesis for the two hypotheses. Also, the study recommended that the Jordanian banking sector should expand in the granting of credit facilities to all economic sectors.
A10|Citation Patterns in Economics and Beyond: Assessing the Peculiarities of Economics from Two Scientometric Perspectives|In this paper we explore three claims concerning the disciplinary character of economics by means of citation analysis. The three claims under study are: (1) economics exhibits strong forms of intellectual stratification and, as a byproduct, a rather pronounced internal hierarchy, (2) economists strongly conform to institutional incentives and (3) modern mainstream economics is a highly self-referential intellectual project mostly inaccessible to disciplinary or paradigmatic outsiders. The validity of these claims is assessed by means of an interdisciplinary comparison of citation patterns aiming to identify the peculiar characteristics of economic discourse. In exposing and discussing these peculiarities of economics, we emphasize the availability of two competing scientometric perspectives for assessing and interpreting our findings.
A10|Overcrowded Housing and Relationship Break up|To what extent is there an association between housing density and divorce? And if so, is it a causal relationship? Housing space may affect the probability of divorcing because of stress, lower subjective well-being, and poor mental health, any of which could put pressure on the relationship with the partner and eventually cause a break-up. Using the Luxembourgish PSELL 2003-2014, we operationalize overcrowding with both an objective and a subjective measure. We check for the following confounding factors: financial difficulties, home ownership, and nationality. We find that there is no significant association between housing density and divorce once confounders are taken into account, not to mention causality. Instead, home ownership turns out to be of the utmost importance in explaining the bivariate association between housing density and union dissolution.
A10|Ontology, Methodological Individualism, and the Foundations of the Social Sciences|"This is a review essay based on a critical assessment of The Ant Trap: Rebuilding the Foundations of the Social Sciences by Brian Epstein. Epstein argues that models in the social sciences are inadequate because they are based on a false ontology of methodological individualism, and proposes a new model of social ontology. I examine this model and point to flaws in it. More generally, I argue against Epstein's methodological approach, which treats social ontology as prior to social scientific modeling and as certifying the ""building blocks"" that modelers then use. I argue that modelers can legitimately shape the building blocks for their own models."
A10|The View from Above: Applications of Satellite Data in Economics|The past decade or so has seen a dramatic change in the way that economists can learn by watching our planet from above. A revolution has taken place in remote sensing and allied fields such as computer science, engineering, and geography. Petabytes of satellite imagery have become publicly accessible at increasing resolution, many algorithms for extracting meaningful social science information from these images are now routine, and modern cloud-based processing power allows these algorithms to be run at global scale. This paper seeks to introduce economists to the science of remotely sensed data, and to give a flavor of how this new source of data has been used by economists so far and what might be done in the future.
A10|Diversity in the Economics Profession: A New Attack on an Old Problem|The economics profession includes disproportionately few women and members of historically underrepresented racial and ethnic minority groups, relative both to the overall population and to other academic disciplines. This underrepresentation within the field of economics is present at the undergraduate level, continues into the ranks of the academy, and is barely improving over time. It likely hampers the discipline, constraining the range of issues addressed and limiting our collective ability to understand familiar issues from new and innovative perspectives. In this paper, we first present data on the numbers of women and underrepresented minority groups in the profession. We then offer an overview of current research on the reasons for the underrepresentation, highlighting evidence that may be less familiar to economists. We argue that implicit attitudes and institutional practices may be contributing to the underrepresentation of women and minorities at all stages of the pipeline, calling for new types of research and initiatives to attack the problem. We then review evidence on how diversity affects productivity and propose remedial interventions as well as findings on effectiveness. We identify several promising practices, programs, and areas for future research.
A10|Scrambled questions penalty in multiple choice tests: New evidence from French undergraduate students|This note evaluates the scrambled questions penalty using multiple choice tests taken by first-year undergraduate students who follow a microeconomics introductory course. We provide new evidence that students perform worse at scrambled questionnaires than at logically ordered ones. We improve on previous studies by explicitly modeling students individual skills thanks to a fixed effects regression. We further show that the scrambled questions penalty does not differ along gender but varies along the distribution of students' skills and mostly affects students with lower-intermediate skills.
A10|Economists behaving badly: publications in predatory journals|Abstract The extent of publishing in predatory journals in economics is examined. A simple model of researcher behavior is presented to explore those factors motivating an academic to publish in predatory journals as defined by Beall (Criteria for determining predatory open access publishers, Unpublished document, 3rd edn, 2015. https://scholarlyoa.com/publishers/ ). Beall’s lists are used to identify predatory journals included in the Research Papers in Economics archives. The affiliations of authors publishing in these outlets indicate that the geographic dispersion of authorship is widespread. A very small subset of authors is registered on RePEc. A surprising number of authors who are in the RePEc top 5% also published in predatory journals in 2015.
A10|A Study of Outpatient Utilization Between Widowers and Widows among the Elderly in Taiwan|Both the numbers of aging and of widowed peers are gradually increasing in Taiwan. In this context, the aim of this paper is to compare outpatient services utilization from the perspective of predisposing, enabling and need characteristics between elderly widowers and widows. Subject data were obtained from the National Health Interview Survey of Taiwan in 2009. Among these data, 998 widowed persons aged 65 years old and over were analyzed. A Chi-square test and four different logistic regression models were used to investigate the influence of predisposing, enabling and need characteristics on outpatient utilization among elderly widowed persons. The empirical findings indicated that, for the predisposing characteristics, age showed significantly different outpatient utilization for widows. Nevertheless, there was a significant education gradient in outpatient utilization for elderly widowers. Next, for the enabling characteristics, economic status and national health insurance revealed significant effects on outpatient utilization for widows but not for widowers. In addition, for need characteristics, hypertension and kidney diseases played significant predictive factors related to outpatient utilization both for widows and widowers. However, other chronic diseases revealed significant differences on outpatient utilization only for widows. Finally, empirical results further indicated that widows were more likely to use outpatient services than widowers in later life. Therefore, study findings identified that predisposing, enabling and need characteristics were strongly correlated with the utilization of outpatient services for elderly widowers and widows. Administrators and managers could add the consideration of these three import characteristics into planning for the utilization of outpatient services, designing related policies, and allocation and use of health-care resources.
A10|The Economic Geography of Human Capital in Twentieth-Century Latin America in an International Comparative Perspective|In this paper we present results for educational achievement in the different economic regions of Latin America (Big countries: Mexico and Brazil; Southern Cone; Andean countries; Central America; and others) during the twentieth century. The variables we use to measure education are average years of education, literacy, average years in primary school, average years in secondary school, and average years in university. To attain a broader perspective on the relationship of education with human capital and with welfare and wellbeing we relate the educational measures to life expectancy and other human capital variables and GDP per capita. We then use regressions to examine the impact of race and ethnicity on education, and of education on economic growth and levels of GDP per capita. The most significant results we wish to emphasize are related to the importance of race and racial fractionalization in explaining regional differences in educational achievement. Southern Cone countries, with a higher density of white population, present the highest levels of education in average terms, while countries from Central America and Brazil, with a higher proportion of Indigenous Americans and/or blacks, have the lowest levels. In most countries the major improvements in educational achievement are: the expansion of primary education during the first half of the twentieth century, and the expansion of secondary education after 1950. In all cases, average years in university are low, despite improvements in university quality during the last decades of the century when professors exiled during dictatorships returned to their countries of origin. International comparisons (continental averages for years of education weighted by country population size) place twentieth-century Latin America in an intermediate position between the USA and Europe at the top, and countries from Asia and Africa at the bottom.
A10|Incentive Provision when Contracting is Costly|We analyze optimal incentive contracts in a model where the probability of court enforcement is determined by the costs spent on contracting. The analysis shows that contract costs matter for incentive provision, both in static spot contracts and repeated game relational contracts. We show that there is not a monotonic relationship between contracting costs and incentive intensity, and that an increase in contracting costs may lead to higher-powered incentives. Moreover, we formulate hypotheses about the relationship between legal systems and incentive provision. Specifically, the model predicts higher-powered incentives in common law than in civil law systems.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A10|Monetary emissions trading mechanisms|Emissions trading mechanisms have been proposed, and in some cases implemented, as a tool to reduce pollution. We explore the similarities between emission-trading mechanisms and monetary mechanisms. Both attempt to implement desirable allocations under various frictions, including risk and private information. In addition, implementation relies on the issue and trading of objects whose value is at least partially determined by expectations, namely money and permits, respectively. We use insights from dynamic mechanism design in monetary economics to derive properties of dynamic emissions trading mechanisms. At the optimum, the price of permits must increase over time. Efficient tax policies are state-contingent, and there is an equivalence between state-contingent taxes and emissions trading. Restrictions resulting from the money-like feature of permits can break this equivalence when there is endogenous progress in clean technologies. These restrictions must be taken into consideration in actual policy implementation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A10|Disrupting Shocks In Postwar Global Economic Expansion|"The coherence of the global economic system, created by its upswing in the first postwar decades, started to crumble in the ’70s. The destabilizing shocks affected the entire world, but in an uneven manner, in different geographical areas and at different times, being felt most acutely, with devastating economic and social effects, in Third World countries. Although the developed countries were affected as well, they always had means to combat or to diminish the adverse effects of the crises, leading to ""gentler"" consequences. This paper focuses on four main aspects in postwar global economic expansion, namely: the ’70s – the international monetary crisis and the oil shocks; the foreign debt crisis; the Latin American debt crisis, the Asian financial crises and the current global crisis."
A10|The Legacy Of The Industrial Revolution And Its Limitations|Human history presents changes in various forms. These do not, however, keep up the same pace. There have been times of rapid changes and there have been times of relative stability. From ancient times to the modern world, the pace of the changes signalled in history has been relatively slow. Since the industrial revolution, however, this pace has become increasingly more intense. The mutations that have been produced have completely changed the structures of industrial production. Over the last decades, these changes and their pace of implementation have been accelerated to such an extent that they have changed the way in which we perceive the world. This article highlights the determining factors and follows the stages in the development of the great global economic powers and their fight for supremacy in the global economic equation.
A10|Socio-Economic Effects Of Migration In Terms Of Intercultural Context|In 1989 Romania has been isolated and restricted cultural, religious and social. All political changes that followed the '89 when they were open borders have led to massive emigration to the states of Western Europe, especially to Italy, France, Spain. Lack of employment, insufficient income, the desire to build a financial balance, were all reasons for a significant number of Romanian who have chosen to work abroad. Basically, this study aims to make a SWOT analysis segment of the population who emigrated temporarily in Italy. They managed these people to create that financial status of their dreams? What was the price paid for this financial comfort? Covering economic stability, acquired after years of work, lack of time periods high near children, spouse or parents, often the elderly and the sick?Abstract will be written in English. Include an abstract between 100-160 words. Abstract should contain no bullets or references.
A10|El precio mundial del café y su efecto en el precio minorista para las cinco principales ciudades de Colombia|Este estudio examina la relación entre el precio internacional y el precio al por menor del café en las cinco ciudades principales de Colombia. Para ello se realizan pruebas de cointegración, de causalidad a la Granger y funciones de impulso-respuesta. La evidencia muestra la existencia de una relación de largo plazo entre los precios al por menor en las cinco principales ciudades y el precio mundial del café. Esta relación tiene una causalidad unidireccional del precio internacional a los precios del café al por menor. La magnitud de la transmisión del precio mundial permanece 36 meses o más para la mayoría de los precios del café al por menor.******This study examines the relationship between the international coffee price and retail coffee prices in the five main cities in Colombia through cointegration tests, Granger causality tests, and impulse-response functions. The evidence points to the existence of a long-term relationship between the retail prices in the five main cities and the world coffee price. This relationship has a unidirectional causality of international coffee prices to retail coffee prices.
A10|El precio mundial del café y su efecto en el precio minorista para las cinco principales ciudades de Colombia|Este estudio examina la relación entre el precio internacional y el precio al por menor del café en las cinco ciudades principales de Colombia. Para ello se realizan pruebas de cointegración, de causalidad a la Granger y funciones de impulso-respuesta. La evidencia muestra la existencia de una relación de largo plazo entre los precios al por menor en las cinco principales ciudades y el precio mundial del café. Esta relación tiene una causalidad unidireccional del precio internacional a los precios del café al por menor. La magnitud de la transmisión del precio mundial permanece 36 meses o más para la mayoría de los precios del café al por menor.******This study examines the relationship between the international coffee price and retail coffee prices in the five main cities in Colombia through cointegration tests, Granger causality tests, and impulse-response functions. The evidence points to the existence of a long-term relationship between the retail prices in the five main cities and the world coffee price. This relationship has a unidirectional causality of international coffee prices to retail coffee prices.
A10|The Rise of a Mainstream in Economics|Our paper contends that the existence of mainstream economics ought to be understood as a particular case of the now widespread certification phenomenon, which defines good practices on the grounds of a compliance with well-defined standards. Basing our analysis on Leijonhufvud’s vision of the construction of economic theory, we document the fragmentation process which economics has undergone from the marginalist revolution to the present. Studying the evolution of five sub-branches of economics, we show how at the end of the 1970s loose standards for good research practices were replaced by narrower ones in each of them. We claim that this change and the emergence of a mainstream were two faces of the same process.
A10|The common good and economics|This paper analyzes the meaning of the ‘common good’ and its impact on economics. It adopts the ‘classical notion of the common good’ which, conceived by Aristotle and further developed by Thomas Aquinas, has been widely used for centuries. Sections 2 and 3 introduce Aristotle's view on this notion, followed by Aquinas’ developments. Section 4 addresses the different meanings of common good in the 20th century. Given that the classical version of the common good implies an anthropological position and a theory of the good, Section 5 extracts them from Aristotle's works, while Section 6 deduces policy implications from the previous definitions. Finally, Section 7 analyzes two current economic theories from the point of view of their relation with the common good: economics of happiness and the capability approach. The final section presents a brief conclusion.
A10|Determinismo económico de las conductas: una aproximación a su complejidad|Se trata de introducir mayor complejidad en el supuesto de maximización económica y de utilidad en la base de nuestro corriente análisis económico como explicativo de las conductas humanas, puesto en cuestión en la reciente Gran Depresión. Se consideran relevantes en este sentido: la olvidada introducción de los factores psicológicos, de la mano de Akerlof y Shiller; la llamada a un mayor realismo de nuestros modelos y a la multidisciplinariedad (Lawson, decisiones individuales en sociedad); Becker, ampliando el campo de las decisiones económicas (número de hijos, delincuencia), y las alusiones a categorías marxianas y a exploraciones psicoanalíticas (no revelación de intereses). Se cierra con algunos casos. El ensayo, por sus declarados límites, tiene intención extensiva: por su conjunto puede aportar algo.
A10|Is Homo Economicus a Universal Paradigm in Economic Theory?|Homo economicus is a very well known concept but a question arises whether its omnipresence equals its real, not theoretical, universality. This paper touches on the problem of the role of the paradigm with reference to the rationality and self-interest principle as well as behavioural economics, cultural differences, social and biological aspects. Values are the common thread in these aspects but what is even more important is that values differ across the world in the same way cultures do. Therefore theories or models based on the aforementioned paradigm can not yield the same results if applied in culturally different countries.
A10|"Auf dem Weg in die ""Prosumentengesellschaft""? Über die Stabilisierbarkeit produktiver Konsumentennetzwerke"|This article deals with the social transition of the behaviour of consumers in the last 20 years. In a first step it will be proposed a conceptualization of the role of the consumer as an ideal type. In the second step the focus will be laid on the phenomenon of prosuming for the sake of assessing which changes in the behavior of consumers are observable and what their generalizable tendency in comparison with the ideal type could be. Der Beitrag befasst sich mit dem sozialen Wandel des Konsumentenverhaltens in den letzten 20 Jahren. Hierfür wird in einem ersten Schritt die Rolle des Konsumenten idealtypisch konzipiert. In einem zweiten Schritt wird das Phänomen des Prosuming herausgegriffen, um daran zu prüfen, welche Veränderungen sich am Konsumentenverhalten beobachten lassen und was sie im Vergleich mit dem Idealtypus zu bedeuten haben.
A10|Selected Index And Selected Journals Of Economics: Spain And Western Europe In Scopus, 2011-2015|One of the most interesting lists of selected journals of Economics research is the prestigious index SCOPUS of Elsevier, which includes a good overview at World level. We analyse some of the interesting features of this index, particularly regarding Economics research in Spain and other Western European countries. We find that, by the number of journals published and selected in the index, the most outstanding countries are the United Kingdom (165) and the Netherlands (75). This agrees with the main role of the English language and the important activity of academic publishers of English journals in those countries. There is also an interesting number of selected journals published in Germany(33), Spain(14) and France (7) and a few ones published in other countries: Ireland, Italy, Switzerland, Greece, Belgium, Austria, Finland and Cyprus. We list the selected journals of Spain, accordingly to the ranking SJR of Scimago, based on citations in this prestigious index. We find 5 Spanish journals which, fortunately, have reached the Q3 level and 9 the Q4 level of Western Europe. Belonging to any of both groups is important, as a very positive sign of distinction, because this index is highly selective including only around 20% of academic journals of Economics research published in Spain. We also analyse the important role that selected Economics journals have to foster better economic policies, in order to reach higher levels of economic development and quality of life, and we call for improvements in institutional and social support to Economics research in Spain as well as in the European Union.
A10|Southern Europe's institutional decline|"The run up to the euro currency initiated a period of capital inflows into southern European countries, i.e., Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece. We document that those countries, and only them among OECD countries, concomitantly experienced a decline in the quality of their institutions. We confirm the joint pattern of capital in- flows and institutional decline in a large panel of countries. We show theoretically that this joint pattern naturally follows from a ""soft budget constraint"" syndrome wherein persistently cheap external funding undermines incentives to maintain good institutions –understood here as the degree of government commitment not to support inefficient firms. Low institutional quality ultimately raises the share of inefficient firms, which lowers average productivity and raises productivity dispersion across firms –the typical pattern of productivity in southern Europe over the period under consideration."
A10|Re-Biased Search: Managing Intuitive Preferences Over Time|We study organizational search in the presence of intuitive biases. Drawing from work on the psychology of human decision making, we construe biases as unjustified preferences that arise due to automatic, spontaneous thinking. This property of decision making gives rise to a mechanism we label generative recurrence. Present this mechanism, unjustified preferences produce two opposing effects on organizational adaptation: they curb excessive experimentation but at the expense of knowledge accumulation. In the context of organizational search, these regularities allow behavioral treatments to strategically leverage the value of biases. Specifically, our results suggest that re-biasing (adopting the opposite bias) often dominates both de-biasing (eliminating the bias) as well as consistently unbiased search. Our paper provides evidence that managing rather than eliminating biases can be an effective instrument of behavioral strategy.
A10|The Role of Cultural Communication Norms in Social Exclusion Effects|Previous research suggests that when social exclusion is communicated in an explicit manner, consumers express preferences for helping, whereas when it is communicated in an implicit manner, they express preferences for conspicuous consumption. However, this may not always hold true. In the present research, we put forward a theoretical framework explaining that exclusion effects depend on the extent to which exclusion is communicated in a culturally normative or counter-normative manner, rather than whether it is communicated in an explicit or implicit manner. We show that exclusion communicated in a cultural norm-congruent manner produces preferences for helping, whereas exclusion communicated in a cultural norm-incongruent manner produces preferences for conspicuous consumption. We further show that the differential needs – self-esteem and power – threatened by normative and counter-normative exclusion explain these distinct preferences.
A10|Where Do Market Categories Come from and How? Distinguishing Category Creation from Category Emergence|This paper reviews several streams of research on market category formation. Most past research has largely focused on established category systems and the antecedents and consequences of categorical positioning (i.e. categorical purity vs. spanning; combination vs. replacement) but relatively ignored the formative processes leading to new categories. In this review, we address this lacuna to posit that scholarship would benefit from clearly disentangling category emergence from category creation. We analytically describe the differences between the two and elaborate the boundary conditions that guide and define which process is more likely to occur in a given market. Our review contributes to illuminating the role of organizational agency and strategic actions in market categories and their formation, which deserve greater attention due to their theoretical and practical implications.
