A12|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.
A12|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.
A12|Dispelling Misconceived Beliefs about Rent Control: Insights from a Field and a Laboratory Experiment|False beliefs about natural, health and socio-economic issues are pervasive in society. Many persist even when contradicted by scientific evidence. We conduct a classroom field and a laboratory experiment to investigate the effect of a particular communication strategy, the refutation text, previously used in the natural sciences and psychology, on a widespread economic misconception: the belief that rent controls make housing available to more people. Our interests are in successfully communicating social science results to the general public and promoting deep learning in economics courses. We find that in the field and in the laboratory a refutation text induces a substantial belief change in the direction of expert knowledge. In the field its impact is significantly larger than that of the natural control, whereas in the laboratory the impact is larger than that of an appropriate control, but not significantly so. The persuasiveness of the refutation text is higher for less reflective participants when the refutation text is read individually, whereas team discussion enhances the positive effect of the text independently of cognitive ability.
A12|Text Mining for Economic Analysis (in Korean)|We provide detailed description of how text data analysis is done and review series of studies done through text mining. Natural language can be characterized with ambiguity and obscurity compared to structured data. It is hard to retrieve useful information from text data as it carries natural language itself. Text mining or natural language processing is a multi-discipline area of modern technic in which we can distill and obtain just what we need from text. With the development of AI and machine learning, text mining is becoming one of the high-end technology in various fields of research even in economics. We expect there will be more demand for text data analysis as it will be complementary to traditional structured data and also as a new source of information.
A12|A short review on the economics of artificial intelligence|The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) is not only a scientific breakthrough but also impacts on human society and economy as well as the development of economics. Research on AI economics is new and growing fast, with a current focus on the productivity and employment effects of AI. This paper reviews recent literature in order to answer three key questions. First, what approaches are being used to represent AI in economic models? Second, will AI technology have a different impact on the economy than previous new technologies? Third, in which aspects will AI have an impact and what is the empirical evidence of these effects of AI? Our review reveals that most empirical studies cannot deny the existence of the Solow Paradox for AI technology, but some studies find that AI would have a different and broader impact than previous technologies such as information technology, although it would follow a similar adoption path. Secondly, the key to incorporating AI into economic models raises fundamental questions including what the human being is and what the role of the human being in economic models is. This also poses the question of whether AI can be an economic agent in such models. Thirdly, studies on the labor market seem to have reached consensus on the stylized fact that AI would increase unemployment within sectors but may create employment gains at the aggregate level. AI also increases the income gap between low- and medium-skilled workers and high-skilled workers. AI’s impacts on international trade and education have been largely neglected in the current literature and are worth further research in the future.
A12|New ways to measure well-being? A first joint analysis of subjective and objective measures|Our study is, to our knowledge, the first joint analysis of subjective and objective measures of well-being. Using a rich longitudinal data from the mothers pregnancy until adulthood for a birth cohort of children who attended school in Örebro during the 1960s, we analyse in a first step how subjective (self-assessed) and objective (cortisol-based) measures of well-being are related to each other. In a second step, life-course models for these two measures are estimated and compared with each other. Despite the fact that our analysis is largely exploratory, our results suggest interesting possibilities to use objective measures to measure well-being, even though this may imply a greater degree of complexity.
A12|Humans in the perfectly competitive market|The perfectly competitive market – a hypothetical situation free of market failure – serves as a benchmark for economic theory, providing the basis for the two fundamental welfare theorems. The radical abstractions of this idea makes it hard to grasp its full implications, however. In this essay, I explore the perfectly competitive market using literary fiction. Part I discusses fiction as a tool for economic theory. Part II is a science fiction story about two economists travelling to the perfectly competitive market for their honeymoon. Part III develops main theoretical insights emerging from the story. First, to preclude market failure, complete social isolation must prevail. Second, the requirements of symmetric information and no external effects are extremely hard to reconcile, leading to an impossibility result: if trade is permitted anytime, and deliberate, welfare-relevant learning is feasible, no perfectly competitive market can exist.
A12|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|The Smithian Market of Religions and its Legacy: Another Great Schism between Economics and Sociology?|Adam Smith (1776) is the first to introduce religions into a market. Our article studies Smith’s neglected contribution to secularization theories and sociological market of religions then distinguishes it from his contribution to the economic market of religions. The objective of this article is to show that sociology and economics of religion both rely on Smith. Our issue analyzes if the markets of religions in the two disciplines evolve contradictory or complementary. Our results show an interdisciplinary dissemination of Smith’s ideas between sociology and economics of religion, a (unknown/neglected) Smithian background for sociology of religion and a demand-side market of religions in sociology. We demonstrate that there is no opposition between the two disciplines, but a methodological difference between demand and supply mechanisms. Our historical work remarks a methodological schism in the markets of religion with the introduction of Becker’s rational choice into sociology. We trace a historical tree to distinguish the demand mechanism (Marx, Durkheim, Weber and traditional sociological market) from the supply mechanism (Tocqueville, Blau and Homans, Becker, and rational choice theory in sociology and economics of religion) in the evolution of Smith’s market.
A12|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|Un héritage des Annales, la cliométrie à Strasbourg|C’est par sa volonté de combiner la rigueur des modèles théoriques et mathématiques avec la prise en compte, de la façon la plus exhaustive possible, de la complexité de toutes les données (qualitatives et quantitatives) que l’Ecole cliométrique strasbourgeoise reste fidèle à l’esprit des Annales et prolonge le mouvement initié en 1929 par Marc Bloch et Lucien Febvre.
A12|Heterodox economics and Economic Anthropology: reflections prompted by two books|This paper has been long ago inspired by Jared Diamond (1997) and, in particular, by his extensive use of the concept of economic surplus as the key to the development of civilization. Unfortunately, Diamond does not even mention the origin of the concept in classical and pre-classical economics. Moreover, Diamond does not pay any consideration to the long debates in economic anthropology on the role of economic analysis in studying primitive and ancient economic formations. These debates are instead the object of a more recent book by Cedrini & Marchionatti (2017), who context the neoclassical “imperialist” attempt to occupy the territory of economic anthropology. They rely, however, upon the frail institutionalist background provided by Karl Polanyi and his school and by other anthropologists of similar inspiration. In so doing, they fail to provide a robust economic basis to institutional change, by firmly anchoring it around the changing modes of generation and distribution of the economic surplus. These notes are explorative, as also shown by a post-scriptum. Comments welcome.
A12|Die Illusion der Identität und die Krise der Wissenschaften|Das Eingangszitat von George Forster aus dem Jahre 1793 gibt einen ersten Hinweis auf das, was nachfolgend zu entfalten ist. Als These formuliert: Die Begriffe der modernen Wissenschaften sind auf innere Weise mit dem Rechnen in einer Geldökonomie verbunden. Die vielfältig zu beobachtenden Krisenphänomene in zahlreichen Wissenschaften lassen sich auf einen gemeinsamen Grund zurückführen. Ich werde zunächst von einer spezifischen Blickweise ausgehen, die charakteristisch ist für die modernen Wissenschaften, um in dieser Perspektive die stillschweigenden kategorialen Voraussetzungen näher zu beschreiben. Daraus lassen sich dann Krisenphänomene, die in Mathematik, Physik und Ökonomie zu beobachten sind, verständlich machen.
A12|The anti-democratic logic of right-wing populism and neoliberal market-fundamentalism|The paper compares neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Based on an analysis of the work of important founders of market fundamental economic thinking (particularly Mises, and Hayek) and the arguments brought forward by leading right-wing populist we find highlight conceptual resemblances of these two approaches: Both show a world that is split into only two countervailing parts. Right-wing populism shows a society split into two groups, fighting against each other. In a similar vein, neoliberal market-fundamentalism shows only two possible countervailing economic and societal orders. Thus, we develop a scheme of the similar dual social worlds of right-wing-populism and market-fundamentalism and offer some examples in the history of the Republican Party, where these concepts mutually reinforced each other or served as a gateway for each other. The main conclusion of the paper is that neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism can be perceived as two mutually reinforcing and radicalizing threats to democracy in the 21st century.
A12|Toward a cognitive science of markets: Economic agents as sense-makers|Behavioral economics characterizes decision-makers using psychologically-informed models. Cognitive science produces psychologically-informed models. Why don't these disciplines talk more? Here, the author presents several arguments for why cognitive science should inform behavioral economics - it characterizes internal psychological states, builds a richer conception of human nature, pays equal attention to cognition's successes and failures, embraces multidisciplinary insights, and avoids blind spots produced by behavioral economics' intellectual lineage. The author illustrates these principles using the cognitive science of sense-making - how humans understand information - including mental tools such as heuristics, stories, and theories. The science of mind can produce new insights to enrich economics.
A12|Beyond quantified ignorance: Rebuilding rationality without the bias bias|If we reassess the rationality question under the assumption that the uncertainty of the natural world is largely unquantifiable, where do we end up? In this article the author argues that we arrive at a statistical, normative, and cognitive theory of ecological rationality. The main casualty of this rebuilding process is optimality. Once we view optimality as a formal implication of quantified uncertainty rather than an ecologically meaningful objective, the rationality question shifts from being axiomatic/probabilistic in nature to being algorithmic/ predictive in nature. These distinct views on rationalitymirror fundamental and longstanding divisions in statistics.
A12|Toward global paradigm change: Beyond the crisis of the liberal world order|This vision brief may be summarized by the following points. First, the crisis of the liberal world order arises from a misalignment of our social, economic and political domains of activity, along with a resulting destabilization of our physical environment. The integration of the global economy has generated problems that extend beyond our current bounds of social and political cooperation. Second, extending our social cooperation - on which basis our political cooperation can be extended as well - requires the creation of the appropriate moral narratives. These narratives must guide business strategies, public policies and civic activities. Third, these narratives must be supplemented by multilevel governance structures that address challenges at the scale - micro, meso and macro - at which these chal-lenges arise. Finally, past human experience in developing moral narratives, supported by multilevel governance structures, suggests guidelines for a future form of multilateralism that enables us to meet this challenge.
A12|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
A12|Alphabetized co-authorship in economics reconsidered|In this article, we revisit the analysis of Laband and Tollison (2006) who documented that articles with two authors in alphabetical order are cited much more often than non-alphabetized papers with two authors in the American Economic Review and the American Journal of Agricultural Economics. Using more than 120,000 multi-authored articles from the Web of Science economics subject category, we demonstrate first that the alphabetization rate in economics has declined somewhat over the last decade. Second, we find no statistically significant relationship between alphabetized co-authorship and citations in economics (the coefficients are very small). Third, we show that the likelihood of non-alphabetized co-authorship increases the more authors an article has.
A12|Pengelolaan Tabungan Wakaf Indonesia (Management of Indonesian Waqf Savings)|The basic problem of waqf is management, especially cash waqf management. Institutions that play a role in managing cash waqf have specific characteristics and management patterns. This article focuses on managing Indonesian waqf savings.
A12|The economics of eudaimonia|Research in the Economics of Happiness has recently paid increasing attention to ‘eudaimonia’, which is a conception of happiness originated in ancient Greek philosophy, and in particular in Aristotle’s philosophy. Since ‘eudaimonia’ is a way of life rather than a circumscribed goal, its understanding requires a dynamic analytical structure. To this end, the paper provides two main contributions. First, in order to facilitate reading by the economists of Aristotle’s work, this is translated in modern economic terms, i.e. eudaimonia is described as an individual activity that transforms inputs into outputs. Second, this description is reformulated, with the help of studies in psychology and anthropology, in a modern ‘economic approach to eudaimonia’, which focuses on human development, i.e. on the development of the skills which are typically human. A number of implications are then discussed: about how some weaknesses of Aristotle’s conception of eudaimonia can be amended (e.g. the objective/subjective reconciliation); about the greater robustness of eudaimonia with respect to hedonism as two alternative pathways to happiness that people can choose; and about the advantages of the policy implications of eudaimonia.
A12|Ethics out of Economics: The Futile Attempt of Rendering Economics a Neutral Science|Over the last century, and several times until recently, mainstream economics has been criticized from different viewpoints. Most of the critiques highlighted the weakness of its methodological and logical structure, not to mention its inadequate capacity of tackling with the new problems posed by globalization. However, mainstream economics has always shown itself strong enough as to stand up victoriously most of the times, notwithstanding those critiques, which quite often turned out to be even devastating from the logical point of view. The object of my report will be mainly focused on highlighting one of the most important reason for which mainstream economics should be considered altogether inadequate for tackling with many problems of the real world. And that reason essentially lies in the very fact that mainstream economics has since long put any ethical aspect completely outside its basic framework. One the most important consequences of that operation has been that of rendering economic theory perilously free of any value-judgment and therefore uncontaminated by any possible social and political change in society, even by the most significant ones. The report will then briefly reconstruct the most significant steps through which that process was accomplished, by bringing about, at the same time, the severe drawbacks of that futile attempt of rendering economics neutral in its analysis and its policy prescriptions.
A12|Factors Affecting the Adoption of Alternative Financing Methods for Startups by Africans in China|Alternative financing methods such as Crowdfunding, and Peer-to-Peer lending in the past few decades are becoming more sort after means of business start-up financing. On the other hand, traditional financing methods such as bank loans are now more difficult to acquire especially across African countries. Taking a sample of 410 Africans in China, this study examines the factors that affect the adoption of alternative financing methods for business start-ups. The results show that internet usage in Africa and China, length of residence in China, and the capital intensity of the type of the business to be started are all significant factors to the preference and adoption of alternative financing methods by Africans residing in China. Seeing as research into Africa?s adoption of alternative financing is lacking, this study, this study provides insight where Africans are concerned.
A12|The three fundamental frameworks for the unification of the macro social sciences|"? This opening slide set advances McMillan 2015 (IISES Amsterdam) and McMillan 2017 (IISES Vienna) and focuses on the lateral integration of the three primary macro conceptual areas of political, economic/demographic and geopolitical frameworks to generate a ""unified theory of the philosophical and social sciences.""? Specifically, the three essential frameworks are. (1) Aristotle's Six Forms of Government, (2) the per capita GNP ratio signifying economic growth/population growth proportions, and (3) the Four Category Geopolitical Form Model framework of First, Second, Third and Fourth World country gradations. ? These three frameworks: (a) explain the full range of behavior pertaining to their respective area, (b) can incorporate all the subfield theories in their respective areas, (c) vary directly with one another in terms of a tight vs catastrophically loose wage labor price continuum, which (d) integrates the primary macro disciplines into a singular causal model. ? The independent variable of interval level Government Form interval level model of Aristotle. links the economic growth/population rates of change proportions because liberal democracies and First World countries only seem to exist in relatively tight wage labor market conditions, i.e. high economic growth and low population growth proportions. The Government Form Categories and the per capita GNP ratio link directly to the two primary trends of technology and population growth throughout history, that give rise to the two secondary trends of migration of First World manufacturing facilities to the South, and the mass migration of people to the North to explain current geopolitical outcomes. ? This system of frameworks links to the persistent primary and secondary trends to explain the permanently declining global wage labor equilibrium process as it directly the changing of geopolitical Forms over the next few decades. This system measures relative equality-inequality and relative stability-instability continuums that covary with the tight vs catastrophically lose wage labor continuum. This integrated model affirms Harsanyi?s (1969) assertion that the isolated subfield theories do not adequately anticipate first, second and third order effects. ? This system achieves the three longstanding objectives of the behavioral economics movement of: (a) Harsanyi?s ?integrated explanatory theory? and ?core model? of the social sciences discussed in his 1960, 1966 and 1969 papers, (b) it extends the Integrated Causal Model (ICM) of Tooby and Cosmides 1992 throughout the philosophical and social sciences, and (c) achieves Gintis? 2006 and 2009 ?unification of the behavioral sciences.?"
A12|Cognitive Ability, Union Membership, and Voter Turnout|No abstract is available for this item.
A12|Theoretical and Methodological Context of (Post)-Modern Econometrics and Competing Philosophical Discourses for Policy Prescription|"This research article was championed as a way of providing discourses pertaining to the concept of ""Critical Realism (CR)"" approach, which is amongst many othe forms of competing postmodern philosophical concepts for the engagement of dialogical discourses in the area of established econonetric methodologies for effective policy prescription in the economic science discipline. On the the whole, there is no doubt surrounding the value of empirical endeavours in econometrics to address real world economic problems, but equally so, the heavy weighted use and reliance on mathematical contents as a way of justifying its scientific base seemed to be loosing traction of the intended focus of economics when it comes to confronting real world problems in the domain of social interaction. In this vein, the construction of mixed methods discourse(s), which favour that of CR philosophy is hereby suggested in this article as a way forward in confronting with issues raised by critics of mainstream economics and other professionals in the postmodern era."
A12|Zur mathematischen Struktur der Wertformen von Karl Marx in 'Das Kapital'<BR>[About the mathematical structure of the form of value of Karl Marx in 'Das Kapital']|In the first section of Das Kapital by Karl Marx different forms of values are analysed. From a mathematical point of view one can find therein structures, which correspond to elements of the mathematical theory of categories. These are especially the limit of cones and the definition of subobjects as morphisms. Using the limit cone, the concept of money contains the categorial product of commodities. The concept of the value of a commodity contains the categorial definition of a subobject.
A12|A contribution to the qualitative, interdisciplinary modeling of environmental development|We suggest a simple, interdisciplinary, qualitative, system-theoretical model of long-run environmental development, where the dynamics of environmental quality are determined by the interactions across the political, economic, ecological/natural, and socio-cultural systems. The resulting model is a self-regulating feedback-loop system and can be used to explain the existence and the characteristics of different empirically observable economic/societal development stages (pollution phase and ecological phase) and environmental and economic policy-regime switches consistent with empirical evidence.
A12|Tweeting Economists: Antisocial in the socials?|Economists have often been accused of adopting superior and distant attitudes (Fourcade, Ollion and Algan, 2015). This attributed stance has been variously linked to both poor understanding and traction of economics with the general public, the failure to generate realistic predictions and prescriptions (Coyle, 2012; Bresser-Pereira, 2014), and the lack of diversity in the profession (Crawford et al., 2018; Stevenson and Zlotnick, 2018; Bayer and Rouse, 2016). In this piece we focus specifically on Twitter communications by economists to investigate the ability of economists to fruitfully engage with the public in these networks and the attitudes their language use betrays. We compare economists to scientists, gathering data from the Twitter accounts of both the top 25 economists and 25 scientists as identified by IDEAS and sciencemag, who account for the lion’s share of the Twitter following, collecting a total of 127,593 tweets written between December 2008 and April 2017. Using both network and language analysis our paper finds that although both groups communicate mostly with people outside their profession, economists tweet less, mention fewer people and have fewer Twitter conversations with strangers than a comparable group of experts in the sciences, and sentiment analysis shows they are also more distant. The language analysis of differences in register (a higher register is generally less accessible and thus more distanced) finds that economists use a higher number of complex words, specific names and abbreviations than scientists, and differences in pronoun use reveal they are also less inclusive, all of which adds to distancing.
A12|Beyond behavioral economics: who is the economic man|There are two reasons to go beyond Behavioral Economics. The first reason is that humans, as presented by this school, do not explain many critical economic problems. Behavioral Economics is not an alternative paradigm to traditional economics. It is only one of the New Schools of thought, that has risen due to the failure of the contemporary Neoclassical School to show that markets have a unique maximum welfare full employment equilibrium. Therefore, in order to delimit Behavioral Economics ́ contributions we need to look at the whole paradigm in economics, which today includes: the contemporary neoclassical paradigm plus all the New Schools of thought. The second reason is that humans, as described by Behavioral Economics, are not a good representation of mans ́ evolutionary characteristics. For Behavioral Economics, humans are emotional beings which often do not know what is best for them, and need the help of the government to make the choices which are truly convenient; and they display altruistic and social cooperative behavior, even in monetary transactions. But evolutionarily we are neither design to be emotional or rational, nor to be selfish or altruistic and socially cooperative. We are design to be flexible for survival purposes, and to display a wide range of behaviors.
A12|Эво-Дево: Парадигмальный Вызов Для Институционально-Эволюционного Анализа<BR>[Evo-Devo: Paradigmal Challenge for Institutional-Evolutionary Analysis]|In modern biological science there is a change in the paradigm of evolutionary research associated with the rejection of neo-Darwinism principles. The article discusses the prospect of using the conceptual ideas of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) as the new dominant metaphors of institutional-evolutionary analysis. For example, metaphors of niche construction and developmental system stimulate the rejection of externalism (securing the key role in selection for the environment) and dichotomous thinking (opposition of actors and the environment, micro- and macro-analysis). The concept of institutional configurations developed in this vein makes it possible to analytically combine institutional, agential and environmental factors in their interaction into a single framework. The metaphor of bricolage actualizes the importance of abandoning the optimization concepts of evolution and one-sidedly negative interpretation of institutional anomalies (dysfunctions, failures, traps, etc.) in favor of studying institutional kludges as quasi-optimal persistent institutions created by non-professional actors, and positively rethinking anomalous institutions as a main output of institutional complexity. The metaphor of modularity is associated with the abandonment of thinking in the spirit of traditional totally integrated systems and the transition to the research of assemblages – super-complex institutional systems based on multiple logics and orders for which heterogeneity, fragmentation and hybridity are organic properties and evolutionary advantages.
A12|Эво-Дево: Парадигмальный Вызов Для Институционально-Эволюционного Анализа (Версия 2.0)<BR>[Evo-Devo: Paradigmal Challenge for Institutional-Evolutionary Analysis (version 2.0)]|In modern biological science there is a change in the paradigm of evolutionary research associated with the rejection of neo-Darwinism principles. The article discusses the prospect of using the conceptual ideas of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) as the new dominant metaphors of institutional-evolutionary analysis. For example, metaphors of niche construction and developmental system stimulate the rejection of externalism (securing the key role in selection for the environment) and dichotomous thinking (opposition of actors and the environment, micro- and macro-analysis). The concept of institutional configurations developed in this vein makes it possible to analytically combine institutional, agential and environmental factors in their interaction into a single framework. The metaphor of bricolage actualizes the importance of abandoning the optimization concepts of evolution and one-sidedly negative interpretation of institutional anomalies (dysfunctions, failures, traps, etc.) in favor of studying institutional kludges as quasi-optimal persistent institutions created by non-professional actors, and positively rethinking anomalous institutions as a main output of institutional complexity. The metaphor of modularity is associated with the abandonment of thinking in the spirit of traditional totally integrated systems and the transition to the research of assemblages – super-complex institutional systems based on multiple logics and orders for which heterogeneity, fragmentation and hybridity are organic properties and evolutionary advantages
A12|От Институтов К Экститутам И Далее - К Теории Институциональных Аномалий<BR>[From Institutions to Extitutions to the Theory of Institutional Anomalies]|"The article suggests rethinking institutional anomalies (bad, inefficient, destructive institutions and related processes and effects) in a positive way. The term ‘extitutions’ is introduced as transcending institutions of (beyond-institutional) models of social order, based on variations of norms. The extitutional interpretation of the nature of institutional anomalies allows us to critically reconsider associated dichotomies (such as ‘bad / good institutions’ like North-Wallis-Weingast or Acemoglu-Robinson), approaches (eg, functionalism and evaluative ‘something wrong’-approach) and stereotypes (including one-sided negative interpretation of ‘bad’ institutions, ""presumption of guilt"" of interest groups, etc.). The author's position is to understand institutional anomalies as the main product of institutional complexity. The article also substantiates the expediency of taking into account the role of institutional configurations and small institutional entrepreneurship in the formation of ‘anomalous’ institutions. An agenda is proposed for future research in the field of the theory of institutional anomalies"
A12|Постинституционализм: За Пределами Институционального Мейнстрима<BR>[Post-institutionalism: Beyond the Institutional Mainstream]|The paper examines the internal dualism of modern institutional economics manifested in division of orthodox or mainstream institutionalism (its axiomatics and dogmatics is represented by the Standard Model) and its opposition – post-institutionalism. It discusses the post-institutional agenda, covering a wide range of discussion issues beyond Standard Model – from the analysis of institutional complexity to introduction of the Evo-Devo paradigm into evolutionary research of institutions. It demonstrates that in the focus of post-institutionalism there are super-complicated institutional systems (assemblages) and related phenomena and processes (bricolage, kludges, anomalies, configurations), which can only be comprehended by overcoming unilateral and dichotomous approaches of the institutional mainstream
A12|Tres teorías demográficas, las evidencias disponibles y el paso de la descripción del cómo al entendimiento del porqué: Una aplicación y una crítica de tres hipótesis poblacionales en base a los casos de España y de la India (1950-2020)<BR>[Three demographic theories, the disposable evidence and the step between description and comprehension: An application and a critique of three population hypotheses based on the cases of Spain and India (1950-2020)]|This work aims to expose three of the main demographic theories, Demographic, Epidemiologic and Sanitary Transition theories, and explore its explanatory capacity. The content is structured in four sections. In the first we briefly review these theories. Secondly, we elaborate a diagnosis of the demographic structure of India and Spain, through its contextualization in the Asian and European context, respectively, and the use of several indicators. Next, we value the relationship between the evidence on these case studies and the hypotheses exposed. Finally, we outline possible theoretical critics based on these two cases
A12|The Basis for Legitimate Entitlement to Profit in Islamic Law|This paper is intended to investigate the basis for legitimate profit in Islamic law and compare it to the theories held by modern conventional economics regarding the cause of profit. This study shall use the theoretical framework of the Hanafi concept of damān (guarantee) and apply it to the cases of fixed revenue and profit. Finally, this paper aims at exposing how the Hanafi formulation of damān, along with capital and labor, can be useful in explaining and determining the basis for a legitimate profit in Islamic law.
A12|Multidisciplinary Project in Business Education|Art ?based teaching and learning have already become a recognized instrument in educational programmes applied in a variety of forms. The primary goal of this research was to examine contemporary visual art as a learning environment and analyse the effect it can bring in the teaching ?learning process and outcomes in contemporary business education .The article shares experience gained through combining several courses with multiple teaching aims thus creating an integrated project environment for the students in order to foster their learning outcomes through enrichment of teaching-learning methods and increased motivation. The project was carried out in the framework of the hybrid lectures course ?Business Meets Art? combining English for Professional Purposes( Business), Personal Development and Study Skills and Presentation Skills courses.The observation and quantitative analysis were applied , combining students self-evaluation and academic staff assessment of the effects produced by the project followed by interview and discussion.The experiment of using visual art as a learning environment in multidisciplinary teaching demonstarated a huge potential of this form of work in higher business education providing development of both linguistic skilss ( reading, writing, listening, speaking skills), combined with advancement of personal development ( critical thinking, emotional intelligence, creativity, artistic skills, communicative and leadership skills, teamwork, cross-cultural interaction, responsibility, active citizenship, etc.) , and professional business skill such as entrepreneurship, marketing and advertising, negotiating, leadership. The effect of multidisciplinary was highly appreciated both by the students and the academic staff and had a powerful impact on motivation with a long-term influence over the participants, unlocking students talents, fostering self-development and self-actualization required in the contemporary education.
A12|Features of teaching economic disciplines for students of architectural and construction specialties in the Republic of Belarus|"In the article features of teaching of economic disciplines for students of architectural and building specialties in higher educational institutions of the Republic of Belarus are presented on an example of calculation of the total estimated cost of construction products. It should be noted that the formation of prices in construction is one of the important stages in the preparation of design estimates, therefore the development of a unified approach to the calculation of cost, taking into account the dynamics of its development is fundamental in the process of teaching economic disciplines.It is important to take into account that in the current conditions of intensive implementation of various software complexes for the calculation of building structures, in particular based on BIM-technologies, the corresponding programs for the preparation of budget documentation are also widely used. In this situation, at the teaching stage it is important to form the understanding of the principles of drawing up the estimate documentation for the learner, because a correct assessment of the adequacy of the resulting ""automated"" solutions is the key in determining the competence of any specialist.Important in teaching the course ""Construction economics"" has a close relationship of the principles of formation of the value of construction products with the basics of technology and the organization of construction. In this connection, when presenting theoretical material on the ""Construction economics"", information about the technology and organization of construction production should be largely provided. It should be noted that the teaching of special economic disciplines takes place at the final courses of study, i.e. after completing the relevant specialized courses ""Technology of construction"" and ""Organization of construction"", which allows you to freely consider those or other features of the construction process in the aspect of economic evaluation. In general, the main purpose of accounting for the principles of construction production in the teaching of economic disciplines is the correct definition of labor, machinery and material resources, taking into account the selected production technology. At the same time, it is important to note that the study of the basics of calculating the cost of construction products in conjunction with the technology of production of works allows the future specialist to exclude errors in the selection of norms and quotations as much as possible, to reduce the amount of information entered and, as a result, to improve the quality of the estimated budget and resource documentation."
A12|An assessment of social and economic factors for broadband penetration in Southern Africa Development Community (SADC)|The transformative benefits of broadband on economic and social variables have led governments to set ambitious targets for its deployment. In making a case for public policy on broadband, many studies have sought to identify and measure broadband economic benefits. Such benefits have not been fully realized in Third World economiesIn an increasingly integrated global economy, broadband is central in providing economic growth and competitiveness to any organisation, country or region. In spite of this competitive advantage of broadband, in the last four years Africa had mobile cellular penetration of 63% and penetration rate flattened at 5.2%. Social and economic factors have been cited as major contributors to this undesirable phenomenon. This papers assays to identify these factors, rank them and suggest possible remedies in the context of Southern Africa Development Community (SADC). The main research question this paper attempts to answer therefore is: how can broadband penetration within SADC region be improved?A confirmatory factors Analysis (CFA) was used to ascertain the conformity of these factors as obtained from raw data to what is given by literature. The weighting of these factors and policy interventions were then discussed as possible solutions for decision makers within the region.
A12|The Gift and Open Science|This short note illustrates how social structures and behavior of scientists in the societal sub-system of open science resemble patterns analyzed in the Gift, an essay written by Marcel Mauss nearly 100 years ago. The presented analysis goes beyond existing interpretations of gift giving in science. The latter has mainly focused on the exchange of knowledge and citations. I argue that the Gift explains also identity, competition, co-opetition, rituals, and punishment. Mauss’s Gift is seen as a complementary model to existing economic and sociological approaches regularly used to analyze structures and behavior in open science. By accentuating such an anthropological approach, I conclude that the Gift provides explanations of the stability and the expansion of the open science community.
A12|Evolution of preferences in group-structured populations: genes, guns, and culture|Humans have evolved in populations structured in groups that extended beyond the nuclear family. Individuals interacted with each other within these groups and there was limited migration and sometimes conáicts between these groups. Suppose that during this evolution, individuals transmitted their behaviors or preferences to their (genetic or cultural) o§spring, and that material outcomes resulting from the interaction determined which parents were more successful than others in producing (genetic or cultural) o§spring. Should one then expect pure material self-interest to prevail? Some degree of altruism, spite, inequity aversion or morality? By building on established models in population biology we analyze the role that di§erent aspects of population structureó such as group size, migration rates, probability of group conáicts, cultural loyalty towards parentsó play in shaping behaviors and preferences which, once established, cannot be displaced by any other preference. In particular, we establish that uninvadable preferences under limited migration between groups will consist of a materially self-interested, a moral, and an other-regarding component, and we show how the strength of each component depends on population structure.
A12|Evolution of preferences in group-structured populations: genes, guns, and culture|Humans have evolved in populations structured in groups that extended beyond the nuclear family. Individuals interacted with each other within these groups and there was limited migration and sometimes conáicts between these groups. Suppose that during this evolution, individuals transmitted their behaviors or preferences to their (genetic or cultural) o§spring, and that material outcomes resulting from the interaction determined which parents were more successful than others in producing (genetic or cultural) o§spring. Should one then expect pure material self-interest to prevail? Some degree of altruism, spite, inequity aversion or morality? By building on established models in population biology we analyze the role that di§erent aspects of population structureó such as group size, migration rates, probability of group conáicts, cultural loyalty towards parentsó play in shaping behaviors and preferences which, once established, cannot be displaced by any other preference. In particular, we establish that uninvadable preferences under limited migration between groups will consist of a materially self-interested, a moral, and an other-regarding component, and we show how the strength of each component depends on population structure.
A12|Cliometrics|"Cliometrics has been defined and summarized in numerous scholarly articles. They all pretty much start with the obvious, that cliometrics is the application of economic theory and quantitative techniques to study history; and then move on to the origin of the name, the joining of Clio (the muse of history), with metrics (""to measure,"" or ""the art of measurement""), allegedly coined by economist Stanley Reiter while collaborating with economic historians Lance Davis and Jonathan Hughes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
A12|Tendances de l’Etat Nutritionnel des Jeunes Enfants dans les Pays Francophones du Sahel : 1990-2015|Les tendances et les différentiels de l’état nutritionnel des enfants sont analysés à partir des données des enquêtes EDS conduites dans les pays francophones du Sahel (Sénégal, Mali, Burkina, Niger, Tchad et Mauritanie). L’étude couvre autant que possible la période de 1990 à 2015, avec, cependant, des variations selon les pays en fonction de la disponibilité des données. Les données de la Mauritanie ne permettent pas d’analyse de tendance, mais seulement celle des différentiels. Les tendances sont analysées au moyen de modèles de régression linéaire selon la cohorte (année de naissance), en tenant compte du sexe et de l’âge. L’analyse différentielle porte sur lieu de résidence, la richesse des ménages, et le niveau d’instruction des adultes.Dans les cinq pays pour lesquels on dispose de suffisamment de données, la taille des enfants de 12-59 mois augmente régulièrement au cours de la période considérée, indiquant une nette amélioration de l’état nutritionnel. Cette augmentation de la taille est particulièrement notable au Sénégal et au Burkina. L’évolution du poids est elle aussi positive, mais plus contrastée et particulièrement faible au Sénégal et au Tchad. Le rapport poids/taille (indice de masse corporelle ou IMC) évolue donc différemment dans les cinq pays : il diminue au Sénégal et au Tchad, est pratiquement constant au Burkina et au Niger, et n’augmente significativement qu’au Mali. Les différences entre les pays sont en partie dues aux différences dans les niveaux de départ (en 1990), et en partie due aux différences dans les évolutions de l’économie et de la santé publique entre les pays. La prévalence des différents types de malnutrition a fortement diminué dans les cinq pays, du fait de l’amélioration moyenne et du fait de la baisse des inégalités, mesurée par la réduction des écarts-type des distributions.L’ordre de grandeur des différentiels est remarquablement consistant entre les pays. Les différences par sexe en poids, taille et poids-par-taille, sont quasiment identiques, les garçons étant plus grands et plus lourds. L’effet de la résidence urbaine sur la taille est plus marqué au Mali ; celui sur le poids est plus marqué au Burkina et au Niger ; par contre, celui sur le rapport poids/taille est négatif au Mali et au Tchad. Les effets de la richesse des ménages et du niveau d’instruction sont toujours positifs sur le poids et la taille, mais pas sur l’IMC au Sénégal. En Mauritanie, les différentiels sont grosso modo consistants avec ceux des autres pays, mais plus difficiles à interpréter du fait de la faiblesse de l’échantillon. Les catégories les plus favorisées sont proches des standards internationaux, sans être toutefois identiques.Dans l’ensemble il apparaît que les progrès de la santé publique, et en particulier le contrôle des maladies infectieuses semblent avoir eu un effet notable sur la taille des enfants, mais que la croissance économique a été insuffisante pour permettre une amélioration du rapport poids/taille, tout en permettant cependant de le maintenir en moyenne au cours des 25 ans.
A12|Trends in the nutritional status of young children in Sahelian francophone countries: 1990-2015|Trends and differentials in the nutritional status of children are analyzed using data from DHS surveys conducted in French-speaking Sahelian countries (Senegal, Mali, Burkina-Faso, Niger, Chad and Mauritania). The study covers as much as possible the 1990-2015 period, with variations across countries depending on data availability. Data from Mauritania do not allow for trend analysis, but only for differential analysis. Trends are analyzed using linear regression models by cohort (year of birth), taking into account gender and age. Differential analysis focuses on place of residence, household wealth, and adult level of education.In the five countries with available data, the height of children aged 12-59 months increased steadily over the period, indicating a marked improvement in nutritional status. This increase in height was particularly notable in Senegal and Burkina Faso. The change in weight was also positive, but more contrasted and particularly weak in Senegal and Chad. Thus, the weight / height ratio (Body-Mass-Index or BMI) evolved differently in the five countries: it decreased in Senegal and Chad, remained virtually constant in Burkina and Niger, and increased only significantly in Mali. Differences between countries were due in part to differences in baseline levels (in 1990), and in part to differences in economic development and in public health. The prevalence of malnutrition declined sharply in all five countries due to average improvements and to decreasing inequality as measured by the reduction in standard deviations.The order of magnitude of the differentials was remarkably consistent between countries. The sex differences in weight, height and weight-for-height were almost identical, with boys being taller and heavier. The effect of urban residence on height was more marked in Mali; that on weight was more marked in Burkina and Niger; in contrast, that on BMI was negative in Mali and Chad. The effects of household wealth and level of education were always positive on weight and height, but not on BMI in Senegal. In Mauritania, differentials were broadly consistent with those of other countries, but more difficult to interpret because of small sample size. The highest socio-economic groups were close to international standards in weight and height for age.Overall, progress in public health, and in particular the control of infectious diseases, appears to have had a significant effect on children’s height, but economic growth has been insufficient to allow for an improvement in BMI.
A12|Why women do not ask: gender differences in fairness perceptions of own wages and subsequent wage growth|This article analyses gender differences in fairness perceptions of own wages and subsequent wage growth. The main finding is that women perceive their wage more often as fair if controls for hourly wage rates, individual and job-related characteristics are taken into account. Furthermore, the gender difference is more pronounced for married than for single women. This points to the fact that social norms, gender roles and gender identity are at least partly responsible for the gap in fairness perceptions. Further analysis shows that individuals, who perceive their wage as unfair, experience larger wage growth in subsequent years. An explanation would be that a wage perceived as unfair triggers negotiations for a better wage or induces individuals to search for better-paid work. Thus, differences in fair own wage perceptions can contribute to explain the nowadays still persistent gender wage gap.
A12|Standing on the shoulder of giants: the aspect of free-riding in RePEc rankings| Research papers in economics (RePEc) rankings have become a well-established source of information about actual and perceived academic performance of institutions, academic fields and their authors. One essential ingredient is the impact factors calculated in RePEc which differ from the standard ones. RePEc reports the ratio of the cumulative citations of all articles of a journal and the number of listed items. The continuously updated RePEc impact factors account for the whole journal and citation history. This approach gives rise to a potential free-riding of authors who profit from journal ranking established in the past. In this article, we demonstrate how the rankings of economists change if one calculates yearly impact factors. The distribution of gains and losses is most pronounced among middle-field ranked authors while the top group shows relative persistence.
A12|Ethics and Economics: A Complex Systems Approach| This chapter examines the nature of ethics and economics as a single subject of investigation, and uses a complex systems approach to characterize the nature of that subject. It then distinguishes mainstream economic and social economic visions of it, where the former assumes that market processes encompass social processes, and the latter assumes that market processes are embedded in social processes. For each vision, string and weak theses are compared. Both visions are first explained in terms of their respective views of the positive-normative distinction, then in terms of a central normative principle, and then in terms of their policy strategies. The chapter closes with comments on the future status of ethics and economics as a single subject of investigation.
A12|Economics and Economic Methodology in a Core-Periphery Economic World| This paper uses a core-periphery distinction to characterize contemporary economics, economic methodology, and also today's world economy. First, it applies the distinction to the organization of contemporary economics through an examination of the problem of explaining economics' relations to and boundaries with other disciplines. Second, it argues that economics' core-periphery organization is replicated in a similar organization of the use and practice of contemporary economic methodology in economics. Third, it draws on the use of the core-periphery thinking in economics itself and the uneven development of the world economy to provide possible foundations for economics and economic methodology being organized in core-periphery terms. Fourth, the paper briefly discusses three as a potential countervailing forces operating on the development of contemporary economics that might work against its core-periphery organization.
A12|Economic Security and Political Governance Crisis in the Central African Republic|Nowadays the Central African Republic (CAR) is experiencing huge economic insecurity which mostly derives from the political governance crisis that the country has been continuously undergoing since its independence in 1960. This paper examines the relationship between political governance crisis and economic security in the country covering the period of 1996-2015, using two stage instrumental analysis and second order asymptotic tests. The results show that political stability and absence of violence/terrorism ,voice and accountability, proxies of political governance crisis played a different role on national income per capita, agricultural raw materials exports, agriculture value added, external balance on goods and services, food exports, food imports, foreign direct investment, GDP growth, GDP per capita growth, inflation, wage and salaried workers, industry value added, total natural resources rent and trade , proxies of economic security. The importance of sustainable political governance stability and the implementation of appropriate reforms at institutional level are a preconditions to economic security.
A12|Fragility of State in Central African Republic: An Econometric Approach to Efficiency Understanding|A fragile state contributes to the underdevelopment of the nation and its consequences can be very devastating on the stateâ€™s cohesion. Characterized by high level of corruption which lead the country to an incessant political instability and continuous presence of foreign troops . This paper used the vector autoregressive model (VAR) covering the period of 2005-2015 to examine the impact of control of corruption on fragility of state in Central African Republic (CAR). The results show that control of corruption is significant and has negative impact on fragility of state in the short run. The impulse response shows a negative impact of control of corruption in short-run but positive in long-run on fragility of state. The policies implications of this fragility are that the CAR must pursue better governance as well as in the investment choices. Unless CAR leaders and citizens recognize their own fragility, things can only get worse.
A12|Cliometrics|"Cliometrics has been defined and summarized in numerous scholarly articles. They all pretty much start with the obvious, that cliometrics is the application of economic theory and quantitative techniques to study history; and then move on to the origin of the name, the joining of Clio (the muse of history), with metrics (""to measure,"" or ""the art of measurement""), allegedly coined by economist Stanley Reiter while collaborating with economic historians Lance Davis and Jonathan Hughes."
A12|Learning outside the factory: the impact of technological change on the rise of adult education in nineteenth-century France|The paper provides an empirical examination of the effect of the use of steam engine technology on the development of adult education in nineteenth-century France. In particular, we exploit exogenous regional variations in the distribution of steam engines across France to evidence that technological change significantly contributed to the development of lifelong training during the 1850-1881 period. Our research shows that steam technology adoption in France was not deskilling. We argue that this process raised the demand for new skills adapted to the development of French industries.
A12|Enhancing central bank communications with behavioural insights|In this joint Bank of England and Behavioural Insights Team study, we test the effectiveness of different approaches to central bank communications. Using an online experiment with a representative sample of the UK population, we measure how changes to the Bank of England’s summaries of the Inflation Report impact comprehension and trust in its policy messages. We find that the recently introduced Visual Summary of the Inflation Report improves comprehension of its main messages in a statistically significant way compared to the traditional executive summary. We also find that public comprehension and trust can be further improved by making the Visual Summary more relatable to people’s lives. Our findings thus shed light on how central banks can improve communication with the public at a time when trust in public institutions has fallen, while the responsibilities delegated to central banks have increased.
A12|Measuring Electoral Competitiveness: With Application to the Indian States|We consider alternative methods of measuring the competitiveness of a majoritarian electoral system in the context of an analysis of Indian State elections. Our analysis highlights a number of weaknesses in the construction and interpretation of commonly used measures such as the effective number of parties, the first versus second place vote margin and safe seats, while presenting these and their proposed alternatives for 14 major Indian states from 1952 to 2009. The alternative indexes we present are based in part on ideas that are longstanding in the literature but have not been fully adopted within the Indian context. These indexes incorporate vote volatility, allow for multi-party competition at the constituency level, and adjust for asymmetry among parties of safe seats in the legislature. We argue that these newly computed indexes capture distinct but related dimensions of electoral competition better than do the extant commonly used measures. The analysis of these indexes is then extended to consider the role of caste, class, regionalism and level of development to reveal interesting patterns of commonality and difference in electoral competition across the states.
A12|Measuring Electoral Competitiveness: With Application to the Indian States|We consider alternative methods of measuring the competitiveness of a majoritarian electoral system in the context of an analysis of Indian State elections. Our analysis highlights a number of weaknesses in the construction and interpretation of commonly used measures such as the effective number of parties, the first versus second place vote margin and safe seats, while presenting these and their proposed alternatives for 14 major Indian states from 1952 to 2009. The alternative indexes we present are based in part on ideas that are longstanding in the literature but have not been fully adopted within the Indian context. These indexes incorporate vote volatility, allow for multi-party competition at the constituency level, and adjust for asymmetry among parties of safe seats in the legislature. We argue that these newly computed indexes capture distinct but related dimensions of electoral competition better than do the extant commonly used measures. The analysis of these indexes is then extended to consider the role of caste, class, regionalism and level of development to reveal interesting patterns of commonality and difference in electoral competition across the states.
A12|Pigou Pushes Preferences: Decarbonisation and Endogenous Values|Avoiding unmanageable climate change implies that global greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced rapidly. A significant body of literature shows that policy instruments such as carbon prices can make an important contribution to this goal. In contrast, changes in preferences or values are rarely considered, even though other major socioeconomic transitions - such as those from reducing smoking and drink-driving - have succeeded partly because values have changed. This article examines the impact of climate policy-induced changes in consumers’ values. We demonstrate that when changes in values through policies occur, and are not accounted for, such policies are inefficient. First, target-achieving carbon taxes must be adjusted if they crowd-in or -out social preferences. Second, when the urban built environment changes mobility preferences, low-carbon infrastructure investments are more valuable. Third, policy-induced changes in preferences for active travel and low-meat diets could increase the net benefits of the transition to zero emissions, in turn affecting optimal policy.
A12|Racionalidad representacional de la política de competitividad de la ciudad de Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
A12|A Dialogue between a Populist and an Economist|"In this imaginary dialogue, a populist and an economist discuss the role of economic shocks to explain populism. A simple correlation between economic shocks and populism is weak. However, economic shocks can explain well the phenomenon of populism in countries with low pre-existent level of trust. This is confirmed both at the macro cross-country level and also by micro evidence obtained from surveys. Finally, this finding is consistent with the ""ideational approach"" in political science, which emphasizes how the populist narrative opposes the ""corrupt elite"" to the ""virtuous people."""
A12|Learning outside the factory: the impact of technological change on the rise of adult education in nineteenth-century France|The paper provides an empirical examination of the effect of the use of steam engine technology on the development of adult education in nineteenth-century France. In particular, we exploit exogenous regional variations in the distribution of steam engines across France to evidence that technological change significantly contributed to the development of lifelong training during the 1850-1881 period. Our research shows that steam technology adoption in France was not deskilling. We argue that this process raised the demand for new skills adapted to the development of French industries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|The Micro-Geography of Academic Research:How Distinctive is Economics?|This study examines micro-geographic clustering of academic research, focusing on economics. Three U.S. ZIP codes are associated with articles in the top five economics journals that garnered one-half of all citations to the articles published in these journals over 2000 to 2015. This remarkable degree of micro-geographic concentration is not apparent in any other discipline. Outside of economics the top three ZIP codes are associated with just 12% of citations to their top five journals, on average. Concentration of citations to economics articles whose authors are associated with a few key ZIP codes has strengthened over time, even as it has weakened for other disciplines. This distinctively high level of spatial concentration in economics research is not consistent with hypotheses about disciplinary differences stemming from market forces or from reliance on research infrastructure located in specific locations.
A12|What economics education is missing: The real world|The global financial crisis (GFC) led to increasing distrust in economic research and the economics profession, in the process of which the current state of economics and economic education in particular were heavily criticized. Against this background we conducted a study with undergraduate students of economics in order to capture their view of economic education. The paper is based on the Documentary Method, a qualitative empirical method, which combines maximum openness with regard to the collection of empirical material coupled with maximum rigor in analysis. The empirical findings show that students enter economics curricula with (1) epistemic, (2) practical or (3) moral/political motivations for understanding and dealing with real-world problems but end up remarkably disappointed after going through the mathematical and methods-orientated introductory courses. The findings further indicate that students develop strategies to cope with their disappointment - all of them relating to their original motivation. The theoretical contextualization of the empirical findings is based on the psychological concept of cognitive dissonance.
A12|"""The market deals out profit and losses"": Wie ökonomische Standardlehrbücher das unreflektierte Denken in Metaphern fördern"|"Das Paper analysiert den bisher kaum beachteten Gebrauch von Metaphern in ökonomischen Standardlehrbüchern am Beispiel der Lehrtexte von Paul A. Samuelson und N. Gregory Mankiw. Dabei steht die metaphorische Semantik des abstrakten Konzeptes ""des Marktes"" im Zentrum der Untersuchungen. Mittels textanalytischer Methoden und mit Rückgriff auf die Conceptual Metaphor Theory verfolgen die Autorinnen die Einführung des Konzeptes ""der Markt"" als abstraktes und weitestgehend inhaltsleeres Konzept, die (Um-)Deutungen des Konzepts mithilfe von Entitätsmetaphern, Personifizierungen und Orientierungsmetaphern und die Verbindung des Begriffes mit politisch-ideologischen Wertungen. Hauptergebnisse sind: (1) Ökonomische Standardlehrbücher weisen einen massiven und stillschweigenden Gebrauch von Metaphern auf. (2) Dieser Gebrauch kann das kognitive Unbewusste der Leser_innen beeinflussen, und (3) Reflexive ökonomische Bildung kann zu einem verantwortungsvollen Umgang mit Metaphern befähigen."
A12|Der vergessene Lippmann: Politik, Propaganda und Markt|"Das Paper gibt einen Überblick über das Leben und die Bedeutung von Walter Lippmann, der in der ersten Hälfte des 20. Jahrhunderts einer der bedeutendsten Journalisten der USA war. Lippmann hat sich auch an Propagandaaktivitäten im Ersten Weltkrieg beteiligt und aufgrund dieser Erfahrung u.a. 1922 das Buch Public Opinion publiziert. Dieses Buch wird hier zusammenfassend beschrieben und in seiner Bedeutung eingeschätzt. Dies wird dann einem weiteren Buch von Lippmann Buch, nämlich The Good Society aus dem Jahre 1937, gegenübergestellt - das letztere Buch gab Anlass zum so genannten Walter Lippmann Colloque 1938 in Paris, das als die erste internationale Veranstaltung des Neoliberalismus gilt. Lippmanns Manipulationsideen werden verglichen mit denen, die Friedrich August von Hayek aus Anlass der Gründung der Mont Pèlerin Society , die als Nachfolgeorganisation des Walter Lippmann Colloque gilt: Lippmann hat vor Manipulation gewarnt, die Demokratie sei damit gefährdet. Demgegenüber wollte sich Hayek der Manipulation ""der Massen"" bedienen, nur so könne ""die Zivilisation"" gerettet werden."
A12|Theoretical and Methodological Context of (Post)-Modern Econometrics and Competing Philosophical Discourses for Policy Prescription|"This research article was championed as a way of providing discourses pertaining to the concept of ""Critical Realism (CR)"" approach, which is amongst many othe forms of competing postmodern philosophical concepts for the engagement of dialogical discourses in the area of established econometric methodologies for effective policy prescription in the economic science discipline. On the the whole, there is no doubt surrounding the value of empirical endeavours in econometrics to address real world economic problems, but equally so, the heavy weighted use and reliance on mathematical contents as a way of justifying its scientific base seemed to be loosing traction of the intended focus of economics when it comes to confronting real world problems in the domain of social interaction. In this vein, the construction of mixed methods discourse(s), which favour that of CR philosophy is hereby suggested in this article as a way forward in confronting with issues raised by critics of mainstream economics and other professionals in the postmodern era."
A12|The Long-Lasting Effects of Family and Childhood on Adult Wellbeing: Evidence from British Cohort Data|To what extent do childhood experiences continue to affect adult wellbeing over the life course? Previous work on this link has been carried out either at one particular adult age or for some average over adulthood. We here use two British birth-cohort datasets (the 1958 NCDS and the 1970 BCS) to map out the time profile of the effect of childhood experiences on adult outcomes, including life satisfaction. We find that the effects of many aspects of childhood do not fade away over time but are rather remarkably stable. In both birth-cohorts, child non-cognitive skills are the strongest predictors of adult life satisfaction at all ages. Of these, emotional health is the strongest. Childhood cognitive performance is more important than good conduct in explaining adult life satisfaction in the earlier NCDS cohort, whereas this ranking is inverted in the more recent BCS.
A12|From constrained optimization to constrained dynamics: extending analogies between economics and mechanics|Since the beginnings of modern economics, economists sought to emulate the revolution in physics initiated by Newton’s ‘Principia’ (1687). Concepts from mechanics have influenced economic models both in terms of methodology and content. The aim of this theoretical paper is to put forward a novel economic modeling framework that extends the analogies between economics and classical mechanics from constrained optimization to constrained dynamics. We introduce the concepts of economic forces and economic power that bear striking resemblance to physical forces and the reciprocal value of mass. In this setup, the change of a variable is determined by the forces agents employ to change it according to their desire, their power to assert their interest, and constraint forces emerging from system constraints. The approach is based on a genuine dynamic out-of-equilibrium analysis and can incorporate heterogeneous agents, prisoner’s dilemma situations, and behavioral assumptions different from rationality and utility maximization. Thereby, it seeks to overcome some restrictions inherent to approaches based on optimization under constraint and provide an out-of-equilibrium foundation for equilibrium models. We transform a static textbook exchange model into a dynamic model, and reflect on advantages, extensions and caveats of our modeling approach.
A12|Wider die Zahlengläubigkeit: Sind Befragungsergebnisse eine gute Grundlage für wirtschaftspolitische Entscheidungen?|Befragungen von Konsumenten, Steuerzahlern und Wählern werden in Wirtschaft und Politik häufig als Entscheidungsgrundlage herangezogen. Die Ergebnisse dieser Befragungen können somit großen Einfluss auf politische Entscheidungen und damit auf den Alltag vieler Menschen haben. Befragungen sind besonders dann wichtig und notwendig, wenn noch keine entsprechenden Verhaltensdaten oder Erfahrungswerte vorliegen. Helga Fehr-Duda und Robin Schimmelpfennig gehen der Frage nach, ob Angaben zur Zahlungsbereitschaft, die in hypothetischen Entscheidungssituationen gemacht werden, glaubwürdig und zuverlässig genug sind, um als Grundlage für unternehmerische und wirtschaftspolitische Entscheidungen zu dienen. Die Autoren zeigen anhand zweier neuer Studien, dass Ergebnisse hypothetischer Befragungen, wie beispielsweise einer Stated preference Befragung, signifikant vom Kontext der Entscheidungssituation abhängen. Es ist daher nicht möglich, allgemeine kontextunabhängige Aussagen zum Ausmaß der möglichen Fehleinschätzung von Zahlungsbereitschaften zu treffen. Die Autoren empfehlen, wann immer möglich Labor- oder Feldexperimente im relevanten Kontext mit realen monetären Anreizen durchzuführen. In jenen Fällen, in denen hypothetische Befragungen die einzige Möglichkeit der Datengewinnung darstellen, ist es unabdingbar, das Befragungsdesign möglichst anreizverträglich, realitätsnah und dem Anwendungskontext angemessen zu gestalten. Auftraggeber sollten auf die Einhaltung dieser Grundsätze bestehen, um möglichst valide Befragungsergebnisse zu erhalten.
A12|Die Selbstwahrnehmung der Wirtschaft: Entstehung und Wandel von Statistik und Ökonomik als Theorie für Eliten|"Die Statistik war in ihren Anfängen ""Staatszustandswissenschaft"", Fürsten erfassten darin in der Kammer ihr jeweiliges Territorium. Durch die Bevölkerungswissenschaft wandelte sie sich schrittweise zu einer formalmathematischen Theorie. Parallel dazu setzte sich die Geldökonomie immer mehr als herrschende Form durch und transformierte auch die Vorstellung von den handelnden Subjekten. Durch das Prinzip, nur jeweils Durchschnitte zu erfassen, wurde vor allem in der schottischen Tradition des Liberalismus aus der Ökonomik als ""moral science"" eine naturalistische Theorie autonomer Marktprozesse. Die Selbstwahrnehmung der Wirtschaft in Statistik und Ökonomik dient – ungeachtet ihrer vermeintlich neutralen, äußerlichen und formal-mathematischen Struktur – vorwiegend den Interessen einer herrschenden Elite."
A12|Right-wing populism and market-fundamentalism: Two mutually reinforcing threats to democracy in the 21st century|"The article compares market fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Based on an analysis of the work of important founders of market fundamental economic thinking and the arguments brought forward by leading right-wing populist we find many similarities of these two concepts in their ""inner images"". Thus, we develop a scheme of the similar dual social worlds of right-wing-populism and market fundamentalism and offer some recent examples of market fundamentalism and right-wing populism mutually reinforcing each other or serving as a gateway for each other. We then apply our scheme for the analysis of the recent political developments and its ideological roots in the US under Donald Trump. The main conclusion of this article is that market fundamentalism and right-wing populism together must be seen as two mutually reinforcing threats to democracy in the 21st century."
A12|Die ökonomische Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Zum interdisziplinären Selbstverständnis der Volkswirtschaftslehre|Die moderne Volkswirtschaftslehre wirkt auf andere Wissenschaften, auf die Gesellschaft und die Politik ein. Im Kontext dazu wird in dem Paper das disziplinäre Selbstverständnis von Ökonominnen und Ökonomen herausgearbeitet, wie es den wichtigsten Lehrbüchern des Faches inhärent ist. Anhand von Thomas S. Kuhns Konzept der Lehrbuchwissenschaft wird die zentrale Bedeutung des Lehrbuches für die moderne Volkswirtschaftslehre aufgezeigt und dann im Rückgriff auf einschlägige Lehrbuchliteratur des Faches untersucht, welche wissenschaftshistorischen, methodologischen und didaktischen Grundpositionen darin festgehalten sind und im Rahmen akademischer ökonomischer Bildung vermittelt werden.
A12|Challenges in Research on Preferences and Personality Traits: Measurement, Stability, and Inference|This paper reviews several traditions in economic research on preferences as well as research on personality traits in personality psychology and lists challenges in both fields. We discuss challenges regarding the measurement of preferences and personality traits, challenges regarding the stability of preferences and traits, and challenges when inferring causality. Additionally, we highlight areas in which we see potential benefits from taking into account methodological approaches or insights from the respective other discipline.
A12|Publication Performance vs. Influence: On the Questionable Value of Quality Weighted Publication Rankings|In broad parts of the scientific community the position in publication performance rankings, based on journal quality ratings is seen as highly reputational for the scientist. This contribution provides evidence that, at least in economics, such publication performance measures can not always be reconciled with measures for academic influence such as citation-based measures. We analyze data from the Scopus database as well as from the prestigious German-based Handelsblatt ranking for 100 renowned economists (lifetime achievement). Scholarly influence is proxied by various bibliometric indicators such as the number of citations, the h-index, the citations of the most cited paper as well as the hardly honorable Pi-Beta-score (“Publications Ignored, By Even The Author(s)”). We argue that publication performance measures based on journal ratings, such as the Handelsblatt rankings, are not good proxies for an economist’s impact within the scientific community. From this perspective the value of publication performance rankings based on journal quality ratings is questionable.
A12|The Changing Basis of Economic Responsibility: Zur Bedeutung und Rezeption von John Maurice Clarks Artikel zur ökonomischen Verantwortung|"2016 jährte sich das Erscheinen des Artikels von John Maurice Clark mit dem in der Überschrift genannten Titel im Journal of Political Economy zum hundertsten Mal. Clark legt in diesem Artikel seine Vorstellungen zur Entwicklung einer ""economics of responsibility"" und zur Wahrnehmung von ""responsibility in the economy"" dar. Diese Ideen werden hier vorgestellt und die Rezeptionsgeschichte des Artikels in ausgewählten Forschungsgebieten skizziert. Clarks Artikel ist ein wichtiger Beitrag zur Diskussion der ökonomischen Verantwortung und damit eines Themas, das in der Wirtschaftswissenschaft und in der Wirtschafts- und Unternehmensethik Beachtung finden sollte."
A12|The ordonomic approach to business ethics|'Ordonomics' is a research program that has been developed at the Chair of Economic Ethics at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg. It holds that business actors (persons and organizations) can employ morality as a 'factor of production', and that business ethics can be based on a specific rational-choice analysis that is fully in line with the established tradition of economic thinking. With regard to practice, the main point is that ordonomics offers a guiding concept for creating win-win solutions that help business firms to do well by doing good. With regard to theory, ordonomics offers a conceptual framework for business ethics that makes ethics and economics coherent and mutually compatible with each other.
A12|Global Integration and World Migration|This paper explores a theory of migration based upon a number of conjectures about the role of digital media. It proposes that a number of factors including rising use of the internet providing widespread access to global information and an intensified communication between regions and countries brought about, for example, by intensified trade links bring about expansion of peopleâ€™s social space. This also expands the factors through which they compare their own living standards and social life with others. This expansion increases peopleâ€™s stress and strengthens their inclination to resort to migration as a means of reducing this heightened stress. Other things held constant, the expansion of peopleâ€™s social space intensifies their inclination to move across geographical space.
A12|Intrinsic motivation in economics: A history|If one asks about the introduction of intrinsic motivation into economic analysis, a common response is The Joyless Economy (Scitovsky, 1976) and Frey's articles published in the early 1990s. These works are furthermore seen as the direct sequel to the contributions in psychology which sought to uncover the sources of motivation long before the economists started to think seriously about their economic implications. By adopting a historical perspective, I show that Scitovsky and Frey's works were rather the result of two specific episodes in economics: the revived interest in actual needs and desires for the first and the expansionist ambitions of economists for the second. The behaviors they considered and the interpretations they respectively proposed for intrinsic motivation illustrate the influence of these two episodes. As such, this article proposes a new perspective on the relationship between economics and psychology.
A12|Murmurer à l’oreille... de l’industriel ? L’économie expérimentale comme outil d’aide à la décision en entreprise|The use of experimental economics in business is a recent development that remains little discussed in the literature. Drawing from three examples, respectively from the agri-food, the automotive and the electricity industries, this article discusses the use of this method in the private sector, identifies its contributions and limits, and considers future prospects. Despite the recognized limitations of this method, in first line parallelism, experimental economics has significant potential for the private sector, to better understand individual decisions and market mechanisms, by complementing traditional approaches or through multidisciplinary opening. Classification JEL : A11, A12, B4, C9, C93.
A12|Under Risk, Over Time, Regarding Other People: Language and Rationality Within Three Dimensions<BR>[Face au risque, dans le temps, par rapport aux autres : langage et rationalité dans trois dimensions]|This paper conducts a systematic comparison of behavioral economics's challenges to the standard accounts of economic behaviors within three dimensions: under risk, over time and regarding other people. A new perspective on two underlying methodological issues, i.e., interdisciplinarity and the positive/normative distinction, is proposed by following the entanglement thesis of Hilary Putnam, Vivian Walsh and Amartya Sen. This thesis holds that facts, values and conventions have interdependent meanings in science which can be understood by scrutinizing formal and ordinary language uses. The goal is to provide a broad and self-contained picture of how behavioral economics is changing the mainstream of economics.
A12|Measuring Influence in Science: Standing on the Shoulders of Which Giants?|I study the measurement of the influence of scientists based on bibliographic data. I propose a new measure that accounts for indirect influence and allows to compare scientists across different fields of science. By contrast, common measures of influence that “count citations”, such as the h-index, are unable to satisfy either of these two properties. I use the axiomatic method in two opposite ways: to highlight the two limitations of citation- counting schemes and their independence, and to carefully justify the assumptions made in the construction of the proposed measure.
A12|Subjective and physiological measures of well-being: an exploratory analysis using birth-cohort data|We use a rich longitudinal data set following a cohort of Swedish women from age 10 to 49 to analyse the effects of birth and early-life conditions on adulthood outcomes. These latter include both well-being and the stress hormone cortisol. Employment and marital status are important adult determinants of well-being. Log family income and absence from school also predict adult well-being, although their importance falls when controlling for adult and birth characteristics. Among the birth characteristics, we find that high birth weight (>4.3kg) affects adult well-being. We predict the level of adult cortisol only poorly, and suggest that the relationship between life satisfaction and cortisol is non-monotonic: both high and low cortisol are negatively correlated with life satisfaction. The results from an OLS life satisfaction regression and a multinomial logit of high or low cortisol (as compared to medium) are more similar to each other.
A12|The Economics of Natural Disasters: an Overview of the Current Research Issues and Methods|In the last decades, we have observed a dramatic increase in the number of reported natural disasters and of their widespread human, economic, and environmental losses. This paper presents an overview of the current status of economic research on natural disasters. Firstly, it discusses key issues related to disaster definition, available datasets, and cost assessment. Then, it presents the main methodological approaches for estimating impacts and effects of natural disasters on the economy. Finally, it proposes a number of possible future research directions.
A12|The Effect of Population Socio-Economic Characteristics on Tourism Demand in Serbia: A Survey|The synthesis of various theoretical concepts and empirical research confirms the significance of leisure time and leisure funds as fundamental factors of tourism demand. It also confirms the fact that the correlation between resources and needs shows that all the person's efforts are directed to coordination between their needs and means and that those tourist needs are manifested through the tourist consumption. Therefore, the study is based on the assumption that socio-economic characteristics of population have a great influence on the decision concerning where and how the vacation will be used. Thus, the aim of the research was to determine whether there is and how important is the influence of socio-economic characteristics of the population as independent variables on the scope and direction of movement of tourist demand in the particular case in practice. Based on the conducted research and analysed results, the authors strived to examine the initial hypotheses, that is to provide a statistical correlation between the dependent and independent variables. The results of research confirm the hypothesis that the socio-economic characteristics of working and living conditions of the population have a great impact on the dynamics and scope of tourism demand. According to the defined aim, the theoretical elaboration of the results dominates the study. During the research and results analysis, the following methods were used: T-test, One-Factor Analysis of Variance, Pearson Correlation Coefficient, Logistic Regression and Multiple Regression.
A12|Childhood circumstances, personality traits and adult-life economic outcomes in developing countries: Evidence from STEP|This paper studies the associations between childhood circumstances (e.g. parental background, early-life socio-economic status, negative economic shocks during childhood, etc.), personality traits (the Big Five, grit) and adult-life economic outcomes (educational attainment, employment opportunity, wages, life satisfaction, and obesity) in nine developing countries. The data come from the World Bank’s STEP Skills Measurement Survey conducted over 2012-2013. Our results show that childhood circumstances are associated more strongly than personality traits with education and wages. Agreeableness, and neuroticism are relatively strong correlates of life satisfaction in developing countries, as compared with early-life socio-economic status. Grit is not significantly related to adult-life outcomes, when other personality traits are controlled for. Obesity is positively associated with extraversion and neuroticism, while childhood circumstances do not predict it.
A12|Right-wing populism and market-fundamentalism: Two mutually reinforcing threats to democracy in the 21st century|"The article compares market fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Based on an analysis of important texts in both fields we find many similarities of these two concepts in their ""inner images"". Thus, we develop a scheme of the similar dual social worlds of right-wing-populism and market fundamentalism and offer some recent examples of market fundamentalism and right-wing populism mutually reinforcing each other or serving as a gateway for each other. We then apply our scheme for the analysis of the recent political developments and its ideological roots in the US under Donald Trump."
A12|Citation Patterns in Economics and Beyond: Assessing the Peculiarities of Economics from Two Scientometric Perspectives|In this paper we explore three claims concerning the disciplinary character of economics by means of citation analysis. The three claims under study are: (1) economics exhibits strong forms of intellectual stratification and, as a byproduct, a rather pronounced internal hierarchy, (2) economists strongly conform to institutional incentives and (3) modern mainstream economics is a highly self-referential intellectual project mostly inaccessible to disciplinary or paradigmatic outsiders. The validity of these claims is assessed by means of an interdisciplinary comparison of citation patterns aiming to identify the peculiar characteristics of economic discourse. In exposing and discussing these peculiarities of economics, we emphasize the availability of two competing scientometric perspectives for assessing and interpreting our findings.
A12|Challenges in research on preferences and personality traits: Measurement, stability, and inference|This paper reviews several traditions in economic research on preferences as well as research on personality traits in personality psychology and lists challenges in both fields. We discuss challenges regarding the measurement of preferences and personality traits, challenges regarding the stability of preferences and traits, and challenges when inferring causality. Additionally, we highlight areas in which we see potential benefits from taking into account methodological approaches or insights from the respective other discipline.
A12|Understanding Social Market Economy, Francesco Forte and His Interpretation|Abstract The social thought which emerges from Francesco Forte’s economic writings proves to be mainly inspired by methodological individualism, though interpreted through a peculiar “personalistic” key. We will analyze the peculiar traits of his thought and the specific contribution that Forte gave to the understanding of a specific economic theory based on the doctrine of “Ordoliberalism” or the “Freiburg School.” In our work, we will show how Forte proposes an interpretation of that doctrine, according to two of his main points of reference in economic and philosophical thought: Luigi Einaudi and Antonio Rosmini Serbati. Finally, we will present an important aspect of Forte’s work: his institutional analysis in the light of the particular civil philosophy expressed by Christian social teaching.
A12|Citations, journal ranking and multiple authorships reconsidered: evidence from almost one million articles| In this article, we reconsider the investigation by Moosa (2016) using a much larger data set of almost one million articles listed in Research Papers in Economics. This article provides new insights into the effects of co-authorship on citation counts and the correlation between quality of papers and quality of the publishing journal. Our evidence is partially in contrast to the results reported in Moosa (2016). We find a positive correlation between the h-index of a journal and the quality of papers measured in terms of citations. This correlation becomes almost perfect using a nonlinear model. Results from a regression of citation counts on the number of authors show evidence of a positive and significant effect of co-authorship on the quality of a paper when time effects and large sets of top-cited articles are taken into account. The inclusion of time effects and the large data set, that allows to differentiate between top-cited cohorts, adds further insights to the existing literature.
A12|Title characteristics and citations in economics|Abstract We investigate the relationship between article title characteristics and citations in economics using a large data set from Web of Science. Our results suggest that articles with a short title that also contains a non-alphanumeric character achieve a higher citation count.
A12|Individual heterogeneity and pension choices: How to communicate an effective message?|We use the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) to explain how communication influences the heterogeneity in pension choices. To this end we exploit the 2007 Italian reform that allowed transferring future severance pay contributions into a pension fund and was accompanied by an information campaign with a clear message. According to ELM, individuals follow either a “central route” or a “peripheral route” depending on their motivation and ability to think, and eventually change or retain their initial attitude. Based on Logit models and data from the Bank of Italy Survey on Household Income and Wealth, we find that the decision to transfer the severance pay into a pension fund was taken by more educated and older individuals, with high household income. Since the reform was mainly directed at low income and younger individuals, this result suggest that the information campaign was not very effective. Moreover, our findings show that generic financial literacy does not significantly affect decision consciousness, pointing at a more relevant role in the elaboration process for: the individual’s comprehension of the specific choice object (pension funds), cognitive skills, and influential contextual factors (i.e., unions and employer’s pressure).
A12|Empirical Methods for the Law|Normative legal argument based on empirical evidence is not necessarily best served by standards from the social sciences. Precautionary concern for false negatives may call for an adjustment of the significance level. That all legal choice is historically contingent, that legal problems tend to be ill-defined, and that strategic actors have an incentive to bias the generation of evidence create further challenges. Yet the law can capitalize on the adversarial principle. Competition among interested parties helps contain the strategic element and spurs the creative search for better evidence. This leads to suggestive, but institutionally contained, empirical evidence.
A12|Agent-Based Modelingâ€™s Open Methodology Approach: Simulation, Reflexivity, and Abduction| This paper argues that agent-based modelingâ€™s innovations in method developed in terms of simulation techniques also involve an innovation in economic methodology. It shows how Epsteinâ€™s generative science conception departs from conventional methodological reasoning, and employs what I term an open rather than closed approach to economic methodology associated with the roles that reflexivity, counterfactual reasoning, and abduction play in ABM. Central to this idea is that improvements in how we know something, a matter of method, determine whether we know something, a matter of methodology. The paper links this alternative view of economics and economic methodology to a social science model of economics and contrasts this with standard economicsâ€™ natural science model of economics. The paper discusses what this methodological understanding implies about the concept of emergence.
A12|Incentives for Replication in Economics|Replication is a critical component of scientific credibility as it increases our confidence in the reliability of the knowledge generated by original research. Yet, replication is the exception rather than the rule in economics. In this paper, we examine why replication is so rare and propose changes to the incentives to replicate. Our study focuses on software code replication, which seeks to replicate the results in the original paper using the same data as the original study and verifying that the analysis code is correct. We analyse the effectiveness of the current model for code replication in the context of three desirable characteristics: unbiasedness, fairness and efficiency. We find substantial evidence of “overturn bias” that likely leads to many false positives in terms of “finding” or claiming mistakes in the original analysis. Overturn bias comes from the fact that replications that overturn original results are much easier to publish than those that confirm original results. In a survey of editors, almost all responded they would in principle publish a replication study that overturned the results of the original study, but only 29% responded that they would consider publishing a replication study that confirmed the original study results. We also find that most replication effort is devoted to so called important papers and that the cost of replication is high in that posited data and software are very hard to use. We outline a new model for the journals to take over replication post acceptance and prepublication that would solve the incentive problems raised in this paper.
A12|Inside Job or Deep Impact? Using Extramural Citations to Assess Economic Scholarship|Does academic economic research produce material of scientific value, or are academic economists writing only for clients and peers? Is economics scholarship uniquely insular? We address these questions by quantifying interactions between economics and other disciplines. Changes in the impact of economic scholarship are measured here by the way other disciplines cite us. We document a clear rise in the extramural influence of economic research, while also showing that economics is increasingly likely to reference other social sciences. A breakdown of extramural citations by economics fields shows broad field impact. Differentiating between theoretical and empirical papers classified using machine learning, we see that much of the rise in economics’ extramural influence reflects growth in citations to empirical work. This parallels a growing share of empirical cites within economics. At the same time, the disciplines of computer science and operations research are mostly influenced by economic theory.
A12|Corporate Sport Sponsorship and Stock Returns: Evidence from the NFL|Most home stadiums/arenas of major-sport teams in the U.S. are sponsored by large publicly traded companies. Using NFL data we find that stock returns to the sponsoring firms are affected by the outcomes of games played in their stadiums. Wins in Monday night games generate next-day abnormal returns 50 basis points higher than losses. The effect is 80 basis points in the post-season and when the game outcome is unexpected. This does not revert over the next few days. Outcomes of NFL games could serve as a reasonably exogenous instrument for investor sentiment.
A12|A theory of sequential group reciprocity|Abstract Games that appear to be independent, involving none of the same players, may be related by emotions of reciprocity between the members of the same groups. In the real world, individuals are members of groups and want to reward or punish those groups whose members have been kind or unkind to members of their own. In this paper, we extend Dufwenberg and Kirchsteiger’s model of sequential reciprocity (Games Econ Behav 47(2):268–298, 2004) to groups of individuals and define a new “sequential group reciprocity equilibrium” for which we prove its existence. We study the case of two games with two players in each game, where each player belongs to the same group as a player in the other game. We show that when the payoffs of one game are much higher than the payoffs of the other, the outcome of the game with higher payoffs determines the outcome of the other game. We also find that when the payoffs are very asymmetric, the outcome where the sum of the payoffs is maximized is a sequential group reciprocity equilibrium.
A12|Who is the ‘Journal Grand Master’? A new ranking based on the Elo rating system|In this paper we transfer the Elo rating system, which is widely accepted in chess, sports and other disciplines, to rank scientific journals. The advantage of the Elo system is the explicit consideration of the factor time and the history of a journal's ranking performance. Most other rankings that are commonly applied neglect this fact. The Elo ranking methodology can easily be applied to any metric, published on a regular basis, to rank journals. We illustrate the approach using the SNIP indicator based on citation data from Scopus. Our data set consists of more than 20000 journals from many scientific fields for the period from 1999 to 2015. We show that the Elo approach produces similar but by no means identical rankings compared to other rankings based on the SNIP alone or the Tournament Method. Especially the rank order for rather ‘middle-class’ journals can tremendously change.
A12|The Relationship between Psychology and Economics: Insights from the History of Economic Thought|Psychological ideas had always played a role on the formation of economic thought as can be seen in the works of many influential pre-classical and classical authors. Up to the beginning of the 20th century, there was almost no methodological objection regarding the incorporation of ideas from psychology into economic theories. After this period, a fundamental shift in mainstream economics took place which is also known as the Paretian turn. This conceptual change, initiated mainly by Vilfredo Pareto and completed with the emergence of the theories of choice in the first decades of the 20th century, attempted to expel all psychological notions from economic theory. However, in the last three decades, the increasing appeal of subjective well-being research and especially of the new behavioral economics, re-brought the topic onto the surface. In order to better comprehend and to contribute to the recent discussion concerning the relationship between the two disciplines, the study of relevant views found in history of economic thought is necessary. The paper starts with a brief sketch of the history of the relationship between economics and psychology, focusing also to the recent literature which points to a reconsideration of this relationship. After an examination of psychological ideas found in influential pre-marginalist writers, the paper discusses the arguments supporting the case for the interaction between the two fields. It also suggests that the work of Richard Jennings can be seen as the peak of the early interaction between economics and psychology. Finally, it considers the relevance of these arguments for the current debate concerning the relationship between economics and psychology.
A12|The Relationship Between Hong Leong Bank’s Performance with Leverage and Inflation|This paper are for recognize the relationship between risk and performance of Hong Leong Bank. Hong Leong Bank is one of the bank that have a good reputation in banking industry at Malaysia. Thus, it is important to shareholder knows the type of risk that faced by management of bank. The focused risk is leverage and external factor that are inflation by using profitability as the bank’s indicator which is by using ROA and current ratio. Aside that, the external factor such as inflation also give an impact to the performance of bank. The leverage and inflation are significant in business due to the direct and indirect relationship to the profitability. Therefore, this paper further examines if management have taken a serious step in maintaining the risk that will give any reflect to the profitability.
A12|risk and performance of amtel holdings berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Amtel Holding Berhad in the electronic sector. This study will investigate the relationship between company profitability and some specific risk factors and macroeconomic factor. The data was collected from the annual report of Amtel Holdings Berhad. Starting from 2011 until 2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Amtel Holdings Berhad. For the 5 years liquidity ratio still beyond the benchmark, however the operating ratio shows the higher percentage and across the benchmark, indicates that the company is not efficient in managing their operating expenses. The additional measurement is size of asset. This variable is not significant with the liquidity risk. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity (current ratio), GDP and operating ratio. Data was analysed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression analysis and bivariate correlation shows only one factor of profitability is significant to operating ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability
A12|Теория Эндогенного Экономического Роста И Уравнения Математической Физики<BR>[The theory of endogenous economic growth and equations of mathematical physics]|It is given an overview of recent studies that use equations of mathematical physics, their analogs and modifications for describing endogenous evolution of technologies. A master equation is proposed that includes, as special cases, a number of known models of Schumpeterian dynamics. A scheme for constructing multifactorial models of endogenous growth is also proposed, based on a combination of different imitation rules for different performance indicators. Directions for further research are outlined.
A12|Calculating the excellence shift: How efficiently do institutions produce highly cited papers?|Abstract The excellence shift is proposed, which shows universities’ ability to produce highly cited papers as measured against their basic academic research efficiency. To demonstrate our approach, we use data from 50 US universities.
A12|What are the top five journals in economics? A new meta-ranking| We construct a meta-ranking of 277 economics journals based on 22 different rankings. The ranking incorporates bibliometric indicators from four different databases (Web of Science, Scopus, Google Scholar, and RePEc). We account for the different scaling of the bibliometric indicators by standardizing each ranking score. We run a principal component analysis to assign weights to each ranking. In our meta-ranking, the top five journals are given by: Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Financial Economics, Journal of Economic Literature (JEL), Journal of Finance, and Econometrica. Additionally, leaving out the JEL as a survey journal and the finance journals in our top 10 list we confirm the perceived top five journals in the economics profession.
A12|Normalisation of citation impact in economics|Abstract This study is intended to facilitate fair research evaluations in economics. Field- and time-normalisation of citation impact is the standard method in bibliometrics. Since citation rates for journal papers differ substantially across publication years and Journal of Economic Literature classification codes, citation rates should be normalised for the comparison of papers across different time periods and economic subfields. Without normalisation, both factors that are independent of research quality might lead to misleading results of citation analyses. We apply two normalised indicators in economics, which are the most important indicators in bibliometrics: (1) the mean normalised citation score (MNCS) compares the citation impact of a focal paper with the mean impact of similar papers published in the same economic subfield and publication year. (2) PPtop 10 % is the share of papers that belong to the 10% most cited papers in a certain subfield and time period. Since the MNCS is based on arithmetic averages despite skewed citation distributions, we recommend using PPtop 10 % for fair comparisons of entities in economics. In this study, we apply the normalisation methods to 294 journals (including normalised scores for 192,524 papers). We used the PPtop 10 % results for assigning the journals to four citation impact classes. Seventeen journals have been identified as outstandingly cited. Two journals, Quarterly Journal of Economics and Journal of Economic Literature, perform statistically significantly better than all other journals. Thus, only two journals can be clearly separated from the rest in economics.
A12|Common dreams, different circumstances: Lessons from contemporary development economics|Freedoms, rights, and equality are common dreams among different human societies irrespective of their economic, social, political and cultural circumstances. This paper presents a brief discussion on the reasons for the divergence of circumstances different civilisations find themselves into by linking this dichotomy with arguments available in contemporary development economics.
A12|Afghanistan and China Trade Relationship|Purpose: the purpose of the study is describe the trade relationship of China and Afghanistan. China, most populous and rapidly growing industrial country of the world, has shown its strong political, economic and security-based interests in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is rich in terms of natural reserves. China is trying to gain access to these natural resources like Aynak copper and oil reserves, providing economic aid and thus improving political relations. Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) is playing a part in addressing security problems of Afghanistan and China is observer while Afghanistan is a member of SAARC. On the other hand, Afghan government is appreciating and taking this greater role in a positive sense because it is bringing modesty in their relations from bilateral partnership to strategic partnership.
A12|Institutional Quality and Economic Performance in West Africa|This study empirically accessed the impact of institutional quality on economic performance in West Africa. The study employed the control of corruption, government effectiveness, regulatory quality and rule of law as institutional quality indicators as provided by the World Governance Indicators, WGI (2017). A panel data set of 12 West African countries from 1996 to 2015 was estimated using the fixed effect model, the random effect model and the panel two-stage least square technique. The result showed that all the indicators of institutional quality employed in the study have positive and significant impact on economic performance in West Africa when the fixed and random effect model estimation technique was employed but only government effectiveness was significant after taking account of endogeneity using the panel two-stage least square technique. The study concludes that economic performance in West Africa would be enhanced in the presence of improved institutions with more consideration to government effectiveness.
A12|On the system-theoretical foundations of non-economic parameter constancy assumptions in economic growth modeling|In general, positive/quantitative growth models assume that (some of) the model parameters that are determined in non-economic systems are exogenous and constant. Such non-economic parameter constancy assumptions (abbr. ‘NEPCAs’) are not necessarily consistent with the empirical evidence on significant cross-system interactions and, in particular, long-run interactions between the economic system and the non-economic systems (e.g. socio-cultural, political, and ecological system). We derive the system-theoretical/mathematical conditions under which NEPCAs are good approximations of cross-system interactions in economic growth models: we (a) discuss the standard types of dynamic equilibrium and the problems that arise when using them to justify NEPCAs in economic long-run models (in presence of cross-system interactions), (b) formulate an equilibrium type (a ‘stable partial dynamic equilibrium’) that solves these problems, and (c) demonstrate the applicability of this equilibrium type as a foundation of the NEPCAs used in the AK growth model. Finally, we discuss some topics for further research.
A12|The Relativity Theory of General Economic Equilibrium|"Abstract Purpose. The purpose of this paper is to propose a new approach to the understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system. Design/methodology/approach. As a result of the dialectical analysis of fundamental economic categories of market economy it appears as the form of a complex, non-linear, functionally closed and causally open system of economic actions. These systems have a number of unique properties that are well studied by second-order cybernetics. This allows in the study of economic processes the unique research and development of this science to be involved in the interdisciplinary format. Findings. The self-organization of a market economy is carried out through the recursive processes. Recursive processes in the economic system, as well as in other complex nonlinear dynamical systems, generate ""eigenvalues"" (""fixed points""). These ""eigenvalues"" are the equilibrium prices to which through the recursive processes tend the actual market prices, thus providing a tendency of the system to the general equilibrium. However, due to constant influence on the system of random external factors, the general equilibrium is never achieved. Research limitations/implications. On the base of the created model the hidden relationships among the gross profit, gross saving, gross investment and gross consumption in debt, as well as the relationships among the other economic parameters are revealed. This is important for adequate understanding of economic reproduction, tendency to general equilibrium, genesis of economic cycles, etc. Practical implications. The proposed understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system will help to improve the applied economic models and to develop the effective economic policy. Originality/value. The original interpretation of economic self-regulation mechanism of market economy is given. The ―Symmetrical model‖ of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy."
A12|On cross-system interactions and the sustainability of (economic) development|We propose a system-theoretical model for analyzing the sustainability of (economic) growth and development. In particular, we set up a general dynamic system describing the dynamics of the economic and non-economic system (where the latter encompasses, e.g., the ecological, socio-cultural, and political subsystem), their interactions, the dynamics of development indicators, and the sustainability concepts. Then, we discuss the major aspects of sustainability in this framework, in particular, drivers of sustainable development and their direct and indirect/cross-system impacts on development indicators, dynamic equilibria in relation to sustainability, cross-system feedbacks, intra-system interactions, critique of non-interdisciplinary sustainability studies, and sustainability policy design.
A12|Economics is Thick|"Thick concepts, as understood in recent philosophy, are concepts that link fact and value in such a way that the factual part justifies the evaluation of the object described as good. Some philosophers argue that this complication in our understanding of valuative language calls on us to reconsider the maxim that ""you can't get an ought from an is."" Others argue that, since thick statements can be disentangled and treated as compounds of a descriptive and a valuative part, no such reconsideration is called for. Regardless how this disagreement is resolved, a person who uses a thick term with linguistic competence is expressing both a fact and a value (even if the value is not her own.) The terms commonly used in economics seem in this sense to be thick. Indeed, to the extent that they have to do with wants and their satisfaction, they must be thick, since a statement of want or satisfaction links fact and value in a way that is very much like the linkage that makes a term thick. Thus, as Little (1957) argued long ago, terms like ""efficient"" and ""productive"" are terms that unavoidably express facts as well as values -- they are thick. Orthodox economics clearly is a theory built of thick concepts, a thick theory. To that extent, economics per se is thick. For other schools of thought, some key concepts may also be thick, a possibility that would require inquiry largely beyond the scope of this study."
A12|La economía como argumento político: evidencia de estudiantes de economía en Chile|En este documento reportamos los resultados de una encuesta a estudiantes de pregrado y posgrado de economía de cinco universidades de Chile, en materia de pensamiento económico. A través de un modelo econométrico de variable dependiente discreta ordenada, encontramos que la única variable que explica consistentemente las diferencias en pensamiento y opinión económica entre estudiantes es la preferencia política, incluso tras controlar por características personales y universidad de origen. La preferencia política influye en cuestiones normativas y positivas, apoyando la visión de que la economía es, en cierto grado, un argumento político. Finalmente, dado que estos resultados sugieren que en sus opiniones sobre política económica, los estudiantes de economía están expresando indirectamente sus preferencias políticas y normativas, sería recomendable incluir en la formación de los estudiantes tópicos que contribuyan a un buen razonamiento político. In this paper we report the results of a survey of undergraduate and graduate students of economics from five universities of Chile, on issues of economic thought. Through an econometric model of discrete and ordered dependent variable, we find that the only variable that consistently explains the differences of thought and opinion on economic issues among students is the political preference, even controlling for personal characteristics and university of origin. Political preference influences both normative and positive questions, supporting the view that economics is to some extent a political argument. Finally, these results suggest that, as in economic policy opinions, students of economics are indirectly expressing political and normative preferences, would be advisable to include topics in the training of students of economics that also contribute to a good political reasoning.
A12|Expiring neighborhood: Architecture as a tool for marketing ?home? in Istanbul/Turkey|Istanbul is one of the metropolitan areas connected to the globe in many ways. Since 1980, Turkey is open to the effects of the consumer culture. TV series, imported goods, brand names, commercials, working practices, etc. changed not only our everyday life, but our values as well. ?Competing?, ?show off? and ?money? are the basic motivation for the society instead of ?solidarity?, ?sensitivity? and ?respect?. Architecture is in use of the economy policy as one of the tools supporting the social change towards a capital oriented mass. The criterion to buy a house is its exchange value instead of its use value as a ?home?. A house is not considered as a ?home ?to enjoy our individual/family life any more. Masses are being manipulated to think the house as an asset for investment on sale. The program and the spatial organization of the houses depend on the rules of marketing, instead of beauty, strength, or use as it used to be in the history of architecture.Considering the percentage of housing in the context of the built environment, and the effect of the space on the human mind/body, it is easy to imagine this consumerist approach of housing will cause a big change on the urban dynamics. The neighborhoods in Istanbul are already under attack of the contractor companies. High-rise residences with some commercial facilities have been constructed and sold for high prices. In a short period, this pattern of production has become a conventional practice of the production of housing. This paper presents a fragment from the current everyday life in Istanbul drifting attention to the contradiction in-between the demands of the housing market and the embedded value of the societal relations at the neighborhoods. The target is showing the upcoming danger of losing the human values, values of architecture and the city as a living organism, and questioning the possibilities for a better future.
A12|Role And Effectiveness Of State Transport: An Analysis Of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (P.R.T.C) Punjab. (India)|Road transport plays a key role in socio- economic development. Most suitable for short and medium distances, it offers a number of advantages such as flexibility, reliability, speed and door to door service. Over the years, share of transport in overall traffic handling has been continuously increasing on the one hand and on the other especially public passenger transport is bearing losses year after year. The present paper is an attempt to find out the reasons of loss making of Pepsu road transport corporation (P.R.T.C) in Punjab. And it has been observed that due to government policies and lethargic attitude of some staff members this is corporation is bearing loss year after year and becoming liability on the government.
A12|Relative Income And Happiness|Most of the literature confirms link between relative real income and happiness, but few research study the link of income perception. This empirical study aims to investigate the linkage between relative income and happiness. We conducted a survey and then estimated happiness using the ordered logit model. Results showed that individual happiness is not only related to absolute relative income, but is also associated with the attitude toward relative income in two dimensions, namely, individual?s needs and compared with those of other people. Moreover, self-esteem, trust, and community specification factors can influence individual happiness. Policy implication should concern real inequality together with perception on inequality.
A12|A Just Price: Objections and Suggested Solutions|This paper examines the concept of a just price not as a historical but as theoretical problem. After a detailed exposition of the scholastic theory of value, price and commutative justice, the author identifies four main subjective-value-based objections to the concept of a just price and settles them one after another. These objections are 1) an apparent self-contradiction consisting in stating a subjective nature of utility and, at the same time, equality of value in exchange; 2) how can a voluntary exchange be unjust; 3) how can a just price be found in an isolated exchange of a unique good; 4) a missing satisfactory definition of a just price. The author suggests to settle the first objection by identifying the ontological status of the objective value. Leaning on a distinction of an objective value in use (virtuositas) and subjective desirability (complacibilitas) made by Saint Bernardino of Sienna and Saint Antonino of Florence, the author asserts that while complacibilitas is a potentiality of subjective desirability resting in an individual, virtuositas is a potentiality of usefulness resting in a thing. On account of this, a following solution is suggested: a particular usefulness is not purely subjective because it does not depend on a subjective perception of an individual; it is a metaphysical accident of a thing, not a metaphysical accident of an individual; a particular usefulness is not purely objective, either, because it is a relation to an individua; thus, equality in exchange means equality of potentiality of usefulness which is not a particular usefulness but a set of all usefulnesses concealed in the potentiality of the thing, even though they have not yet been actuated. The author suggests to settle the second objection by providing a logical proof for the assertion that an exchange in which one party suffers an unjust price is not a voluntary exchange and, on the grounds of this, the author demonstrates that an unjust exchange cannot be a voluntary exchange. Finally, the author suggests a definition of a just price which is applicable to any exchange, whether a competitive price exists or not.
A12|The Unification Of The Philosophical And Behavioral Social Sciences|This research design overcomes the three problems of coordinating the micro and macro behavioral sciences of Gintis defined as: (1) the identification of an overarching casual theme, (2) the identification of an integrative methodology, and (3) the identification of a series of a series of compatible frameworks. This is achieved by the comparison of the competing Hume-Smith versus Marx-Engels foundational-political-economic philosophical theories in relation to the outcome of the 20th Century Ideological Experiments. This paper contends that the range of valid foundational-political-economic philosophical theories, and the corresponding series of psychological, political, economic theoretical frameworks in the social sciences, can be reduced considerably across the board considerably, and then integrated laterally.
A12|Democracy, rule of law, and corporate governance—a liquidity perspective|Abstract This study examines whether and how democracy and rule of law—two overarching country-level governance variables—influence corporate governance. Given that corporate liquidity (cash holdings) is a good channel for examining the quality of corporate governance, the effects of democracy and rule of law on corporate governance can be identified using the liquidity approach. A review of 67 countries from 1996 to 2010 demonstrates that democracy and rule of law indeed have bearings on corporate governance. More specifically, results indicate that firms are more inclined to hoard cash to take advantage of growth opportunities when the level of democracy is higher or rule of law is stronger, suggesting that agency costs are lower and interests of managers and shareholders are more aligned under such circumstances. In addition, the negative effect of debt issuance and dividend payment on cash is more pronounced when the level of democracy is higher or rule of law is stronger, suggesting that these two approaches become more effective in reducing agency costs and transitively cash holdings under such circumstances. Moreover, the positive effect of democracy and rule of law on corporate governance appears to be reinforced when rule of law is stronger and the level of democracy is higher, respectively. Furthermore, higher level of economic development helps reap the benefit of democracy and rule of law in terms of improving corporate governance and reducing agency costs.
A12|A cliometric counterfactual: what if there had been neither Fogel nor North?|Abstract 1993 Nobel laureates Robert Fogel and Douglass North were pioneers in the “new” economic history, or cliometrics. Their impact on the economic history discipline is great, though not without its critics. In this essay, we use both the “old” narrative form of economic history, and the “new” cliometric form to analyze the impact each had on the evolution of economic history.
A12|The dissertations of Michela Giorcelli, Trevor Jackson and Craig Palsson: 2017 Alexander Gerschenkron Prize Competition|Twenty PhDs in economics, economic history and history competed for the Alexander Gerschenkron Prize this year. Their research covered Africa, China, European and Latin American countries, India and Japan. Choosing three among these dissertations was a difficult and worrisome task. The three panelists of the 2017 edition are Michela Giorcelli, Trevor Jackson, and Craig Palsson.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|The Dissertations of Michela Giorcelli, Trevor Jackson, and Craig Palsson: 2017 Alexander Gerschenkron Prize Competition|Twenty PhDs in economics, economic history and history competed for the Alexander Gerschenkron Prize this year. Their research covered Africa, China, European and Latin American countries, India and Japan. Choosing three among these dissertations was a difficult and worrisome task. The three panelists of the 2017 edition are Michela Giorcelli, Trevor Jackson, and Craig Palsson.
A12|Measuring Influence in Science: Standing on the Shoulders of Which Giants?|"I study the measurement of the influence of scientists based on bibliographic data. I propose a new measure that accounts for indirect influence and allows to compare scientists across different fields of science. By contrast, common measures of influence that ""count citations"", such as the h-index, are unable to satisfy either of these two properties. I use the axiomatic method in two opposite ways: to highlight the two limitations of citation- counting schemes and their independence, and to carefully justify the assumptions made in the construction of the proposed measure."
A12|El Efecto del Empleo sobre la Violencia Doméstica: Evidencia para las Mujeres Peruanas|Esta investigación mide el efecto del empleo de las mujeres sobre la probabilidad de ser víctimas de violencia doméstica en el Perú y enfrenta el problema de endogeneidad de la variable de tratamiento mediante el uso de dos variables instrumentales (fenómenos naturales distritales y el número de niños beneficiados del Programa Nacional de Alimentación Escolar Qali Warma). Sobre la base de la ENDES 2013-2015, se encuentra evidencia que el grupo de mujeres que trabajan tienen de 14.2pp a 38.4pp mayor probabilidad de padecer de violencia de tipo emocional, menos severa, severa y sexual respecto al grupo de contraste. Asimismo, también se encuentra que las mujeres que no son beneficiadas del Programa Juntos por falta de cobertura registran mayor propensión a ser víctimas de los conflictos maritales.
A12|“What really matters is the economic performance: Positioning tourist destinations by means of perceptual maps|The present study aims to cluster the world's main tourist destinations according to the growth of the economic performance of the tourist activity and of the tourist and economic development experienced during the last decade. With this objective, we combine the information from a set of tourist and economic indicators for the main 45 tourist destinations over the period between 2000 and 2010. Destinations are ranked with respect to their average growth rate over the sample period. By assigning a numerical value to each country corresponding to its position, all the information is summarised into two components (“economic performance of tourist activity” and “tourist and economic development”) via multivariate techniques for dimensionality reduction: multidimensional scaling (MDS) and categorical principal components analysis (CATPCA). By means of perceptual maps, we find that destinations can be clustered into four different groups. The first one, dominated by Western and Northern Europe markets, contains some of the top destinations (France, Spain and the United States). A second one, with a predominance of Mediterranean destinations (Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Israel), obtains high scores in both dimensions. In the third one, we find Cambodia and China, alongside Egypt and Turkey. Finally, a fourth group dominated by Eastern Europe destinations (Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia) with low scores in both dimensions.
A12|Imprecision|This paper surveys the various modes of imprecision and seeks to clarify the concept of imprecision, to account for the pervasiveness of the phenomena, and to explain why we have to come to terms with it throughout our cognitive affairs. The structure of these deliberations will be as follows: Having set the stage for considering imprecision (in section 1), it will briefly elaborate upon each of them (in section 2). Next comes a discussion of two of the main ramifications of imprecision, namely vagueness (section 3) and oversimplification (section 4). There follows (in section 5) a consideration of why imprecision is inevitable in our cognitive dealings, and why this feature of investigation actually admits of an evolutionary explanation. The paper concludes (in section 6) with a retrospective glance at the overall situation from a philosophical point of view. Overall, the discussion is of an analytical cast, seeking to clarify the conceptual nature and operational bearing of imprecision within the cognitive scheme of things.
A12|Economic History Goes Digital: Topic Modeling the Journal of Economic History|Digitization and computer science have established a whole new set of methods to analyze large collections of texts. One of these methods is particularly promising for economic historians: topic models, statistical algorithms that automatically infer themes from large collections of texts. In this article, I present an introduction to topic modeling and give a very first review on the research using topic models. I illustrate their capacity by applying them on 2.675 articles published in the Journal of Economic History between 1941 and 2016. This contributes to traditional research on the JEH and to current research on the cliometric revolution.
A12|Machine learning at central banks|We introduce machine learning in the context of central banking and policy analyses. Our aim is to give an overview broad enough to allow the reader to place machine learning within the wider range of statistical modelling and computational analyses, and provide an idea of its scope and limitations. We review the underlying technical sources and the nascent literature applying machine learning to economic and policy problems. We present popular modelling approaches, such as artificial neural networks, tree-based models, support vector machines, recommender systems and different clustering techniques. Important concepts like the bias-variance trade-off, optimal model complexity, regularisation and cross-validation are discussed to enrich the econometrics toolbox in their own right. We present three case studies relevant to central bank policy, financial regulation and economic modelling more widely. First, we model the detection of alerts on the balance sheets of financial institutions in the context of banking supervision. Second, we perform a projection exercise for UK CPI inflation on a medium-term horizon of two years. Here, we introduce a simple training-testing framework for time series analyses. Third, we investigate the funding patterns of technology start-ups with the aim to detect potentially disruptive innovators in financial technology. Machine learning models generally outperform traditional modelling approaches in prediction tasks, while open research questions remain with regard to their causal inference properties.
A12|An interdisciplinary model for macroeconomics|Macroeconomic modelling has been under intense scrutiny since the Great Financial Crisis, when serious shortcomings were exposed in the methodology used to understand the economy as a whole. Criticism has been levelled at the assumptions employed in the dominant models, particularly that economic agents are homogeneous and optimizing and that the economy is equilibrating. This paper seeks to explore an interdisciplinary approach to macroeconomic modelling, with techniques drawn from other (natural and social) sciences. Specifically, it discusses agent-based modelling, which is used across a wide range of disciplines, as an example of such a technique. Agent-based models are complementary to existing approaches and are suited to answering macroeconomic questions where complexity, heterogeneity, networks, and heuristics play an important role.
A12|A Primer on the “Reproducibility Crisis” and Ways to Fix It|This article uses the framework of Ioannidis (2005) to organize a discussion of issues related to the “reproducibility crisis.” It then goes on to use that framework to evaluate various proposals to fix the problem. Of particular interest is the “post-study probability”, the probability that a reported research finding represents a true relationship. This probability is inherently unknowable. However, a number of insightful results emerge if we are willing to make some conjectures about reasonable parameter values. Among other things, this analysis demonstrates the important role that replication can play in improving the signal value of empirical research.
A12|Publication performance vs. influence: On the questionable value of quality weighted publication rankings|"In broad parts of the scientific community the position in publication performance rankings, based on journal quality ratings is seen as highly reputational for the scientist. This contribution provides evidence that, at least in economics, such publication performance measures can not always be reconciled with measures for academic influence such as citation-based measures. We analyze data from the Scopus database as well as from the prestigious German-based Handelsblatt ranking for 100 renowned economists (lifetime achievement). Scholarly influence is proxied by various bibliometric indicators such as the number of citations, the h-index, the citations of the most cited paper as well as the hardly honorable Pi-Beta-score (""Publications Ignored, By Even The Author(s)""). We argue that publication performance measures based on journal ratings, such as the Handelsblatt rankings, are not good proxies for an economist's impact within the scientific community. From this perspective the value of publication performance rankings based on journal quality ratings is questionable."
A12|Análisis de recomposición del portafolio accionario por sectores en Colombia basado en Valor en Riesgo entre el Q2 2013-Q2 2014 y Q2 2015-Q2 2016|Dada la coyuntura económica que ha afectado al país durante los últimos tres años, se busca identificar el cambio de la composición del portafolio accionario en Colombia basado en el listado de acciones que componen el índice COLCAP en dos periodos de tiempo, uno donde se haya presentado un auge en el sector petrolero y otro en el que no. Para ello se hizo uso de tres métodos diferentes de optimización de portafolio utilizando medidas coherentes del riesgo como el CVaR. Los resultados evidencian que ante una coyuntura macroeconómica incierta el riesgo de mercado aumenta y asimismo las decisiones óptimas de inversión se ven afectadas no solo en términos de los sectores económicos involucrados sino en nivel de riesgo que se asume con la inversión. De esta manera, se observa que sectores como el de la construcción y el financiero sirven de refugio para los inversionistas en periodos de incertidumbre, así como activos de empresas con un portafolio de inversión bien diversificado. ****** According to current economic situation that has affected Colombia during last three years, this study looks for identifying the change in the composition of the stock portfolio in Colombia based on COLCAP index using two periods for comparison, one where there has been a boom in the oil sector and another where there is not. In order to achieve this goal, there have been used three methods of portfolio optimization using coherent measures of risk as CVaR. Results not only evidence that market risk raises on crisis periods, but also show optimal investment decisions are affected by risk level assumed according to branches of economic activity involved. By this way, it is clear that construction and financial services serve as refugee to investor in crisis periods, as well as assets of companies with a welldiversified investment portfolio.
A12|The Driving Forces of Economic Growth before and after the 2008 Global Financial Crisis|This paper investigates the determinants of economic growth in two different periods, 2002-2008 and 2008-2013. As national output can be determined by the functions of production and consumption, the explanatory variables consist of growth rates of investment, labor, household consumption, government spending and exports. Analyzing the data of 129 countries, this paper has four main findings: (i) Investment and exports have positive impacts on economic growth; (ii) labor has significant positive impact if we investigate the period from 2002 to 2013 as a whole. The effect is only positive in the first period with low statistically significance while remains unclear in the second period; (iii) household consumption has ambiguous impact on economic growth. There exists some evidences (with 90% confidence level) that household consumption might produce a minor adverse effect on economic growth; (iv) the relationship between economic growth and government spending is positive in the first period and negative in the second.
A12|Jumping the queue: An experiment on procedural preferences|We present a three-player queuing game to study procedural preferences in a laboratory experiment. Together with markets, queues and waiting lists are universal procedures for allocating goods and services. We designed our queuing game to disentangle motivations of outcome-oriented egoistic preferences, outcome-oriented distributional (inequality aversion) preferences and outcome-independent procedural preferences. In a series of treatments, we introduce a market element and allow two of the three players to bargain over a queue jump, thus violating the queuing procedure. A third player is able to engage in peer punishment to sanction queue jumping. We provide evidence that a simple model of procedural preferences is able to explain the behavior of a share of the subjects in our experiment.
A12|Analysts and sentiment: A causality study|We analyze the role that financial analysts play in the sentiment effect on stock prices. Causality analysis reveals that sentiment affects various aspects of analysts’ forecasts and recommendations. We show that experienced analysts are aware of sentiment, consciously incorporate it and have some control over its effect. As a result, the sentiment effect on analysts replicates the sentiment effect expected in stock prices and actual forecast errors are limited to certain cases. Analysts expedite the propagation of sentiment to stock prices and probably enhance the effect by influencing sophisticated investors, but they do not initiate or shape it. The new regulations, “Research Analysts and Research Reports” and “Communications with the Public”, imposed in 2002, have reduced over-optimism due to sentiment.
A12|Creating change through pilot and demonstration projects: Towards a valuation policy approach|Beyond R&D and competitiveness theories of innovation, various conceptual broadenings have recently been proposed to tackle the complex, multidimensional and multi-level dynamics of innovation at stake in the transformation of the economy and society towards new sustainable development regimes. This paper proposes a reading of these conceptual broadenings as a matter of ‘valuation’. In line with pragmatic theories of socio-economic value and market construction, it is argued that value creation is not the result or byproduct of innovation. In contrast to traditional regulation and R&D policies, which confine themselves to framing innovation, valuation policies are endogenous triggers of the transformation of a value regime. Value creation is about inquiring into new values in society, translating them into social and technological solutions and making them valuable in markets. In this perspective, pilot and demonstration (P&D) projects in current transition policies can be interpreted as fundamental inceptions of new values that are not predetermined by innovation but actuated through complex processes of value co-creation in society and markets, and which engage policies as agents of change. By focusing on the purpose behind the sustainability transition rather than the factors that contribute to it, a valuation policy approach offers new insights for future research and policy.
A12|?One Muslim is Enough!? Evidence from a Field Experiment in France|Anti-Muslim prejudice is widespread in Western countries. Yet, Muslims are expected to constitute a growing share of the total population in these countries over the next decades. This paper suggests that this demographic trend, other factors held constant, will increase anti-Muslim prejudice. Relying on experimental games and a formal model, we find that French players with no recent immigrant background discriminate against Muslims when the proportion of Muslims in their midst increases. Further analysis provides tentative evidence that this discrimination is taste-based.
A12|Análise das Mudanças no Número de Ocupados na Indústria Agroalimentar Brasileira| Starting from the perception of the Brazilian food industry (IAA) importance as a job generator, this work analyses the variations of the number of employees in this sector from 1996 to 2012. By applying the shift share analysis (SSA), it was possible to verify which effects are responsible for the changing number of employees. The effects used in this paper were provided by the most complete and modern versions of the SSA, and the national, structural market competitive and specialized competitive effects, as well as homothetic decomposition and residual of each one. This paper took into consideration Southern and Southeastern regions of Brazil, except Espírito Santo. The database was also segmented, covering sectors that compose the IAA. The results indicate that the number of employees at IAA fluctuated because of the national effect, in other words, followed the Starting from the perception of the Brazilian food industry (IAA) importance as a job generator, this work analyses the variations of the number of employees in this sector from 1996 to 2012. By applying the shift share analysis (SSA), it was possible to verify which effects are responsible for the changing number of employees. The effects used in this paper were provided by the most complete and modern versions of the SSA, and the national, structural market competitive and specialized competitive effects, as well as homothetic decomposition and residual of each one. This paper took into consideration Southern and Southeastern regions of Brazil, except Espírito Santo. The database was also segmented, covering sectors that compose the IAA. The results indicate that the number of employees at IAA fluctuated because of the national effect, in other words, followed the national industry’s flow without presenting any other differential in its structure or competitive strategy, which could be identified in the current analysis.
A12|The Influential Knowledge Factors of Companies’ Performance in Slovenia|Background: Knowledge plays a crucial role in supporting the European Union model based on economic growth, social responsibility, and sustainable development. To improve companies’ performance, one must reflect on new forms of knowledge and develop new indicators to measure them.
A12|Christmas Economics—A Sleigh Ride|Do you believe that at Christmas time the gas prices, the economy and the number of suicides peak? Do you think that the value of presents you are giving to your beloved is of importance? We show in this paper that conventional wisdom about Christmas is often doubtful. Furthermore, we give an idea of how Santa Claus - and maybe you - is able to finance Christmas celebrations, why emergency departments are a place to especially avoid during this time of the year and why Christmas tree growers might care to explain the differences across species to you this year. We cannot clearly establish whether Christmas entails a welfare loss or gain, however, we give you an idea as to which institutional settings might reduce a potential welfare loss. Also, we give advice about which behaviours might get you more Christmas presents from Santa this year. Finally, we find that more research is needed to give conclusive reasons why Santa Claus actually brings presents to (nearly) everyone.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|Ranking Authors and Institutions by Publications in Regional Science Journals: 2010–2014|In this paper, authors and institutions are ranked based on the number of publications in ten core regional science journals during the period 2010-2014. Alternative rankings are constructed by considering only publications in the top four of the ten journals and also by adjusting for journal impact factors. Two impact factors are calculated for each regional science journal. The first is based on citations by the other nine core regional science journals, and the second by citations from all journals in the database Scopus. Discussion is included regarding the patterns and consistency of the rankings across alternative criteria. Comparisons also are made to previous regional science publication rankings of authors and institutions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|The Right Amount of Trust|We investigate the relationship between individual trust and individual economic performance. We find that individual income is hump-shaped in a measure of intensity of trust beliefs. Our interpretation is that highly trusting individuals tend to assume too much social risk and to be cheated more often, ultimately performing less well than those with a belief close to the mean trustworthiness of the population. However, individuals with overly pessimistic beliefs avoid being cheated, but give up profitable opportunities, therefore underperforming. The cost of either too much or too little trust is comparable to the income lost by forgoing college. Our findings hold in large-scale international survey data, as well as inside a country with high-quality institutions, and are also supported by experimental findings.
A12|The Right Amount Of Trust|A vast literature has investigated the relationship between trust and aggregate economic performance. We investigate the relationship between individual trust and individual economic performance. We find that individual income is hump-shaped in a measure of intensity of trust beliefs available in the European Social Survey. We show that heterogeneity of trust beliefs in the population, coupled with the tendency of individuals to extrapolate beliefs about others from their own level of trustworthiness, could generate the non-monotonic relationship between trust and income. Highly trustworthy individuals think others are like them and tend to form beliefs that are too optimistic, causing them to assume too much social risk, to be cheated more often and ultimately perform less well than those who happen to have a trustworthiness level close to the mean of the population. On the other hand, the low-trustworthiness types form beliefs that are too conservative and thereby avoid being cheated, but give up profitable opportunities too often and, consequently, underperform. Our estimates imply that the cost of either excessive or too little trust is comparable to the income lost by foregoing college. Furthermore, we find that people who trust more are cheated more often by banks as well as when purchasing goods second hand, when relying on the services of a plumber or a mechanic and when buying food. We complement the survey evidence with experimental evidence showing that own trustworthiness and expectations of others' trustworthiness in a trust game are strongly correlated and that performance in the game is hump-shaped.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|Did The Danube Delta Pensions Managed To Overcome The Economic Crisis?|In the knowledge economy and competitiveness, economic and financial analysis of a company in every industry generally, the hospitality industry in particular, is an indispensable tool, which aims radiography entire business of the company, to diagnose strengths and weaknesses but also identify opportunities and threats coming from the market.One of the most important indicators measuring the economic performance of a company is turnover. This indicator enables research dimension, held in place within the industry, market position, economic entity's ability to initiate effective and efficient. Thus, the turnover reflects the degree of health of the company. In this paper we analysed in terms of economic and financial representative guesthouse in the Danube Delta to see the actual situation of tourism in the area. The main purpose was to see if the pensions of Delta managed to overcome the economic crisis global and national.
A12|Analysis Of Sustainable Development Using Fuzzy Logic Prediction Models And Artifical Neural Networks|ustainable development is a priority of policies in countries all over the world, regardless of their level of development; this is a dynamic and complex concept based on indicators with vague and difficult to measure characteristics such as resources, labor, education, infrastructure, the existence of modern equipment to ensure manufacturing performance and flexibility. A model of approach and analysis of sustainable development using these indicators with vague characteristics can be achieved by combining prediction models: artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic. Artificial neural networks are used in the study, as they have the advantage of working with hidden layers, and recursive backpropagation algorithms to predict the size of indicators for a certain period, while fuzzy logic is used for three-dimensional interpretation of interdependencies and trends of indicators. The model provides long-term, flexible management decisions by eliminating bottlenecks and assessing deviations from a target defined so that the final result ensures a fast and flexible solution through fast and durable reconfiguring.
A12|Self-control at College|In this paper we develop the observation that college students may suffer from self-control problems (O'Donoghue and Rabin (2007)). In our model students face a self-control problem when making choices about how to learn: students acquire education using different combinations of study and tuition (S and T). We consider an ‘asymmetric’ self-control problem, where students can commit to T but not S and investigate how this affects their decisions. We show that the degree of self-awareness interacts with how students learn and how this determines the ability to self-correct by precommitment. Finally we show how the appropriate pricing of tuition can ameliorate these problems.
A12|Abordagem multidisciplinar na teoria da decisão: psicologia evolucionária e economia|We claim that there must be and interdisciplinary approach in discussing individual decisions, combining Evolutionary Psychology, Neuroscience and Economics (and other Social Sciences). The new approach requires change in the methodology of Economics and a strong review of decision theory. On the other hand, Economics can help Evolutionary Psychology through the characterization of the environment and to define modern human aims. We propose a method to approach a “microeconomic” problem, considering that the time span is small for environmental changes.
A12|Taking the Temperature: A Meta-Ranking of Economics Journals|We construct a meta–ranking of 315 economics journals based on 38 different individual rankings. Our ranking incorporates both bibliometric measures from three different databases (Web of Knowledge, RePEc and Google Scholar) and previous rankings in the literature. Furthermore, we account for the different scaling of all bibliometric measures by standardizing each ranking score. Finally, we aggregate all rankings using a double–weighting algorithm which corrects for incomplete lists. In our meta–ranking the top five journals are given by: Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Political Economy, Econometrica, American Economic Review and Journal of Economic Literature.
A12|Bread and bullets|Standard economics omits the role of narratives (the stories that people tell themselves and others) when they make all kinds of decisions. Narratives play a role in understanding the environment; focusing attention; predicting events; motivating action; assigning social roles and identities; defining power relations; and establishing and conveying social norms. This paper describes the role narratives play in decision making, as it also juxtaposes this description against the backdrop of the Bolshevik-spawned narrative that played a critical role in the history of Russia and the Soviet Union in the 20th Century.
A12|Emotion at Stake—The Role of Stake Size and Emotions in a Power-to-Take Game Experiment in China with a Comparison to Europe|This paper experimentally investigates how monetary incentives and emotions influence behavior in a two-player power-to-take game (PTTG). In this game, one player can claim any part of the other's endowment (take rate), and the second player can respond by destroying any part of his or her own endowment. The experiment is run in China. We further compare our findings with the behavior of two European subject pools. Our results give new insights regarding emotion regulation. Even though stake size does not appear to matter for take rates and destruction rates, it does matter for the reaction function of the responder regarding the take rate. When stakes are high, there is less destruction for low and intermediate take rates, and more destruction for high take rates, compared to relatively low stakes. Under low incentives, ‘hot’ anger-type emotions are important for destruction, while ‘cool’ contempt becomes prominent under high monetary incentives. These results suggest emotion regulation in the high-stake condition. Moreover, emotions are found to fully mediate the impact of the take rate on destruction when stakes are low, whereas they only partially do so if stakes are high. Comparing the low-stakes data for China with existing European data, we find similarities in behavior, emotions and emotion intensities, as well as the full mediation of the take rate by emotions. We find some differences related to the type of emotions that are important for destruction. Whereas anger and joy are important in both, in addition, irritation and fear play a role in China, while this holds for contempt in the EU.
A12|Emotion Research in Economics|Emotions were central to the development of economics, especially in utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory basically abolished emotions, behavioural economics more recently reintroduced emotions in utility theory. Beyond utility theory, economic theorists use emotions to explain behaviour which otherwise could not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed.
A12|Die Ökonomen-Rankings 2015 von Handelsblatt, FAZ und RePEc: Methodik, Ergebnisse, Kritik und Vergleich|Im September 2015 veröffentlichten das Handelsblatt und die Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung nahezu gleichzeitig ihre Ökonomen-Rankings. Diese zwei inzwischen regelmäßig erscheinenden (zwei-)jährlichen Rankings unterscheiden sich von dem monatlich erscheinenden RePEc-Ranking sowohl im Ansatz als auch in der Methodik deutlich. In dem vorliegenden Artikel werden neben einer Betrachtung von Methodik, Ansatz und Ergebnissen die drei Rankings einer Kritik unterzogen. Abschließend werden die Rankings miteinander verglichen.
A12|Income distribution in the Colombian economy from an econophysics perspective|Recently, in econophysics, it has been shown that it is possible to analyze economic systems as equilibrium thermodynamic models. We apply statistical thermodynamics methods to analyze income distribution in the Colombian economic system. Using the data obtained in random polls, we show that income distribution in the Colombian economic system is characterized by two specific phases. The first includes about 90% of the interviewed individuals, and is characterized by an exponential Boltzmann-Gibbs distribution. The second phase, which contains the individuals with the highest incomes, can be described by means of one or two power-law density distributions that are known as Pareto distributions. ***** En el marco de la econofísica se ha demostrado recientemente que es posible analizar sistemas económicos como modelos termodinámicos en equilibrio. En este artículo aplicamos métodos de termodinámica estadística para analizar la distribución de ingresos dentro del sistema económico colombiano. Utilizando datos de encuestas aleatorias, demostramos que la distribución de ingresos presenta dos fases particulares. La primera corresponde a cerca del 90% del grupo analizado y se caracteriza por una distribución exponencial del tipo Boltzmann-Gibbs. La segunda fase, en la que están incluidos los entrevistados con ingresos más altos, se puede describir mediante una o dos distribuciones de potencias: distribuciones de Pareto.
A12|El Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial (POT) de Cali, una aproximación|En este documento se describe, analiza y evalúa la política pública de desarrollo urbanístico del Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial en la ciudad de Cali (POT, 2000). La incidencia de dicha política pública dentro de la transformación física de la urbe se puede evidenciar a través de un indicador tan elemental como es el precio del suelo urbano -en relación con el mercado de los precios de la tierra urbana, debido a que este factor señalizador de mercado determina las reglas del juego en una sociedad-. Es decir, se tiene una herramienta metodológica en términos de evaluación de estas políticas públicas específicas.
A12|Análisis crítico del discurso sobre conflicto armado y desarrollo en los presidentes Álvaro Uribe Vélez y Juan Manuel Santos en Colombia entre los años 2002 y 2013|El artículo presenta un análisis discursivo sobre conflicto armado y desarrollo en textos de los presidentes Álvaro Uribe Vélez y Juan Manuel Santos entre los años 2002 y 2013. Busca identificar la manera en que se instituyen y operan éstos discursos. Realiza un abordaje cualitativo, utilizando como herramienta el Análisis Crítico del Discurso y concentrando el interés en los tres conceptos principales de su estructura conceptual: identidad nacional, poder e ideología. Además, orienta la metodología de análisis hacia la dimensión de Practica Social formulada por Fairclough en el marco de su modelo tridimensional de Análisis Crítico del Discurso. Mediante esta metodología se demuestra que existen diferencias relevantes entre las estructuras y estrategias discursivas de cada actor, con las cuales se han legitimado formas de proceder en sus gobiernos.
A12|Is Homo Economicus a Universal Paradigm in Economic Theory?|Homo economicus is a very well known concept but a question arises whether its omnipresence equals its real, not theoretical, universality. This paper touches on the problem of the role of the paradigm with reference to the rationality and self-interest principle as well as behavioural economics, cultural differences, social and biological aspects. Values are the common thread in these aspects but what is even more important is that values differ across the world in the same way cultures do. Therefore theories or models based on the aforementioned paradigm can not yield the same results if applied in culturally different countries.
A12|Mentalism Versus Behaviourism In Economics: A Philosophy-Of-Science Perspective|Behaviourism is the view that preferences, beliefs, and other mental states in social-scientific theories are nothing but constructs re-describing people’s behaviour. Mentalism is the view that they capture real phenomena, on a par with the unobservables in science, such as electrons and electromagnetic fields. While behaviourism has gone out of fashion in psychology, it remains influential in economics, especially in ‘revealed preference’ theory. We defend mentalism in economics, construed as a positive science, and show that it fits best scientific practice. We distinguish mentalism from, and reject, the radical neuroeconomic view that behaviour should be explained in terms of brain processes, as distinct from mental states.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A12|Teilen, Sharing 1 und Sharing 2: die Sharing Economy im Licht theoretischer Zugänge|This article elaborates on theoretical approaches to the concept of sharing. It explicates both the contribution and limitations of services approaches and property rights theory for the understanding of the sharing economy. The article provides reasons for the differentiation between a commercial and noncommercial sharing economy and discusses the effects of possible impulses of the sharing economy on the understanding of economic action and its organizational structures. Der Artikel geht theoretischen Zugängen zum Sharing-Begriff nach. Er erläutert den Beitrag, aber auch die Grenzen von Dienstleistungstheorie und Property-Rights-Theorie für das Verständnis der Sharing Economy. Gründe für die Unterscheidung zwischen kommerzieller und nichtkommerzieller Sharing Economy werden dargelegt sowie mögliche Impulse der Sharing Economy für Änderungen im Verständnis wirtschaftlichen Handels und seiner Organisationsformen erörtert.
A12|Day of the Week and the Cross-Section of Returns|This paper documents a new empirical fact. Long-short anomaly returns are strongly related to the day of the week. Anomalies for which the speculative leg is the short (long) leg experience the highest (lowest) strategy returns on Monday. The exact opposite pattern is observed on Fridays. The effects are large; Monday (Friday) alone accounts for over 100% of monthly returns for all anomalies examined for which the short (long) leg is the speculative leg. Consistent with a mispricing explanation, the pattern is fully driven by the speculative leg of the strategy. The observed patterns are consistent with the abundance of evidence in the psychology literature documenting that mood increases from Thursday to Friday and decreases on Monday.
A12|Consolidated Group of Taxpayers: Infusion into the Russian Economic Practice|The article analyses the process of introduction of the consolidated taxation mechanism in Russia. The main purpose of the study is to conduct an assessment of the impact of consolidated groups of taxpayers on the national economy, including intergovernmental relations. Author further identifies the features and areas of further development of the consolidated taxation mechanism in the country. A 4-year period of activity of consolidated groups in Russia is taken for analysis, giving the opportunity to evaluate the results, to draw first conclusions, and allocate the problems associated with the subsequent planning and forecasting of these activities. Certain trends in application of new economic tools of the tax regulation are identified.
A12|Management Security of Personality: The Pedagogical Aspect|The relevance of the study is conditioned by the revaluation of values in modern society. The threat of terrorism demands a new look at security as a state of protection of vital interests of person, society and state from internal and external threats. Identity becomes a major object of safety and security of the person’s safety is purposeful activities of state and public institutions. The person itself begins to consider security as a public good. The aim of the article is to identify pedagogical aspects of security management of the person. The leading approaches to the study are process and competence-based approaches, allowing considering of the safety of the individual as a process of its protection ensuring and readiness formation for safe behavior. The article reveals the essence and content of personal safety; clarifies external threats to information-psychological security of the personality; gives a comparative analysis of information culture and information competence, as pedagogical conditions of management of informationpsychological security of the personality; defines the criteria of information-psychological security of the person (accessibility, pertinence, value, adequacy, security). The paper submissions can be useful for managers and teachers of educational institutions; employees of the centers of advanced training and retraining of personnel in the selection and structuring of the content for the training of scientific and pedagogical staf
A12|Practical Recommendations on the Improvement of the Effectiveness of Anti-corruption Policy in Universities|The relevance of the study is conditioned by the expansion of the scale of corruption in higher education. The purpose of the article is to develop practical recommendations for improving of anti-corruption policy’s effectiveness at universities. The study involved 450 teachers, 1200 students from 140 Russian universities. The main results of the study are to identify the causes of bribery and popular tools of counteraction of corruption in universities, organizational and practical measures for improving of the anti-corruption policy’s effectiveness (the creation of the university’s anticorruption environment, the formation of the stable orientation of students, faculty, staff of the university on anti-corruption activities, including in the content of higher education of teaching material about the anti-corruption policy). This study provides important findings. Firstly, the effectiveness of anti-corruption policy in universities is increased while forming of anticorruption outlook and anti-corruption attitudes among the entities of the educational process determining the intellectual and valuable-emotional attitude to corruption and influencing the readiness for anti-corruption activities. Secondly, the effectiveness of anti-corruption policy in universities is increased with the application of cognitive, activities-related, interactive and integrative methods’ complex
A12|How to Discover the Culture of an Organisation|The intent of this article starts with the question: how to discover the culture of an organization. The elements of this culture are composed of human behaviors, values, symbols, myths, heroes. The organisational culture remains a long term phenomenon which can be modified but this modification is produced due to a slow evolution and not to sudden changes. The types of behaviours are assimilated by individuals.
A12|Influential publications in ecological economics revisited|We revisit the analysis of Costanza et al. (2004, Ecological Economics) of influential publications in ecological economics to discover what has changed a decade on. We examine which sources have been influential on the field of ecological economics in the past decade, which articles in the journal Ecological Economics have had the most influence on the field and on the rest of science, and on which areas of science the journal is having the most influence. We find that the field has matured over this period, with articles published in the journal having a greater influence than before, an increase in citation links to environmental studies journals, a reduction in citation links to mainstream economics journals, and possibly a shift in themes to a more applied and empirical direction.
A12|Long term oil prices|In this paper we propose a model to estimate and simulate long term oil prices. Our model is based on properties of demand and supply for oil and it is able to reproduce historical real oil prices well. We use the model to estimate and simulate future real oil price scenarios. The results show that if we are not able to significantly increase demand elasticity, the yearly real oil price change can reach 12% in the years following the peak production level without taking a scarcity rent into account. Until peak production level is reached, the long term real oil price changes stemming from fundamental supply and demand changes are expected to be negative. Our simulation results based on an expected peak production year of 2020 and a scarcity rent of 3% suggest an expected real crude oil price of $169/bbl in 2040. For comparison the EIA outlook predicts a real oil price of $141/bbl for the same year. We also provide an on-line Appendix that allows the readers to change the assumptions underlying our analysis and see the results immediately.
A12|Investor Sentiment and Sectoral Stock Returns: Evidence from World Cup Games|It is well known that investor sentiment affects aggregate stock returns. We investigate the economic link between sport sentiment and US sectoral stock returns. We find that sport sentiment affects only the financial sector. We argue that this result might be explained by the high liquidity that makes the financial sector more attractive to foreign investors who in turn are more prone to sport sentiment than local investors in the US. Accordingly, an arbitrageur can build a profitable trading strategy by selling short the financial sector during the FIFA World cup periods and buying it back afterwards.
A12|Teaching comparative economic systems 25 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union|Twenty-five years after the collapse of the Soviet Union, we reflect on contemporary teaching of undergraduate comparative economic systems (CES). Using qualitative and quantitative measures, we consider how the field responded to the collapse by examining CES textbooks from the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. We also consider how the dissolution of the Soviet Union affected economics course offerings at the undergraduate level. Based on our findings, we suggest two strategies for reimagining CES for the 21st century by: (1) changing textbook organization and content, and (2) incorporating more comparative economic concepts throughout the undergraduate curriculum.
A12|The value of a redesigned program and capstone course in economics|This paper describes an undergraduate program in economics which redesigned its curriculum to include a required capstone research course. The outcomes of this program are noteworthy for several reasons. To assess the impact of the high-stakes capstone research course and the redesigned program, the authors provide evidence of labor market outcomes of its graduates. Further, student learning and program outcomes are measured using direct, objective, and indirect measures, among them the ETS MFT Economics scores, awards and recognitions in undergraduate research competitions, and Senior Exit Surveys. The overall evidence suggests the redesigned economics program improved research quality among its best students, and raised median hourly wages of its graduates within two to four years of graduation.
A12|Economics: An elite subject soon only available in elite universities?|There are some alarming stories coming out of the UK about the state of academic economics there. It appears that “economics” is becoming an elite subject for elite UK universities. This paper examines the Australian situation to see if similar patterns exist. This paper considers the trends in the availability of economics degrees across the nations and looks at the implications of these trends in Australia in terms of research outcomes, teaching and learning and the impacts on socio-economic opportunity. The similarities between the UK and Australian situation are disturbing and present a challenge to economists, and to the economics community and society as a whole.
A12|Striving for balance in economics: Towards a theory of the social determination of behavior|This paper is an attempt to broaden economic discourse by importing insights into human behavior not just from psychology, but also from sociology and anthropology. Whereas in standard economics the concept of the decision-maker is the rational actor, and in early work in behavioral economics it is the quasi-rational actor influenced by the context of the moment of decision, in some recent work in behavioral economics, the decision-maker could be called the enculturated actor. This actor's preferences, perception, and cognition are subject to two deep social influences: (a) the social contexts to which he has become exposed and, especially, accustomed; and (b) the cultural mental models—including categories, identities, narratives, and worldviews—that he uses to process information. The paper traces how these factors shape behavior through the endogenous determination of preferences and the lenses through which individuals see the world—their perception and interpretation of situations. The paper offers a tentative taxonomy of the social determinants of behavior and describes the results of controlled and natural experiments that only a broader view of these determinants can plausibly explain. The perspective suggests more realistic models of human behavior for explaining outcomes and designing policies.
A12|Negative reciprocity and its relation to anger-like emotions in identity-homogeneous and -heterogeneous groups|Several studies have shown that social identity fosters the provision of public goods and enhances the willingness to reciprocate the cooperative behavior of group members. Nonetheless, the question of how social identity affects negative reciprocity in identity-homogeneous and -heterogeneous groups has only received little attention. Consequently, we seek to fill this gap by examining whether social identity affects individuals’ willingness to sanction deviating group members in a public good context. Moreover, we devote particular attention to the role of anger-like emotions in negative reciprocity. To test our hypotheses, we employ one-shot public good games in a strategy method with punishment opportunity and induced social identity. Our results indicate that members of identity-homogeneous groups are prone to reveal less negative reciprocity than identity-heterogeneous groups when they face contributions smaller than their own. We also find that anger-like emotions much more strongly influence punishment behavior when individuals are matched with members of different identities than in identity-homogenous groups. These findings contribute to an increased understanding of the nature of social identity and its impact on reciprocity, improving economists’ ability to predict behavior while taking emotions into consideration.
A12|Do individuals with higher cognitive ability play more strategically?|This paper experimentally analyses the relationship between cognitive ability and strategic behaviour. In our experiment, individuals play in a sequential game, where computing the equilibrium is challenging. On completion of the game, we measure each player’s cognitive ability using Raven’s Progressive Matrices test. Our results reveal that the number of strategic decisions (played in the sequential game) increases significantly among those individuals with higher cognitive ability (measured by Raven’s test), compared to those with lower cognitive ability. These results clearly confirm that individuals with higher cognitive abilities play more strategically.
A12|Editorial statement: The first five years of the European Journal of Government and Economics|This editorial statement reflects on the experience from the first five years of the European Journal of Government and Economics and proposes some broad ideas about what we believe should be the future of the journal in the following years. The developments and ideas presented here are divided in three parts: achievements and difficulties of the past five-year period, the renewal of the editorial team, and new challenges for the future.
A12|Women and happiness|We survey the happiness and economics field to systematize the explanations of the happiness gender gap, whose puzzling evidence stands out both synchronically and diachronically. Further, this analysis is completed by an interdisciplinary review of competing perspectives, mostly from psychology and medical sciences. Beside disciplinary specificities and differences, results and explanations also reveal some intriguing commonalities. Psychology and medical sciences (also assisted by cutting-edge medical technologies) lead in the static (time-invariant) explanation of happiness and its gender gap, while economic works are better equipped to detect external factors and the role of time-varying objective life conditions. In particular, the happiness and economics field has provided original evidence on the country and time-variant nature of the happiness gender gap. Finally, different disciplines have uncovered the common stylized fact that women are increasingly worse off during their life, through aging, with respect to men: its full explanation still remains at the centre of the research agenda.
A12|El pensamiento económico en los estudiantes de economía de Chile|In this paper, we report the results of a representative inquiry from undergraduate and graduate students in economics from Chile, in five universities, about subjects in economic thought. A comparison among universities that teach economics in Chile allows concluding differences, with singular characteristics of students from each university. Another comparison among Chilean, European and North American students of economics allows identifying the characteristics of the Chilean economic thought among economics students.// En este artículo reportamos los resultados de una encuesta representativa realizada a los estudiantes de economía de Chile, de pre y posgrado de cinco universidades sobre temas de pensamiento económico. Una comparación entre estudiantes de las universidades chilenas que imparten economía permite concluir diferencias entre éstos, con características propias que se estarían imprimiendo como un sello en los estudiantes de las distintas casas de estudio. Por último, una comparación entre los estudiantes de posgrado chilenos, europeos y estadunidenses permite verificar en varios sentidos las particularidades del pensamiento económico en los estudiantes de economía del país
A12|Small and Medium-Sized Enterprizes â€“ Opportunities and Challenges|Small and medium-sized enterprises play a major role in national economy. However, their lifetime is limited by the micro-economic climate. This paper discusses whether credit exposure has a major impact on the rate of bankruptcy and this hypothesis is verified by means of statistical methods, based on official statistical data and selected published studies and researches. The hypothesis was not fully confirmed in our investigation. The output of the paper was an evaluation of the dependency of bankruptcy of SMEs on their credit exposure and the presentation of other factors that might have an impact of SMEs, making them either successful or going to bankruptcy.
A12|Under Uncertainty, Over Time and Regarding Other People: Rationality in 3D|This paper scrutinizes behavioral economics' challenges to the standard accounts of economic behaviors within and across three dimensions: under uncertainty, over time and regarding other people. ‘Within' dimensions means that decision problems are of the form, e.g., ‘a consequence for sure vs. a bigger consequence with uncertainty' or ‘a consequence now vs. a bigger consequence later', by contrast with decision problems that cut ‘across' dimensions as in, e.g., ‘a consequence for sure but later vs. another consequence now but with uncertainty'. The proposed distinction between challenges within and across dimensions is more than conceptual, it also delimits a historical rupture between two periods that are nontrivial regarding the debates between behavioral and standard economics. The classical challenges posed by Kahneman, Tversky, Thaler and others focused on interactions within dimensions, posing problems to standard models. The more recent challenges from interactions across dimensions are posing problems to to both standard and behavioral economists' models. This paper proposes a systematic contrasts between the three dimensions, in both the challenges within and across the three dimensions, i.e., it proposes to ‘see rationality in 3D', in order to further our understanding of the contemporary theoretical, empirical and methodological stakes underlying these debates. Three methodological issues are discussed throughout: one that is not discussed elsewhere in the reflexive literature, namely the role of language in economic rationality, which we try to connect with the two classical ones around behavioral economics, namely, the issue of interdisciplinary between economics and psychology and the positive/normative issue within models of individual behaviors. With respect to the latter, we suggest that there is a slow historical shift from a primacy of risk over time over social preferences in the making of economists' value judgments of rationality and irrationality, to a competing primacy of time over risk over social preferences.
A12|La philosophie sociale est-elle un no man's land ? Réflexions sur l'idée d'émancipation de l'économie politique|Le domaine de la philosophie sociale peut être vu, en suivant Hayek, comme un no man's land engendré par le processus d'autonomisation de la science économique et en particulier son émancipation de la politique. Cet article montre au contraire que, d'une part, ce processus ne répond pas à un souci de spécialisation mais se présente comme une réponse politique particulière visant à soumettre l'action politique à des impératifs économiques, et, d'autre part, qu'il existe une autre conception de l'économie politique qui, dans le prolongement de Hume et de Smith, lie étroitement économie et philosophie. Il en résulte que, dans un cas comme dans l'autre, l'idée hayékienne selon laquelle la philosophie sociale serait un no man's land s'évanouit.
A12|Five Paragraphs on the Common Political Economy of Abrahamic Religions; Shorter version: Three Paragraphs on the Common Economics of Abrahamic Religions, Contribuciones a la Economía, 2015, Jan. issue; www.eumed.net/ce/2015/1/abrahamic-religions.html|The idea is that the three Abrahamic religions, Judaism-Christianity-Islam, all predispose microeconomics-wise for a social-welfare liberal state safeguarding against the violation of efficiency (not to waste resources and goods), equity (fair wealth distribution), and envy-freeness prefer own modus vivendi relative to neighbor’s) through voluntary action. Macroeconomics-wise, all of them are comfortably compatible with managing the overall economy in line with the four rules of the non-Monetarist Chicago School of Thought given that none of them approves profitable lending: No open-market-operations, cyclically-balanced-budget, k-percent money-growth, and zero-bank-money or full-reserve rules. A Rousseauesque social contract complementing the Lockean one is claimed to be the only état des choses compatible with all three Abrahamic religions.
A12|Two-Population Social Cycle Theories|Abstract In this chapter, we explore whether various true, endogenous social cycle theories share common patterns and characteristics.We examine a number of prominent social theories describing cyclical patterns, and attempt to abstract an ideal type common to all of them, based on the idea of two populations disrupting each other and adjusting to the other’s disruptions.At the core of such theories we typically find a variation of a two-population model. In these theories, cycles emerge when one of the populations seems to disrupt the other population’s plans, leading to recurring adjustments and disruptions that constitute the cycle.Finding such commonalities in the world of theories can be useful for several reasons. For one thing, noticing that two theories share certain traits may help us understand each of them better. Furthermore, we show that agent-based modelers using modern object-oriented programming techniques can benefit from finding common patterns in theories.
A12|George Orwell and the Incoherence of Democratic Socialism|George Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen-Eighty Four were intended to advocate democratic socialism by portraying undemocratic forms of socialism as totalitarian. For Orwell, democracy was a political institution which would limit the abuse of power. But there are several problems with democratic socialism which ensure its failure. In Orwell's novel A Clergyman's Daughter, Orwell's views of economics and politics are inconsistent and conflicting in a way that ensures democratic socialism will not succeed on Orwell's terms. Democratic socialism in general is criticized according to F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom and John Jewkes's The New Ordeal by Planning, whose arguments differ crucially from those against market socialism by Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny. An economic analysis of the political institutions of democratic socialism shows that democratic socialism must necessarily fail for political (not economic) reasons even if nobody in authority has ill-intentions or abuses their power.
A12|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
A12|Social capital in Europe from 1990 to 2012: trends, path-dependency and convergence|Social capital affects many social and economic outcomes; hence, it is important to monitor its changes over time. Previous literature on trends of social capital focused mainly on the case of US, devoting less attention to other regions of the world, such as Europe. This study uses WVS-EVS integrated data (1990-2012) to describe the trends of 10 proxies of social capital in 30 Western and Eastern European countries. The paper demonstrates that the convergence of social capital among European regions was limited, and it shows evidence of path dependency, especially in case of relational social capital.
A12|Theoretical Approaches Of Endogenosu Regional Development|The territory affects how economic systems work, geographic proximity being a primary source of economic and social benefits. Generally speaking, territorial development is minimal determined by exogenous factors, while the main factors that influence the potential of local development are: endowment, resources, human and social capital, accessibility, infrastructure etc. These factors can be found in the regional growth theory which, by its scientific nature, is assimilated with macroeconomic theory. New economic geography emphasizes the importance of these factors, which focus on the lower production costs. At the same time, technological change and diffusion of technologies are considered endogenous variables which react to the market signals. Positive externalities are produced by using technological investment, employment and income redistribution in society. Research development, entrepreneurial skills, local production, innovation, knowledge, learning networks etc. are considered to be the engine of economic growth. In this paper, there are presented the main theoretical approaches of endogenous growth, which have contributed to understanding the implications and the effects of this process upon regional development.
A12|"Gauge field theory of market dynamics: Toward a solution of the ""man vs. men"" dilemma"|The current economics and psychology are developed within the Newtonian tradition in physics from both conceptual and instrumental perspectives. This paper aims to integrate economics and cognitive science by applying gauge field theory of modern theoretical physics. Many controversies between normative theories and behavioral theories are characterized by the “man vs. men” dilemma. Gauge potential and gauge field strength are constructed at both the man-level and the men-level in order to satisfy the principle of gauge invariance. To maintain the Lagrangian density function invariant, the gauge transformations of the first kind and the second kind are performed at the man-level and the men-level, respectively. The market dynamics is modeled by the logic of electrodynamics. The interactions of the market and individual participants are formulated by the logic of electromagnetic coupling. In establishing the market dynamic equations, individual utility function serves as gauge function and efficiency provides gauge freedom.
A12|"Gauge field theory of market dynamics: Toward a solution of the ""man vs. men"" dilemma"|The current economics and psychology are developed within the Newtonian tradition in physics from both conceptual and instrumental perspectives. This paper aims to integrate economics and cognitive science by applying gauge field theory of modern theoretical physics. Many controversies between normative theories and behavioral theories are characterized by the “man vs. men” dilemma. Gauge potential and gauge field strength is constructed at both the man-level and the men-level in order to satisfy the principle of gauge invariance. To maintain the Lagrangian density function invariant, the gauge transformations of the first kind and the second kind are performed at the man-level and the men-level, respectively. The market dynamics is modeled by the logic of electrodynamics. The interactions of the market and individual participants are formulated by the logic of electromagnetic coupling. In establishing the market dynamic equations, individual utility function serves as gauge function and efficiency provides gauge freedom.
A12|The Greek referendum: an alternative approach|"Admittedly, the balance of power within the European institutions, especially those related to financial stability and economic policy, is controlled by Germany. The German Federal Republic as the ""main creditor"" controls the Eurogroup, the Euro Working Group and has privileged relations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Central Bank (ECB). Due to this fact, Wolfgang Schäuble as the exponent of the hard German economic strategy has a leading role within the European decision-making institutions. France, Italy and other countries are unsuccessfully trying to counteract and mitigate the German influence, as shown by the Greek issue. This framework is tightly connected with the negotiating ability of any country that inconsistently attempts to reverse the status quo, modify the rules or change the terms of an agreement. The Greek government of Alexis Tsipras sufficiently experienced this suffocating experience and announced a referendum as an attempt to open the field of negotiations."
A12|Recent trends in co-authorship in economics: evidence from RePEc| This article investigates the recent trends in co-authorship in economics. Using data from more than 700 000 journal articles we show that the average number of authors per article has increased over the last years. This process is likely to be continued in the future. In a regression analysis, we present evidence how the authorship of papers is related to the number of citations, the JEL classification, the number of journal pages and the length of the title.
A12|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
A12|Trends in economics publications represented by JEL categories between 2007 and 2013| This article illustrates how publication trends in different subject categories in economics evolved from 2007 to 2013. Using data from RePEc we show that the largest increase in the relative share was for articles published in JEL category Q (‘Agricultural and Natural Resource Economics, Environmental and Ecological Economics’) over this period. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the number of JEL categories per article increased over the last 25 years.
A12|Anthropology of Freedom and Tax Justice: Between Exchange and Gift. Thoughts for an Interdisciplinary Research Agenda|With this paper I try to sketch a research agenda on the basis of which humanities and social sciences might interact with each other, searching for a human common ground in tax issues. To this purpose I shall proceed as follows: (§2) I will sketch two working hypotheses showing how and why tax system raises anthropological issues at the intersection of Philosophy of law, Politics and Economics; to restrict the field of enquiry, I will then analyse, firstly (§2.1), the most common theories of taxation – benefit-cost principle and ability-to-pay principle – usually meant as attempts to answer the demand for tax justice; and, secondly (§2.2), the issue of freedom in taxation as a problem of legal-political and economic obligation. I will then show how the research might gain some insight from both (§3.1) the literature on homo reciprocans, and (§3.2) the literature on gift-giving, which might allow us to better articulate the demands for justice and freedom, as well as to glimpse the human foundations of a new fiscal democracy.
A12|Disputed (Disciplinary) Boundaries: Philosophy, Economics and Value Judgments|This paper aims to address the following two questions: a) what is the logic of the kind of discourse that seeks to found, demarcate or defend the autonomy or the boundaries of a discipline; b) why does this discourse, whether methodological, ontological or epistemological, sometimes turn into normative, dogmatic-excommunicating wrangles among disciplines, schools or scholars? I will argue that an adequate answer may be found if we understand: 1) disciplines as institutions and, therefore, as dogmatic systems, where scholars’ discourse often takes the form of a legitimizing discourse regarding the founding Reference of their own discipline; 2) that scholars speak in the name of that very foundation, with which they closely identify; 3) that the issue of the legitimacy of a discipline cannot easily be separated from the issue of identity and, therefore, of a scholar’s legitimacy; 4) that the excommunication may arise not only when the founding Reference is absolutized, but also as a form of selfdefense of a scholar’s identity-legitimacy. To understand these claims I will re-examine three paradigmatic positions: the methodological, ontological and epistemological considerations put forward by (and the debates between) Pareto, Croce and Einaudi – with specific reference to the demarcation between philosophy, economics and value-judgments.
A12|Empower Workers to Innovate and Entrepreneurship: Raison d'être of Successful Workers Cooperatives|The study critically analyses selected Indian workers cooperatives to find reasons over time of its success or failures. Worker cooperatives flourish in many industries and regions, where decisions are made democratically by workers who also act as entrepreneurs, managers and members. By value creation it tends to provide employment, remains accountable to community. The entrepreneurs are risk takers but who innovate to satisfy ever-changing consumers’ needs succeed through well managed business. The study has qualitative research design employed on variety of workers cooperatives. It looks at phenomena of business cycle, value creation cum distribution, overlapping multiple roles of workers, management practices, innovation & product life cycle, consumer satisfaction vis-à-vis business performance. We attempts to explore and interpret dynamism of activities and interactions among key stakeholders to ascertain success factors. We find that continuous innovation and entrepreneur spirit is the key to success. The finding may help to advance socio-economic enterprises.
A12|Analyzing Challenges & Opportunities of Ethiopian SMEs: Micro & Macro Economic Drivers|The Ethiopian economy is dominated by the agriculture and services sectors, with each accounting for about 43-44 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), leaving only about 13 percent for industry of which manufacturing accounts for about 6-7 percent. The low industrial contribution is attributed to lower participation of private enterprises; thanks to lack of encouraging policy & conducive environment for entrepreneurs. This research proposal aims at investigating inhibiting factors of growth at micro, macro & meta level. Industrial development and entrepreneurship are two side of a coin. Entrepreneurship encompasses the promoters, government and financial institutes. Entrepreneurship development is essential to solve the problem of economic development through creating local employment, balanced area development, decentralization of economic power and diversion of profits from rich to middle class & poor. Many local innovations go unnoticed because of innovator’s limitations in commercialize the product. An apex institute may be set up to help and promote commercialization of low cost local innovations. If stakeholders of entrepreneurship work in tandem, SMEs can grow fast
A12|Economic sociodynamics: criticism|The article provides a solution to the problem of classification of the social sciences, and briefly tells about the newly discovered fundamental laws of Sociodynamics, which are the driving force of the historical progress. The author, based on these laws, holds constructive criticism of the concept of Economic Sociodynamics (CES) proposed by R. Greenberg and A. Rubinstein. The corresponding analysis bears interdisciplinary nature at the junction of sciences such as Physics, Psychology and Sociodynamics. The article reasonably shows the fallacy of the foundation of CES. The author in doing so was basing on the objective laws of nature and not on the subjective judgments.
A12|Функциональная Замкнутость Рыночной Экономики. Рановесие. Циклы. Воспроизводство<BR>[Functional Closure of Market Economy. Equilibrium. Cycles. Reproduction]|"В монографии профессора П. Леиашвили, в результате диалектического анализа фундаментальных экономических категорий, рыночная экономика представлена в виде сложной, нелинейной, функционально замкнутой и кау-зально открытой системы. Такие системы обладают рядом уникальных свойств, которые хорошо изучены в теории хаоса, конструктивизме и кибер-нетике второго порядка. На основе междисциплинарного анализа рыночной экономики в дискурсе конструткивизма и кибернетики второго порядка, дается принципиально новая интерпретация общего экономического равнове-сия, предлагается оригинальная трактовка экономических циклов с позиций теории хаоса, а также, на основе полученных результатов, произведен анализ воспроизводственного процесса. Предлагается «Симметричная модель» эко-номического равновесия, согласно которой самоорганизация рыночной эконо-мики осуществляется благодаря рекурсивным процессам. На основе анализа простого экономического воспроизводства показаны недостатки существу-ющих методов расчета макроэкономических показателей Системы Нацио-нальных Счетов (ВВП, ВНД и др.). Дается методологическое обоснование их адекватного расчета. As a result of dialectical analysis of economic processes the market economy is represented as a complex, non-linear, functionally closed, and causally open system. Such systems have a number of unique properties that have been well studied in chaos theory, constructivism and second-order cybernetics. In the present article, based on an interdisciplinary analysis of market economy in the discourse of constructivism and second-order cybernetics is given a fundamentally new approach to the analysis of general economic equilibrium and economic cycles. The article proposes a ""symmetrical model"" of economic equilibrium, which is the attractor of decentralized economy as a complex system of economic actions in which self-organization and autopoyezis are carried out thanks to recursive processes."
A12|The internal challenges facing Islamic finance industry|Purpose – The paper aims to highlight the challenges facing Islamic finance industry and outline the prospectus of what constitutes a sound Islamic banking product in terms of both its Shariah control and product development methodology. Design/methodology/approach – The paper analytically addresses the internal challenges facing Islamic finance industry by highlighting, first, the deficiencies in the existing Shariah supervisory work and, then, the deficiencies in the product development methodology followed in Islamic banks. Findings – Islamic banking and finance is facing some internal challenges which require immediate action. Although facing the external challenges may be beyond the capacity of the industry players, Islamic banks have no excuse to overlook or turn a blind eye to their internal challenges which can be overcome by enacting Shariah governance for both products and Shariah control and reforming the methodology of product development. Originality/value – This paper highlights an issue that has not received the needed attention, and it proposes the necessary solutions to the problems it identifies.
A12|Realism, Instrumentalism and the Time Aspect of Theory Building|This paper contributes to the debate about the role of realism and instrumentalism in social science. It asserts that the debate should distinguish between ex-ante and ex-post perspectives. Ex-post, i.e. once the research is done, instrumentalism might be given priority because in this situation, significant predictive power is the key. On the other hand, ex-ante, i.e. before any model revealed its predictive power, only realism may give a hint of which direction is promising to pay off the effort. Thus both realism and instrumentalism play their role in the scientific activity, depending on the stage of the research. In this paper I argue that in order to develop economic realism, we should have recourse to phenomenology. Phenomenology analyses the thought constructs of ordinary people, classifies them and seeks the underlying invariant structure. Realistic social science should build on these invariant structures; only then the link to social reality is not lost.
A12|150 let od narození Maxe Webera<BR>[150 years since the birth of Max Weber]|Abstract The purpose of the paper is to examine the methodology of Max Weber and outline its relation to the economic science. The fi rst part analyses Weber’s article “Objectivity in Social Science and Social Policy” (1904). The second part examines the paper titled “Meaning of Ethical Neutrality in Sociology and Economics” (1917). The third part discusses the Weber’s lecture “Science as a Vocation” (1918/19). The fourth part deals with the question in what respects Max Weber can be close to modern economists.
