A13|"""Positional Views"" as the Cornerstone of Sen's Idea of Justice"|Our paper offers a novel reading of Sen’s idea of justice, beyond the standard prisms imposed by theories of justice – resting on external normative criteria – and formal welfarism – involving the definition of individual welfare and its aggregation. Instead we take seriously Sen’s emphasis on personal agency and focus on his original contribution to the issue of objectivity. Firstly, we demonstrate that Sen’s idea of justice, with at its core “positional views”, is more respectful of persons’ agency than would be a theory based on individual preference or capability. Secondly, we argue that Sen’s conception of objectivity considers that both information and sentiments are relative to a position. Such an alternative approach to subjectivity allows the formation of more impartial views through collective deliberation and a better consideration of justice by agents themselves.
A13|The Nature of Excessive Behavior (ISRAF) in the Islamic Economic Framework|Objective – The objective of this paper is to unfold the nature of excessive behavior in the Islamic economics framework. Methodology/Technique – This is a library research based on the various studies that specifically discuss excessive behavior and Islamic consumer behavior. The study uses a rating system to identify the relevance of content to the study and analyze content analysis. Findings – The nature of excessive behavior is condemned by Islam and is fully agreed upon by Muslim scholars. The extent of excessive behavior is not limited to certain levels of consumption. The Muslim consumer may unaware of doing the practice under the influence of a particular setting, where the pleasure of the practice is felt temporarily. Novelty – This study clarifies the terminology and nature of excessive behavior, which is unclear in previous studies conducted by Muslim scholars. Type of Paper: Review
A13|Cheat or Perish? A Theory of Scientific Customs|We develop a theory of the evolution of scientific misbehavior. Our empirical analysis of a survey of scientific misbehavior in economics suggests that researchers’ disutility from cheating varies with the expected fraction of colleagues who cheat. This observation is central to our theory. We develop a one-principal multi-agent framework in which a research institution aims to reward scientific productivity at minimum cost. As the social norm is determined endogenously, performance-related pay may not only increase cheating in the short run but can also make cheat-ing increasingly attractive in the long run. The optimal contract thus depends on the dynamics of scientific norms. The premium on scientific productivity should be higher when the transmission of scientific norms across generations is lower (low marginal peer pressure) or the principal cares little about the future (has a high discount rate). Under certain conditions, a greater probability of detection also increases the optimal productivity premium.
A13|Collaboration, Alphabetical Order and Gender Discrimination. Evidence from the Lab|If individual abilities are imperfectly observable, statistical discrimination may affect hiring decisions. In our lab experiment, pairs of subjects solve simple mathematical problems. Subjects then hire others to perform similar tasks. Before choosing whom to hire, they receive information about the past scores of pairs, not of individuals. We vary the observability of individuals’ abilities by ordering pair members either according to performance, or alphabetically by nickname. We find no evidence of gender discrimination in either treatment, however, possibly indicating that gender stereotypes are of limited importance in the context of our study.
A13|Outsourcing Recruitment as a Solution to Prevent Discrimination: A Correspondence Study|"Many studies have proven the existence of discriminatory behavior from employers according to the origin of applicants. However, little is known about how these behaviors can be prevented. In this work, we assess how organization of recruitment in large companies affects ethnic discrimination. We consider large multi-establishment companies and distinguish two types of recruitment organization: hiring made through a human resources (HR) service at a centralized level of the company and hiring made at only the level of the establishment concerned by the position, generally by managers in charge of recruitment. To conduct our research, we rely on data from a correspondence study conducted in 2016 by the Dares (French Ministry of Labor) in large companies, which shows the existence of ethnic discrimination in hiring. This experimentation allows us to gather precise and original information on the level at which applications were selected for each of the 1,500 tests carried out. Because access to a centralized HR service is potentially endogenous, we use an instrument to assess the causal effect: whether (or not) the establishment with the job offer belongs to a company that has developed a franchise network. Our results indicate that access to a centralized HR service in the selection of applications has an important effect on the level of discrimination: This type of recruitment organization results in a 0.29-point decrease in the probability that the applicant of presumed ""French"" origin is selected alone."
A13|Born in the Family: Preferences for Boys and the Gender Gap in Math|We study the correlation between parental gender attitudes and the performance in mathematics of girls using two different approaches and data. First, we identify families with a preference for boys by using fertility stopping rules in a population of households whose children attend public schools in Florida. Girls growing up in a boy-biased family score 3 percentage points lower on math tests when compared to girls raised in other families. Second, we find similar strong effects when we study the correlations between girls' performance in mathematics and maternal gender role attitudes, using evidence from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. We conclude that socialization at home can explain a non-trivial part of the observed gender disparities in mathematics performance and document that maternal gender attitudes correlate with those of their children, supporting the hypothesis that preferences transmitted through the family impact children behavior.
A13|Analyzing the Perceptions of Egyptian Youth about the Arab Spring|Egyptian youth played a central role in the Arab Spring (AS) uprisings, yearning for changes in the political system and for better economic conditions. This paper investigates the perceptions of young Egyptians about the AS. The empirical analysis uses a bivariate ordered probit model to examine the factors influencing these perceptions through proxies that cover political, social, and economic conditions. The results reveal that social values and ideological characteristics matter more than the standard socio-economic attributes in understanding the perceptions of young Egyptians. They indicate that individuals with secularist, non-traditionalist, and gender equality inclinations formed more favourable perceptions about the AS. Also, they suggest that the AS has led to unfavourable perceived circumstances for the Arab Nationalism and pan-Islamism ideologies, and propitious perceived conditions for further connection with the global system. These findings signal that the AS may have set a path toward a significant transformation in the Egyptian society.
A13|Explaining and measuring tolerant behavior|In recent studies, there has been a growing interest towards tolerance and its implications in the socio-economic system. This paper aims to contribute to this flourishing research area into two directions. First, we develop a theoretical framework to explain individual’s tolerant attitudes without necessarily resorting to altruistic preferences. Second, this paper addresses the issue of measuring tolerance when information about several dimensions of tolerance is available and data are of Likert's scale type. To show how our new measure of tolerance works in practice, we carry out a case study using an Italian recent survey asking the opinion of university students about different subjects, such as interreligious dialogue, women/religion relationship, religion/death relationship, multicultural society, and homosexuality. We, finally, highlight the key policy implications arising from our study.
A13|Working Paper 02-19 - Inégalités de bien-être en Belgique - Construction de onze indicateurs composites pour mesurer le bien-être de différentes catégories de la population<BR>[Working Paper 02-19 - Ongelijkheden op het gebied van welzijn in België - opbouw van elf composiete indicatoren om het welzijn van verschillende bevolkingscategorieën te meten]|This Working paper proposes eleven new composite indicators to measure changes in well-being for women, men, four age groups and five income categories (quintiles) in Belgium. They were constructed using a statistical analysis of the drivers of well-being specific to these population groups. These indicators are complementary to the indicator Well-being here and now that measures the average development in well-being in Belgium.
A13|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
A13|The nature of Public Interest in Muslim and Non-Muslim writers|Leading a comfortable life on this planet with few problems and worries is one of the aims and objective of human since the dawn of history. Defining and then achieving a prosperous and comfortable life has been the subject of intense discussion among philosophers and religious scholars since the dawn of history. In order to investigate whether the contemporary economic system better serves the wellbeing of the general population (public interest), then it is very important to know that what the public interest itself actually means? To accomplish this task, we started this essay with an examination of the idea of public interest from both Muslims and non-Muslims writers. After the emergence of enlightenment self-interest got prominence due to which public interest among non-Muslims writers is considered as a rule or concept serving to present something as suitable for long term approval or acceptance according to changing circumstances. In contrast Muslim writers think that public interest refers to the fulfilment of the objective of the Sharia which lies in safeguarding their faith (Din/Religion), their human self (Nafs), their intellect (Aql), their posterity (Nasl) and their wealth (Maal). There will be violence and corruption without these five basics purposes of Sharia.
A13|Female Labor Market Participation and Socioeconomic Development: Disentangling the U-Shaped Hypothesis|The U-shaped hypothesis of the relation between economic development and female labor market participation has been a main framework for analyzing female labor market patterns. However, it mixes up two dimensions of development: the increase in income level and the development of social norms from traditional to modern. We disentangle the U-shaped hypothesis by explicitly accounting for social norms within the socioeconomic development process. This allows for a richer analysis of female labor market participation in countries which have developed more in one of the development dimensions rather than the other. To demonstrate, Saudi Arabia is a rich and traditional country while many countries in Eastern Europe are relatively poor and modern. We hypothesize implications of these ‘rather one-sided’ development scenarios on female labor market participation outcomes. We then test this framework on a regional level for Egypt and Germany and find family formation to be much more detrimental for female employment in the rich and traditional regions.
A13|The interplay of economic, social and political fragmentation|We develop a model of the social fragmentation along communitarian vs. individualistic values. The endogenous adoption of social values hinges on whether people choose to derive more utility from comparisons with others (materialistic but universalist values) or derive relatively more utility from membership of a group with its distinguishing characteristics (communitarian but exclusive values). Those more well-off, socioeconomically, gravitate towards individualism while those of lower status gravitate towards communitarianism. Crucially, those at the lower end of the middle classes are predicted to align more and more with communitarian values when the status advantage of those at the top increases, holding their own income constant (i.e. rising socioeconomic inequality). Conversely, those at the higher end of the middle classes are predicted to align more and more with individualist values, polarising society. These shifts also increase size of the political constituency for enacting protectionist policies, which act as a stabilising force against socioeconomic polarisation. The model therefore predicts political realignments from the incidence of income growth and the importance of status-oriented (conspicuous) consumption.
A13|Explaining and measuring tolerant behavior|In recent studies, there has been a growing interest towards tolerance and its implications in the socio-economic system. This paper aims to contribute to this flourishing research area into two directions. First, we develop a theoretical framework to explain individual’s tolerant attitudes without necessarily resorting to altruistic preferences. Second, this paper addresses the issue of measuring tolerance when information about several dimensions of tolerance is available and data are of Likert’s scale type. To show how our new measure of tolerance works in practice, we carry out a case study using an Italian recent survey asking the opinion of university students about different subjects, such as interreligious dialogue, women/religion relationship, religion/death relationship, multicultural society, and homosexuality. We, finally, highlight the key policy implications arising from our study.
A13|Ethics out of Economics: The Futile Attempt of Rendering Economics a Neutral Science|Over the last century, and several times until recently, mainstream economics has been criticized from different viewpoints. Most of the critiques highlighted the weakness of its methodological and logical structure, not to mention its inadequate capacity of tackling with the new problems posed by globalization. However, mainstream economics has always shown itself strong enough as to stand up victoriously most of the times, notwithstanding those critiques, which quite often turned out to be even devastating from the logical point of view. The object of my report will be mainly focused on highlighting one of the most important reason for which mainstream economics should be considered altogether inadequate for tackling with many problems of the real world. And that reason essentially lies in the very fact that mainstream economics has since long put any ethical aspect completely outside its basic framework. One the most important consequences of that operation has been that of rendering economic theory perilously free of any value-judgment and therefore uncontaminated by any possible social and political change in society, even by the most significant ones. The report will then briefly reconstruct the most significant steps through which that process was accomplished, by bringing about, at the same time, the severe drawbacks of that futile attempt of rendering economics neutral in its analysis and its policy prescriptions.
A13|Effekte von Goal-Framing und ergänzenden Informationen auf die wahrgenommene Informationsqualität, Nützlichkeit und Verhaltensabsicht im Kontext von Energiespartipps|Zur Milderung des Klimawandels sind Maßnahmen zur Förderung von Energieeinsparungen notwendig. Energiespartipps informieren über energiesparende Verhaltensweisen und Produkte. Zur Formulierung wirkungsvoller Energiespartipps untersucht die Arbeit, welchen Einfluss Ergänzungen von CO2-Angaben und Formulierungen der Konsequenzen auf die wahrgenommene Informations-qualität, Nützlichkeit und Verhaltensabsicht haben. Außerdem wird untersucht, ob es diesbezüglich Unterschiede zwischen verhaltens- und investitionsorientierten Tipps gibt. Dazu wurde ein Onlineex-periment (N = 352) im 4 x 4 x 2 Design mit den vierstufigen Zwischensubjektfaktoren Framing der Währung (alleinige CO2-Angabe, Jahresvergleichswert, äquivalente Fahrstrecke, äquivalente Lap-topnutzung) und Framing der Konsequenz (erreichte Einsparung, vermiedener Ausstoß, entgangene Einsparung, verursachter Ausstoß) sowie der Art des Energiespartipps (verhaltens- vs. investitionsori-entiert) als zweistufigen Innersubjektfaktor konzipiert. Varianzanalysen ergaben, dass der verhal-tensorientierte Tipp positiver als der investitionsorientierte Tipp bewertet wurde und verhaltensnahe Ergänzungen die Nützlichkeit von CO2-Angaben sowie die Verhaltensintention erhöhen. Das Framing der Konsequenz hatte keinen Effekt. Die Ergebnisse zeigen die Relevanz, zwischen verhaltens- und investitionsorientierten Energiespartipps zu differenzieren und verhaltensnahe Ergänzungen von CO2-Angaben in Kilogramm zu berücksichtigen.
A13|Verantwortungsübernahme bei nachhaltigem Verhalten - Eine empirische Analyse aus sozialpsychologischer Sicht|Das Forschungsprojekt beruht auf zwei Elementen: Die erste Untersuchung, ein Verhaltensexperiment mit 35 Studierenden der Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, erforschte den Einfluss von Gruppengröße (Zuschauereffekt) und dargebotenen Informationen zu Verantwortungsdiffusion (Priming) auf nachhaltiges Verhalten. Mithilfe eines zweiten Online-Experiments folgte eine Erhebung zum Einfluss von wahrgenommener persönlicher Bedrohung auf die Bereitschaft zu nachhaltigem Verhalten (N = 72). Die Ergebnisse des ersten Experimentes zeigen einen schwachen, statistisch nicht signifikanten Einfluss der Gruppengröße sowie einen, z.T. statistisch signifikanten, Einfluss der dargebotenen Informationen zu Verantwortungsdiffusion auf das gemessene nachhaltige Verhalten. Bequemlichkeit sowie monetärer Aufwand stellen mit Abstand die größten Hindernisse für nachhaltiges Verhalten dar, während die Beeinflussung durch andere und das Ziel des Umweltschutzes als positive Argumente für nachhaltiges Verhalten genannt wurden. In der Folgestudie konnte ein statistisch signifikanter kausaler Zusammenhang zwischen der wahrgenommenen persönlichen Bedrohung durch die aktuelle Umwelt- und Klimasituation und der Bereitschaft zu nachhaltigem Verhalten nachgewiesen werden. Alle Resultate zu Verhaltensintentionen zeigten insgesamt eine hohe Bereitschaft der Probanden zu nachhaltigem Verhalten.
A13|Holiday gift-giving - is there a deadweight loss or a welfare gain?|For macro-economists, the importance of holiday gift-giving is the effect of spending on the macro economy. However, for micro-economists, gift-giving has a different important aspect. The choices of purchasing are made by someone other than the recipient, the final consumer. Recipients sometimes receive gifts they do not like because the giver does not really know with any degree of accuracy the recipients' preferences. Such gifts are welfare reducing (deadweight loss) compared to giving cash. The cost of the gift is higher than its value to the recipient. In this study, we examine whether purchasing holiday gifts in Israel leads to welfare gains or deadweight losses. We also explored how the relationship type (family, social, workplace) affects the difference between the costs and values of gifts.
A13|Housing insecurity measure, a development of a validated scale using household data|Based on the literature analysis, housing insecurity does not have a universally validated measure or scale that can be used across societies and contexts to measure housing insecurity. The literature on housing and housing insecurity is marred with individualised preferences of what individual researchers or organisations appropriate to measure housing insecurity. This paper takes the first step of proposing a scale of measuring housing insecurity that can be adopted for any context be it in developed countries or developing societies. The paper recognises the economic thinking that claims that the tools of mathematics are not always appropriate in the analysis of social reality (Lawson 2015) hence cognisance of the fact that functions and calculus are not always the best, this paper still makes use of mathematical calculations involving weights and still relies on the development of constructs that can be useful in explaining the reality of housing insecurity. We ask the question, to what extent is the ontology of housing so abstract that the numbers can be misleading? It is argued in this paper that the conception of reality and hence housing insecurity can still depend on the mathematical tools to understand the ontology of housing insecurity. Going deeper this paper does not claim to belong to the pluralism, or neoclassical thought, but as anticipated, devoid of that discourse and make use and hence benefit from both mainstream economic theory and aspects utilised by the pluralist school of thought and hence makes reference to the ontology of economics.
A13|Evaluating Energy Efficiency in Residential Buildings: A case study of RDP houses in South Africa|Worldwide, more than one third of energy is used in buildings which account for about 15% of the total greenhouse gas that is emitted globally. Buildings in cities can account to about 80% for carbon monoxide emitted. Therefore, the built environment is a very critical part of the climate change mitigation. Evaluated in this research are energy efficiency measures that can be implemented through regulations and controls. From administered questionnaires, the issues of energy efficiency have become an imperative principle in the building sector and the way it is managed in South Africa. Based on the analysis provided, energy efficient behaviour is the predominant factor that influences energy consumption. According to the PCA results, seven variables (Age of building, number of bedrooms, roofing materials, energy for cooking and heating, window style and brick and concrete wall) were all dominant variables and these variables remain significant after implementing multiple regression models to estimate energy cost.
A13|What have we done? The impact of choosing and studying different academic disciplines on beliefs and values|In this paper, we examine the effect of studying business on the beliefs and values of students, carefully distinguishing between self-selection in the discipline and socialization during the first year of study. Using a survey of students in a leading Belgian business school, we observe significant differences between business students and students from other disciplines at the start of their first year in both their beliefs and values. We also discover that these differences persist or are reinforced at the end of the year. Moreover, we find changes in values of business students that take only one year to manifest. Furthermore, we find that business students over the course of the first year change their beliefs more than students from other disciplines. Accordingly, we report evidence of self-selection and socialization effects on both the values and beliefs of a typical business student. Moreover, we observe that while some values and beliefs of business students change over time, we do not observe changes for economics students. This suggests that the effect of studying business is not entirely driven by the role of economics in business studies.
A13|Guilt Aversion in Economics and Psychology|We investigate whether the concept of guilt aversion in economics is related to the psychological characterization of the same phenomenon. For trust games and dictator games we report correlations between the guilt sensitivity measured within a framework of psychological games most common in economics and the guilt sensitivity measured using a questionnaire common in psychology (TOSCA-3). We find that the two measures correlate well and significantly in the two settings.
A13|Values of Economists Matter in the Art and Science of Economics|What role do personal values play in the practice of economists? By means of a survey among economists working inside and outside academia in the Netherlands, we present novel insights on their personal values, how these differ from the average citizen, and how values impact their economic views and their methodological choices. Three overarching values summarize the value structure of economists: achievement, serving the public interest, and conformity to rules. Subsequent tests are performed to see whether these values affect (1) their opinion on economic propositions and (2) their attitudes towards methodological principles in economics. For the majority of economic propositions, personal values matter. Especially the value of serving the public interest has a strong effect on their economic view. Furthermore, it seems that economists who value achievement are the ones who are more likely to embrace mainstream methodological principles: thinking predominantly in terms of efficiency, rationality, and competition, believing that economic knowledge is objective and transparently produced and in agreement with Milton Friedman's view on positive economics. Female economists are at some notable points less convinced of market solutions and have more trust in the government in serving the public interest.
A13|A missing touch of Adam Smith in Amartya Sen’s account of Public Reasoning: the Man Within for the Man Without|Sen claims that his 2009 theory of justice is based in part upon Smith’s idea of the “impartial spectator”. His claim has received criticism: some authors have responded that his interpretation of Smith’s concept is unfaithful to the original (e.g., Ege, Igersheim and Le Chapelain 2012); others, focusing on internal features of Sen’s analysis, critique his use of the Smithian impartial spectator, arguing that it is a weak point in his comparative theory of justice (e.g., Shapiro 2011). In this paper we address both sets of criticisms. While agreeing with commentators that Sen’s reading of Smith is somewhat unfaithful, we reiterate that his aim in The Idea of Justice is not to provide an exegesis of Smith but rather to build his own comparative theory of justice by “extending Adam Smith’s idea of the impartial spectator” (IJ: 134) to his own project. After clarifying their distinct approaches to the concept of the impartial spectator, we draw upon our account of these differences to evaluate Sen’s own use of the concept. Despite significant divergences, we show that Sen’s version of the impartial spectator is not inconsistent with Smith’s analysis. Though it does not correspond to Smith’s concept, i.e. to what the Scottish philosopher sometimes calls the “man within”, it is reminiscent of another figure from Smith’s moral philosophy: the “man without”. Beyond this analogy, there are further connections between Smith’s imaginary figure of the “man within” and Sen’s account of “common beliefs”—both notions are ways of representing our beliefs regarding what is moral or just. But whereas Smith’s moral philosophy offers an analysis of the process by which the “man without” influences the “man within”, nothing of that kind is to be found in Sen’s conception of public reasoning. And it is here that Smith’s famous concept of “sympathy” can supplement Sen’s theory, in a way which furnishes an answer to Shapiro’s (2011) criticism regarding the possibility of the spontaneous change of beliefs toward greater impartiality.
A13|Greece as a bridge to the most vibrant region of the next decades|In the years following the financial crisis, Greece experienced a severe loss in real per capita income and accumulated a public debt much higher than GDP and that of any other EU country. The article briefly analyses the causes of this development, including the policy failures of Greece and the EU. It develops a game-changing strategy, which could return the country to a growth path. This starts with the vision that Greece can make use of its unique location between Europe, Asia and Africa to build a bridge connecting these regions with fascinating and productive complementarities. Given this new strategy, including regional leadership in decarbonisation, youth reform boards, and the Greek diaspora as a manager of reforming and financing new activities, Europe should cut a substantial part of the debt. This would be in the interest of Greece, the EU and Europe´s neighbours.
A13|Das vermeintliche Wissen der ökonomischen Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Ein Essay|Der Beitrag verfolgt die beiden miteinander verwandten Fragen, wie Ökonom*innen zu wissen vorgeben und warum sie überhaupt wissen wollen. Es wird argumentiert, dass sowohl die ökonomische Wissensform als auch die Motivation der Wissenden im Verlauf des 20. Jahrhunderts einen grundlegenden Wandel erfahren haben. Das Wissen wichtiger ökonomischer Lehrbücher der Gegenwart hat mit einem objektiven, dezidiert wissenschaftlich motivierten Wissen nur noch wenig gemein. Ihren Inhalten und Formen liegt vielmehr eine produktive Absicht zugrunde, die auf die Subjektivität ihrer Leser*innen zielt.
A13|Valuing water services: A review of what water pricing and demand management would mean for Nairobi city|This article provides an overview of key economic concepts in water services with a focus on price-based strategies for demand management in the face of resource scarcity using the case of Nairobi city water services. The paper starts by first presenting key issues and concepts in water economics then looks into detail issues of water pricing and concludes by providing recommendations to the city utility on a novel approach for price-based demand management of scarce water resources. Three key messages emerge from this brief review. First is that water pricing has been used more as an instrument for achieving financial sustainability of the supplier rather than an economic allocation instrument. The message is that if the service provider is not able to maintain the system adequately because of charging the wrong price, the quality of services will deteriorate. Eventually the system collapses leaving people more vulnerable to water-related diseases. Second is that the quality of water governance depends on two factors-the public value that citizens place on water and what they are willing to pay for it and the quality of the relationship between citizens, the state and the managing entity of the service. The Third message is that contrary to conventional economic theory, an increase in price of water doesn’t always signal the consumer to reduce consumption and demand. Research shows that most urban households don’t know the price they pay for water since it makes a very small portion of their budget, so prices don’t affect them much especially when the billing structure is complicated and information not available to users. This calls for urban utilities to increase awareness on the value and cost of water through proper structuring and presentation of water bills to consumers.
A13|Setting new behavioural standards: Sustainabilty pledges and how conformity impacts their outreach|Sustainability pledges are en vogue. In the business sector, but also in climate negotiations, pledges are used to signal actors’ intention to act pro-environmentally. Laboratory experiments testify to the potential effectiveness of these public declarations. Previous work has examined under which conditions subsequent trust and cooperation can flourish. In this study, I postulate that also conformity is an important determinant for the effectiveness of pledges. In specific, I examine what role social influence plays in the decision to pledge. In a public good game, subjects can make prior play a pledge to contribute to the public good in the socially optimal way. Across treatment conditions, I vary the way in which the pledges are elicited. Hence, the degree of social influence on pledge making is manipulated and its impact can be examined. I find that when individuals are aware that the majority of other subjects decided to pledge, they are likely to conform and also make the pledge. The emergence of such a critical mass can be stimulated when the elicitation of pledges is based on previous contribution behavior. Overall, this commitment nudge is effective. Both socially-oriented and previously not socially-oriented subjects modify their behavior after the pledge.
A13|Family firms as kinship enterprises|"Evidence from around the globe shows that family firms are enduring, resilient forms of profit-seeking and not an archaic, transient form that will inevitably disappear. Social science research has tended to characterize the family values of these firms as producing ""efficiency distortions"" that adversely affect their financial performance. The author suggests an alternative heuristic approach of treating family firms as kinship enterprises that endure beyond the life of the firm. This approach enables us to understand how the timing of decisions about capital accumulation, expansion and diversification, as well as managerial organization, are shaped by kinship sentiments and intergenerational commitments without setting up an opposition between economic and kinship goals."
A13|Toward global paradigm change: Beyond the crisis of the liberal world order|This vision brief may be summarized by the following points. First, the crisis of the liberal world order arises from a misalignment of our social, economic and political domains of activity, along with a resulting destabilization of our physical environment. The integration of the global economy has generated problems that extend beyond our current bounds of social and political cooperation. Second, extending our social cooperation - on which basis our political cooperation can be extended as well - requires the creation of the appropriate moral narratives. These narratives must guide business strategies, public policies and civic activities. Third, these narratives must be supplemented by multilevel governance structures that address challenges at the scale - micro, meso and macro - at which these chal-lenges arise. Finally, past human experience in developing moral narratives, supported by multilevel governance structures, suggests guidelines for a future form of multilateralism that enables us to meet this challenge.
A13|The Institutional Economics of Collective Waste Recovery Systems: an Empirical Investigation|The main purpose of the study is to develop the model for transaction costs measurement in the Collective Waste Recovery Systems. The methodology of New Institutional Economics is used in the research. The impact of the study is related both to the enlargement of the limits of the theory about the interaction between transaction costs and social costs and to the identification of institutional failures of the EU concept for the circular economy. A new model for social costs measurement is developed.
A13|Social Collateral and consumer payment media during the economic crisis in Europe|In this research paper we investigate the relationship between economic crises and the changes in levels of social collateral, as well as the indirect changes in the use of payment media from consumers as a result of the latter. The scene is Europe in 2015 and the Eurozone crisis involving countries mostly hit form the crisis: Greece, Cyprus and to a lesser extent Spain, versus less affected economies like Sweden and UK. We use and analyse questions focusing on social collateral, taken from a much broader research instrument - a questionnaire with 54 questions that have been used in a series of studies focusing in the use of payment media during 2015. From a total of 1003 gathered questionnaires a comparative analysis is performed through time and space focusing on three periods: before the start of the crisis in 2008, after that, and during the last 12 months; in terms of geographical dispersion, the aforementioned five countries are researched. Our empirical results provide some preliminary evidence indicating an heterogeneous behaviour among the five countries under investigation, as well as a clear change over time - partially explained by the impact of the crisis.
A13|Inequality and Democracy|The paper is about the political consequences of increasing economic inequality in Western economies. Political theorists have often stressed that democracy is in troubles when its population is not broadly uniform in income and wealth because unequal economic resources can easily translate into a surplus of political resources in the hands of the few. The connections between economic inequality and democracy, however, are not easy to detect and the body of literature is not so large to provide robust assessments of their complex relationship. The aim of this paper is to review the links between the two and to offer some hints on the political relevance of the inequality consequences, if any, on democracy.
A13|Gender-Based Favoritism in Blood Donations: Evidence from a Field Experiment|This paper provides the first evidence of the existence of gender-based favoritism in life saving decisions to donate blood. We conduct a field experiment among blood donors from Bosnia and Herzegovina where we exogenously manipulate the signal of a blood recipient’s gender by adding his/her name, and photograph, to a letter soliciting blood donation. Motivated by the literature on identity, we test the influence on donation behavior of two dimensions of shared identity between donor and recipient – gender and age. 74% more blood donors donate if the potential blood recipient is of the same gender. This result is mostly driven by male donors donating to a male recipient. In contrast to gender identity being an important determinant in fostering donors’ participation rates, being of similar age to the blood recipient has relatively little effect. By identifying an important factor that influences willingness to give blood, our results have implications for better targeting of campaigns to increase blood donations.
A13|Dimensions of Donation Preferences: The Structure of Peer and Income Effects|Charitable donations provide positive externalities and can potentially be increased with an understanding of donor preferences. We obtain a uniquely comprehensive characterization of donation motives using an experiment that varies treatments between and within subject. Donations are increasing in peers’ donations, past subjects’ donations, and bonus income. These findings of peer and income effects do not extend to earned income, anonymous donations, or peers’ donations of bonus income. A model of an uncertain social norm for giving can explain the patterns here and in several strands of past research. Estimation of the model reveals substantial heterogeneity in subjects’ adherence to the norm and perceptions of its form. Correlations between these dimensions of preferences are such that charities with perfect information could increase net revenue using targeted give-aways to certain donors. A simpler fundraising strategy using only the social dimension of donor preferences increases donations by 30 percent.
A13|Communal fees and election cycles: Evidence from German municipalities|The political business cycle theories describe that election-motivated politicians manipulate economic policy-making. Election cycles occur in many fiscal variables, for example tax rates. I examine whether electoral motives influence communal fees in Germany. Fees have to be paid for the use of many public services, for example waste management or sewerage provisions. Fees should be equivalent to the costs of a public service and thus correspond to the benefit principle in public finance. The German municipalities, however, have a leeway to determine fees. I use revenue data for around 7,000 West German municipalities from seven states over the period 1992–2006. The results show that municipalities increase communal fees in election years to a smaller extent than in the middle of the legislative period, while they increase fees more directly after elections. Fees increase in election years by 0.94 euro per capita less and directly after elections by 1.74 euro per capita more than in the middle of the legislative period. The results thus corroborate the predictions of the political business cycle theories.
A13|The Fair Reward Problem: The Illusion of Success and How to Solve It|Humanity has been fascinated by the pursuit of fortune since time immemorial, and many successful outcomes benefit from strokes of luck. But success is subject to complexity, uncertainty, and change – and at times becoming increasingly unequally distributed. This leads to tension and confusion over to what extent people actually get what they deserve (i.e., fairness/meritocracy). Moreover, in many fields, humans are over-confident and pervasively confuse luck for skill (I win, it’s skill; I lose, it’s bad luck). In some fields, there is too much risk-taking; in others, not enough. Where success derives in large part from luck – and especially where bailouts skew the incentives (heads, I win; tails, you lose) – it follows that luck is rewarded too much. This incentivizes a culture of gambling, while downplaying the importance of productive effort. And, short term success is often rewarded, irrespective, and potentially at the detriment, of the long-term system fitness. However, much success is truly meritocratic, and the problem is to discern and reward based on merit. We call this the fair reward problem. To address this, we propose three different measures to assess merit: (i) raw outcome; (ii) risk-adjusted outcome, and (iii) prospective. We emphasize the need, in many cases, for the deductive prospective approach, which considers the potential of a system to adapt and mutate in novel futures. This is formalized within an evolutionary system, comprised of five processes, inter alia handling the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Several human endeavors – including finance, politics, and science – are analyzed through these lenses, and concrete solutions are proposed to support a prosperous and meritocratic society.
A13|Law abiding diplomats: Evidence from diplomatic parking tickets in Washington D.C|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|Law abiding diplomats: Evidence from diplomatic parking tickets in Washington D.C|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|El papel de la economía en el proyecto decolonial|El presente trabajo aborda la globalización desde sus crisis, fases y herencias con el fin de pretender una solución a los problemas que en esta se presentan. El análisis que se lleva a cabo y la solución que se propone se realizan desde una perspectiva transdisciplinar, más allá de una simple mirada económica; es decir, desde puntos de vista como los de la filosofía, el derecho, la lingüística, la historia, la sociología, etc. Se traza un mapa general de la teoría decolonial con el estudio de conceptos como colonialidad del poder, eurocentrismo, epistemología, matriz colonial del poder, colonialidad del ser, transmodernidad, gubernamentalidad, etc., en conexión con la historia económica y la transformación social que esta conlleva. A partir del análisis histórico-económico de la globalización, la importancia de la institucionalidad, del Estado y de las formas de gobierno en este proceso, se llega a un aporte desde la economía a este proyecto, fundamentado en la libertad y en el desarrollo de los individuos y su contexto social, esto es, en relación con su propia realidad. *** This paper addresses globalization from its crisis, phases and inheritances in order to seek a solution to the problems that arise in it. The analysis and the proposed solution are made from a transdisciplinary perspective, beyond the simple economic view; that is to say, from viewpoints such as philosophy, law, linguistics, history, sociology, etc. A general map of the colonial theory is drawn to the study of concepts such as coloniality of power, Eurocentrism, epistemology, colonial matrix of power, coloniality of being, postmodernity, governmentality, etc., in connection with economic history and social transformation that this entails. From the historical-economic analysis of globalization, the importance of institutionalism, State and forms of government in this process, it is possible to get a contribution from the economy to this project, based on freedom and the development of individuals and their social context, that is to say, in relation to their own reality.
A13|Café ¿alternativa para la sustitución de cultivos de uso ilícito?|Uno de los principales retos para la consolidación del Acuerdo Final entre la guerrilla de las FARC y el Gobierno de Colombia tiene que ver con la sustitución de cultivos de uso ilícito por otros que brinden mejores condiciones económicas, como el caso del café. El presente documento busca responder si cultivar café es una alternativa económicamente viable para la sustitución de dichos cultivos. Para ello, se usan datos cuantitativos que permiten realizar un análisis comparativo entre el cultivo del café y el cultivo de la coca. Los resultados muestran las fuertes dificultades que no solo afronta el café, sino cualquier otro cultivo, frente a la coca en cuanto a rendimientos y precio. Estas condiciones configuran un gran reto para el Gobierno Nacional en la consolidación y desempeño de la sustitución de cultivos ilícitos. *** One of the main challenges for the consolidation of the Final Agreement between FARC guerrillas and the Colombian Government has to do with the substitution of illicit crops by others that offer better economic conditions, such as coffee. This paper seeks to answer whether growing coffee is an economically viable alternative for the substitution of illicit crops. For this purpose, quantitative data is used to carry out a comparative analysis between coffee and coca. The results show the strong difficulties faced not only buy coffee but by any other crop, against coca in terms of yields and price. This conditions constitutes a great challenge for the National Government in the consolidation and performance of the substitution of illicit crops.
A13|Del papel a la sustitución de cultivos ilícitos: análisis de la implementación del punto 4 del Acuerdo de paz en el departamento del Cauca|El punto cuatro del Acuerdo de paz entre el Gobierno colombiano y las FARC-EP, que aborda la solución al problema de los cultivos ilícitos, no ha tenido un grado homogéneo de implementación a lo largo del territorio nacional. Este estudio analiza las propuestas realizadas antes y después de la firma del Acuerdo para dar solución a esta situación en el departamento del Cauca. Se encuentran tres aspectos principales. En primer lugar, existe un aparente fracaso en las políticas antidrogas implementadas hasta antes de los acuerdos de paz en el departamento, especialmente asociado a la ineficiencia de la aspersión aérea de glifosato. En segundo lugar, existe un bajo grado de implementación de las disposiciones del punto 4 en el territorio. En tercer lugar, existe una serie de violaciones sistemáticas de DD.HH a líderes sociales del Cauca, especialmente hacia aquellos que apoyan la sustitución voluntaria de cultivos ilícitos. *** Point four of the Peace Agreement between Colombian Government and the FARC-EP, which addresses problem of illicit crops, has not had a homogeneous degree of implementation throughout the national territory. This study analyzes the proposals made before and after the signing of the Agreement to solve this situation in the department of Cauca. There are three main aspects. First, there is an apparent failure in the anti-drug policies implemented in the department prior to the peace accords, especially associated with the inefficiency of aerial spray of glyphosate. Secondly, there is a low degree of implementation of the provisions of point 4 in the territory. Third, there is a series of systematic human rights violations against social leaders in Cauca, especially those that support the voluntary substitution of illegal crops.
A13|Reflexiones sobre la teoría económica desde las perspectivas feministas|A partir de una revisión general de la literatura, el documento busca reflexionar sobre la necesidad de incluir en la historia y el pensamiento económico los aportes del feminismo. Para ello, se esbozan las principales críticas que el feminismo hace a la ciencia económica y se identifican dos enfoques de economía feminista: integracionista y de ruptura. Luego, se plantean tres ejemplos de cómo el pensamiento económico ha intentado enfrentar las críticas provenientes del feminismo, para posteriormente nombrar tres pistas proporcionadas por las perspectivas feministas para el desarrollo tanto de la ciencia económica como de sus metodologías de trabajo. Finalmente, la revisión concluye con algunas posibilidades de reflexión a partir de las economías feministas, no solo en el ámbito académico, sino también político. *** From a general literature survey, the document seeks to reflect on the need to include the contributions of feminism in history and economic thought. To achieve this objective, the main criticisms that feminism target to economic science are outlined and two approaches to feminist economics are identified: integrationist and rupture. Next, three examples of how economic thinking has tried to face the criticism of feminism are raised. Then, three indications are provided from feminist perspectives for the development of both economic science and its working methodologies. Finally, the survey concludes with some possibilities for reflection from feminist economics, not only in academia but also in politics.
A13|Born in the Family: Preferences for Boys and the Gender Gap in Math|We study the correlation between parental gender attitudes and the performance in mathematics of girls using two different approaches and data. First, we identify families with a preference for boys by using fertility stopping rules in a population of households whose children attend public schools in Florida. Girls growing up in a boy-biased family score 3 percentage points lower on math tests when compared to girls raised in other families. Second, we find similar strong effects when we study the correlations between girls' performance in mathematics and maternal gender role attitudes, using evidence from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. We conclude that socialization at home can explain a non-trivial part of the observed gender disparities in mathematics performance and document that maternal gender attitudes correlate with those of their children, supporting the hypothesis that preferences transmitted through the family impact children behavior.
A13|De l’intérêt de créer un nouveau concept: la lucrativité limitée|The Interest in Creating a New Legal Concept: Limited Lucrativity The notion of non-profit is one of the foundations of the social economy. However, this reality is never accepted as a structuring criterion in Union law. Based on an analysis of European Union law rules and the case law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the purpose of this article is first to show that the concept of non-profitmaking is not operational to distinguish profit-making enterprises from social economy enterprises. On this basis, the second question will be to determine what can be done to promote a better legal recognition of the social economy and its particularities in the European system. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines two categories of organisations: on the one hand, those organisations that do not seek profit and, on the other hand, civil or commercial law companies, which include cooperative companies. Under European Union law, certain associations, as well as all mutuals and cooperatives, are grouped together with profit-making companies. Wheter an entity is described, under its national law, as a non-profit or for-profit entity never has any beary on the application of Union’s law. It is therefore difficult to find examples in positive law where the absence of profit is valued per se and could be considered in the application of internal market and competition legislation. However, this reality has an impact on the way economic activity is carried out. Social economy enterprises therefore do not find their place in the current legal 6 frameworks. They are positioned in the same competitive perimeter as for-profit companies. How can the singularity of social economy enterprises in terms of limited profit distribution be reflected in the European Union laws? According to the binary classification currently used, neither their complete assimilation into the for-profit category nor their classification as non-profit enterprises reflect what social economy enterprises are and their needs. The first step of a useful response was taken by the ECJ in a decision concerning cooperatives. The ongoing work of the European Commission and the European Parliament to promote the concept of social enterprise in European Union law also offers interesting avenues for reflection. To go even further, we propose to introduce into EU law the notion of limited lucrativity, which would define all organisations (sometimes also called “not-for-profit entities”) which are likely to make profits but which are not intended to distribute them to their owners because their final purpose is different. This European concept would be operational because it could lead to the application of specific rules, for example on competition, public procurement or taxation. In any case, the aim would be to restore the conditions for free and undistorted competition with profit-making companies that are not subject to the same constraints on access to capital. The introduction of this concept into Union law would lead to better political recognition and legal translation at European level of one of the strong characteristics of social economy enterprises.
A13|ICT and Ethical Finance: Fostering Social Innovation and Financial Inclusion|This paper describes the links between ethical and responsible finance and social innovation. The two have long been in a close relationship. Ethical and responsible finance has traditionally supported projects that face difficulties in the mainstream banking sector, fostering experimental approaches (to give but an example) to market failures of traditional welfare. Moreover, ethical and responsible finance is interested not only on the economic viability of a project to fund, but also its social and/or environmental impact.The additional dimension brought about by the impact of the activities of ethical and responsible finance is social innovation. This potentially encompass several disciplines, phenomena and social constructs, which makes it difficult to analyse. However, interest in social innovation is increasing, especially concerning digital social innovation. After the theoretical analysis, the focus shifts to the PROFIT platform, presented as a practical example of ICT response to the need for improving the financial knowledge and literacy of the citizens for better decision-making and social resilience. During the creation of the platform, its creators have taken the diversity of the potential beneficiaries into account, in order to be useful for as many social groups as possible. The paper concludes with an analysis of the digital social innovation potential of the PROFIT platform.
A13|New Trends in the Social and Solidarity Economy Regarding Agriculture and Food: A Comparison between France and India|On the question of food and livelihood, international institutions and States call for efforts towards food security under the form of help in subsidies or better access to the market for farmers. Such efforts rely on large scale solutions and make food security depend on tall vertical institutions aiming at bringing change in a very large area at a time. On the other hand, small initiatives are born everywhere and take up on the question of access to healthy sustainable food. Farmers’ self-help groups, shared gardens, community supported agriculture, cooperative supermarket and other organisations make up this landscape and are being born everywhere. Such initiatives are often missed by observers as case studies of single organisations can not bring into light the global effort of such initiatives. Nevertheless, they can be put together and showed as being part of the same global movement. If their juridic forms, organisations, and goals are somewhat different, some trends can be established in the justification they offer to their action (Boltanski, Thévenot, 1991). In order to discover these justifications and establish trends, a study of the discourse and practices of such initiatives is offered in the following article. Namely, our study takes 20 initiatives dealing with agriculture and food. In order to find out trends, this article elaborates on the fieldwork of about 500 hours spent within said initiatives, and 50 interviews with project planners, coordinators, and motnitors. In order to show global trends, these initiatives have been chosen in two vastly different social and economic contexts: one takes place in Nancy, a medium French town, the other takes place in Ahmedabad, a very large Indian city. The results of the study show three major common trends between France and India, and between initiatives pertaining with small farmers, shared gardens, cooperatives and other social and solidarity initiatives. Firstly, there is a general call for localized, short food circuits, namely producers and consumers ask for a direct connection to each other, and even to grow the food they eat and eat the food they grow. Secondly, participants in said initiatives do not claim to be part of a recent innovative wave, but rather fall back on traditional ways to grow, sell, and cook food. Thirdly, despite the small size of such initiatives – with 200 participants at most and sometimes as small as 2 members – the ambition of these organisations is to change things on a global scale, make people from every path of life ask themselves questions and change their behaviour, and even, struggle against global climate change through small localized actions.
A13|Eine Netzwerkanalyse von Ökonomen und Wissenschaftlern anderer Disziplinen auf Basis eines Surveys unter Abgeordneten und Ministerialbeamten|"Offen ausgetragenen Lagerdebatten zwischen Ökonomen sind in Deutschland eher selten. Was hingegen öfters in Diskussionen oder in der Berichterstattung über Ökonomen mitschwingt, ist eine Zuordnung in weltanschauliche Lager, etwa nach Schemata wie arbeitgeberarbeitnehmernah oder auch gelegentlich links-marktliberal. Da diese Zuordnung für die nicht an der Spitze der öffentlichen Bekanntheit stehenden Ökonomen eher selten explizit ausgesprochen wird, ist eine empirische Untersuchung der Lager-Theorie auf Basis der Medienberichterstattung schwierig. Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht die Verortung von Ökonomen anhand der Nähe in den Netzwerken von Fachkollegen und von Wissenschaftlern anderer Disziplinen. Hierfür wird auf die Daten eines Surveys unter Ministerialbeamten und Parlamentariern, den Adressaten politikberatender Ökonomen, in den Jahren 2014 bis 2018 zurückgegriffen. Dabei wird davon ausgegangen, dass die Befragten, die bis zu fünf Ökonomen nennen konnten, mit höherer Wahrscheinlichkeit solche gemeinsam nennen, bei denen sie eine gewissen Nähe zueinander und wahrscheinlich auch zu sich selbst sehen. Die netzwerkanalytische Auswertung der Umfragedaten zeigt über die Jahre insbesondere zwei stabile zentrale Cluster um die Präsidenten zweier Leibniz-Institute: Eines rund um Clemens Fuest bzw. Hans-Werner Sinn vom ifo - Leibniz-Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung in München und eines rund um Marcel Fratzscher vom Deutschen Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung (DIW Berlin). Aufschlussreich sind auch die wichtigsten Wissenschaftler nicht-ökonomischen Disziplinen, die mit den Clustern assoziiert werden: mit Bezug auf das Cluster ""Fuest"" sind dies der Bedeutung nach vorrangig Rechts- und Politikwissenschaftler. Das Cluster ""Fratzscher"" wird in erster Linie mit Politikwissenschaftlern und Soziologen assoziiert."
A13|Promises, expectations & causation|Why do people keep their promises? Vanberg (2008) and Ederer and Stremitzer (2017) provide causal evidence in favor of, respectively, an intrinsic preference for keeping one's word and Charness and Dufwenberg's (2006) expectations-based account based on guilt aversion. The overall picture is incomplete though, as no study disentangles effects in a design that provides exogenous variation of both (the key features of) promises and beliefs. We report evidence from an experimental design that does so.
A13|Enhancing central bank communications with behavioural insights|In this joint Bank of England and Behavioural Insights Team study, we test the effectiveness of different approaches to central bank communications. Using an online experiment with a representative sample of the UK population, we measure how changes to the Bank of England’s summaries of the Inflation Report impact comprehension and trust in its policy messages. We find that the recently introduced Visual Summary of the Inflation Report improves comprehension of its main messages in a statistically significant way compared to the traditional executive summary. We also find that public comprehension and trust can be further improved by making the Visual Summary more relatable to people’s lives. Our findings thus shed light on how central banks can improve communication with the public at a time when trust in public institutions has fallen, while the responsibilities delegated to central banks have increased.
A13|Civic Capital and Service Outsourcing: Evidence from Italy|This paper studies whether civic capital (those persistent shared beliefs and values that help a group overcome the free rider problem in the pursuit of socially valuable activities) acts an effective restraint against opportunistic behavior in transactions by looking at the firm-level degree of service outsourcing in Italy. Our results show that firms tend to outsource more services in areas where civic capital is higher. We claim that the rise in the propensity to engage in transactions with outside service suppliers stems from the decrease in opportunism between the parties involved. We consider a dynamic specification which allows to disentangle state dependence of service out- sourcing from firm-level heterogeneity, and we use historical instruments to address the potential endogeneity of civic capital.
A13|Blessed are the First: The Long-Term Effect of Birth Order on Trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
A13|Paros, piquetes y contrato social|Ya se ha convertido en una imagen casi habitual la del piquete que obstruye la circulación en la ciudad luego de haberse declarado un día de paro y aún en casos de no existir tal declaración. Esta situación puede ser considerada como una violación de un contrato social que, aún de manera implícita y también hipotética, regula (o debería regular) la relaciones entre los habitantes de un país o de una ciudad. En el comportamiento que habitualmente siguen los llamados piqueteros se observa una evidente violación de principios que suelen ser aceptados como normas de convivencia ciudadana. En términos más precisos podemos decir que se trata de un quebrantamiento del “contrato social”. Para ello será necesario identificar sin ambigüedades que se entiende por contrato social y como el mismo sería reiteradamente vulnerado en las actividades de los piquetes. El principio de la vigencia de un “contrato social” es evitar la llamada “guerra de todos contra todos” y ceder para ello el monopolio de la fuerza al estado. La limitación de la libertad propia encontraría su contrapartida en la protección de todos sus miembros dentro de un marco de convivencia social, independiente de las respectivas ideas y creencias de los integrantes.
A13|Prosociality spillovers of working with others|Group compensation and public announcement of performance are two common aspects of working with other people. We randomly assign these aspects to real-effort tasks. Following task completion and payment, subjects are given an unexpected opportunity to donate to a local charity. Group compensation and public announcement of performance have little effect on work performance but striking spillover effects on subsequent donations. Public announcement of performance doubles the amount donated to charity, and group compensation significantly increases the share donating. The results suggest that interpersonal interactions in the workplace environment may have important spillover effects on prosocial behavior outside of work.
A13|Comfort and Conformity: A Culture-based Theory of Migration|This paper proposes a theory of migration decisions in which cultural traits play a role. Individuals are assumed to value comfort (high wages) and conformity (interactions with individuals who share similar world views). Regions are assumed to differ economically (average wages) and culturally (average world views and their diversity). The model shows that self-selection of inter-regional migrants on world views is non-monotonic if one region is more diverse than the other, and it weakens with economic gaps between regions. This nonmonoticity can lead to a dichotomy of outcomes: culturally diverse regions become even more diverse because of migration, while culturally homogeneous regions become even more homogeneous. Consequently, Tieboutian sorting (people moving to the region in which world views are closer to theirs) only holds when regions have similar wages and diversity of world views.
A13|The Persistent Power of Promises|Using a large-scale hybrid laboratory and online trust experiment with pre-play communication this paper investigates how the passage of time affects trust, trustworthiness, and cooperation. We provide evidence for the persistent power of communication. Even when three weeks pass between messages and actual choices and even when these choices are made outside of the lab, communication (predominantly through the use of promises) raises cooperation, trust, and trustworthiness by about 50 percent. Delays between the beginning of the interaction and the time to reciprocate neither substantially alter trust or trustworthiness nor affect how subjects choose to communicate.
A13|Are Retirees More Satisfied? – Anticipation and Adaptation Effects of Retirement on Subjective Well-Being: A Panel Analysis for Germany|Quality of life and satisfaction with life are of particular importance for individuals as well as for society concerning the “demographic change” with now longer retirement periods. This study will contribute to the life satisfaction discussion and quantifies life satisfaction and pattern of explanation before and after such a prominent life cycle event, the entrance into retirement. In particular, with the individual longitudinal data and 33 waves of the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and the appropriate microeconometric causal fixed effects robust panel methods we ask and quantify if actual life satisfaction indeed is decreasing before retirement, is increasing at the entrance into retirement, and is decreasing then after certain periods back to a fore-going level. Thus, we ask if such an anticipation and adaptation pattern– as known from other prominent events – is also to discover for life satisfaction before and after retirement in Germany. Main result: Individual and family situation lift life satisfaction after retirement for many years, the (former) occupational situation, however, absorbs this effect both for pensioners and civil service pensioners. It remains only one period of improvement with close anticipation and adaptation at entering retirement but no furthermore significant change compared to pre-retirement life satisfaction. This holds for pensioners (German pension insurance, GRV) but there is no significant effect at all for civil service pensioners.
A13|How do informal institutions influence inward FDI? A systematic review|In the last fifteen years, the literature on international economics and international business has been paying increasing attention to informal institutions and to how they affect a variety of economic variables, inward FDI in particular. The main aims of this work are: to shed more light on a puzzling, elusive concept -informal institutions- also by drawing comparisons with related constructs; to overview the main types of informal institution and their effects on FDI inflows; to conduct a meta-analysis to explore the heterogeneity across empirical studies focusing on the effects of informal institutions on FDI inflows. The main findings of the present work are as follows: according to most of the existing literature, informal institutions, such as trust, social networks and corruption, matter for the purpose of attracting FDI. The sign is significantly determined by the type of informal institution considered. In particular, social networks and factors typically facilitating or in favour of FDI - such as trust and a positive attitude to liberalism - have a significant and positive impact on inward FDI, and this especially holds when the host country is a developing economy.
A13|The frame of reference for new economic thinking|After the crisis of 2018-2010, which led to the complete discrediting of neoclassical theory, the demand for new scientific ideas and an alternative vision of the most fundamental economic problems has sharply increased in economic science. At the same time, the discrediting of the neoclassical theory led to a critical attitude to the very idea of a general economic equilibrium, which is the central idea of neoclassical paradigm. The emphasis is increasingly shifting to the creation of disequilibrium models of economy. This book argues that this approach is incorrect. The wrong is not the very idea of equilibrium, but its neoclassical understanding and its concepts and equilibrium models, which are caused by false methodologies of neoclassicists. Without a preliminary dialectic analysis of economic categories and the operationally closed model of commodity-money flows of a market economy created on its basis, it is impossible to find out feedbacks that ensure the self-regulation of the economic system. The “Symmetrical model” of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy. It is shown that the evolution of market economy, which due to the immanent logic of intrasystem processes generates extreme inequality in income distribution, leads to a disruption in the harmony and symmetry of counter flows of commodity and money, thus destroying the system of positive and negative feedbacks that provide the homeostasis of economic system. This book is a collection of articles. Since each of them is a complete whole, the reader can get acquainted with the articles in any sequence, but after reading all of the articles, he will get a new non-standard understanding of functioning of a market economy. Although each article gives a complete analysis of a specific topic, nevertheless, all of them are arranged in such a sequence that they serve as different stages in the development of a single original concept, beginning with a methodology and ending with a mathematical model of a general economic equilibrium.
A13|The effect of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa (1994-2016)|This study sought to investigate the trends and impact of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa using quarterly data over the period 1994Q1 to 2016Q4. The Auto Regressive Distribution Lag (ARDL) bounds test approach is applied to determine the existence of the long run linkage among the variables. The results from the ARDL model suggest that there is a long run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. The empirical results obtained confirmed that there is a negative relationship between unemployment and economic growth both in the long and short run.
A13|Market Mechanism in the View of Ibn Taymiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taymiyya reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept on justice.
A13|Does social capital explain the Solow residual? A DSGE approach|Abstract Social capital has been credited with playing a role in many desirable economic outcomes. We analyze how these potentially beneficial effects translate into the macro-performance of economies by developing a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model featuring the role of social capital in the explanation of the Solow residual. We then simulate and estimate the model with Bayesian techniques using Italian data. Our framework fits actual data better than a standard DSGE model, suggesting that social capital may improve the economic performance via its impact on total factor productivity.
A13|Market Mechanism in the View Of Ibn Taimiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taimiyyah reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept of justice.
A13|The concept of economic thought Ibn Khaldun|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis (text analysis). The results of this study indicate that the economic thought of Ibn Khaldun explains the concept of multidimensional economy involving various social aspects. Ibn Khaldun's economic concept implies an economic system that requires five components, namely sharia, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
A13|Ibn Khaldun's Economic Thought|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis. The results of this study indicate the economic concept of Ibn Khaldun implying an economic system that requires five components is the Shari'a, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
A13|To Become a Cawir Metua: Life Satisfaction of The Karo Elderly A Social Security Case Study on The Karo Elderly in Lingga Village, Simpang Empat Sub-District, Tanah Karo Regency|Elderly becomes one of the crucial issues faced by many countries in the world today. The composition of the elderly population is growing rapidly in both developed and developing countries. The increase in the number of elderly requires attention so that they not only live long but can enjoy their old age happily and improve the quality of their life. In some areas, large numbers of elderly people become burdensome if they have health problems resulting in increased health care costs, decreased income, increased disability, lack of social support and independence. This statement is not entirely true, because there are elderly who are still able to be independent to achieve life satisfaction. This study employed a qualitative approach to get a picture of life and concepts related to elderly life. Emik view of the power was used to analyze the life of elderly from Karo ethnicity. The data were collected by using participant observation and depth interview which was performed on five elderly families and questionnaires for 100 respondents of elderly Karo family in Lingga Village. The strength of informants in establishing rapport became the key of success in this Karo elderly research. The result of the research showed that Karo elderly felt shame if they have to live with their children or be dependent because it is the nature of a Karo person to be independent. It is reinforced by a very strong culture of shame. In addition, Karo people have a standard of life satisfaction which has been a part of their culture. It is the satisfaction of life when all of their children have married and have enough income. In Karo society, it is called Cawir Metua. Someone who has reached the Cawir Mertua is supposed to hold a party to tell people that he or she has achieved satisfaction in life.
A13|Developing the Tourism Talent for Cambodia|UNWTO predicts that by 2030, the number of international arrivals will only increase by 3% each year. That is, from the current 1.1 billion international visitors to 1.8 billion by 2030. This is IATA's forecast that air traffic will increase by 4% annually over the next two decades. WTTC stated that tourism and tourism (T&T) are part of the world’s largest economy, accounting for 9% of global GDP, 30% of exports, and 1 of 11 global jobs. If there is cross-examination, changes in volatility and uncertainty will occur. Policymakers' charges must be based on a strong future strategy to make room for tomorrow's story. Tourism is very important. It is regarded as the fastest growing industry and contributes to the economic growth. This article examines Cambodian tourism and tourism talent management. It also shows the benefits of managing on-site talent and details the talent management processes used in tourism and tourism. Focusing on how the tourism industry faces the challenge of obtaining talent and supporting professional development is a complex and necessary issue that has a major impact on the future of the industry. With the development and evolution of T&T, it will require new skills in new locations. Companies need to develop appropriate plans to understand the skills requirements of domestic employees. This may be related to working with academic systems to solve skills and gaps in training, an attractive career path, and investments in the development of existing workforces.
A13|Beyond behavioral economics: who is the economic man|There are two reasons to go beyond Behavioral Economics. The first reason is that humans, as presented by this school, do not explain many critical economic problems. Behavioral Economics is not an alternative paradigm to traditional economics. It is only one of the New Schools of thought, that has risen due to the failure of the contemporary Neoclassical School to show that markets have a unique maximum welfare full employment equilibrium. Therefore, in order to delimit Behavioral Economics ́ contributions we need to look at the whole paradigm in economics, which today includes: the contemporary neoclassical paradigm plus all the New Schools of thought. The second reason is that humans, as described by Behavioral Economics, are not a good representation of mans ́ evolutionary characteristics. For Behavioral Economics, humans are emotional beings which often do not know what is best for them, and need the help of the government to make the choices which are truly convenient; and they display altruistic and social cooperative behavior, even in monetary transactions. But evolutionarily we are neither design to be emotional or rational, nor to be selfish or altruistic and socially cooperative. We are design to be flexible for survival purposes, and to display a wide range of behaviors.
A13|On how can higher education institutions contribute, or not, to the success, or not, of public policies of social cohesion|Public policies aimed at achieving an increased level of social cohesion were initially confronted with a problem associated with what would/should be understood as social cohesion. This problem has raised difficulties in its implementation and monitoring, which has been tried to reduce, for example, by the latest European Union recommendations on Cohesion Policies. In fact, the reduction in the ambiguity of what is meant by social cohesion has also made it possible to better identify the instruments and agents of public policy that best contribute to that goal. Based on this fact, our objective is to analyze a less considered aspect in the literature, which is the importance of higher education institutions (HEIs) in public policies aimed at social cohesion. In doing so, we consider two points of view: 1. How HEIs may, or may not, contribute to that objective, through its external effects, eventually on the surrounding territory; 2. How can HEIs contribute, or not, to those objectives, through their internal effects, possibly on the level of social cohesion of the individuals who constitute them. This second point of view, which, as far as we know, has been (even more) ignored by literature, is, as a fundamental, crucial to that first point of view, since, without internal social cohesion, HEIs can hardly contribute, as much as possible, to external social cohesion.
A13|The return of religious Antisemitism? The evidence from World Values Survey data|1) Background: This paper addresses the return of religious Antisemitism by a multivariate analysis of global opinion data from 28 countries. 2) Methods: For the lack of any available alternative we used the World Values Survey (WVS) Antisemitism study item: rejection of Jewish neighbors. It is closely correlated with the recent ADL-100 Index of Antisemitism for more than 100 countries. To test the combined effects of religion and background variables like gender, age, education, income and life satisfaction on Antisemitism, we applied the full range of multivariate analysis including promax factor analysis and multiple OLS regression. 3) Results: Although religion as such still seems to be connected with the phenomenon of Antisemitism, intervening variables such as restrictive attitudes on gender and the religion-state relationship play an important role. Western Evangelical and Oriental Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism are performing badly on this account, and there is also a clear global North-South divide for these phenomena. 4) Conclusions: Challenging patriarchic gender ideologies and fundamentalist conceptions of the relationship between religion and state, which are important drivers of Antisemitism, will be an important task in the future. Multiculturalism must be aware of prejudice, patriarchy and religious fundamentalism in the global South.
A13|Working for nothing: personality, time allocation and earnings in the UK|The UK has historically had some of the longest average working hours in the EU (Hogart et al, 2007), and the TUC reports that unpaid overtime is rife in the UK labour market (TUC, 2017). Supply side explanations have instead focused on peer pressure and status races, preference for work over family, and strong work identity (Hochschild, 1997; Besley and Gathak, 2008; Bryan and Nandi, 2015). Here we focus on personality traits, which have been studied in connection with occupational choice, labour market outcomes, participation, job performance, and absenteeism, and investigate their relationship with working hours. We make use of all seven available waves of the Understanding Society Survey and ask in particular whether certain personality types are more systematically associated with long working hours and experiencing time pressures and whether there are personality premia and penalties across the wage distribution. We find that particular personality types are more prone to working longer hours and experiencing time pressures. These effects are significant and bigger than some of the conventional variables such as human capital and, for women, the presence of small children. Whilst the effect of most personality traits is consistent with a rational theory of time allocation, we also find that neuroticism is instead associated with inconsistent behaviour (working fewer paid and more unpaid hours). In terms of personality payoffs, we find that neuroticism carries a penalty across the wage distribution, conscientiousness pays off (and more so at the top for men), extraversion pays off for women (and more so at the top), and, finally, that it really does not pay to be nice: agreeableness carries a penalty, and particularly so at the top of the wage distribution.
A13|Tres teorías demográficas, las evidencias disponibles y el paso de la descripción del cómo al entendimiento del porqué: Una aplicación y una crítica de tres hipótesis poblacionales en base a los casos de España y de la India (1950-2020)<BR>[Three demographic theories, the disposable evidence and the step between description and comprehension: An application and a critique of three population hypotheses based on the cases of Spain and India (1950-2020)]|This work aims to expose three of the main demographic theories, Demographic, Epidemiologic and Sanitary Transition theories, and explore its explanatory capacity. The content is structured in four sections. In the first we briefly review these theories. Secondly, we elaborate a diagnosis of the demographic structure of India and Spain, through its contextualization in the Asian and European context, respectively, and the use of several indicators. Next, we value the relationship between the evidence on these case studies and the hypotheses exposed. Finally, we outline possible theoretical critics based on these two cases
A13|Economic Dynamics and Changes in Values and Attitudes among Finnish Regions: A Descriptive Analysis|Abstract Finland is characterized by a substantial heterogeneity across its regions. Key economic indicators, such as the GDP per capita and the unemployment rate, vary widely for different areas, with Uusimaa, the region where Helsinki is located, being significantly richer than regions such as Kainuu and Savo. This heterogeneity, however, has not been stable over time. We find that many important indicators, namely the GDP per capita, the unemployment rate and real wages and salaries per employee, have been converging across regions over the years going from 2000 to 2014. Moreover, we examine regional values and attitudes, using surveys from the Finnish Business and Policy Forum, and find that there has been a strong regional convergence in terms of trust in political parties and in the EU. In particular, we find that the trust in these institutions has increased more in regions where there was a more negative attitude toward parties and the EU during the initial years of our analysis. On the other hand, we do not find a significant convergence with respect to the attitude towards immigration.
A13|Amartya Sen : un allié pour l’économie de la personne contre la métrique des capabilités. Deux arguments pour une lecture non fonctionnelle de la liberté chez Sen|Dans cet article, nous voulons montrer que l’usage du concept de capabilité comme une simple « métrique » du développement humain est une vision réductrice de la proposition intellectuelle de Sen. Contrairement à certaines idées reçues, Sen partage l’idée des tenants d’une économie de la personne (Ballet et al 2014) selon laquelle une théorie de la justice en termes de droits à certaines capabilités resterait prisonnière d’une vision purement fonctionnelle de la liberté. Notre démonstration passe par deux types d’arguments : 1) en reprenant l’hypothèse standard et originelle de la capabilité comme ensemble de vecteurs de fonctionnements accessibles (e.g., Sen 1987), nous mettons en évidence quatre implications théoriques de l’approche de Sen que la perspective standard en termes de « welfarisme formel » (D’Aspremont 2011, Baujard 2016) ne permet pas de saisir ; 2) nous confortons cette lecture en examinant l’hypothèse – passée inaperçue jusque là – de la capabilité comme « pouvoir effectif » d’agir dans le sens de résultats que l’on valorise (Sen 2008, 2010 [2009]). Dans les deux cas, il s’agit de montrer que la capabilité pour Sen est bien autre chose qu’une « métrique » de l’avantage personnel. De surcroît, la seconde hypothèse amène à intégrer d’emblée la question de l’obligation morale dans le concept de capabilité. Dès lors, la capabilité non seulement n’est pas une métrique de l’avantage personnel, mais elle n’est même plus une représentation de l’avantage personnel. C’est ici qu’apparaît la véritable révolution conceptuelle de Sen qui, contrairement à ce que Ricœur (2004) avait cru lire, ne se trouve pas dans le couple droit-capabilité, mais dans le couple responsabilité-capabilité nous obligeant à repenser le cadre standard des théories de la justice.
A13|The Geography and Concentration of Authorship in the Top Five: Implications For European Economics|We study to what degree authors who publish in the five most prestigious journals in economics have previously published there and in which world region they are based. Although still high, the concentration of United States‐based and previously published top‐five authors has decreased. This trend is driven by increased co‐authorship between USA and non‐USA scholars and between scholars with and without previous top‐five articles. Only around 5% of all articles each year are written solely by first‐time authors from outside the United States, and this share has not increased since the mid‐1990s. Against this background, we argue that European institutions should be wary of putting too much emphasis on publishing in these five journals. Both the advancement and diversity of the economics discipline may otherwise suffer.
A13|Can Education Reduce Traditional Gender Role Attitudes?|The purpose of this paper is to identify if there is a causal relationship between education and traditional gender-role attitudes. In particular, if women have to leave the labor market to take care of the family, and if men have more rights to a job than women when jobs are scarce. In addition, I explore plausible mechanisms through which education affects these attitudes. I use data from the European Social Survey for 14 European countries. My identification strategy exploits educational reforms changing the number of years of compulsory education to obtain a source of exogenous variation that can be used as an instrument for education. The first stage results show that education reforms certainly increase years of schooling, but only for individuals from a low-educated family, in particular women. Results indicate that for this group, one additional year of education significantly reduces the probability of agreeing with women’s traditional gender role in more than 11 percentage points.
A13|Are Retirees More Satisfied? Anticipation and Adaptation Effects of Retirement on Subjective Well-Being: A Panel Analysis for Germany|"Quality of life and satisfaction with life are of particular importance for individuals as well as for society concerning the ""demographic change"" with now longer retirement periods. This study will contribute to the life satisfaction discussion and quantifies life satisfaction and pattern of explanation before and after such a prominent life cycle event, the entrance into retirement. In particular, with the individual longitudinal data and 33 waves of the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and the appropriate microeconometric causal fixed effects robust panel methods we ask and quantify if actual life satisfaction indeed is decreasing before retirement, is increasing at the entrance into retirement, and is decreasing then after certain periods back to a foregoing level. Thus, we ask if such an anticipation and adaptation pattern – as known from other prominent events – is also to discover for life satisfaction before and after retirement in Germany."
A13|Can citizens transform companies? Monitoring of the online reputation of companies by consumers|The objective of this research is to see how in a new social context, the network society, a consequence of the 3rd Industrial Revolution or ICT revolution, a new relational model between business and the citizens is established. In this new digital context, companies see how it shapes around them, but not only for their performance, also for a long been known and widely studied intangible called Corporate Reputation. It has acquired a new dimension in the Internet environment, as an aggregation of impressions of different stakeholders of the companies. The new network society has tools for monitoring the actions of companies and it has the ability to communicate the results of this monitoring through tools such as social networks, the blogosphere and the called new journalism (citizen journalism or civic journalism). Establishing analogies with John Keane's Monitory Democracy, we examine whether this new relational model between the citizens and businesses affects the creation of Corporate Reputation of companies and if the changes in this intangible affect the economic results of companies. In this cyberspace, where economic and civic actors interact with each other using (more or less) the same tools, it is where we place the question this article tries to answer as to whether the citizens in the digital environment are able, through their actions and interactions, to monitor and influence firms’ reputation and, therefore, their functioning and their practices. Finally, three examples are included of reputational conditions for companies, as well as a brief analysis of the consequences.
A13|Comfort and Conformity: A Culture-based Theory of Migration|This paper proposes a theory of migration decisions in which cultural traits play a role. Individuals are assumed to value comfort (high wages) and conformity (interactions with individuals who share similar world views). Regions are assumed to differ economically (average wages) and culturally (average world views and their diversity). The model shows that self-selection of inter-regional migrants on world views is non-monotonic if one region is more diverse than the other, and it weakens with economic gaps between regions. This non-monotonicity can lead to a dichotomy of outcomes: culturally diverse regions become even more diverse because of migration, while culturally homogeneous regions become even more homogeneous. Consequently, Tieboutian sorting (people moving to the region in which world views are closer to theirs) only holds when regions have similar wages and diversity of world views.
A13|Electoral cycles in MPs’ salaries: evidence from the German states|Abstract Members of parliament (MPs) often set their own salaries. Voters dislike self-serving politicians, and politicians are keen to please voters. In line with political business cycle theories, politicians thus may delay giving themselves a salary increase until after elections. We investigate electoral cycles in the salary increases of German state MPs. Using data for 15 states over the period 1980–2014, we find no evidence that increases in MP salaries are influenced by election cycles. Politicians can increase their salaries at any point during the legislative period without negative consequences. We posit that this may be because even those voters who are most disenchanted with politics likely understand that all politicians benefit from a salary increase and thus do not punish the governing party at the polls.
A13|Heterogeneous preferences and the individual change to alternative electricity contracts|Based on data from a large-scale computer-based survey among more than 3700 German citizens, this paper empirically disentangles the determinants of the general change of electricity contracts and the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our econometric analysis reveals a strong relevance of behavioral factors and individual values and norms. For example, patience (which was measured by an incentivized experiment included in the survey) has a significantly positive effect on both general switches to alternative electricity contracts and specific switches to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, trust and (less robust) social preferences (also measured by an incentivized experiment) have additional significantly positive effects on the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our estimation results also imply an important role of political identification, i.e. an ecological policy orientation is strongly significantly positively correlated with the change to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, several household specific factors like relocation decisions as well as socio-demographic and socio-economic variables like household income are also relevant. The empirical analysis thus provides new explanation patterns for the phenomenon that relatively few households regularly change their electricity contracts and specifically switch to green electricity contracts, although they have high stated preferences for such changes. Our insights suggest several directions for policy and electricity suppliers to increase these switching rates. For example, the high importance of trust for the change to green electricity contracts suggests transparency initiatives of electricity suppliers to decrease concerns against renewable energies.
A13|The effect of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa (1994-2016)|This study sought to investigate the trends and impact of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa using quarterly data over the period 1994Q1 to 2016Q4. The Auto Regressive Distribution Lag (ARDL) bounds test approach is applied to determine the existence of the long run linkage among the variables. The results from the ARDL model suggest that there is a long run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. The empirical results obtained confirmed that there is a negative relationship between unemployment and economic growth both in the long and short run.
A13|Ethics and Economics: A Complex Systems Approach| This chapter examines the nature of ethics and economics as a single subject of investigation, and uses a complex systems approach to characterize the nature of that subject. It then distinguishes mainstream economic and social economic visions of it, where the former assumes that market processes encompass social processes, and the latter assumes that market processes are embedded in social processes. For each vision, string and weak theses are compared. Both visions are first explained in terms of their respective views of the positive-normative distinction, then in terms of a central normative principle, and then in terms of their policy strategies. The chapter closes with comments on the future status of ethics and economics as a single subject of investigation.
A13|Cultural Values, Family Decisions and Gender Segregation in Higher Education: Evidence from 26 OECD Economies| This paper examines the role of cultural values and family decision-making in the gender distribution of higher education on a panel database of 9 elds of study in 26 OECD countries over 1998-2012. The paper surmises an interplay between family-friendly policies and cultural values that might be associated with gender segregation. Using survey data from the World Value Survey, the results suggest that gender-egalitarian attitudes of females are negatively associated with gender segregation. However, attitudes of males are not associated with signi cant coe cients. Marriage market indicators, such as the age at rst marriage, are positively associated with gender segregation. Finally, family-friendly policies are found to display a positive association with segregation in societies that are attached to traditional gender roles in the labor market. To the contrary, the same policies are negatively associated with segregation in gender-egalitarian societies. These ndings are robust to country and eld-speci c levels of segregation, and remain using alternative speci cations and estimation techniques.
A13|Religion, Corporate Governance, and Executive Compensation|We investigate how regional variation in religiosity and the prevalent religious denomination in a U.S. state where a company is headquartered are associated with the level and structure of executive compensation. We document a substantial compensation premium in executives working at firms headquartered in U.S. states with a high proportion of Catholics and conversely a discount in states with a high proportion of Protestants. We provide evidence suggesting that these findings are not caused by heterogeneous demand for executives’ effort, managerial ability, or social skills. Our results are consistent with the “Catholic premium” and the “Protestant discount” being associated with the adherence to different social values that have implications for corporate governance quality and for managerial entrenchment. Our results highlight the importance of social values for economic activity and for contracting between economic agents.
A13|Working Paper 02-18 - Mesurer le bien-être en Belgique - Construction d’un indicateur composite pour mesurer le bien-être actuel des Belges<BR>[Working Paper 02-18 - Het welzijn in België meten - Opbouw van een composiete indicator om het huidige welzijn van de Belgen te meten]|This Working Paper proposes an indicator to measure the development in well-being in Belgium. It was built from a statistical analysis of the determinants of well-being in Belgium. It has the advantage of being transparent, divisible and easy to communicate. The analysis shows that the well-being of Belgians generally decreased between 2005 and 2016. This decrease is mainly due to a deterioration in the health of Belgians.
A13|Islamic Financial Institutions and Participatory Finance Constraints: The Case of Pakistan|Islamic financial contracts are designed to facilitate financing according to Islamic norms. Islamic financing in its first stages used only the partnership modes of Musharakah and Mudarabah. Later it is realized that, to avoid moral hazards, yet compete successfully with conventional banks, it is necessary to use all permissible Islamic modes and consequently, trade and leasing techniques were developed. This paper aims to identify the constraints faced by Islamic financial institutions in the adoption of participatory finance i.e., Musharakah and Mudarabah financing. The two basic categories of financing are: 1) profit-and-loss-sharing (PLS), also called participatory finance, i.e. Musharakah and Mudarabah and 2) purchase and hire of goods or assets and services on a fixed-return basis, i.e., Murabahah, Istisna', Salam and Ijarah also called non-participatory finance. This paper suggests that innovation and creativity is necessitated more than ever to promote participatory modes of financing and to make it the preferred choice for meeting the increasingly sophisticated and diversified financial needs.
A13|Is social identity belief independent?|In this paper we aim to disentangle the effects on in-group favoritism driven by beliefs from those stemming from group identity, with the final goal of testing the relative power of three potential explanations of this bias: The Beliefs Driven Explanation (BDE), the Group Identity Explanation (GIE) and the Belief-mediated Group Identity Explanation (BGE). The BDE suggests that in-group favoritism is only driven by the desire not to let othersâ€™ expectations down. The GIE claims that people have a preference, per se, for members of their group. According to the BGE, people also have a preference for members of their group, but this is mediated by their second-order beliefs. To this aim, we built an experimental design able to produce exogenous variations in both group membership and expectations, hence providing a genuine test for the rationale of in-group bias. The results of our experiment suggest that beliefs per se are not a significant explanation of in-group favoritism and hence do not provide support to the BDE. Our experimental evidence does not provide support also to the BGE. We conclude that our experiment suggests to single out the GIE as the most powerful explanation of social identity.
A13|Analyse nachhaltigen Verhaltens und Maßnahmen zu dessen Begünstigung|Die vorliegende Forschungsarbeit setzt sich mit nachhaltigem Verhalten in Bezug auf die Nutzung von Kaffeebehältern an der HBRS auseinander. Anlass dafür ist, dass Pappbecher aufgrund einer Plastikbeschichtung nur schwer recycelbar sind und somit die Umwelt erheblich beeinträchtigen. In diesem Zusammenhang nahmen 204 Studierende an einer Online-Befragung teil. Den Ergebnissen zufolge kommen derzeit vor allem Einweg-Pappbecher zum Einsatz. Zur Modifizierung dieses umweltschädlichen Verhaltens bedarf es an geeigneten Interventionsstrategien. Basierend auf den Ergebnissen sind Maßnahmen zu implementieren, die dem Defizit an Handlungswissen und dem hohen Aufwand entgegenwirken, welcher mit der Verwendung eigens mitgebrachter Becher und den vorhandenen Porzellantassen assoziiert wird. Nach Sicherstellung der ökologischen Vorteile und finanziellen Umsetzbarkeit sollte das bestehende Pfandsystem um praktischere Becher sowie flexible Rückgabemöglichkeiten erweitert werden. Unterstützend ist eine Belohnung in Form von Freigetränken oder einem geringen finanziellen Rabatt sinnvoll, um den automatischen Verbrauch von Pappbechern zu unterbinden.
A13|Impact of Culture on Terrorist Financing: The Role of Public Governance|In this study, we investigate the role of public governance in mediating the effect of culture on terrorist financing (TF). Although culture has a significant impact on terrorism financing, the government can use the control of corruption (COC)and the rule of law (ROL) as useful tools in mitigating or eliminating this impact. We examine whether the COC and ROL can mediate the effect of culture on terrorist financing across 78 countries. We use Basel Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Index as a proxy for the risk terrorist financing, Hofstede?s cultural dimensions for culture measuring and COC and ROL as indicators for public governance. The results reveal a complete mediation for COC and ROL to the impact of culture on terrorism financing.
A13|The effect of intercultural competence on intercultural communication|Intercultural competence is a relatively new term and may be more relevant than ever due to the growing number of misunderstandings and miscommunication during intercultural interactions. Experts generally point out that it is the existence of intercultural competence which facilitates intercultural communication. The purpose of the present paper is to discuss the effect of intercultural competence on intercultural communication. Therefore the paper reviews the most relevant literature of the topic, and emphasizes the consequences of the lack of intercultural competence on intercultural communication with the help of some case studies collected among Hungarian businesspeople working with partners with different cultural backgrounds. Finally, the paper draws conclusions about the effect of intercultural competence on intercultural communication.
A13|Labor Precarization: Russian Empirical Evidence|In the conditions of educational and health institutions reforming and a series of economic crises, representatives of social-oriented helping professions move to the precarization zone. Based on the survey conducted in the spring of 2017 (2,054 school teachers and 870 physicians in state organizations in Moscow, Rostov-on-Don and Kazan), signs of precracious labor were identified: instability, the risk of job loss/changing, an increase in workload, not accompanied by higher wages, social and economic vulnerability. The empirical data shows that despite the satisfactory self-assessment of socially-oriented professionals' life, the level of precarious labor is higher for teachers from provincial cities and lower in the capital schools. In the field of health care, the extent of precarization is approximately the same in the different cities. Most teachers and doctors are concerned about the growth of workload without increasing wages and the risks of job loss. The majority of representatives of helping professions do not agree with the fact that the state effectively solves the social and economic problems of teaching. At the same time, interviewed teachers and doctors will take a rather passive attitude in case of violation of their labor rights. Nothing will be done by more than a half of all respondents. However, the excessive regulation of school teachers and physicians, on the one hand, and the continuing high demand for the work of schools and hospitals on the other, are associated with the risk of social tension increase in the Russian society.
A13|Beyond Budgeting - a fair alternative for management control? Examining the relationships between Beyond Budgeting, organizational justice and unethical behaviors|The influence of Management Control Systems (MCS) on the social framework of organizations has been discussed in research and practice since the seminal work of Chris Argyris (1953). In this context, the impact of MCS design on unethical behaviors has been of particular interest. To remedy MCS related unethical behaviors some researchers developed Beyond Budgeting (BB) as an alternative MCS approach that is rooted in McGregor?s Theory Y. BB builds on specific MCS characteristics and its proponents claim that these characteristics are capable to reduce MCS related unethical behaviors. However, there has been quite little research on the underlying effect mechanisms of the relationship between the design of MCS characteristics and unethical behaviors. Recent research suggests that the design of MCS characteristics has a significant impact on organizational justice perceptions. Furthermore, organizational justice has been found to be positively correlated with various positive organizational outcomes, particularly trust and behavior. This study tries to contribute to deepen the understanding of the interplay between MCS design, organizational justice and unethical behaviors by applying structural equation modelling to examine these relationships. The results suggest that some MCS characteristics that are part of a BB design have a significant impact on organizational justice perceptions. Moreover, the results also suggest that the enhancement of organizational justice perceptions might finally lead to a reduction of MCS related unethical behaviors.
A13|"""Cultural additivity"" and how the values and norms of Confucianism, Buddhism, and Taoism co-exist, interact, and influence Vietnamese society: A Bayesian analysis of long-standing folktales, using R and Stan"|"Every year, the Vietnamese people reportedly burned about 50,000 tons of joss papers, which took the form of not only bank notes, but iPhones, cars, clothes, even housekeepers, in hope of pleasing the dead. The practice was mistakenly attributed to traditional Buddhist teachings but originated in fact from China, which most Vietnamese were not aware of. In other aspects of life, there were many similar examples of Vietnamese so ready and comfortable with adding new norms, values, and beliefs, even contradictory ones, to their culture. This phenomenon, dubbed ""cultural additivity"", prompted us to study the co-existence, interaction, and influences among core values and norms of the Three Teachings –Confucianism, Buddhism, and Taoism–as shown through Vietnamese folktales. By applying Bayesian logistic regression, we evaluated the possibility of whether the key message of a story was dominated by a religion (dependent variables), as affected by the appearance of values and anti-values pertaining to the Three Teachings in the story (independent variables). Our main findings included the existence of the cultural additivity of Confucian and Taoist values. More specifically, empirical results showed that the interaction or addition of the values of Taoism and Confucianism in folktales together helped predict whether the key message of a story was about Confucianism, β{VT ⋅ VC} = 0.86. Meanwhile, there was no such statistical tendency for Buddhism. The results lead to a number of important implications. First, this showed the dominance of Confucianism because the fact that Confucian and Taoist values appeared together in a story led to the story’s key message dominated by Confucianism. Thus, it presented the evidence of Confucian dominance and against liberal interpretations of the concept of the Common Roots of Three Religions (""tam giáo đồng nguyên"") as religious unification or unicity. Second, the concept of ""cultural additivity"" could help explain many interesting socio-cultural phenomena, namely the absence of religious intolerance and extremism in the Vietnamese society, outrageous cases of sophistry in education, the low productivity in creative endeavors like science and technology, the misleading branding strategy in business. We are aware that our results are only preliminary and more studies, both theoretical and empirical, must be carried out to give a full account of the explanatory reach of ""cultural additivity""."
A13|Evolution of preferences in group-structured populations: genes, guns, and culture|Humans have evolved in populations structured in groups that extended beyond the nuclear family. Individuals interacted with each other within these groups and there was limited migration and sometimes conáicts between these groups. Suppose that during this evolution, individuals transmitted their behaviors or preferences to their (genetic or cultural) o§spring, and that material outcomes resulting from the interaction determined which parents were more successful than others in producing (genetic or cultural) o§spring. Should one then expect pure material self-interest to prevail? Some degree of altruism, spite, inequity aversion or morality? By building on established models in population biology we analyze the role that di§erent aspects of population structureó such as group size, migration rates, probability of group conáicts, cultural loyalty towards parentsó play in shaping behaviors and preferences which, once established, cannot be displaced by any other preference. In particular, we establish that uninvadable preferences under limited migration between groups will consist of a materially self-interested, a moral, and an other-regarding component, and we show how the strength of each component depends on population structure.
A13|Evolution of preferences in group-structured populations: genes, guns, and culture|Humans have evolved in populations structured in groups that extended beyond the nuclear family. Individuals interacted with each other within these groups and there was limited migration and sometimes conáicts between these groups. Suppose that during this evolution, individuals transmitted their behaviors or preferences to their (genetic or cultural) o§spring, and that material outcomes resulting from the interaction determined which parents were more successful than others in producing (genetic or cultural) o§spring. Should one then expect pure material self-interest to prevail? Some degree of altruism, spite, inequity aversion or morality? By building on established models in population biology we analyze the role that di§erent aspects of population structureó such as group size, migration rates, probability of group conáicts, cultural loyalty towards parentsó play in shaping behaviors and preferences which, once established, cannot be displaced by any other preference. In particular, we establish that uninvadable preferences under limited migration between groups will consist of a materially self-interested, a moral, and an other-regarding component, and we show how the strength of each component depends on population structure.
A13|The influence of Sen’s applied economics on his “social choice” approach to justice: agency at the core of public action to remove injustice|Our paper shows that Sen’s (2009) alternative theory of justice is greatly influenced by 1) his work on famines ; 2) his empirical work on gender inequalities, specifically within the Indian society, that helped him to refine his approach to hunger ; and 3) his involvement in the creation of the human development approach. All these engagements — seemingly completely separate from his contribution to the theories of justice — have, in fact, fostered the formulation of a novel approach in which agency and public reasoning are the core elements.
A13|Market integration and pro-social behaviour in rural Liberia|There is a long-standing debate on whether access to markets may change pro-social preferences and as a result undermine informal support structures prevalent in many developing country settings. This study presents empirical evidence on the relation between market integration and pro-social behaviour among rural households in Liberia. This is particularly relevant in light of recent emphasis on promoting agricultural development through connecting small-scale farmers to markets and value chains. We use data from two lab-in-the-field experiments to measure preferences for altruism and fairness towards fellow villagers and traders from a provincial market and combine the experiments with household survey data. We define market integration as the share of consumption bought at the market. The regression analysis is based on Tobit and 2SLS Tobit models using chief characteristics and predicted food consumption expenditures as instrumental variables. Our study finds that increased levels of market integration have no robust impact on altruistic behaviour, as represented by amounts send in the dictator game, but are associated with lower offers in the ultimatum game. Our findings support the idea that market integration makes people act more economically rational, especially when matched with traders. The study provides new evidence that contrary to popular belief, markets do not crowd out norms of generosity or fairness, or lead to some sort of negative externality by changing norms and preferences but rather strengthen strategic considerations and behaviour.
A13|Blessed are the first: The long-term effect of birth order on trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
A13|Does The Financial Situation affect Cheating Behavior? An Investigation through Financial Literacy|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|Commitment to pay taxes: Results from field and laboratory experiments|A tax authority's ability to successfully collect taxes depends on its relationship with the taxpayers as well as their commitment to contribute to the common good. In this paper, we examine the effect of promises on tax compliance aimed at fostering taxpayer commitment. First, in a field experiment, we investigate whether tax compliance changes when taxpayers make a formal promise to pay their taxes on time with compliance rewarded by entry into a lottery for either a financial or nonfinancial (in-kind) reward. We then complement this analysis with a laboratory experiment in which we measure the effect of promises in the different compliance domain of tax honesty and contrast the effect of a pure promise to pay with schemes that pair the promise with a reward offer. We find that taxpayers with a history of compliance or high scores on tax morale are more likely to make the promise, but solely offering the possibility to make a promise does not lead to a change in compliance behavior. Whether or not compliance improves depends on the type of reward to which the promise is linked. In our experimental analyses, for example, compliance only increases if the reward for promise fulfillment is nonfinancial.
A13|Public Statements of Good Conduct Promote Pro-Social Behavior|Voluntary and compulsory public statements of good conduct are frequently observed in the real world, such as the codes of good conduct for professionals or the requirements of academic journals to affirm that research was carried out ethically. In this study, we investigate what effect public statements of good conduct have on contribution behavior in a public goods experiment. Using a 'between-within subjects design' we identify three channels by which non-enforceable statements of intent are associated with higher levels of contributions to the public good. First, in a selection effect, socially-oriented participants are more likely in the experiment to make a public statement. Second, in a commitment effect, participants who make a public statement are contributing more to the public good. Third, in a coordination effect, aggregate contributions are higher when 'Statement-Makers' observe that also other group members make the statement. The latter explains why compulsory statements of good conduct are in our experiment more effective over time.
A13|Trendstudie 2018: Lese- und Schreibverhalten der Generationen X, Y, Z|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|The Effects of Status Concerns on Labor Markets for Different Types of Workers|Based on people's ambition to be viewed as intelligent and the findings on social status and social identity we assume that higher education is associated with high social esteem. We incorporate these findings into people's educational decision and aim to explore the effects of status concerns on labor supply, wages and production. We discover that social status associated with higher education induces more workers to attend the higher educational path. In turn, labor supply of highly educated workers increases, which decreases the respective wage in equilibrium. Moreover, the wage for less educated workers increases in status concerns. There is a unique level of status concerns maximizing the product market's output. Whether production increases or decreases in status concerns depends on whether this level is exceeded or not.
A13|The Intergenerational Causal Effect of Tax Evasion: Evidence from the Commuter Tax Allowance in Austria|Does tax evasion run in the family? We study the case of the commuter tax allowance in Austria, which is designed as a step function of the commuting distance, creating sharp discontinuities at each bracket threshold. The data sources allow us to observe actual compliance behavior at the individual level. To identify a causal effect, we use the paternal distance-to-bracket as an IV for paternal compliance. We find that paternal noncompliance increases children's non-compliance by about 24%.
A13|Why are we more likely to tip some service occupations than others? Theory, evidence, and implications|Ideas about why consumers tip some service occupations more often than others are tested using occupation scores derived from online ratings of 122 service occupations. Results indicate that U.S. consumers are more likely to tip occupations for which (i) workers’ performances can be more easily evaluated by consumers than by managers, (ii) workers provide customized service, (iii) workers’ income, skill and needed judgment are low, and (iv) workers are less happy than customers during the service encounter. Occupations with greater frequency of customer patronage and/or greater likelihood of encountering the same service provider on multiple service occasions are not more likely than other occupations to be tipped. These findings support some and disconfirm other expectations derived from a theory that occupational differences in tipping are attributable to occupation characteristics that more strongly/consistently evoke motives for tipping. They also identify types of services for which counter-normative tipping policies are more or less likely to be successful and suggest sources of resistance that must be overcome if those policies are to succeed.
A13|Farmer share and fair distribution in food chains from a consumer’s perspective|Discussions about fair revenue distribution in food supply chains gained importance in 2008 when European milk producers entered a strike against dairy processing companies (EU milk strike). A broad discussion in the media emerged, provoking civil society as well as politics to get involved in a debate over fair prices for farmers. During the milk strike, consumers in Germany were to a large extent sympathetic with the farmers, while food retailers were seen as the main cause of the problem. However, the question what fairness and a fair revenue distribution in food production meant remained unanswered. Hence, this study aims to analyze consumer perceptions of what a fair revenue distribution is in food chains and to determine what factors contribute to fairness perceptions of the farmers’ share. Through an online survey conducted in November 2012, German consumers were asked to estimate the distribution of the food dollar among different supply chain partners and to indicate what a fair distribution should look like. This paper contributes to the literature of the perceived unfair compensation of farmers and provides empirical examples of the concepts of distributive, procedural and interactional fairness. The findings of the survey showed that farmers are mainly perceived as being treated unfairly in supply chains and should get more compensation from a consumer’s point of view. Food retailing should mainly lose shares in this context. A fair distribution of revenues is influenced by distributive considerations, process control and interactional fairness, revealing that non-monetary aspects are also influencing fairness perceptions of revenue distribution in food chains.
A13|Migrant entrepreneurs and local networks in industrial districts|Migrant firms are increasing in local manufacturing systems. Their presence is expected to generate beneficial effects in host regions by stimulating trade flows and knowledge diffusion. However, the opportunity for migrant entrepreneurs to prosper depends on their ability to establish linkages with the local firm networks. Using an innovative database on Italian micro and small businesses, this paper investigates the performance of a sample of migrant and indigenous firms, providing evidence of a significant gap. The results suggest that manufacturing systems that exclude migrant firms are missing a key opportunity to integrate a valuable source of diversity.
A13|Social capital and local public transportation in Japan|Local public transportation except in metropolitan areas in Japan faces operating difficulties due to business deficits. In recent years, central and local governments have taken social benefits into account to support local public transportation, but social benefits calculated in their cost-benefit analyses seem to be insufficient to evaluate them. Especially since the great earthquake in 2011, Japanese people have begun to rethink the importance of network and trust in neighborhoods, which can be called as ‘social capital,’ based on mobility. Therefore, focusing on ‘social capital,’ this paper tries to find the role of local public transportation beyond social benefits. Specifically, it makes an empirical analysis on the relationship between the indexes of ‘social capital’ and local bus services using cross section data. As a result, network and participation indexes standing for ‘social capital’ in each prefecture positively correlate with the level of local bus services. Also, according to our survey research in Toyama, introduction of a new LRT line is likely to have considerably changed the activities of residents along the line and has tended to promote more opportunities to come into contact with others than before. Those studies shed light on the role of public transportation from the standpoint of ‘social capital.’
A13|Groups and trust: Experimental evidence on the Olson and Putnam hypotheses|Mancur Olson and Robert Putnam provide two conflicting views on the effect of involvement with voluntary associations on their members. Putnam argues that associations instill in their members habits of cooperation, solidarity and public spiritedness. Olson emphasizes the tendency of groups to pursue private interests and lobby for preferential policies. We carry out the first field experiment involving a sample of members of different association types from different age groups and education levels, as well as a demographically comparable sample of non-members. This enables us to examine the differential patterns of behavior followed by members of Putnam-type and Olson-type associations. Coherently with both the Putnam's and Olson's view, we find that members of Putnam-type (Olson-type) associations display more (no more) generalized trust than non-members. However, when we examine trustworthy behavior we find the opposite pattern, with members of Olson-type (Putnam-type) associations more (no more) trustworthy than non-members. No systematic effect for the intensity of participation in associations emerges. We analyze the issue of self-selection through a structural equation model. This supports the view that membership has a significant effect on prosociality.
A13|Pro-social or anti-social, or both? A within- and between-subjects study of social preferences|The literature on dictator (D) and joy-of-destruction (JoD) games demonstrates that some people can be nice and some people can be nasty. We study, by way of an experiment with between-subjects and within-subjects features, to what extent social preferences are consistent or context dependent. We find that participants’ giving amount in D games, and the amount they destroy in JoD games, depends on the choice set. While the choice set strongly affects participants’ giving decisions, its effect on participants’ destruction decisions is much weaker. We observe inconsistent choices (giving in D games and destroying in JoD games) for about one in five subjects but also find this mixed-motive preference dramatically reduces when the choice sets of standard D and JoD games are enlarged. Most of our participants are selfish although they also tend to make choices that increase social welfare when given the opportunity. The Machiavellian attitudes we elicited predict the giving amount in D games but not the destruction amount in JoD games.
A13|Materialistic, pro-social, anti-social, or mixed – A within-subject examination of self- and other-regarding preferences|We introduce an experimental setup to elicit subjects’ materialistic, pro-social, and anti-social preferences. We find one third of the population exhibits mixed social preferences, choosing to give, to destroy, and to keep some payoffs. Most others are either materialistic, keeping all payoffs, or pro-social, giving some and keeping some, but not destroying payoffs. For individuals with mixed social preferences, giving and destruction are positively correlated, but do not seem to be influenced by payoff comparisons. We find that full information and experimenter demand may increase the extent of pro-social preferences, but do not affect the extent of anti-social preferences or the distribution of social types in the population.
A13|Deep Ecology, the Holistic Critique of Enlightenment Dualism, and the Irony of History|In the 1970s, deep ecologists developed a radical normative argument for 'ecological consciousness' to challenge environmental and human exploitation. Such consciousness would replace the Enlightenment dualist 'illusion' with a post-Enlightenment holism that 'fully integrated' humanity within the ecosphere. By the 2000s, deep ecology had fallen out of favour with many green scholars. And, in 2014, it was described as a 'spent force'. However, this decline has coincided with calls by influential advocates of 'corporate social and environmental responsibility' (CSER) and 'green growth' (GG) that urge market actors to ensure voluntarily that social and environmental 'problems are addressed holistically'. Given that CSER and GG have also been associated with rent seeking, privatisation and reducing incomes of the poor, could it be that some of deep ecology's once radical ideas today serve to legitimate forms of exploitation that they once decried? A critical realist perspective can problematise deep ecology's highly normative response to exploitation and alienation. By settling ontological questions in favour of holism and promoting moral voluntarism, deep ecology failed to address how actors with different interests might adopt green ideas. This blind spot can be cured by focusing instead on the active deployment of ethics, morality, values, beliefs, ideas and knowledges by political actors in historically specific contexts. Both critical normative and critical realist modes of engaging with environmental values are important; however, at a time when holism and voluntarism are gaining influence, critical realism offers helpful insight into the uses and abuses of such values.
A13|Identity-Driven Cooperation versus Competition|This paper seeks to extend the domain of identity economics by exploring motivational foundations of in-group cooperation and out-group competition. On this basis, we explore the reflexive interaction between individual economic decisions and social identities in response to technological change in market economies. Our analysis explores how technological change falling on marketable goods and services, rather than non-market caring relationships, leads to a restructuring of identities, which increases the scope of individualism and promotes positional competition at the expense of caring activities. Since positional competition generates negative externalities while caring activities create positive ones, these developments have important welfare implications.
A13|Patterns of Employment in Romania – Future Challenges|Employment statistics are key indicators in analyzing the developments in labor markets, which can be used to study the level of economic and social development of a country. In this research study descriptive statistics tools were applied to study the patterns of employment in Romania. The result offers an overview over the specifics of employment in this country. Data source used in this study is the Labor Force Survey, carried out by the National Institute of Statistics Romania. This research will contribute in describing the economic and social life of Romania, as well as a comparison tool in regard with other countries of the European Union.
A13|Willingness to pay for environmental quality and social capital influence in Sweden|The growing recognition of social capital as an important parameter necessary for shaping pro-environmental behaviour and attitudes is well established in the literature and continues to engage the attention of policymakers, academics and citizens in many jurisdictions. In this paper, we contribute to this strand of literature by investigating the extent to which various elements of social capital influences Swedish public’s tendency to contribute financially or through lifestyle changes in order to protect the environment. Using data from the latest wave of the International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) on the environment in 2010, we explore empirically the link between individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) and social capital influence using an ordered logistic model. The results show, that, individuals in Sweden are fairly willing to pay for the environment and that this decision is principally and significantly influenced by elements of social capital. In particular, we find quite robust results to show that social and institutional trust, environmental group membership among related civic participation activities and adherence to environmental norms significantly impacts the probability of individuals’ decision to sacrifice toward environmental sustainability by paying higher environmental taxes, prices or through standard of living adjustments.
A13|Un indicatore per la misurazione della partecipazione culturale e sociale nelle regioni italiane|Da sempre la partecipazione sociale e culturale rappresenta un mezzo per favorire la crescita economica elevata e lo sviluppo dell’individuo in una determinata società. Oggi le istituzioni pubbliche e private cercano spesso di mettere a disposizione sforzi e mezzi per favorire la fruibilità del tempo libero e della partecipazione sociale. L’Indagine Multiscopo sulle famiglie italiane, condotta dall’Istituto Italiano di Statistica (ISTAT), fornisce una vasta gamma di dati specifici al fine di valutare particolari aspetti della vita della popolazione italiana. Il presente lavoro analizza questo insieme di dati attraverso la costruzione di un indicatore composito, misurato attraverso il metodo di Borda, utile ad indicare in quali circostanze possono aversi alti livelli di partecipazione sociale e culturale. Esso viene messo a confronto con il reddito disponibile pro-capite per verificare la correlazione tra le possibilità reddituali ed economiche delle famiglie e le loro capacità di partecipare alla vita sociale nel contesto in cui operano.
A13|A Biographical Note on John Bates Clark|This note reports some information about the life of John Bates Clark which come from an unpublished family history written in 1968 by John Bates Clark’s nephew, Frederick Clark Lyman, the son of his sister Elizabeth Huntington Clark Lyman. This new material and the biographical details are checked and complemented with other sources, in particular Alden H. Clark’s memorial publication written in 1938.
A13|Spatial Explorations and Digital Traces: Experiences of Legal Blindness through Filmmaking|Descriptions of legal blindness, as lived experience —involving continual movement between the world of sightedness and blindness—are largely absent within medical models of disability. In an effort to challenge depictions of blindness as pathology, researchers in this project worked with participants who are legally blind, in a co-designed exploration of built spaces in the city of Edmonton, Canada. In this article we describe a collaborative research method through which participants shared stories while recording their movement through a shopping mall, an art gallery, and a gym. Through this project, participants often took the lead, determining the content and context of urban journeys. Stories and images shared through this collaboration suggest that legal blindness is an alternative way of knowing the world, with unique perceptual experiences, navigational strategies, and complexity that is often unacknowledged within a medically constructed blindness/sightedness binary. In describing the complex relationship between participants, researchers, architecture, and technology we will combine narrative forms of writing with actor-network theory. The sharing of stories, along with lived experiences has led to a project that revolves around ability, as opposed to disability. A link to the film is provided at the end of this article.
A13|“Reasonable Accommodation” and “Accessibility”: Human Rights Instruments Relating to Inclusion and Exclusion in the Labor Market|Ableism is a powerful social force that causes persons with disabilities to suffer exclusion. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) is based on the human rights principles of equality and freedom for all people. This Convention contains two human rights instruments: the principle of accessibility and the means of reasonable accommodation, which can be used to protect the human rights of disabled persons. The extent to which they are used depends on whether the state implements the Convention adequately and whether companies accept their responsibility with respect to employing disabled persons and making workplaces available and designing them appropriately. Civil society can demand the adequate implementation of the human rights asserted in the CRPD and, thus, in national legislation, as well. A crucial point here is that only a state that has ratified the Convention is obliged to implement the Convention. Civil society has no obligation to do this, but has the right to participate in the implementation process (Art. 4 and Art. 33 CRPD). The Convention can play its part for disabled persons participating in the labor market without discrimination. If it is not implemented or not heeded sufficiently, the state must push this and put more effort into its implementation. If the state does not do this, this violates human rights and has direct consequences for the living conditions of disabled persons. The powerful ideological force of ableism then remains dominant and hampers or prevents the participation of persons with disabilities in the labor market and, thus, in society as a whole.
A13|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Societies in 2015|The editors of Societies would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2015. [...]
A13|A Path Analysis of the Effects of Principal Professional Orientation towards Leadership, Professional Teacher Behavior, and School Academic Optimism on School Reading Achievement|This study tested the effects of the principal’s professional orientation towards leadership/enabling school structure (ESS) on two mediating variables, school academic optimism (SAO) and professional teacher behavior (PTB), on the outcome variable school reading achievement (RA). Data were drawn from a sample of 54 schools (including 45 elementary schools and nine middle schools); the school was the unit of analysis. Data analysis supported a path to RA in which a structural variable, ESS was the immediate antecedent of SAO and PTB. Two control variables, school level and SES, were included in the model. SES had a significant effect on SAO but not on PTB. School level had a negative effect on both PTB and SAO suggesting that both variables were higher in elementary school and declined in middle school. SES paired with SAO in predicting RA. As expected, SAO had a greater effect on RA than SES. The significance of the findings lies in the confirmation of SAO as an important influence on RA and in demonstrating the importance of ESS in establishing a context in which AO and PTB can flourish.
A13|Taken for Granted: Material Relations Between Disability and Codes/Guidelines|This paper provides a critical examination of the taken for granted nature of the codes/guidelines used towards the creation of designed spaces, their social relations with designers, and their agency in designing for people with disabilities. We conducted case studies at three national museums in Canada where we began by questioning societal representations of disability within and through material culture through the potential of actor-network theory where non-human actors have considerable agency. Specifically, our exploration looks into how representations of disability for designing, are interpreted through mediums such as codes, standards and guidelines. We accomplish this through: deep analyses of the museums’ built environments (outdoors and indoors); interviewed curators, architects and designers involved in the creation of the spaces/displays; completed dialoguing while in motion interviews with people who have disabilities within the spaces; and analyzed available documents relating to the creation of the museums. Through analyses of our rich data set involving the mapping of codes/guidelines in their “representation” of disability and their contributions in “fixing” disability, this paper takes an alternative approach to designing for/with disability by aiming to question societal representations of disability within and through material culture.
A13|Bodies Folded in Migrant Crypts: Dis/Ability and the Material Culture of Border-Crossing|This article considers media narratives that suggest that hiding in trucks, buses, and other vehicles to cross borders has, in fact, been a common practice in the context of migration to, and within, Europe. We aim to problematize how the tension between the materiality of bordering practices and human migrants generates a dis/abled subject. In this context, dis/ability may be a cause or consequence of migration, both in physical/material (the folding of bodies in the crypt) and cultural/semiotic terms, and may become a barrier to accessing protection, to entering and/or crossing a country, and to performing mobility in general. Dis/ability and migration have not been associated in the literature. We adopt an analytical symmetry between humans and non-humans, in this case between bodies and crypts. By suggesting an infected, ambivalent, and hybrid approach to the human subject, the body-crypt traveling border challenges the essentialist dichotomies between technology and biology, disability and impairment. The articles and reports upon which we rely were collected through extensive searches of databases/archives of online newspapers and news websites.
A13|Beadwork and the Plasticity of Disability: (Un)Making Bodily Difference, Gender and Apprenticeship in Kinshasa, DR Congo|Plastic beads have recently become of importance in the lives of women with disabilities in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DR Congo). Using a materialist approach that focuses on such specific items, this article deviates from most materialist approaches to disability that are focused on the built environment, medical objects, or assistive technology. Rather, the focus is on “things” (this term is to be understood as items being alive in meshworks of social relations) that are explanatory of disability, gender, and world formation or “making”. We show how the interplay of materials, gender, and disability results in acts of creation and performance, and involves an unfolding of life and orientation towards the future.
A13|White Women Wanted? An Analysis of Gender Diversity in Social Justice Magazines|The role of media in collective action repertoires has been extensively studied, but media as an agent of socialization in social movement identity is less understood. It could be that social movement media is normalizing a particular activist identity to the exclusion of other demographics. For instance, Harper has identified white-centrism in anti-speciesist media produced by the Nonhuman Animal rights movement and supposes that this lack of diversity stunts movement potential. Using the lesser-studied Nonhuman Animal rights movement as a starting point, this study investigates two prominent Nonhuman Animal rights magazines. We compare those findings with an analysis of comparable leftist movements also known to exhibit diversity strains. A content analysis of Nonhuman Animal rights, women’s rights, and gay rights magazine covers spanning from 2000 to 2012 was undertaken to determine the manifestation of gender, race, body type, and sexualization. We find that the Nonhuman Animal rights media in our sample overwhelmingly portrays white women with a tendency toward thinness, but with low levels of sexualization as comparable to that of the other movements. All three movement samples unevenly depicted gender, overrepresented whites, and underrepresented non-thin body types.
A13|How Can I Trust You if You Don’t Know Who You Are? The Consequences of a Fluid Identity on Cross-Racial Organizing between African American Women and Latinas in Atlanta|Scholarship in the area of cross-racial organizing between Latina/o and African Americans has increased substantially over the past ten years. Within that literature, scholars have identified many reasons why cross-racial coalitions both succeed and fail. Among the factors most often cited is the issue of trust. Despite the recognition of the crucial role trust plays in cross-racial organizing, little attention has been paid to what contributes to actually building trust between African Americans and Latina/o. I argue that one factor contributing to the distrust of Latinas among African American women involved in cross-racial organizing in Atlanta is the perceived discrepancy between Latinas’ own asserted identity and the identity assigned to them by African American women organizers. Using data gathered from six years of participant observation and forty interviews conducted with African American women and Latinas organizing in Georgia, I discuss the consequences of identity construction for cross-racial organizing. I find that within cross-racial organizing spaces in Atlanta, perceived racial identities are used by African American women as proxies for determining Latina organizers’ commitment to social justice and, correspondingly, how much individual Latinas can be trusted. Specifically, I find that African American respondents view Latina identity as optional and potentially white. Latina respondents, on the other hand, assert strong identities and contend that their perceived “optional” identities are a function of what Anzaldúa calls a mestiza consciousness or the straddeling of multiple identities. I argue that understanding how these identities are assigned and asserted by Latinas and African American women is a crucial and often-overlooked component to building trust, and by extension, to building sustainable cross-racial coalitions.
A13|Considering Material Culture in Assessing Assistive Devices: “Breaking up the Rhythm”|This paper reports on a project that looked at the meaning stroke survivors assigned to assistive devices. Material culture theory served as a framework to help stroke survivors explicitly consider [dis]ability as a discursive object with a socially constructed meaning that influenced how they thought about themselves with impairment. Material culture theory informed the design (taking and talking to their peers about photos of anything that assisted) and analysis of the meaning of the assistive devices project. In our analysis of the narratives, survivors assigned three types of meanings to the assistive devices: markers of progress, symbolic objects of disability, and the possibility of independent participation. Notably, the meaning of assistive devices as progress, [dis]ability, and [poss]ability was equally evident as participants talked about mobility, everyday activities, and services. We discuss how considering [dis]ability as a discursive object in the situation might have enabled stroke survivors to participate.
A13|Employment, Disabled People and Robots: What Is the Narrative in the Academic Literature and Canadian Newspapers?|The impact of robots on employment is discussed extensively, for example, within the academic literature and the public domain. Disabled people are known to have problems obtaining employment. The purpose of this study was to analyze how robots were engaged with in relation to the employment situation of disabled people within the academic literature present in the academic databases EBSCO All—an umbrella database that consists of over 70 other databases, Scopus, Science Direct and Web of Science and within n = 300 Canadian newspapers present in the Canadian Newsstand Complete ProQuest database. The study focuses in particular on whether the literature covered engaged with the themes of robots impacting (a) disabled people obtaining employment; (b) disabled people losing employment; (c) robots helping so called abled bodied people in their job to help disabled people; or (d) robots as coworkers of disabled people. The study found that robots were rarely mentioned in relation to the employment situation of disabled people. If they were mentioned the focus was on robots enhancing the employability of disabled people or helping so called abled-bodied people working with disabled clients. Not one article could be found that thematized the potential negative impact of robots on the employability situation of disabled people or the relationship of disabled people and robots as co-workers. The finding of the study is problematic given the already negative employability situation disabled people face.
A13|Robots, Industry 4.0 and Humans, or Why Assembly Work Is More than Routine Work|This article condenses the key findings of qualitative studies on assembly work. Grounded conceptually in considerations of the role of experiential knowledge and living labor capacity with regard to informal expertise and tacit knowledge, the empirical results challenge the dominant view of assembly work as routine tasks that could easily be replaced by robotics. The empirical basis comprised of 62 qualitative interviews in five assembly plants provides answers to two questions: Are there non-routine aspects to be found in assembly work today? What exactly is the nature of experience in assembly work? The detailed research results are presented in three steps: the first focuses on the role of the non-routine in core assembly tasks; the second discusses the important and increasing role played by interactive capabilities in assembly work to ensure high performance, quality, and a smooth material flow; and the third highlights the usually neglected role of assembly workers in processes of innovation and organizational learning. The concluding chapter discusses the findings from the perspective of new technological options in robotics, possible worker resistance and effects on employment.
A13|Prevalence and Factors Associated with Teen Pregnancy in Vietnam: Results from Two National Surveys|This study asked two broad questions: (1) what is the prevalence of teen pregnancy in contemporary Vietnam; and (2) what selected social, family, and individual factors are associated with teen pregnancy in Vietnam? The study utilized Vietnam Survey Assessment of Vietnamese Youth surveys conducted in 2003 and 2008 to answer the two research questions within the context of fast political, economic, and social change in Vietnam in the last two decades. Results of this study show that the prevalence of pregnancy among Vietnamese teenagers in the surveys was stable at 4%, or 40 pregnancies per 1000 adolescent girls aged 14 to 19. Age, experience of domestic violence, and early sexual debut were positively correlated with higher odds of teenage pregnancy for both survey cohorts; however, being an ethnic minority, educational attainment, sexual education at school, Internet use, and depressive symptoms were significantly related to teenage pregnancy only in the 2008 cohort.
A13|The Portrayal of Occupational Therapy and Occupational Science in Canadian Newspapers: A Content Analysis|The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life. The demand for occupational therapists in Canada is expected to grow sharply at an annual growth rate of 3.2%, compared to 0.7% for all occupations. At the same time, it is believed by occupational therapists in Canada that the Canadian public does not understand the role of occupational therapy. Occupational science is an emerging basic science field that supports the practice of occupational therapy. Given that newspapers are one source the public uses to obtain information and that newspapers are seen to shape public opinions, the purpose of this study is to investigate how “occupational therapy” is covered in Canadian newspapers from the term’s first appearance in 1917 until 2016 and how “occupational science” is covered from the term’s first appearance in 1989 to 2016. We interrogated the findings through the lens of three non-newspaper sources—two academic journals: Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy (CJOT) and Journal of Occupational Science (JOS); and one Canadian magazine: Occupational Therapy Now (OTN). We found that medical terms were prevalent in the newspaper articles covering occupational therapy similar to the presence of medical terms in the CJOT and OTN. However, the newspapers missed contemporary shifts in occupational therapy as evident in the CJOT, OTN and JOS—such as the increased engagement with enablement, occupational justice and other occupational concepts. The newspapers also failed to portray the societal issues that occupational therapy engages with on behalf of and with their clients, and the newspapers did not cover many of the client groups of occupational therapy. Occupational science was only mentioned in n = 26 articles of the nearly 300 Canadian newspapers covered with no concrete content linked to occupational science. The scope of occupational therapy presented in Canadian newspapers may be one contributing factor to a situation where occupational therapists in Canada think that there is lack of public understanding around their role, as readers are not getting the full picture and as such approach occupational therapy with different expectations. Given the lack of coverage of occupational science, readers will likely obtain limited knowledge about occupational science and its focus.
A13|Eating in the City: A Review of the Literature on Food Insecurity and Indigenous People Living in Urban Spaces|Indigenous people often occupy different overlapping or co-existing food environments that include market-based foods, land and water based foods, and combinations of the two. Studying these food environments is complicated by the cultural and geographic diversity of Indigenous people and the effects of colonialism, land dispossession, relocation and forced settlement on static reserves, and increasing migration to urban areas. We conducted a scoping study of food insecurity and Indigenous peoples living in urban spaces in Canada, the United States, and Australia. The 16 studies reviewed showed that food insecurity among urban Indigenous populations is an issue in all three nations. Findings highlight both the variety of experiences of urban Indigenous peoples within and across the three nations, and the commonalities of these experiences.
A13|Generation X School Leaders as Agents of Care: Leader and Teacher Perspectives from Toronto, New York City and London|This paper draws on evidence from our three-year Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)-funded research study of the lives, careers, experiences and aspirations of Generation X (under 40 years of age) principals and vice-principals in London, New York City, and Toronto. More specifically, the paper examines interview evidence from nine school-based studies in which nine leaders and 54 teachers discuss their perspectives on leaders’ care of their staff members. The evidence demonstrates that leaders and teachers both place a high level of importance on leaders’ ability and willingness to be supportive, understanding, and approachable. Teachers also expect leaders to serve as advocates for and role models of good work/life balance. While the school-level studies take place in radically different city-based contexts, the expectation of leaders’ care for teachers transcends different accountability and policy structures. Both groups focus their discussion on work/life balance and, more specifically, the need for leaders to understand that teachers are people with lives beyond school. The paper highlights implications for policy, practice, and future research.
A13|Predicting Youths’ Adherence to Treatment and Retention in Teenage Pregnancy Prevention Interventions|Internal and external validity are threatened when subjects fail to complete an intervention and when they are lost at follow-ups. Accordingly, researchers and intervention staff continually strive to identify predictors of attrition and non-compliance. The present study investigated the success of models that incorporate program, family, and individual characteristic variables in predicting treatment adherence and retention at six months in a sample of 1319 youth who participated in an abstinence-only intervention, as well as the relative importance of the predictors in explaining retention and adherence among Hispanic and non-Hispanic youth. The findings indicated that the likelihood of completing the intervention was greater for youths whose mothers or someone who functioned as a mother did not work. The effect of this predictor was consistent across all models in which it was tested. In addition, youth who planned to have sex were more likely to withdraw from the intervention than were youth for whom the opposite was true. Youth satisfaction with the intervention successfully predicted the likelihood of completion. Retention at six months was influenced by youth completing the intervention, having a non-working mother, and being satisfied with the program. Results from the discriminant analyses suggested that the predictors varied in importance for Hispanics and non-Hispanics. For Hispanics, having a non-working mother and satisfaction with the intervention were critical to their decisions to complete the intervention and to return for the six-month follow-up. For non-Hispanics, parental attitudes regarding sex, youths’ intentions to have sex, and youths’ gender were significant predictors.
A13|Special Education Teacher Leadership in Jordan: Current State and Constraints|Distributed leadership can enhance the professional learning communities of schools. The present study explored the leadership experience of Jordanian special education teachers, and their perceptions of common constraints to leadership. A mixed method design was used, including a survey ( n = 136) and an interview ( n = 23). Results indicated that special education teachers had little experience of leadership roles. They regarded the provision of cognitive and emotional support to colleagues as their most important leadership role, and participating in interview committees and selecting new teachers as the least important. There were no significant mean differences between male and female special education teachers in their level of enacted leadership. Level of education and years of experience were found to have a significant effect on the level of teachers’ leadership.
A13|First Application of Robot Teaching in an Existing Industry 4.0 Environment: Does It Really Work?|This article reports three case studies on the usability and acceptance of an industrial robotic prototype in the context of human-robot cooperation. The three case studies were conducted in the framework of a two-year project named AssistMe, which aims at developing different means of interaction for programming and using collaborative robots in a user-centered manner. Together with two industrial partners and a technological partner, two different application scenarios were implemented and studied with an off-the-shelf robotic system. The operators worked with the robotic prototype in laboratory conditions (two days), in a factory context (one day) and in an automotive assembly line (three weeks). In the article, the project and procedures are described in detail, including the quantitative and qualitative methodology. Our results show that close human-robot cooperation in the industrial context needs adaptive pacing mechanisms in order to avoid a change of working routines for the operators and that an off-the-shelf robotic system is still limited in terms of usability and acceptance. The touch panel, which is needed for controlling the robot, had a negative impact on the overall user experience. It creates a further intermediate layer between the user, the robot and the work piece and potentially leads to a decrease in productivity. Finally, the fear of the worker of being replaced by an improved robotic system was regularly expressed and adds an additional anthropocentric dimension to the discussion of human-robot cooperation, smart factories and the upcoming Industry 4.0.
A13|Teenage Pregnancy and Mental Health|This article reviews the intersection between adolescent pregnancy and mental health. The research involving mental health risks for adolescent pregnancy and for parents who are teenagers are discussed. Depression and conduct disorder have emerged with the most attention. Research-based treatment of these disorders in adolescents is presented.
A13|The Use of Networking in Nursing Practice —An Integrative Review|Networking provides access to countless opportunities for nurses and patients and allows them to communicate, interact and collaborate with each other in order to enhance nursing care practice and improve health. The ubiquity of information and communication technologies have the potential to improve access to both health information and services in health care. The authors aim for this study is to investigate the role of networking tools in shaping and improving nursing care practices. An integrative review was conducted and electronic databases of PubMed, Cochrane, Science Direct and ACM Digital Library were searched for studies published between 1985 and 2015. Sixteen articles, based on the use of networking tools in nursing care practice, were included in the review. Data synthesis consists of writing descriptive summaries and thematic analysis of the key findings in the included articles. Different networking tools are currently used by nursing professionals for patient’s safety and well-being. These include information technology, telehealth nursing, IT and networking applications, social media networks, miscellaneous interaction networks, internet as a source of information and communication networks. Networking assist healthcare professionals with completing their daily tasks such as teaching patients, monitoring their health, tracking their blood pressure and much more. A variety of networking tools are available for managing chronic disease, diet, and lifestyle choices of patients. However, privacy, security and reliability of exchanged information is extremely important in improving the quality of patient care.
A13|Robots Working with Humans or Humans Working with Robots? Searching for Social Dimensions in New Human-Robot Interaction in Industry|The focus of the following article is on the use of new robotic systems in the manufacturing industry with respect to the social dimension. Since “intuitive” human–machine interaction (HMI) in robotic systems becomes a significant objective of technical progress, new models of work organization are needed. This hypothesis will be investigated through the following two aims: The first aim is to identify relevant research questions related to the potential use of robotic systems in different systems of work organization at the manufacturing shop-floor level. The second aim is to discuss the conceptualization of (old) organizational problems of human–robot interaction (HRI). In this context, the article reflects on the limits of cognitive and perceptual workload for robot operators in complex working systems. This will be particularly relevant whenever more robots with different “roles” are to be increasingly used in the manufacturing industry. The integration of such complex socio-technical systems needs further empirical and conceptual research with regard to “social” aspects of the technical dimension. Future research should, therefore, also integrate economic and societal issues to understand the full dimensions of new human–robot interaction in industry today.
A13|The Influence of Context on Occupational Selection in Sport-for-Development|Sport-for-development (SFD) is a growing phenomenon involving engagement in sport activities to achieve international development goals. Kicking AIDS Out is one sport for development initiative that raises HIV/AIDS awareness through sport. Despite sport-for-development’s global prevalence, there is a paucity of literature exploring how activities are selected for use in differing contexts. An occupational perspective can illuminate the selection of activities, sport or otherwise, in sport-for-development programming and the context in which they are implemented. The purpose of the study was to understand how context influences the selection of sport activities in Kicking AIDS Out programs. Thematic analysis was used to guide the secondary analysis of qualitative data gathered with Kicking AIDS Out leaders in Lusaka, Zambia and Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Findings include that leaders strive to balance their activity preferences with those activities seen as feasible and preferential within their physical, socio-historical, and cultural contexts, and that leader’s differing understandings of sport as a development tool influences their selection of activities. To enable a better fit of activities chosen for the particular context and accomplishment of international development goals, sport-for-development programmes might consider how leaders are trained to select such activities.
A13|Latinos Need to Stay in Their Place: Differential Segregation in a Multi-Ethnic Suburb|While Latinos face high levels of segregation, there is scant research specifically addressing whites’ attitudes towards Latinos regarding their preferences. This study draws from 40 in-depth interviews with whites in Orange County California, an area with a large Latino and Asian population. I demonstrate that white respondents choose to segregate themselves from Latinos. Most studies have used Blumer’s group position theory to explain white attitudes and neighborhood preference towards Blacks. My findings supports Blumer’s group position theory by revealing why white respondents feel threatened by an increase in the Latino population. Yet, the Asian population has also grown, but white respondents convey positive sentiments towards Asians, and express they feel comfortable living and interacting with them. I argue that white respondents’ preferences with regards to integration are not solely based on the size of a group, but rather whether they characterize the group as inferior. Integration has been touted as an American principle. Yet, as the country becomes more diverse, this case study illustrates that white respondents prefer to share space with those they feel similar to, and consequently contribute to Latino segregation.
A13|Rural Villagers’ Quality of Life Improvement by Economic Self-Reliance Practices and Trust in the Philosophy of Sufficiency Economy|The concept of economic self-reliance, widely known by Thai people as the philosophy of sufficiency economy, has been widely promoted in rural Thai societies. By practicing this philosophy, it is expected that the citizens’ quality of life and local environments could be sustainably improved. This study aims to explore the contribution of the community practices of the sufficiency economy philosophy to rural villagers’ quality of life improvement, and to investigate potential factors that determine the trust of villagers in the philosophy. With the purpose to propose strategies which could enhance trust and promote villagers’ practices of the philosophy, the study investigated influences of three relevant factors on trust towards the philosophy. Those factors included factors related to cognitive-based trust, factors related to emotional-based trust, and factors related to demographic characteristics. Questionnaire surveys and in-depth interviews with community leaders and local villagers were conducted in the Ban Jamrung community, in Thailand’s Rayong Province. The results of the statistical analysis revealed that the residents who applied the sufficiency economy philosophy in their daily lives experienced a relatively better quality of life. Additionally, it was found that trust in the philosophy could be predicted more by rational factors than by emotional factors. These findings could be utilized to develop strategies to maintain and enhance the trust of the people in the philosophy of sufficiency economy.
A13|Exploring the Daily Lives of People on Methadone Maintenance Treatment: An Occupational Perspective|A qualitative study was undertaken with five people on methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) to better understand their experiences and daily routines. Through an in-depth exploration of their everyday occupations, we sought to reveal the ongoing challenges and barriers they face to accessing treatment. The concept of occupation refers to ‘all that people need, want and are required to do’ but also extends further to encompass ‘how doing contributes to processes of being, becoming and belonging’ (Huot and Laliberte Rudman, 2015). This research employed a qualitative intrinsic case study methodology (Stake, 2005). Using an occupational perspective informed by a framework for occupational justice (Stadnyk et al., 2005), the participants’ narratives are presented according to four themes highlighting key aspects of their experiences: (a) descent into chaos; (b) MMT as a bridge to recovery from addiction; (c) a new normal daily life; and (d) hopes for moving forward. The findings illustrate how structural factors and contextual factors interact to create occupational injustices. Thus, MMT practices and policies should consider the occupational implications described in this article to enhance patients’ experiences and further support their recovery.
A13|“Activated, but Stuck”: Applying a Critical Occupational Lens to Examine the Negotiation of Long-Term Unemployment in Contemporary Socio-Political Contexts|Background: Solutions for the problem of long-term unemployment are increasingly shaped by neoliberally-informed logics of activation and austerity. Because the implications of these governing frameworks for everyday life are not well understood, this pilot study applied a critical occupational science perspective to understand how long-term unemployment is negotiated within contemporary North American socio-political contexts. This perspective highlights the implications of policy and employment service re-configurations for the range of activities that constitute everyday life. Methods: Using a collaborative ethnographic community-engaged research approach, we recruited eight people in Canada and the United States who self-identified as experiencing long-term unemployment. We analyzed interviews and observation notes concerning four participants in each context using open coding, critical discourse analysis, and situational analysis. Results: This pilot study revealed a key contradiction in participants’ lives: being “activated, but stuck”. This contradiction resulted from the tension between individualizing, homogenizing frames of unemployment and complex, socio-politically shaped lived experiences. Analysis of this tension revealed how participants saw themselves “doing all the right things” to become re-employed, yet still remained stuck across occupational arenas. Conclusion: This pilot study illustrates the importance of understanding how socio-political solutions to long-term unemployment impact daily life and occupational engagement beyond the realm of job seeking and job acquisition.
A13|Sociological and Biological Insights on How to Prevent the Reduction in Cognitive Activity that Stems from Robots Assuming Workloads in Human–Robot Cooperation|The reduction of cognitive tasks brought about by new developments in service-robots’ collaboration with humans in working environments has given rise to new challenges as to how to address safety issues. This paper presents insights from biology, cognitive/neural sciences and sociology that can conquer these new challenges. The main focus lies in sociological variables that ensure safe human–robot interaction in working environments rather than addressing biological ones (avoiding bodily harm) or purely cognitive ones (avoiding any signals that are outside the human’s sensory comfort zones). We will present an approach on how to integrate behavioral patterns into the robotic system in order to prevent the problem of reduced cognition in relation to essential features, which are necessary for carrying out this pattern in the context of a human–robot interaction with non-humanoid robots (which is the most typical design of robots used in work environments).
A13|A Cross-Cultural Adaptation of the ICECAP-O: Test–Retest Reliability and Item Relevance in Swedish 70-Year-Olds|Background: While there is a plethora of Quality of Life (QoL) measures, the Investigating Choice Experiments for the Preferences of Older People—CAPability index (ICECAP-O) is one of the few that taps into the concept of capability, i.e., opportunities to 'do' and 'be' the things that one deems important in life. We aimed to examine test–retest reliability of the ICECAP-O in a Swedish context and to study item relevance. Methods: Thirty-nine 70-year-olds who took part in a population-based health study completed the Swedish version of the ICECAP-O on two occasions. We analyzed the test–retest reliability for the index and for the individual items. Participants also rated the relevance of each item on a visual analogue scale (0–100). Results: Test–retest reliability for the index score was in good agreement with an ICC of 0.80 (95% CI 0.62–0.90). However, Kappa was low for each item and ranged from 0.18 (control) to 0.41 (role). For attachment, we found a systematic disagreement with lower ratings at the second test occasion. Participants gave their highest relevance rating to attachment and lowest to enjoyment. Conclusion: The Swedish version of the ICECAP-O had good test–retest agreement, similar to that observed for the English version. Item level agreement was problematic, however, highlighting a need for future research.
A13|Special Issue on Robots and the Work Environment|The future development of industries is currently on the agenda of public and scientific debates.[...]
A13|Special Issue: Adolescent Pregnancy: Past, Present and Future Trends and Issues|The dramatic overall decrease in rates of pregnancies and births to American teenagers over the last few decades should be counted among contemporary success stories in systematic efforts to reduce bio-psychosocial risks to youth.[...]
A13|Reconsidering Teenage Pregnancy and Parenthood|This paper looks back at the findings reported in Destinies of the Disadvantaged: The Politics of Teenage Parenthood , a decade after its publication in light of recent research. Increasingly, the most methodologically sophisticated research has minimized the “causal impact” of early childbearing on later life events consistent with the findings of the Baltimore Study. I argue in the paper that we must see early childbearing primarily as a marker rather than a cause of economic disadvantage. As such, reducing early childbearing will have a minimal impact on the lives of highly disadvantaged teens unless those teens use the delay in childbearing to improve their education and labor market prospects.
A13|Indigenous Research and Romantic Nationalism|In recent years, “indigenous research” and “indigenous methods” have become prominent themes in the general field of qualitative methodology. These ideas and their implications raise serious questions for the wider conduct of social research. We will outline some of those ideas, subjecting them to scrutiny, and ultimately using them to question the rise of Romanticism in contemporary social methodology. We develop these ideas to question the contemporary emphasis on the personal and the experiential in current methodological commentary.
A13|Reel Royal Diversity? The Glass Ceiling in Disney’s Mulan and Princess and the Frog|Both in Mulan and Princess and the Frog , Disney eschews a traditional fairytale ending involving palatial opulence by substituting an alternative narrative for women of color. Mulan disguises herself as a male soldier in order to serve in her father’s place. After sharing victory with male companions, she willingly returns home to domesticity and the confines imposed by her gender. Tiana spends two thirds of the movie as a frog, substantially limiting her on-screen time as an African American female. Like Mulan, she is driven to please her father. She fulfills his dream of owning a high-end restaurant, ironically named Tiana’s Palace, the closest she comes to a royal lifestyle. Although protagonists with more realistic lives could potentially enhance viewers’ connection with them and model a work ethic or commitment to home life, the standard and more financially successful Disney narrative immerses viewers in a fantasy world of endless prospects including a life of royalty. These nonwhite heroines instead display a willingness to settle for more modest aspirations in stories replete with stereotypical gender and race-bound tropes. This divergent narrative suggests that protagonists of color are not entitled to a life of leisure and privilege that white Disney princesses enjoy.
A13|Socio-Professional Expectations on Master Students of the Bucharest University of Economic Studies|The interest of young people for their future socio-professional was always and everywhere a dominant factor and also a notorious motivator factor in their efforts. Studies conducted by entities concerned as well as researchers from various social areas have shown that this interest is also complex and profound for current young generation. This paper is a qualitative research conducted in a prestigious faculty of the Academy of Economic Studies in Bucharest, on a number of graduate students who are preparing their studies in Business Administration; as an investigation method the free essay was used. The information from students' essays was supplemented by observations made by the teachers group ? authors of the work. Research results revealed both confirmation of hypotheses and also surprises.
A13|Poverty, Inequality And Economic Growth In Algeria: An Ardl Approach|This analytical review explores the links between poverty, inequality and growth in Algeria for the period 1970-2013, we use in this paper an ARDL approach to investigate the relationships between poverty as measured by the consumption per capita, inequality measured as Thail index and growth measured as GDP per capita, using data from different sources, the study tries to answer the following questions: Whether growth, poverty and inequality are co-integrated? How are the long-run and short-run relations between the three variables? The results suggest that poverty, inequality and growth are co-integrated, and we found that the relation between poverty and growth is negative; and the relation between poverty and inequality is positive either in short-run or in long-run terms.
A13|A Környezettudatosság Megjelenése A Középiskolások Körében| A Föld-etika meghatározása szerint jó az, ami segít megőrizni az élő közösségek egységét, stabilitását és szépségét; rossz, ha nem így cselekszünk (LEOPOLD 2000, idézi LÁNYI 2013:820). A fogyasztói tudatosság és fenntartható fejlődés eszméje egyre hangsúlyosabban jelenik meg mind a médiában, mind a tudományos térben. A fogyasztók egyre inkább magukénak kezdik érezni a globális fenntarthatatlan életvitel okozta problémákat és az ezzel járó felelősséget is. A környezettudatosság és környezetvédelem kérdése az egyik legnagyobb vizsgálati múltra visszatekintő kutatási kérdés. A tudatos fogyasztás irányzata és mozgalma is a környezetvédelem alapelveiből alakult ki, vált mára „divatos” fogyasztói és kutatói tendenciává. A középiskolásokat érintő tudományos kutatások viszont nem számosak, pedig ezen generáció mint a jövő fogyasztói társadalma nem elhanyagolható szereppel bír a elkövetkezendő idők környezeti folyamatainak formálásban. A publikáció elkészítését a TÁMOP-4.2.2.B-15/1/KONV-2015-0001 számú projekt támogatta. A projekt az Európai Unió támogatásával, az Európai Szociális Alap társfinanszírozásával valósult meg. ----------------------------------------------
A13|Etyczne problemy w pracy na podstawie opinii pracowników wybranych banków / Ethical Problems at Work in the Opinion of Employees of Selected Banks|The paper presents ethical problems of employees in selected banks in Poland. The theoretical part of the paper deals with codes of ethics in banking, especially those concerning the moral aspects of working in banking. The empirical part of the paper presents the results of research on the ethos of bank workers. Quantitative and qualitative analyses were carried out using a specialist Internet forum devoted to the banking sector. The study includes an analysis of hundreds of comments posted on an Internet forum.
A13|Etyczne i ekonomiczne aspekty państwa dobrobytu / Ethical and Economic Aspects of the Welfare State|A concept of the welfare state is based on the principles of equitable distribution of wealth and equality of opportunity. The state is responsible for the protection and promotion of the economic and social well-being of its citizens. Progressive taxation reduces the income gap between the rich and poor. However, the efforts to put principles of the welfare state into practice produced still unsatisfactory results. It was closely connected with violating the subsidiary principle and eroding the work ethics. That is just why the welfare state failed from the ethical and economic point of view.
A13|Myśl ekonomiczna kalwinizmu / The Economic Thought of Calvinism|The aim of the paper is to present the economic thoughts of John Calvin and his followers, referring to current issues, such as money lending, usury, or work. The latter, according to the famous thesis of Max Weber, received spiritual value by acting as a bridge between God's will and daily life. The hypothesis of this article differs somewhat from this conviction, assuming that the main economic elements of Calvinist thought have been the consequence of the release of temporal realities from the influence of the direct action of God, according to the protestant theology of the radical separation of nature and grace. Initiated by Protestantism, the dichotomy of nature and grace seems to have important consequences for economic thought. The salvific dimension of human fate remained in the hands of God, he depends entirely on its favour in connection with the dogma of predestination. In the earthly life, a human being was treated as a part of nature, his survival depended on skill and determination. in the struggle with nature, devoid of the grace of God, ruled by the law of necessity. Survival and a better life depended primarily on human labour and effort. The flourishing of economic life has resulted not only from the ethical role of work, but also from the fact that it was no longer inhibited by religious restrictions. Thus, modern man was born, more and more aware of his subjectivity, subordinating nature to himself building the human world in place of the natural world. Building a modern society and economy is part of the Protestant ethos of mastering nature.
A13|Ekonomia personalistyczna jako proba integracji etyki i ekonomii na gruncie idei osoby / Personalist Economics as an Attempt to Integrate Ethics and Economics on the Basis of the Idea of a Person|The aim of the paper is an attempt to show that the personalist economy – by referring to the idea of a person, containing and expressing all the dimensions of being human in relation to the world of people and things – provides the ability to integrate issues of ethics and economics. To achieve this goal, first, the concept of personalist economics will be presented. Then, ideas common for economics and the ethics of space, which can be a basis for integrating their issues, will be identified and characterized. Finally, the author tries to present the consequences which may result from such an integration, both for the economy as a science and as a practice of everyday life.
A13|Kategoria moral capital w etyce spoleczno-gospodarczej / The Concept of Moral Capital in the Social-Economic Ethics|The theory of human capital is a vital common point of economics and social-economic ethics. In the economic literature there are two accounts of human capital. In the first account, the human capital is the human himself, as a creator of goods and services (A. Smith, J.S. Mill, T.W. Schultz). In the other account, the capital consists of the skills, abilities, knowledge, energy and health that the human possesses (D. Begg, J.B. Say, G.S. Becker). In economic ethics, human capital is profoundly analysed in relation to economic growth. However, the growth depends not only on the physical and mental health of businesspersons and employees, their education and professional skills, but also on their moral development. The category of human capital – although it remains quite trendy – gets interpreted in reductionist ways, i.e. in economic dimensions only, whereas the human factor in the economy should be extended to the category of moral capital. These days, the concept of moral capital begins to play a very serious role in the foundations of social sciences. The objectives of this paper are: to compare different theories of human capital, to emphasize the need for a comprehensive account of the subject, and to defend a thesis that moral capital resources support business efficiency.
A13|Identyfikacje pojęcia sprawiedliwości społecznej / Identifications of the Notion of Social Justice|In the 1840’s due to Luigi Taparelli and Antonio Rosmini emerged the term of “social justice”. From this time, its meaning has developed in many ways. The paper brings up some applications of the notion. In the literature of the subject one can find numerous identities of “social justice”. The article focuses on the identity of this term with justice framed as: legal, distributive, commutative, penal, and restorative. Some of these concepts assumes and requires existence of some kind of social persons. By briefly analysing those notions the author tries to show the specificity of particular types of meanings assigned to the social justice.
A13|Duch demokratycznego kapitalizmu Michaela Novaka. Jego analiza i ocena w kontekście etyki chrześcijańskiej / The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism of Michael Novak. An Analysis and Evaluation in the Context of Christian Ethics|The paper refers to Michael Novak’s book The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism. In his book Novak advances, among others, the thesis that in the light of the encyclical Laborem Exercens, published by John Paul II (1981), one can speak about some converging elements of Catholic and liberal social thought, e.g.: the creativity of modern labour, which would reflect, however, in the two doctrines the theological symbols of the Creator and His creation. But this paper cools down the enthusiasm of Novak and in six analysed aspects seeks to show that, despite some convergence in the phraseology between “the spirit of democratic capitalism” and “the spirit of Christian ethics”, there extends between them an essential abyss, which is the result of basing each “spirit” on different models of ethics.
A13|Wprowadzenie do problemu ubostwa w ujeciu Amartyi Kumara Sena. Wymiar etyczny / Introduction to the Problem of Poverty by Amartya Kumar Sen. The Ethical Dimension|On the threshold of the 21st century the problem of poverty has not been dealt with yet. The world constantly suffers hunger, and many people have no access to running water or education. This raises fundamental question, which have bothered economy researchers for centuries: What determines the wealth of some countries, and the poverty of others? One of the contemporary researchers analysing the causes of poverty and development barriers is Indian economist Amartya Sen. Referring to the socio-economic theory of Sen, the author indicates that modernity implies the need for reflection on the definition of poverty. The author attempts to justify the thesis which focuses on the dissonance between the evaluation concepts of good and evil with objective economic factors which define poverty. The author claims that the definition of poverty should be grounded in considerations concerning good and evil in a specific time, as well as cultural and historical context.
A13|Employee Subjectivity as a Key Value in Management|People, with their knowledge and potential, are undoubtedly the most important part in any organisation because, thanks to them, it might accomplish its goals, gain a competitive advantage and achieve success on the market. That is why each organisation should hire the most appropriate employees and provide working conditions that enable them to unleash their potential for the company’s benefit. The fundamental value for creating a good work environment is employees’ subjectivity, which can be perceived in two ways. The basic level of honouring a person’s subjectivity is respecting human rights and the employee’s dignity in mutual relations. The higher level, though, is to give people a certain amount of autonomy and responsibility in their workplace. The aim of this paper is to identify and analyse interdisciplinary concepts that managers can use in order to ensure that people are given the respect they deserve.
A13|The Phenomenon of Underemployment in Poland|The labour market is usually associated with phenomena such as unemployment, employment and professional activity/inactivity. The ways in which these categories are shaped depend on various factors of an economic, social and technological nature. It is impossible to disagree with the statement that the contemporary labour market – local, national, and global – is undergoing dynamic changes. In the public debate, the themes of flexicurity, flexible forms of employment, reconciling professional work with private life, and lifelong learning appear more frequently. They cause heated discussions and often also controversies, since their impact on the situation of workers and employers in the labour market is increasing. Observing the trends in the world economy and the global labour market, it can be argued that employment becomes a privilege. Due to the reasons mentioned above, in the paper, issues which relate to ‘incomplete’ employment are discussed. Theoretical considerations are focused on the terminological and methodological problems related to the interpretation of the concept of underemployment both in the Polish and foreign literature. Furthermore, the relationships between the phenomenon of underemployment and the concept of employment flexibility and security are presented, since they are extremely important from the perspective of the contemporary labour market. The theoretical analysis is complemented by a statistical analysis of empirical data that illustrates the current scale of the phenomenon of underemployment in the labour market in Poland compared to other European Union member states (EU-28). The article adopts the research thesis that in Poland there is a problem of ‘incomplete’ employment. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to attempt to identify the scale of this phenomenon on the Polish labour market. Implementation of this objective will be possible thanks to the study of national and foreign literature and a conducted statistical analysis of selected indicators of the labour market in the context of this phenomenon, obtained from the database of the European Statistical Office (Eurostat).
A13|The Moral and Political Dimension of Economics. The Fact-Value Dichotomy|Since the neoclassical school, the separation between facts and values, is and ought, positive and normative, has become a concern in conventional economic analyses. Economics should focus on facts, and present general principles, leaving the choice of various technical alternatives to policy makers. This article addresses the following questions: can economics, seen as a positive science, be separated from the political dimension? Is it possible to separate facts from values or are they necessarily intertwined? After showing how the separation between economics and moral philosophy unfolded throughout the history of economic thought, the article analyses the factvalue dichotomy discussion and concludes that facts and values are necessarily intertwined. Then, the article shows that the premises and theories of conventional economic theories contain hidden values, despite being presented as universal truths on which policies are based, and thus fail to discuss the various perspectives of the problems. Reviving a tradition commenced by Aristotle, the article concludes by arguing that economics is necessarily moral and political. However, the acknowledgement of the normative nature of economics cannot compromise the pursuit of objectivity.
A13|Creativity through personal and team conduct|"There are two sets of factors for creativity - basic and extra. The specifics of creativity is explained, formulating its characteristics. The structural distinctions between creativity and ingenuity are presented by means of schemes. The analysis of the link ""creativity - values"" focuses on four groups of values: intellectual,moral, emotional and aesthetic. The teamwork creativity phenomenon is investigated, focusing on step-by-step achievement. Methods are proposed to maintain a good level of motivation for sharing the ideas of the team members."
A13|Supermajorities and Political Rent Extraction|Models of political competition portray political candidates as seeking the support of the median voter to win elections by majority voting. In practice, political candidates seek supermajorities rather than majorities based on support of the median voter. We study the political benefits from supermajorities using data from Bavaria, the largest German state. Members of the Bavarian parliament had been permitted to hire relatives as office employees but in the year 2000 the practice was prohibited, with exceptions that allowed continuation of employment of previously hired relatives. The circumstances provide an informative setting to relate political behavior to protection of incumbency. Our results show that the likelihood of politicians to hire relatives increased with the margin of the majority for the incumbent in the previous election. When the majority increased by one percentage point, the likelihood of hiring relatives increased by about one percentage point. Supermajorities thus facilitated political rent extraction.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A13|Agriculture Development Strategy In Romania; Case Study: Horticulture|In 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has published its strategy for developing agri-food sector in the medium and long Horizon 2020-2030. The document presented the current state of development of agriculture and agricultural products processing industry compared with the agricultural situation in other European countries. The document insists on the challenges that face them food sector, namely climate change, population growth, rural population decline, aging European population and that of our country. In the present study we analyzed the document and bring new data and our vision of the current situation and development prospects of two important sectors to ensure a healthy diet, fruit growing and vegetables respectively.
A13|Health, Tangent Line To The University Education - Human Development Binomial|The university organization represents, in our opinion, the significant and obligatory link towards healthy human development, characterized by the win-win principle for all parties participating in its ample and complex process. Therefore, if university organizations are healthy, the foundation is created for the sustainably-healthy construction of the future development. Such development promotes social inclusion, equity, mutual advantage, wealth, fortune obtained by honest work, human solidarity, social communion, liability freedom etc. whose fundament is healthy education. This type of education can be obtained within healthy education organization, by means of transition from the current skill-based educational model to the one of value-based education in the cause of life. In this paperwork we will try to reason the necessity of adopting such educational model in order to get from the current incomplete development to healthy human development.
A13|Rawls and Piketty: the philosophical aspects of economic inequality|This paper discusses a key contemporary problem, that of inequality. Certainly, the most visible inequality today is economic inequality, which is not only a characteristic found today, but is also the result of a long historical development. The problem arises when inequality becomes artificial (produces itself) and thus becomes a matter of social sciences and humanities. At this point, the question of economic inequality becomes a non-economic issue and thus opens the possibility of formulating such principles that will be able to reduce the issue to a minimum. This paper discusses this possibility, while referring to Thomas Piketty’s book on capital in relation to John Rawls’s principles of justice to which Piketty refers to.
A13|Une approche transactionnelle des démarches d’élaboration participative d’indicateurs sociétaux. La méthode du Conseil de l’Europe|This article is dedicated to innovative approaches regarding association of citizens in the production of alternative indicators. It is based on an experimentation of the methodology proposed by the Council of Europe which is aimed at developing well-being indicators in a participatory way to qualify well-being and societal progress. The article proposes an analytical shaping of this approach, and more generally of the efforts to involve citizens in indicators production processes. Our framework, which can be described as transactional, is based on American pragmatism, especially on J. Dewey?s works. Such an approach invites to pay attention on the communicative processes which underlie the formation of values. This implies to reconsider the nature of the data used to understand well-being and to develop indicators. The article also focuses on structuring phenomena that can affect the participatory processes. JEL Codes?: A13, B41, B52, I31, Z13
A13|Les circuits courts alimentaires « pour tous », outils d’analyse de l’innovation sociale|The renewal of short food supply chains in France comes up against the question of social innovation through the development of initiatives aimed at facilitating access to quality food to precarious consumers. This article shows the value of analyzing these initiatives to understand the social mechanisms of social innovation building and to explore the conditions of its scaling-up. The approach rests on a combination of economic sociology, and the care approach, allowing the integration of persons and their socio-political context in the analysis of the relational dynamics which build innovation. Based on two case studies, results show how social innovation develops through new kinds of links and resources valuing daily life experience. They invite us to consider that its transformative capacity both relies on products decoupled from these links and on the evolution of persons’ status. The article urges a deepening of the analysis of social innovation through short supply chains, and conversely. JEL Codes: O35, Q13, Q18, A13
A13|Aspirations and the Political Economy of Inequality|In standard approaches to the political economy of inequality, the income distribution and the preferences of households are taken as fixed when studying how incomes are determined within and between nations. This paper makes the income distribution endogenous by supposing that aspirational parents can socialize children into having aspirational preferences which are modeled as a reference point in income space. The model looks at the endogenous determination of the level of income, income inequality and income redistribution where the proportion of aspirational individuals evolves endogenously according to payoffs along the equilibrium path. The paper discusses implications of the model for intergenerational mobility. It also shows how the income generation process is critical for the dynamics and welfare conclusions. Finally, it looks at some evidence from the World Values Survey in light of the theory.
A13|Market Interaction and Efficient Cooperation|We experimentally study causal effects of competitive market experience on efficiency levels attained in a subsequent social dilemma. We compare behavior of pairs of traders who have been market-winners with that of pairs who have been market- losers. We study both the cases where traders interacting in the social dilemma have competed with each other in the market before and where traders do not have a shared market experience. Shared market experience adversely affects efficiency in the social dilemma for both market-winner and market-loser pairs. Market-winners achieve higher efficiency levels in the social dilemma only if market experience is not shared.
A13|Bread and bullets|Standard economics omits the role of narratives (the stories that people tell themselves and others) when they make all kinds of decisions. Narratives play a role in understanding the environment; focusing attention; predicting events; motivating action; assigning social roles and identities; defining power relations; and establishing and conveying social norms. This paper describes the role narratives play in decision making, as it also juxtaposes this description against the backdrop of the Bolshevik-spawned narrative that played a critical role in the history of Russia and the Soviet Union in the 20th Century.
A13|Cooperation, motivation and social balance|This paper examines the reflexive interplay between individual decisions and social forces to analyze the evolution of cooperation in the presence of “multi-directedness,” whereby people's preferences depend on their psychological motives. People have access to multiple, discrete motives. Different motives may be activated by different social settings. Inter-individual differences in dispositional types affect the responsiveness of people's motives to their social settings. The evolution of these dispositional types is driven by changes in the frequencies of social settings. In this context, economic policies can influence economic decisions not merely by modifying incentives operating through given preferences, but also by influencing people's motives (thereby changing their preferences) and by changing the distribution of dispositional types in the population (thereby changing their motivational responsiveness to social settings).
A13|Commitment to Pay Taxes: A Field Experiment on the Importance of Promise|The ability of a tax authority to successfully collect taxes depends critically on both its relationship with the taxpayers and how strongly these taxpayers are committed to contributing to the common good. We present evidence on a new non-intrusive approach aimed at fostering the commitment to pay taxes. Using a between-subject design in a unique field setting, we experimentally test whether tax compliance can be increased by linking a voluntary promise of timely payment to a reward. We measure the change induced by an additional compliance promise through identifying the pure reward effect. We find that although previously compliant taxpayers are more likely to make a promise, the commitment to do so can improve payment behaviour. This effect, however, is strongly dependent on the type of reward to which the promise is linked. Compliance only increases when the reward is non-financial. No compliance effect is observed if cash is offered in return for promise fulfilment.
A13|The Impact of Legislation on the Hazard of Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting: Regression Discontinuity Evidence from Burkina Faso - Working Paper 432|In 1996, Burkina Faso enacted legislation banning the practice of female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C). Much of the qualitative literature surrounding FGM/C discounts the impact of legal change on what is considered a social/cultural issue. We use data from the Demographic and Health Surveys DHS(VI) in Burkina Faso to test for a discontinuous change in the likelihood of being cut in the year the law was passed. We ﬁnd robust evidence for a substantial drop in hazard rates in 1996 and investigate the heterogeneous impact of the law by region, religion, and ethnicity. Overall, we roughly estimate that over a ten year period the law averted the genital mutilation/cutting of approximately 237,591 women and girls. We qualify our ﬁndings recognizing that Burkina Faso is a special case with a long history of bottom-up and top-down approaches to eliminating the practice.
A13|¿Desigualdad y pobreza como determinantes de la confianza generalizada? Análisis con datos panel|La confianza generalizada se ha considerado un componente principal del capital social y se le ha atribuido generar resultados económicos favorables para el desarrollo socioeconómico de un país. La evidencia sugiere que la desigualdad económica es una de las variables que mejor explican la variación de la confianza entre países. Sin embargo, estos resultados han sido criticados por posibles problemas de endogeneidad y por no diferenciar los efectos de la distribución de los de la cantidad de recursos. Para aportar a esta discusión, se utilizan datos de corte transversal e instrumentan variables potencialmente endógenas. Además, se emplea un panel de datos con 130 países en tres momentos del tiempo para realizar estimaciones por efectos aleatorios y fijos. Los resultados indican que un incremento de un punto porcentual en el índice de Gini reduce cerca de medio punto porcentual el porcentaje de personas que confían en el país, mientras que la riqueza de la nación, medida con el PIB per cápita, no tiene ningún efecto significativo sobre la confianza generalizada.
A13|Medición y manipulación de normas sociales en juegos experimentales de corrupción|Los estudios experimentales de sobornos investigan los factores que modulan los comportamientos vinculados a estas situaciones de corrupción. Para que capten conductas análogas a la realidad, es necesario que representen de manera apropiada las normas sociales que se ven transgredidas cuando hay corrupción. En esta revisión presentamos críticamente tres técnicas para medir o generar normas sociales en experimentos económicos: el efecto de marco, la estimación de normas mediante un juego de coordinación y el castigo de terceros. Discutimos cómo la complementariedad y el mejoramiento de estas técnicas pueden contribuir a la validez externa de los estudios experimentales de corrupción. ***** Bribery experiments investigate the factors that modulate decisions in corrupt exchanges. To measure behaviours that are representative of decisions in the real world, it is necessary for the social norms that are typically transgressed in corruption to be adequately represented in the experiments. In this review, we critically present three techniques used to measure or generate social norms in economic experiments: Framing effects, the estimation of social norms through a coordination game, and third-party punishment. We discuss ways in which the complementarity and improvement of these techniques can contribute to the external validity of experimental studies on corruption.
A13|Crisis of copyrights authority|This paper aims to explain crisis of authority of copyrights that is to prove incoherence between copyrights and a copying culture. In institutional meaning it is a conflict between formal and informal institutions. A formal institution is copyrights and informal one is set of standards and social behavior patterns which could be called a copying culture. Goal of the paper is demonstration of basic factors determining the afore-mentioned incoherence and reasons for its persistence. Performance of the afore-defined goal is associated with verification of two hypotheses. The first states that the crisis of the copyrights appeared because of Internet (which is a technical tool of a contemporary society). The second hypothesis states that enforcement of formal rights observance is hampered since it is not supported by informal institutions. The paper is divided into three main parts. The first part demonstrates an extent of crisis of copyrights and some probable reasons of the crisis are considered. The second part includes case studies related to enforcement of the copyrights which is aimed to explain reasons for persistence of the crisis. The third part focuses on alternative solutions of the problem which is conflict between formal and informal institutions. The paper is based on scientific reports on information goods non-market trade in Poland, Germany, USA and Sweden.
A13|Social capital under conditions of economic crisis — the example of Southern European countries|Aim: Deliberations of the article revolve around trends of social capital under conditions of economic crisis. Motivation: Final conclusions are based on theoretical considerations and empirical research. The latter include analysis of changes in indicators of social capital (in the cognitive, structural and behavioural dimension) in Southern European countries (Spain, Greece and Portugal) — from comparative perspective — before and after 2007. Data from European Social Survey and European Value Study were used. The example of Southern European countries shows that there can be no universal reaction scheme (in terms of social capital) on the crisis phenomena. Results: A common feature of the analyzed countries after 2007 is an increase in ties with friends (bonding social capital, however the heightened importance may not just be a consequence of the crisis, but rather part of long-term societal change — e.g. Portugal) and a reduction in institutional and systemic trust. It can be also concluded that countries well endowed in social capital (e.g. Spain), in the period of economic crisis to the greater extent employ social capital resources as a response to non-beneficial changes in the economic environment (which is illustrated by higher rates of civic and political participation).
A13|Aspirations and the political economy of inequality|In standard approaches to the political economy of inequality, the income distribution and the preferences of households are taken as fixed when studying how incomes are determined within and between nations. This paper makes the income distribution endogenous by supposing that aspirational parents can socialize children into having aspirational preferences which are modelled as a reference point in income space. The model looks at the endogenous determination of the level of income, income inequality and income redistribution where the proportion of aspirational individuals evolves endogenously according to pay-offs along the equilibrium path. The paper discusses implications of the model for intergenerational mobility. It also shows how the income generation process is critical for the dynamics and welfare conclusions. Finally, it looks at some evidence from the World Values Survey in light of the theory.
A13|Humanitarismo con rostro neoliberal|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|The common good and economics|This paper analyzes the meaning of the ‘common good’ and its impact on economics. It adopts the ‘classical notion of the common good’ which, conceived by Aristotle and further developed by Thomas Aquinas, has been widely used for centuries. Sections 2 and 3 introduce Aristotle's view on this notion, followed by Aquinas’ developments. Section 4 addresses the different meanings of common good in the 20th century. Given that the classical version of the common good implies an anthropological position and a theory of the good, Section 5 extracts them from Aristotle's works, while Section 6 deduces policy implications from the previous definitions. Finally, Section 7 analyzes two current economic theories from the point of view of their relation with the common good: economics of happiness and the capability approach. The final section presents a brief conclusion.
A13|German Public Opinion on Admitting Refugees|Since the beginning of 2016, the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study has been conducting a monthly survey of German attitudes, expectations, and fears concerning migration. The third wave of the survey,—the Barometer of Public Opinion on Refugees in Germany (Stimmungsbarometer zu Geflüchteten in Deutschland)—, conductedin March 2016, shows that more than half of all respondents still associate the influx of refugees with more risks than opportunities. Nonetheless, a clear majority (81 percent of respondents) are in favor of admitting refugees and those fleeing political persecution, in accordance with international law. At the same time, however, the majority are of the conviction that refugees should be sent back to their home country once their reason for leaving it no longer pertains. Only 28 percent of all respondents are in favor of allowing refugees who have already been living in Germany for some time to remain in the country even after the situation in their country of origin has improved.
A13|Majority of German Public Back UN Refugee Convention: Six Questions to Jürgen Schupp|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|Perceptions and Practices of Replication by Social and Behavioral Scientists: Making Replications a Mandatory Element of Curricula Would Be Useful|We live in a time of increasing publication rates and specialization of scientific disciplines. More and more, the research community is facing the challenge of assuring the quality of research and maintaining trust in the scientific enterprise. Replication studies are necessary to detect erroneous research. Thus, the replicability of research is considered a hallmark of good scientific practice and it has lately become a key concern for research communities and science policy makers alike. In this case study we analyze perceptions and practices regarding replication studies in the social and behavioral sciences. Our analyses are based on a survey of almost 300 researchers that use data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP), a multidisciplinary longitudinal multicohort study. We find that more than two thirds of respondents disagree with the statement that replications are not worthwhile, because major mistakes will be found at some point anyway. Nevertheless, most respondents are not willing to spend their time to conduct replication studies. This situation can be characterized as a “tragedy of the commons”: everybody knows that replications are useful, but almost everybody counts on others to conduct them. Our most important finding concerning practical consequences is that among the few replications that are reported, a large majority is conducted in the context of teaching. In our view, this is a promising detail: in order to foster replicability, one avenue may be to make replication studies a mandatory part of curricula as well as of doctoral theses. Furthermore, we argue that replication studies need to be more attractive for researchers. For example, successful replications could be listed in the publication lists of replicated authors. Vice versa, data sharing needs to receive more recognition, for example by considering data production and subsequent data sharing as scientific output.
A13|Teilen, Sharing 1 und Sharing 2: die Sharing Economy im Licht theoretischer Zugänge|This article elaborates on theoretical approaches to the concept of sharing. It explicates both the contribution and limitations of services approaches and property rights theory for the understanding of the sharing economy. The article provides reasons for the differentiation between a commercial and noncommercial sharing economy and discusses the effects of possible impulses of the sharing economy on the understanding of economic action and its organizational structures. Der Artikel geht theoretischen Zugängen zum Sharing-Begriff nach. Er erläutert den Beitrag, aber auch die Grenzen von Dienstleistungstheorie und Property-Rights-Theorie für das Verständnis der Sharing Economy. Gründe für die Unterscheidung zwischen kommerzieller und nichtkommerzieller Sharing Economy werden dargelegt sowie mögliche Impulse der Sharing Economy für Änderungen im Verständnis wirtschaftlichen Handels und seiner Organisationsformen erörtert.
A13|Einstellungen der BürgerInnen in Deutschland zur Aufnahme von Geflüchteten|Since the beginning of 2016, the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study has been conducting a monthly survey of German attitudes, expectations, and fears concerning migration. The third wave of the survey, —the Barometer of Public Opinion on Refugees in Germany (Stimmungsbarometer zu Geflüchteten in Deutschland)—, conducted in March 2016, shows that more than half of all respondents still associate the influx of refugees with more risks than opportunities. Nonetheless, a clear majority (81 percent of respondents) are in favor of admitting refugees and those fleeing political persecution, in accordance with international law. At the same time, however, the majority are of the conviction that refugees should be sent back to their home country once their reason for leaving it no longer pertains. Only 28 percent of all respondents are in favor of allowing refugees who have already been living in Germany for some time to remain in the country even after the situation in their country oforigin has improved Seit Beginn 2016 untersucht das „Stimmungsbarometer zu Geflüchteten in Deutschland“ monatlich die mit dem Thema Migration verbundenen Einstellungen, Erwartungen und Befürchtungen der BürgerInnen in Deutschland. Die im März 2016 durchgeführte dritte Welle der Umfrage zeigt, dass weiterhin mehr als die Hälfte der Befragten mit der Flüchtlingszuwanderung mehr Risiken als Chancen verbindet. Trotzdem spricht sich eine deutliche Mehrheit von 81 Prozent der BürgerInnen für eine dem Völkerrecht entsprechende Aufnahme von Geflüchteten und Verfolgten aus. Zugleich plädiert die Mehrheit aber dafür, dass die Geflüchteten nach Erlöschen des Fluchtgrundes wieder in ihre Heimat zurückgeschickt werden sollen. Nur 28 Prozent aller Befragten sprechen sich dafür aus, dass Geflüchtete, die schon einige Jahre in Deutschland sind, auch dann hierbleiben dürfen, wenn sich die Situation im Herkunftsland gebessert hat.
A13|Mehrheit der Bevölkerung steht hinter der Genfer Flüchtlingskonvention: Sechs Fragen an Jürgen Schupp|No abstract is available for this item.
A13|Flüchtlingszuwanderung: Mehrheit der Deutschen befürchtet negative Auswirkungen auf Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft|The influx of refugees into Germany has been dominating the public debate for months. This past January, a survey entitled Stimmungsbarometer zu Flüchtlingen in Deutschland (“Barometer of public opinion on refugees in Germany”) revealed that roughly one third of German adults see more opportunity than risks in the refugee influx, while over half of all respondents believe the opposite. Just under one third of respondents reported that they have been donating money or resources to help refugees, a percentage that could rise somewhat in the future based on respondents’ self-reported intentions. Roughly one tenth of the respondents reported engaging in practical, on-the-ground work with refugees. Respondents who show willingness to help refugees include not only those who view the refugee influx in a positive light, but also individuals with ambivalent or even critical viewpoints. Der Zustrom von Flüchtlingen nach Deutschland bestimmt seit Monaten die öffentliche Debatte. Nach der im Januar dieses Jahres durchgeführten Umfrage „Stimmungsbarometer zu Flüchtlingen in Deutschland“ sieht etwas weniger als ein Drittel der Erwachsenen in Deutschland in der Flüchtlingswanderung langfristig eher Chancen als Risiken, mehr als die Hälfte ist der gegenteiligen Ansicht. Knapp ein Drittel der Befragten gab an, seit dem vergangenen Jahr Flüchtlinge mit Geld- oder Sachspenden unterstützt zu haben; den Absichtsbekundungen der Umfrageteilnehmer zufolge könnte dieser Anteil künftig noch etwas steigen. Etwa ein Zehntel der Befragten beteiligt sich nach eigener Aussage an der praktischen Arbeit mit Flüchtlingen vor Ort. Unter den Personen, die Hilfsbereitschaft gegenüber Flüchtlingen zeigen, sind nicht nur solche, die den Flüchtlingsstrom positiv sehen, sondern auch viele mit einer ambivalenten oder eher kritischen Einstellung.
A13|Perceptions and Practices of Replication by Social and Behavioral Scientists: Making Replications a Mandatory Element of Curricula Would Be Useful|"We live in a time of increasing publication rates and specialization of scientific disciplines. More and more, the research community is facing the challenge of assuring the quality of research and maintaining trust in the scientific enterprise. Replication studies are necessary to detect erroneous research. Thus, the replicability of research is considered a hallmark of good scientific practice and it has lately become a key concern for research communities and science policy makers alike. In this case study we analyze perceptions and practices regarding replication studies in the social and behavioral sciences. Our analyses are based on a survey of almost 300 researchers that use data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP), a multidisciplinary longitudinal multi-cohort study. We find that more than two thirds of respondents disagree with the statement that replications are not worthwhile, because major mistakes will be found at some point anyway. Nevertheless, most respondents are not willing to spend their time to conduct replication studies. This situation can be characterized as a ""tragedy of the commons"": everybody knows that replications are useful, but almost everybody counts on others to conduct them. Our most important finding concerning practical consequences is that among the few replications that are reported, a large majority is conducted in the context of teaching. In our view, this is a promising detail: in order to foster replicability, one avenue may be to make replication studies a mandatory part of curricula as well as of doctoral theses. Furthermore, we argue that replication studies need to be more attractive for researchers. For example, successful replications could be listed in the publication lists of replicated authors. Vice versa, data sharing needs to receive more recognition, for example by considering data production and subsequent data sharing as scientific output."
A13|The cultural foundations of happiness|The paper provides a framework for how culture affects happiness. According to self-determination theory, well-being is driven by the satisfaction of three basic psychological needs: autonomy, relatedness and competence. We assess if, and to what extent, trust and the values of obedience and respect influence Europeans’ satisfaction of these needs, controlling for income and education. We find a positive and significant impact for generalized morality (high trust and respect, low obedience), which is robust to different checks for endogeneity, including instrumental variable regressions at country, regional and individual level. Results suggest that lack of trust, high obedience and low respect not only reduce the wealth of nations, but also constrain the satisfaction of basic psychological needs, thereby hindering the individuals’ fulfilment of happiness.
A13|The Analysis of Regional Development on the Basis of Corporate Structures’ Activity|Modern conditions upgrade issues concerning the search of ways to develop and increase activity efficiency of large-scale industrial associations that possess a high concentration of material and scientific resources, and influence significantly both a certain economic sector or region and the country’s development in general. This paper aims to substantiate author’s techniques to define the impact of corporate entities on a regional social-economic sphere. The authors have highlighted main features of Russian corporate entities and possible forms of ownership. Types of regions and their features the consideration of which is necessary to evaluate regional development are presented on the basis of the author’s estimation procedure. The factor analysis made the foundation for a rating assessment of corporate entities impact on the region; it allowed to estimate quantitatively corporations’ activity and the level of regional development at a certain time period. The paper is intended for heads of regions, top-managers, researchers dealing with issues of corporate entities’ and regional economy development.
A13|The competitive advantage of honesty|We study competitive markets where firms may lie to their workers to reduce costs. Consumers may benefit from firms’ dishonesty through lower market prices. Does firms’ (dis-)honesty affect consumers’ purchasing decisions? Our experiment shows that when honesty is fully transparent, it can provide a competitive advantage: Honest firms sell more and – despite higher costs – achieve higher profits. This finding is in line with our equilibrium predictions when allowing for dishonesty-averse consumers. By identifying circumstances in which consumers – although not the addressee of dishonesty – “punish” firms for their within-firm dishonesty, we contribute both to behavioral ethics and behavioral industrial organization.
A13|Can SRI funds better resist global financial crisis? Evidence from Japan|This paper compared Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds and conventional funds in the Japanese market with respect to the impact of the global financial crisis in 2008. Taking the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers as a particular event, we estimated the average cumulative abnormal returns of both funds by event study methodology using a Fama–French three-factor model and EGARCH model. Our results suggest that SRI funds better resisted the bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers than conventional funds. We also found that this result can be attributed to the existence of international funds, possibly because investors might evaluate the CSR activities of international firms more than those of domestic firms. Alternatively, it can be interpreted that the universe of domestic SRI funds is too limited to enjoy risk diversification.
A13|Solving the SRI puzzle? A note on the mainstreaming of ethical investment|Previous research on the relationship between societal and financial performance has yielded ambiguous results. This letter seeks to put forth an explanation for this puzzle. We argue that the difference in returns between ethical and conventional indices may, in fact, be insignificant due to the ‘mainstreaming’ of ethical investment. Using a database of 24 international indices over the 2008–2014 time periods, we calculate rolling daily returns, develop a robust test for difference in Sharpe ratios, and compare alfas across EGARCH asset pricing models with endogenous volatility breakpoints. Results converge to indicate no significant difference in financial performance between conventional and ethical indices. This validates the ‘mainstreaming’ hypothesis and opens avenues for future research.
A13|Social surplus determines cooperation rates in the one-shot Prisoner's Dilemma|We provide evidence on how cooperation rates vary across payoff parameters in the Prisoner's Dilemma (PD), using four one-shot games that differ only in the payoffs from mutual cooperation. In our experiment, participants play only the PD game, and play the game once and only once, so there are no potential confounds or methodological issues. Our results show that higher monetary payoffs from cooperation are associated with substantially higher cooperation rates, which increase monotonically from 23% to 60%. Participants' beliefs about cooperation rates track closely actual cooperation rates: higher cooperation is expected from others when mutual cooperation payoffs are higher. This is true also for participants who, in a follow-up experiment, only make guesses about the choices of others.
