A20|For want of a chair: teaching price formation using a cap and trade game|The tradable or transferable permit system, “cap and trade”, is one of the most innovative policy options developed by environmental economists. Over the last 40 years, cap and trade programs have been used around the globe by some of the world’s biggest economies. By placing a cap on a bad, whether a pollutant or excess fish mortality, and then allowing firms to buy and sell the right to generate it, policy makers combine government intervention with market-based incentives in order to improve welfare and internalize the externality. Such programs represent a great opportunity for economics instructors to show students how economic theory can be used in the real world by policy makers while teaching foundational economic concepts. By using an in-class game that utilizes a mobile app or paper-based interaction to create a market for a pollutant (or another rival but non-excludable resource), students can learn several important tenants of economics. These include how prices are formed and how price-based incentives lead to voluntary, as if cooperative, behavior by agents. This active learning method engages students while improving their comprehension of price formation, gains from trade, voluntary response to incentives, and an important environmental economics policy.
A20|ICT and Ethical Finance: Fostering Social Innovation and Financial Inclusion|This paper describes the links between ethical and responsible finance and social innovation. The two have long been in a close relationship. Ethical and responsible finance has traditionally supported projects that face difficulties in the mainstream banking sector, fostering experimental approaches (to give but an example) to market failures of traditional welfare. Moreover, ethical and responsible finance is interested not only on the economic viability of a project to fund, but also its social and/or environmental impact.The additional dimension brought about by the impact of the activities of ethical and responsible finance is social innovation. This potentially encompass several disciplines, phenomena and social constructs, which makes it difficult to analyse. However, interest in social innovation is increasing, especially concerning digital social innovation. After the theoretical analysis, the focus shifts to the PROFIT platform, presented as a practical example of ICT response to the need for improving the financial knowledge and literacy of the citizens for better decision-making and social resilience. During the creation of the platform, its creators have taken the diversity of the potential beneficiaries into account, in order to be useful for as many social groups as possible. The paper concludes with an analysis of the digital social innovation potential of the PROFIT platform.
A20|Sustaining the Implementation of Dual-Language Programme (DLP) in Malaysian Secondary Schools|Objective - The implementation of Dual-Language Programmes (DLP) in the teaching and learning of Science and Mathematics is an initiative under the 'Upholding the Malay Language and Strengthening the English Language' (MBMMBI) policy. Though it has some similarities with the previous policy known as 'English for the Teaching of Science and Mathematics' (PPSMI), its execution is idiosyncratic in its own way. Since its inception in 2016, the programme has entered its third cycle involving students in primary and secondary schools in Malaysia. The curiosity to scrutinise the programme implementation has led to this study. The study aims to investigate the execution of this programme and to assess its sustainability. Methodology/Technique - Gleaning through the students' language capabilities, attitudes, teachers' support and acceptance of the programme, the study uses a questionnaire with open-ended questions and focus group discussions to unravel the aforementioned issues. 1,530 students from secondary schools across Malaysia were selected as the respondents of this study. Findings - The results reveal findings that may represent a measure on the direction of this programme. Looking from the student perspective, the challenges confronted in addition to those put forward may further serve as an indicator for the sustainability of the program. Novelty - This study infers how the programme can be further enhanced in terms of its implementation in its fourth year since inception. The findings of this study may assist policy makers in shaping the direction of the programme.
A20|Enhancing the Resilience of Junior High School Students to Bullying|Objective - Junior high schools have realized the need for resilience to prevent and respond to bullying. Resilience can help students better respond to bullying. Enhancing this construct can support the efforts of schools to create a supportive and safe learning environment. Methodology/Technique - This research examines a regional sample of 404 Indonesian junior high school students located in Central Java between the ages of 13 and 15. The study explores the connection between experiences with bullying and resilience by examining whether resilient students seem to be significantly affected at school. Findings - The findings of the study indicate that resilience has the potential to prevent the instance of bullying. Students with high resilience were identified as being able to mitigate the effect of bullying in school.
A20|Self-Concept and Social Adjustment of First-Year Students|Objective - Students who study in higher education institutions should have a good socialization process since it later influences their happiness and sadness during their first year of university life. They may face some difficulties and problems that may inhibit their academic success if they cannot adjust well. One of the successful social adjustment criteria is self-concept, in which is derived from interactions with others, for example, the environment. For that reason, it is important to investigate the self-concept and social adjustment of Psychology students, at UIN Maulana Malik Ibrahim Malang, during the first semester. This paper therefore aims to a) determine the degree of student social adjustment, b) determine the quality of self-concept, and c) identify the relationship between self-concept and social adjustment among first year students of Psychology, UIN Maulana Malik Ibrahim Malang. Methodology/Technique - The subjects of this study include 134 first year students at the Faculty of Psychology, UIN Maulana Malik Ibrahim Malang, East Java. The data was collected in accordance with the scale of self-concept and social adjustment. Finding and Novelty - The results show that 1) the degree of first students' self-concept is in average scale, 69.4%, 2) the social adjustment of first year students belongs to a moderate category, 71,6%, and 3) self-concept has positive correlation to social adjustment (r = 0,703, p = 0,000). These findings confirm that the higher the self-concept the students poses, the better the social adjustment they perform. This study suggests the need for intervention to escalate self-concept and social adjustment of students by collaborating with some stakeholders, particularly students' parents, universities, government, societies, and religious figures.
A20|Construction and Validation of the Learning Management System Success Scale in the Higher Education Setting|Objective - The concept of education is entirely outdated. Currently, many higher education institutions are adopting blended learning pedagogy to nurture 21st-century skills. The integration of ICT has become a recent global trend in education with universities and colleges using Learning Management Systems (LMS) as their primary method of disseminating and administrating teaching and learning processes. The exploration of the factors crucial for successful implementation of LMS is therefore essential. However, most literature on this topic focuses on the technical quality of LMS's, and few address the educational quality and efficiency of LMS. Previous research also fails to discuss the conceptualization and measurement of LMS success. This study aims to construct and validate an instrument to measure LMS success in higher education institutions. Methodology/Technique - Various IS success frameworks were used to design the constructs in this study. A quantitative methodology was adopted with the sample of 379 randomly selected responses from university/college students, academics, and course administrators from India (n=297) and the Maldives (n=82). IBM SPSS AMOS 25 was used to check the validity and reliability of the instrument and to identify the measurement invariance. Findings & Novelty - This study concludes that information quality, educational quality, system quality, service quality, intention to use, user satisfaction, and net benefits are the critical constructs for measuring LMS success. The findings of this study can be used to support scholars in developing and examining other information system-related theories, as well as to higher education institutions while implementing different LMS's.
A20|Intermediary Effect of Intention of ICT adoption on the Relationship of Attitudes toward Adoption and Adoption of VLE among the Malay Language Teachers|Objective - This research aims to explore whether the intention of ICT adoption in teaching Malay language acts as a mediator in the relationship between attitudes toward ICT adoption and the adoption of the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) among secondary school Malay Language teachers. Methodology/Technique - TAM is the basis theory in this quantitative study which uses a questionnaire to collect the data. The population of the study comprises of 410 secondary school teachers in Selangor by applying various probability sampling procedures. The research instrument was adapted from a previous questionnaire and pilot study which shows an alpha Cronbach at .81. Software of Smart-PLS was used to analyse the results of the study. Findings - The mediator analysis showed a positive and significant direct relationship (ß = .067, p
A20|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
A20|Erasmus + (key action 1) mobility of students in distance learning programs. Empirical analysis based on the example of International Business School - Botevgrad, Bulgaria|"Digitization of education and implementation of online learning platforms are changing not only the way in which knowledge is provided from the universities but also the profile of students. In this respect, distance learning is preferred by individuals who, for one reason or another, are unable to physically attend lectures. A priority objective of the paper is to determine the willingness of distance learning students from International Business School - Botevgrad (Bulgaria) to apply for a mobility of a minimum 3 months study period under the Erasmus + program (KA1). Primary data is collected on the basis of in-depth interviews (n = 15). As a main conclusion of the data analyses, it can be stated that the participation of students in Erasmus + (KA1) study mobility, for at least 3 months period of time, is perceived as ""difficult to be achieved"" by the respondents participating in the survey. The present research paper helps to better understand the extent to which distance learning students are motivated to participate in mobility."
A20|Мобилност На Студенти В Дистанционна Форма На Обучение По Примера На Международно Висше Бизнес Училище – Ботевград, България<BR>[Mobility of students in distance learning programs on the example of International Business School - Botevgrad, Bulgaria]|Дигитализацията в образованието и въвеждането на онлайн обучителни платформи видоизменя не само начина за предоставяне на познания, но и профила на студентите. В тази връзка дистанционна форма на обучение е предпочитана от лица, които по една или друга причина нямат възможност физически да присъстват на лекции. Приоритетна цел на разработката е да се определи желанието на студенти от дистанционна форма на обучение в Международно висше бизнес училище – Ботевград (България) да реализират мобилност от минимум 3 месеца по програма Еразъм+ (КД1). Първичните данни са събрани на основата на дълбочинни интервюта (n=15). Като основно заключение от събраните данни може да се посочи, че осъществяването на студентска мобилност с цел обучение по програма Еразъм+ (КД1), от минимум 3 месеца, се възприема като „трудно изпълнимо“ от респондентите, участващи в проучването. Настоящата разработка подпомага за по-доброто разбиране на това в каква степен студенти от дистанционна форма на обучение имат мотивация да реализират мобилност.
A20|Analysis of Higher Education in Indian National Education Policy Proposal 2019 and its Implementation Challenges|Systematic education policy is essential for offering school and college education in a country due to the reason that education leads to progress in society. Different countries use different education systems with different stages during its life cycle of school and College education levels. Recently, the Government of India received a draft Education policy suggested by an expert committee headed by Dr. K. Kasturirangan, former chairman of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). The committee suggested both incremental and drastically changes in existing Indian education policy and give guidelines to effective implementation in the country by 2030. This is also in line with the Objectives of fourth Sustainable Development Goals to provide quality education for all citizens through fourth Educational Industry Revolution (EIR 4.0) in the country. This paper reviews the related literature during last few years on Indian Higher Education Policies and their consequences, Salient features and their focuses on the present draft of National Education policy 2019 through content analysis. The paper highlights on various policies proposed in the draft with the special emphasis on higher education section and compare them with the previous policies. The analysis also compares the possible effects of NEP 2019 proposal on private and public HEIs in terms of facilities & restrictions. The strength and weakness of the new policy are identified with respect to various stakeholders and listed. Appropriate suggestions are made to realize the policy and make it defect free and effective from a public point of reference and for the prosperity of the country.
A20|Economic Operation of Self-Sustained Microgrid Optimal Operation by Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm Based on Decomposition|This paper focuses on the optimal operation of the islanded microgrid. A novel heuristic method known as the Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm Based on Decomposition is presented to search for the optimal solution with a fast response. The efficiency of the method is tested on the IEEE 33 bus test network.
A20|Acquiring ?green? competencies in the study process|Research background: The 7th Environment Action Plan promotes a long-term objective of ?Living well, within the limits of our planet? based on a 2050 vision centred on ecological limits, a circular economy, and society?s resilience. It is of a great importance to gather the understanding of global trends and risks as well as future skills that are crucial for a well-developed circular economy. It is important to integrate the life-cycle thinking throughout all the stages of economy and edu-cation plays one of the key roles in ensuring comprehensive transition towards circular economy model.Purpose of the article: The aim of the current paper is to identify what skills, knowledge and competencies students should acquire in the study process and to formulate guidelines for human resource development through higher education according to requirements of a circular economy.Methods: The research is based on theoretical analysis of the scientific literature in circular economy field, analysis of statistical data and questionnaire survey.Findings & Value added: The surveyed business executives (1829 respondents in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia) point out that informational and educational measures are needed on the circular economy. Decision making, system thinking, learning by doing, competences, skills and knowledge, values, awareness raising and problem based learning were identified by respondents as the most important skills that should be acquired during the study process. The findings support the need for developing a study course with integrated the life-cycle thinking which will help to develop professional qualities and competencies of future professionals.
A20|Should we and can we motivate university students? ? The analysis of the interpretation of the role and the teaching methods of university teachers|Reducing student drop-out rates is a challenge faced in Hungarian higher education. Our research and development project is intended to contribute to this effort: we analyse the notions and experiences of teachers concerning the possibility of motivating students, as well as their own role models as teachers and their teaching methods. We also explore students? motivation, their experiences and expectations related to classes at the university.It was studied whether the motivation of students appears in the teachers? understanding of their own role. Do they accept or reject the motivation of students as a task? Is there a difference in the teaching methods applied between those who consider a part of their role as teachers to motivate students and those who reject this? We were also curious how the opinions of teachers and students were similar or different concerning the motivating effect of various teaching methods.We collected data from teachers and students at six Hungarian institutes of higher education. The teachers? questionnaire was completed by 210 respondents, and semi-structured, in-depth interviews were also conducted with 41 of them. The students? questionnaire was completed by 1,130 respondents. In the analysis of the data, we used both quantitative and qualitative methods.Based on the results, half of the teachers faced with difficulties in connection with motivating students. In the interpretation of the role models of the majority of them, the intention of motivating students appeared positively. By contrast, in the opinion of 68%, academic success depends on the students alone.There was agreement in that the respondents considered the use of digital tools, interactivity, practicality as having the most motivating effect. In the frequency of encountering various methods, however, there was a difference in the assessment given by students and teachers. The interviews shed light on the fact that, despite the best intentions, the actual achievement of motivation of students in the classrooms is often missing. The reason may be the lack of pedagogical and methodological knowledge and consciousness.
A20|What have we done? The impact of choosing and studying different academic disciplines on beliefs and values|In this paper, we examine the effect of studying business on the beliefs and values of students, carefully distinguishing between self-selection in the discipline and socialization during the first year of study. Using a survey of students in a leading Belgian business school, we observe significant differences between business students and students from other disciplines at the start of their first year in both their beliefs and values. We also discover that these differences persist or are reinforced at the end of the year. Moreover, we find changes in values of business students that take only one year to manifest. Furthermore, we find that business students over the course of the first year change their beliefs more than students from other disciplines. Accordingly, we report evidence of self-selection and socialization effects on both the values and beliefs of a typical business student. Moreover, we observe that while some values and beliefs of business students change over time, we do not observe changes for economics students. This suggests that the effect of studying business is not entirely driven by the role of economics in business studies.
A20|Teaching International Monetary Economics. Two different views|This paper presents a critical analysis of the way in which international monetary economics is normally taught. The objective of this paper is twofold. On the one hand, we show how the most popular international economics manuals deal with exchange rate theory and its link with balance of payments equilibrium. In particular, we stress how the models proposed in these manuals cannot explain one of the biggest macroeconomic problems of our time, that of the imbalances of the balance of payments. On the other hand, we put forward an alternative Keynesian model. Assuming neither full employment nor balanced trade over the short or long run, the paper is intended as a new contribution to the post-Keynesian analysis of exchange rate theory. Finally, our model gives an original insight into the relationship between Liquidity Trap and structural economic imbalances in modern economies.
A20|Das vermeintliche Wissen der ökonomischen Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Ein Essay|Der Beitrag verfolgt die beiden miteinander verwandten Fragen, wie Ökonom*innen zu wissen vorgeben und warum sie überhaupt wissen wollen. Es wird argumentiert, dass sowohl die ökonomische Wissensform als auch die Motivation der Wissenden im Verlauf des 20. Jahrhunderts einen grundlegenden Wandel erfahren haben. Das Wissen wichtiger ökonomischer Lehrbücher der Gegenwart hat mit einem objektiven, dezidiert wissenschaftlich motivierten Wissen nur noch wenig gemein. Ihren Inhalten und Formen liegt vielmehr eine produktive Absicht zugrunde, die auf die Subjektivität ihrer Leser*innen zielt.
A20|The power of economic textbooks: A discourse analysis|"By conducting a discourse analysis (SKAD) in the field of academic economics textbooks, this paper aims at reconstructing frames and identity options offered to undergraduate students relating to the questions ""Why study economics?""and ""Who do I become by studying economics?"". The analysis showed three major frames and respective identity offerings, all of which are contextualized theoretically, with prominent reference to the Foucauldian reflection of the science of Political Economy. Surprisingly, none of them encourages the student to think critically, as could have been expected in a pedagogical context. Taken together, economics textbooks appear as a ""total structure of actions brought to bear upon possible action"" (Foucault), therefore, as a genuine example of Foucauldian power structures."
A20|The Role of the Legislative and Regulatory Framework in Improving the Investment Climate in the Middle East and North Africa Countries (MENA), in the Reconstruction Phase - Descriptive Study|The importance of investment appears in the development and support of the country?s economy, where developing countries sought to attract investments, Which necessarily required a package of reforms, Which began with a set of laws that set the general investment policy in many developing countries, Which aimed at investment environment attractive to investment, But the conditions in the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa region did not help achieve the desired vision that was planned.This study aims to identify and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the investment climate, In addition to studying the legal and regulatory environment related to investment, and its role in supporting the investment climate in the reconstruction phase.The importance of this study emerged in the positive role which played by the investment process in economic development in general, and determines the elements of the investment environment from the legislative and administrative aspects, It is, therefore, necessary, Intensify efforts to develop the investment climate in the next stage of reconstruction.The problem of the study is reflected in the importance of developing investment laws, Because it is the most important factor in attracting investments, and because the effectiveness of investment promotion laws have a positive and direct impact in creating the investment environment.The study confirmed, after reviewing previous studies, the need to amend the current investment promotion laws in most developing countries, simplify and standardize investment laws, add organize this lows under one investment umbrella,The study also found the volume of investment in the reconstruction phase will depend on the development that can happen in the investment laws.
A20|What economics education is missing: The real world|The global financial crisis (GFC) led to increasing distrust in economic research and the economics profession, in the process of which the current state of economics and economic education in particular were heavily criticized. Against this background we conducted a study with undergraduate students of economics in order to capture their view of economic education. The paper is based on the Documentary Method, a qualitative empirical method, which combines maximum openness with regard to the collection of empirical material coupled with maximum rigor in analysis. The empirical findings show that students enter economics curricula with (1) epistemic, (2) practical or (3) moral/political motivations for understanding and dealing with real-world problems but end up remarkably disappointed after going through the mathematical and methods-orientated introductory courses. The findings further indicate that students develop strategies to cope with their disappointment - all of them relating to their original motivation. The theoretical contextualization of the empirical findings is based on the psychological concept of cognitive dissonance.
A20|Economic Theory ten years after the crisis: Just tweaking around the edges? and/or A bit of repair at the seams?|It is my intention to address, primarily within the scope of mainstream macroeconomic theory, three of the questions making up the main theme of the conference, namely: How a very problematic theory continues to survive and dominate both the policy and the academic scene. What are the processes in the economy and the society that sustain its dominance? What is the condition of the economic Orthodoxy (particularly under its current form of the New Macroeconomic Consensus, that is the hybrid of mild neoliberalism with conservative New Keynesianism)? A good many orthodox economists hold the view that there is no necessity for a paradigm shift. On the contrary, a mere evolution towards a more pluralistic discipline would suffice. Hence the title of my talk.
A20|Στόχος Της Παρούσας Μελέτης Είναι Η Αναλυτική Διερεύνηση Της Παραγωγικής Διάρθρωσης Της Περιφέρειας Κρήτης. Ειδικότερα, Αναλύεται Ο Βαθμός Αλληλεξάρτησης Των Κλάδων Οικονομικής Δραστηριότητας, Όπως Προκύπτει Από Τις Κλαδικές Διασυνδέσεις Τους, Αλλά Και Η Διάρθρωσης Της Απασχόλησης Και Των Επαγγελμάτων Που Τεκμαίρονται Μέσα Από Αυτές. Με Την Εφαρμογή Της Ανάλυσης Εισροών-Εκροών Προσδιορίζονται Οι Κλάδοι-Κλειδιά Για Την Παραγωγή Και Την Απασχόληση Καθώς Και Τα Πιο Δυναμικά Επαγγέλματα. Από Την Ανάλυση Προκύπτει Μία Ομάδα Κλάδων Οικονομικής Δραστηριότητας, Των Οποίων Η Βελτίωση Της Έντασης Και Της Έκτασης Των Αλληλεξαρτήσεων, Μπορεί Να Δημιουργήσει Στην Περιφέρεια Κρήτης Μια Εσωτερική Δυναμική Η Οποία Θα Ενισχύσει Την Αποτελεσματικότητα Της Οικονομίας Της|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|Simulateur pédagogique des effets de répartition des soutiens de la PAC au niveau nation|[texte en français] The latest reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which was decided by the Member States of the European Union in 2013, has again modified some of the modalities with which the different types of direct payments are allocated to farmers. The reform concerns first Pillar « decoupled » payments as well as « coupled » payments, and leaves Member States with a great flexibility in how to implement the various policy measures inside a common framework. In this paper, we present a tool (which was developed with Excel and is compatible with the LibreOffice package) which allows to simulate the implementation of the main aspects of the reform, and to assess their impacts both in terms of payment distribution across farms and in terms of income. Being an educational tool, it is neither an academic effort which would precisely model the impact of the latest reform, nor a device which would permit to estimate the exact amount of support a specific farmer could claim in practice. It is based on the French strand of the Farm Accounting Data Network (FADN) and allows to analyse the choices made by France in 2013, shedding light on the underlying rationale which may have motivated the decisions. Because its initial purpose was the lifelong training of agricultural yet non-CAP or non-economics specialist professionals, the proposed simulation tool comes with a user-friendly interface and has also already been used for the initial training of Agrocampus Ouest students and with an even larger audience during the INRA’s 70th birthday Open Days in Rennes in 2016. Building on these experiences, we are currently incorporating this simulation tool inside an Agreenium-IAVFF MOOC dedicated to the economics of the European agricultural policy.
A20|Measuring the financial literacy of the adult population: the experience of Banca d’Italia|At the beginning of 2017, Banca d’Italia conducted a survey to investigate financial literacy and inclusion among Italian adults. The survey is part of an OECD project to create an internationally comparable dataset on this important topic. The questionnaire was developed by the OECD International Network on Financial Education (INFE). The Italian sample consists of about 2,500 persons interviewed using two different methods: 40 per cent of them had a face-to-face interview while the others used a tablet to record their responses. Our findings show the existence of a substantial financial literacy gap between Italy and the other G20 countries, which is most evident among less educated respondents, among the elderly and among women. Compared with other countries, Italians are more aware of their limits or at least more cautious when assessing their level of financial knowledge. We also discuss some critical aspects of the OECD’s methodology that should be addressed in order to improve the measurement of financial literacy and to increase cross-country comparability.
A20|Postales de la economía argentina 2017|Esta es una selección de comentarios periodísticos escritos durante 2017 con la finalidad de explicar algunas situaciones de la economía. Fueron publicados por diferentes medios, y siempre respondieron a un evento particular o discusión pública, como una oportunidad para rescatar los grandes principios rectores de la economía política. Como tenían una finalidad de difusión y no académica, fueron publicados sin las referencias a autores ni las notas de pié de página que acompañan esta recopilación con fines didácticos.
A20|What do self-reports of wellbeing say about life-cycle theory and policy?|I respond to Atkinson's plea to revive welfare economics, and to consider alternative ethical frameworks when making policy recommendations. I examine a measure of self-reported evaluative wellbeing, the Cantril Ladder, and use data from Gallup to examine wellbeing over the life-cycle. I assess the validity of the measure, and show that it is hard to reconcile with familiar theories of intertemporal choice. I find a worldwide optimism about the future; in spite of repeated evidence to the contrary, people consistently but irrationally predict they will be better off five years from now. The gap between future and current wellbeing diminishes with age, and in rich countries, is negative among the elderly. I also use the measure to think about income transfers by age and sex. Policies that give priority those with low incomes favor the young and the old, while utilitarian policies favor the middle aged, and men over women.
A20|The Study on Blue Ocean Strategy in Guiding and Counselling of Senior High School in Indonesia|Objective - The development of science and technology has had a rapid and unexpected impact on human life. It also creates chaos and presents a challenge to various aspects of life, including to procedures of guidance and counselling in senior high schools. This area of research requires a dynamic movement to create a new world or new value in counselling and guidance management to increase its effectiveness, efficiency, creativity and productivity. This study aims to determine student behavior in the science and technology era, using the blue ocean strategy of guidance and counselling to create new value. Methodology/Technique - The study uses a descriptive qualitative method using 4 teachers as the source of primary data and 4 principals and 8 students as the source of secondary data. Findings - The results show that student behavior is very adaptive to independent learning and, on the other hand, the groups tend to behave politely. Novelty - The blue ocean strategy of guidance and counselling has created a new world in accordance with the needs of students through assessment and innovation of counselling and guidance programs in senior high schools.
A20|The Attractiveness of Schools of Management: The Case of Indonesia|Objective - In recent times, schools of management in Indonesia have experienced rapid rates of growth all over the country in both big cities and small towns. The increase in interest to join schools of management is reflected by the number of schools of management at the undergraduate, master and doctoral levels that exist in almost all universities, particularly at the undergraduate and master levels. This research aims to determine the factors that influence the decision of an undergraduate, master or doctoral student to enroll in a school of management. Methodology/Technique - This study uses factor analysis and in-depth interview. The data is collecting using an online questionnaire distributed through WhatsApp groups and emails to undergraduate, masters and doctoral students throughout Indonesia. 366 questionnaires were distributed in total. Findings - The result of research show that the factors affecting students' decisions to enroll at schools of management are the process, product, and motivation. While the high interest in entering master and doctoral in management with the non-management background is caused by several factors, primarily, due to its relevance to their work, career development, accreditation, and other factors. Novelty - Those students that already occupy key positions in both private and government sectors consider managerial skills are more dominant in schools of management.
A20|An Empirical Study on TQM Practices and its Influence on Employee Satisfaction and Performance in Technical Institutions: Teachers' Perspectives|Objective - Employee satisfaction and employee performance are critical to a service-oriented organization and its performance. Employees play a crucial role in the successful delivery of service and maintaining customer relationships in service oriented organizations. Satisfied employees in general perform better in service delivery as compared to unsatisfied employees. Employee satisfaction, in turn, results from total quality management initiatives such as top management support, employee training, employee participation, employee rewards, and team work that enable employees to provide better customer service. While the relationship of TQM practices and employee satisfaction has been tested in other service sectors, it has not been explored in the education sector. The objective of this paper is to investigate how TQM practices have an impact on employee satisfaction and employee performance within the context of technical institutions in India. Methodology/Technique - The data is collected from 250 teaching faculties of technical institutions in the southern states of India. Findings - The results of the study confirm that TQM practices are significantly positive predictors of employee satisfaction, which in turn contributes to better employee performance within the educational sector in India. Novelty - This study contributes to the development of literature by empirically testing the link between TQM practices and employee satisfaction and employee performance within the context of the education sector.
A20|International monetary policy coordination in a new Keynesian model with NICE features| The authors provide a static two-country new Keynesian model to teach two related questions in international macroeconomics: the international transmission of unilateral monetary policy decisions and the gains coming from the coordination monetary rules. They concentrate on “normal times” and use a thoroughly graphical approach to analyze the questions at hand. In this setting monetary policy is conducted using interest rates rules and economic integration between nations does not necessarily create the case for the coordination of monetary policy. In particular, they show that the conduct of optimal national monetary policies does not make any difference with the coordination of national policies, as this creates a situation where the international monetary system operates “Near an International Cooperative Equilibrium” (NICE).
A20|Matematikk og statistikk som metodefag ved NHH: De første femti år|Denne rapporten gir en oversikt over utviklingen av matematikk og statistikk som metodefag i studiene ved Norges Handelshøyskole, fra starten i 1936 og 50 år framover til omlag 1986. Spesiell vekt er lagt på perioder da viktige beslutninger ble fattet, og til de ulike synspunkter hos de interesserte parter om veien videre. English This report (in Norwegian) gives a survey of the development of mathematics and statistics as methodology topics in the study programs at the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), from the beginning in 1936 and 50 years forward to about 1986. Emphasis is given to times when important decisions were taken, and to the different viewpoints among the interested parties about the path to follow.
A20|Exposure to academic fields and college major choice|This study investigates how exposure to a field of study influences students’ major choices. If students have incomplete information, exposure potentially helps them to learn about the scope of a field as well as how well the field matches their interest and abilities. We exploit a natural experiment where university students have to write a research paper in business, economics, or law during their first year before they choose a major. Due to oversubscription of business papers, the field of the paper is assigned quasi-randomly. We find that writing in economics raises the probability of majoring in economics by 2.7 percentage points. We show further that this effect varies across subfields: the effect is driven by assignment to topics less typical of the public's perception of the field of economics, suggesting students learn through exposure that the field is broader than they thought.
A20|Survey on Germans’ Attitudes Towards and Knowledge of Monetary Policy Issues: Documentation of Survey Methodology and Descriptive Results|This paper provides background information, questionnaires, and basic descriptive statistics for a representative survey of the German population conducted on our behalf by GfK in 2011. Our aim is to discover the German public’s knowledge about the ECB specifically, and monetary policy in general. We also examine our respondents’ self-perception of their knowledge and how they use media relating to the topic. A detailed descriptive analysis reveals that the German public’s factual knowledge is far from perfect, and their self-perception of this knowledge is equally poor. The general public is reasonably interested in information about the ECB and mainly watches TV or reads newspapers to keep informed. We discover significant differences in knowledge and media use across socio-demographic subgroups. On average, male respondents and those with higher levels of education or income are more interested in the ECB, more knowledgeable about it, and more confident in their own knowledge.
A20|Insegnare Economia Industriale ‘in a digital age’|Negli ultimi decenni l’insegnamento dell’economia industriale è stato sottoposto a notevoli tensioni. Le novità che si sono affermate rendono necessaria una riflessione sui contenuti sviluppati e sulle metodologie adottate. Una recente indagine, rivolta ai docenti di economia industriale e di materie ‘affini’ che insegnano nelle università italiane, consente di approfondire alcuni aspetti del cambiamento in corso. I risultati mostrano che a) l’insegnamento dell’economia industriale ha seguito sentieri evolutivi diversificati e con marcate connotazioni specialistiche; b) sembra ridursi il nucleo tematico condiviso nei diversi corsi; c) sono state sperimentate in modo diffuso pratiche didattiche innovative, ma rimangono aperti spazi per ulteriori miglioramenti, in particolare nella didattica con strumenti web e nei metodi di coinvolgimento attivo degli studenti.
A20|"Some reflections on the ""battle of the sexes"""|"The ""battle of the sexes"" game is usually taken as an example to illustrate the difficulties of coordination. Two of its hypotheses, however, are unrealistic and not necessary to the story it tells. We refer to the assumptions that (1) ""to go separately to the disliked event"" gives the same payoff as ""to go separately to the favourite event"" and that (2) only two options are available to the partners. Relaxing those hypotheses leaves intact the original message of the BoS, while increases its narrative scope. According to the importance attributed by the agents to ""to go out together"", the modified BoS can predict more outcomes than the original one. For instance, both ""to go out separately"", and ""to play together compromise options"" become possible equilibria. After a short survey of how the battle of the sexes is used in game-theory textbooks, we show the consequences of the proposed variations, firstly in a discrete and then in a continuous setting. An application to the recent Italian politics is attempted."
A20|Discrimination positive territoriale dans l’éducation comme un pylône du développement économique: une analyse pour le cas du Maroc<BR>[Territorial Positive Discrimination in Education as a Pylon of Economic Development: An Analysis for the Case of Morocco]|Education remains at the heart of political and economic debates in Morocco. The main issues facing Morocco are: How to generalize and standardize the education system throughout its territory? How to improve the quality and efficiency of his teaching in Morocco? The level of economic development remains fragile and sensitive, marked by an unfair development between the 12 Moroccan regions. For this purpose, also treated what is supposed to be unequal is unfair. We must abandon the principle of equal treatment of students throughout the country. This is obviously to compensate for the initial inequalities. Putting this policy in the name of equity seems socially just. Educational justice means not only the same educational policies but also equal access and results. An egalitarian system must focus on improving the quality of schools serving the poorest regions of the country and the poorest classes in society. The reason is simple: a well educated and well cared population will be more productive, which is a source of continuous growth that can benefit everyone. For this reason, the starting point is to establish a unique school, carrying the ideals of freedom, equality, solidarity, principles of citizenship, secularism, respect for others, universalism and unit. In addition, it is necessary to introduce digital into the education system and to diversify and encourage language learning (in addition to two official languages) such as English, Japanese,or Chinese.
A20|Simulateur pédagogique des effets de répartition des soutiens de la PAC au niveau national| The latest reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which was decided by the Member States of the European Union in 2013, has again modified some of the modalities with which the different types of direct payments are allocated to farmers. The reform concerns first Pillar « decoupled » payments as well as « coupled » payments, and leaves Member States with a great flexibility in how to implement the various policy measures inside a common framework. In this paper, we present a tool (which was developed with Excel and is compatible with the LibreOffice package) which allows to simulate the implementation of the main aspects of the reform, and to assess their impacts both in terms of payment distribution across farms and in terms of income. Being an educational tool, it is neither an academic effort which would precisely model the impact of the latest reform, nor a device which would permit to estimate the exact amount of support a specific farmer could claim in practice. It is based on the French strand of the Farm Accounting Data Network (FADN) and allows to analyse the choices made by France in 2013, shedding light on the underlying rationale which may have motivated the decisions. Because its initial purpose was the lifelong training of agricultural yet non-CAP or non-economics specialist professionals, the proposed simulation tool comes with a user-friendly interface and has also already been used for the initial training of Agrocampus Ouest students and with an even larger audience during the INRA’s 70th birthday Open Days in Rennes in 2016. Building on these experiences, we are currently incorporating this simulation tool inside an Agreenium-IAVFF MOOC dedicated to the economics of the European agricultural policy.
A20|Active Learning Improves Financial Education:|"We conduct a randomized field experiment to study the effects of two financial education interventions offered to small-scale retailers in Uganda. The treatments contrast \""active learning\"" with \""traditional lecturing\"" within standardized lesson-plans. We find that active learning has a positive and economically meaningful impact on savings and investment outcomes, in contrast to insignificant impacts of lecturing. These results are not conditional on prior education or financial literacy. Tentative evidence suggests that only active learning stimulates several cognitive and non-cognitive mechanisms; moreover, a social mechanism may be at play as treated individuals join social groups discussing financial matters."
A20|Financial Inclusion, Financial Regulation, Financial Literacy, Financial Education in the Kyrgyz Republic|While financial inclusion is considered one of the key drivers of development today, it is quite new to the Kyrgyz Republic. The Kyrgyz Republic attempted to introduce the notion of financial inclusion after a violent power shift in 2010. The economy experienced an overall decline, the banking sector shrank, and financial intermediation slowed down. The National Bank introduced a number of regulatory measures to tighten the supervision of the financial sector and increase consumer protection. Some of the efforts have worked well: the banking sector has rebounded, savings have been mobilized, and financial markets have started developing. However, national development patterns, such as unstable economic growth, a high poverty rate, and weak governance are the key vulnerabilities for increasing inclusivity of financial products and services. Income inequality, especially when comparing rural versus urban areas, is substantial and restricts access to financial services for the rural population. Small and medium-sized enterprises face barriers for getting sufficient financing because of high collateral requirements. The population has a low level of financial literacy and is reluctant to use modern financial services. Our analysis suggests an urgent need for consolidated efforts to include more people and businesses into financial activities, mobilize their savings, and improve access to credit.
A20|The Dynamics of Inequality in the Human Story: A Brief Sketch|Teaching contemporary inequality can be significantly enriched by being nested in its dynamics over the course of human history. This essay is intended to provide those teaching inequality with a brief sketch of: a) the original human condition of a high degree of equality that endured for 97 to 98 percent of our species' existence as foragers and early agriculturalists; b) the origin of extreme inequality that accompanied the rise of states and civilization about 5,500 years ago as weapons technology enabled a few to subjugate the producers; and c) why, despite political democracy, extreme inequality persists.
A20|Policy-effective Financial Knowledge and Attitude Factors in Latin America|In this research we implement a technique that produces measures of financial knowledge and attitudes by combining variables with weights that capture their impact on financial behavior variables, thus providing guidance to policy design. We use data gathered by CAF-Development Bank of Latin America in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. It is the first time that this technique has been used in a cross-country setting. We show that the composition and the weight vary from one country to another. However, the importance of attitude variables stands out in all countries, especially regarding the setting of long-term goals by individuals.
A20|Notas de historia de pensamiento económico para no economistas|La historia del pensamiento económico es moneda corriente en los programas de economía. Este documento tiene como objetivo hacer una presentación muy breve, y resumida, de los principales aportes teóricos de la economía, a partir del último cuarto del siglo XIX, con el fin último de motivar al alumno o al lector occasional, en la iniciación del estudio de temas del Pensamiento económico.
A20|La influencia del manual en el pensamiento económico colombiano durante el siglo XX|El uso de los manuales en economía ha sido masivo en su profesionalización y ha repercutido en las ideas económicas colombianas. Durante el siglo XX se presentaron cuatro etapas; la primera de ellas se dio a inicios del siglo, cuando predominó el autodidactismo en los manuales franceses, entre profesores, políticos y hombres de empresa de Bogotá y Medellín. La segunda etapa se caracterizó por el contacto de algunos protoeconomistas con el pensamiento económico original en el exterior, lo que ocasionó el inicio de la crítica a la utilización de manuales. La tercera surgió con las primeras facultades de Economía, en los años 40, época en que se reemplazó el manual francés por el anglosajón neoclásico; y la última etapa se inicia desde 1980, cuando se hace una crítica coherente al manual y comienza la producción de textos “criollos”, que ofrecen facilidades pedagógicas con pensamiento teórico de vanguardia.
A20|Teaching Piketty To Undergraduates|The primary ideas in Piketty’s Capital should be incorporated into the economics curriculum. Unfortunately, its theoretical foundation—the Solow Model—when conventionally taught with a Solow diagram or analytical solution, is beyond the reach of the typical undergraduate. The model, however, can be effectively presented via simulation, with steady-state and comparative statics properties directly observed. A single, standalone, macro-enhanced Excel workbook, Capital.xlsm, is all that is needed to teach the main ideas in Piketty’s Capital. Download it here www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel or from this direct link: www.depauw.edu/learn/econexcel/Capital.xlsm
A20|Does money affect children’s educational outcomes? Evidence from Japan|Regarding children’s academic achievement, previous studies have concluded that the home learning environment is the most important factor and that public educational investment has limited influence. However, recent studies have found that factors related to public educational investment can also contribute to improved academic achievement and these studies have resolved the statistical problems relating to endogeneity. Based on scores from the 2010 Japanese National Achievement Test, this study examines the data using the instrumental variables technique. Statistically significant results are obtained for the public school expenditure budgets per class, but not for the home learning environment.
A20|Is Lecture Capture benefiting (all) HE students? An Empirical Investigation|The arguments for and against lecture capture have been going for some time and the debate is far from being settled definitely either way. Most of the existing research about the impact of lecture capture on student attainment seems to show negligible or little effects while examples of a negative relationship between lecture capture and learning outcomes abound. The main purpose of this study is to add to the existing literature by conducting a large scale investigation (involving more than 2400 students in 26 modules offered by the economics department of a major British university) on whether lecture capture improves student performance. A secondary objective is to determine whether some groups of students use lecture capture more than others and whether lecture capture can lead to differing benefits for students in different types of subjects. The data shows, in line with previous studies, that certain groups of students use lecture recordings significantly more than their peers (e.g. female students, international students, students from a low socio-economic background and ethnic minorities). Other results were unexpected. Notably, disabled students (including the sub-group of dyslexic students) and mature students were found not to not use lecture recordings more than others. Also, students taking quantitative modules and students doing economics majors were found to use lecture recordings significantly less. The regression analysis showed that lecture recordings yielded (at most) a small positive effect on student performance.
A20|Determinants of student success in finance courses|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|Testing the Effectiveness of Online Assignments in Theory of Finance|We investigate the effectiveness of online versus paper assignments using final examination scores in three cohorts of Theory of Finance. In particular, two cohorts were exposed to online assignments while another cohort was exposed to traditional assignments. Our central result is that exposure to online assignments robustly leads to higher final exam scores, all else being equal. We also find a lower level of engagement as shown by low assignment completion rates for students exposed to online assignments.
A20|Éducation financière et comportements patrimoniaux : mauvaise éducation et zéro de conduite ?|Financial Literacy is a specific component of human capital which allows individual to deal with fundamental financial issues so as to take adequate financial decisions. After presenting the theoretical foundations of this notion, establishing its definition and reviewing the empirical literature, this paper presents recent studies about the link between financial literacy and financial decisions of the population in France using an original survey. The results suggest that financial literacy varies across the population. It is correlated with education but also with gender, age and political affiliation. This last point could reflect differences in opinion regarding the role of welfare state and individual responsibility. Finally, the link between financial literacy and some financial behaviors (the propensity to formulate a specific financial plan in the long run on the one hand and the propensity to own stocks on the other hand) is evaluated: in both cases positive correlations with financial literacy variables are found. We conclude with a reflection on the relative status of financial education to explain the investments of households and judge the effectiveness of training programs in the economic culture. Classification JEL: A20, D14, G40.
A20|Public Finance in a Nutshell: A Cobb Douglas Teaching Tool for General Equilibrium Tax Incidence and Excess Burden|To help first- or second-year graduate students in economics apply their theoretical training, this paper shows how to solve a simple and intuitive computable general equilibrium (CGE) model using a calculator. Because this simplified Harberger model uses Cobb Douglas functional forms for utility and production, one can solve for all input and output prices and quantities with no taxes and then solve for exact measures of output with a large tax change (not using derivatives). We then show how to solve simultaneously for capital and labor prices (incidence on the sources side of income), for both output prices (incidence on the uses side), for exact measures of overall welfare loss such as the equivalent variation, for excess burden and marginal excess burden, and for the effects on revenue in the form of a Laffer Curve.
A20|Improvement of the Instruments for Studentsï¿½ Performance and Assessment in the Field of International Finance and International Politics|Students' assessment represents an integral part of the education process. It can be defined as processes and practices, applied by the academic staff with the purpose of obtainï¿½ing the most objective assessment of the stuï¿½dentsï¿½ achievements. The methods of teaching, the forms of studentsï¿½ performance and the inï¿½struments for assessment are highly diverse but there are certain practices that can make the assessment and the education process more effective. The article presents in a synthesized manner the results of a team research, which aims to explore the good practices in the field that are applied in leading European and American universities. It also includes proposals for improvement of the instruments for assessment of the students mainly in the field of international finance and international politics.
A20|An attempt to optimise the number of pupils in comprehensive secondary schools based on their learning outcomes|There may be a significant correlation between the number of pupils in a school and their learning performance. Some studies point to the negative impact of schools with a large number of pupils on the educational results achieved. At the same time, the demographic crisis that has been deepening steadily for several years now represents an important motivation forrationalising the existing network of schools. The aim of the study was to determine the optimum size of schools based on the criterion of examination results expressed through educational value added. The analysis covered all comprehensive secondary schools in Poland over the2013 to 2015 period (a total of 1,943 schools). It determined the correlation between the size of a school expressed through the average number of graduates, and the results of thematura examination (the secondary schoolleaving exam in Poland) expressed through educational value added. Data for the analysis was obtained from the Section of Educational Value Added of the Educational Research Institute in Warsaw. The comprehensive secondary schools under study were divided into 5 classes, according to the criterion of the average annual number of graduates. The following analytical classes were distinguished: class A - up to 50 graduates, class B - 51-100 graduates, class C - 101-150 graduates, class D - 151 -200 graduates, class E - above 201 graduates. The analyses conducted in this study showed that the comprehensive secondary schools with over 600 pupils had the highest learning outcomes as expressed through educational value added. The lowest educational effectiveness was found in schools with less than 150 pupils. A dependency was discovered whereby the effectiveness of education increases as the number of pupils grows. Due to the lack of data concerning examination results in schools with more than 1,000 pupils (value indicated in American studies as the threshold value for positive learning outcomes), it was not possible to determine the maximum number of pupils that guarantees satisfactory learning outcomes.
A20|Awards and Rewards: Evidence from an Evaluation of the Metrobank's Search for Outstanding Teachers|"We investigate the impact of the ""Metrobank Award for Outstanding Teachers"" using a unique dataset from a survey of teachers who competed from 1988 to 2010. Our study is one of the firsts to use income as the primary indicator of success. When the sample is limited to those who were actively teaching in 2014, we find that the Award had a higher impact on awardees who were relatively younger. The intuitive explanation is that ""younger"" awardees have more years in their career to capitalize on the Award."
A20|The Research Excellence Framework 2014, journal ratings and the marginalization of heterodox economics|The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the main research assessment for universities in the UK. It informs university league tables and the allocation of government research funding. This paper analyses the evaluations of the REF 2014 for Economics, Business, Politics and History. We analyse, first, from which journals, articles have been submitted; second, to what extent journal ratings and impact factors predict the REF´s evaluations; third, how many articles from heterodox economics journals have been submitted. We find that a small group of journals dominate the outputs submitted. Journal ratings and impact factors explain 86 to 89% of the variation in the output evaluations for Economics. These values are lower but still substantial for other disciplines. Few papers from heterodox economics journals were submitted to Economics. Overall, the REF in its present form marginalises heterodox economics, pushes it out of the discipline and endangers pluralism in economics research.
A20|Paying Bank Risk Professionals to Lie About Bank Loan Loss Provisioning Process|This paper analyses the effects associated with using the magnitude of realised loan losses as a basis for performance measurement and compensation to credit risk team in banks. Paying and rewarding credit risk professionals on the basis of reporting fewer provisions or lower loan losses motivate credit risk teams to game the system that work to determine loan loss provisions estimate of banks. While bank credit risk teams are sometimes mesmerised by the short-term benefits of provisions games, they do not care if their behaviour destroys bank value and the informativeness of loan loss provisioning estimates. While it is not difficult for bank managers and analysts to understand that the provisioning process is subject to gaming, few of them understand the costs it pose on banks and how to lower this costs. This paper explains how this happens and how provisions games can be stopped or reduced. Using the magnitude of loan losses as a basis to determine the compensation to risk professionals or credit risk teams encourages provisions games. The solution is not to reduce or eliminate provisioning discretion of credit risk teams but rather to de-link credit risk teams’ bonuses from the magnitude of loan loss.
A20|Irrungen und Wirrungen im Umfeld der Geldtheorie: Wohin einseitige Darstellungen der Zentralbanken führen<BR>[Aberrations and confusions of the theory of money: Where ambiguous formulations lead to]|This article is the long-version of a discussion paper published on „Ökonomenstimme“ at June-15-2017. Both papers defend essential parts of the macro-economic theory of the modern banking system. The discussion was triggered by Dirk Ehnts who argued that bank deposits are created out of nothing. According to his view, the Bank of England and the European Central Bank (including the Deutsche Bundesbank) are about to revise the macro-economic theory of money. In this article it is shown that Ehnt’s position cannot be based on publications recently made by those central banks. The banking authorities reject the deterministic interpretation of the money-multiplier theory. Their criticism is based on the fact that the multiplier proves empirically not to be a constant parameter. Without this acceptable critique and not regarding a few misleading formulations, the authors of the central banks’ publications cling to the modern theory of money in all remaining aspects.
A20|Сельское Хозяйство России В Свете Итогов Всероссийской Сельскохозяйственной Переписи 2016 Года<BR>[Agriculture in Russia from the perspective of results of 2016 Russian Agricultural Census]|"The textbook was prepared with regard to the publication of the preliminary results of 2016 Russian Agricultural Census as at 1 July 2016. They reflect the current state of multistructural agriculture in Russia, which resulted from the transformation after 1990, the development of market relations and the implementation of the state agrarian policy for the period after 2006 Russian Agricultural Census. The manual briefly examines the general state of agricultural resources in Russia as a whole and their changes during the period of the implementation of state programs in 2006-2016, and some methodological approaches to analyzing the results of the census were proposed. The goal was to draw the attention of researchers, teachers, graduate students and students of agricultural universities to these results for scientific research and in educational process in the development of the staff of the agroindustrial complex. The textbook is intended for master degree students of the direction 38.04.01 - ""Economics"", the program ""Business Analytics in the Agroindustrial Complex"" and 09.04.02 - ""Information Systems and Technologies"", the program ""Information Systems and Technologies in Business Intelligence"". It can also be used by bachelors and masters of other directions, graduate students and teachers of agricultural universities. The textbook was prepared by A.P. Zinchenko Professor of the Department of Statistics and Econometrics of the RSAU-MAA named after K.A. Timiryazev, Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Scientific and Methodological Council of FSSS."
A20|Preschool teachers' problems in the school administration|Pre-school education is an education program provided for children in the period of their best learning time. The most supportive people during this period are teachers for children. Identified and overcome the problems faced by teachers will improve the quality of the preschool education. The aim of this study is to determine the problems of the teachers working in pre-school education institution in the context of the management functions. The study samples include 20 teachers working in kindergartens as independent in the city center of I?d?r. The research design is based on qualitative research methods. Content analysis and data were analyzed with descriptive analysis technique. As a result, some problems in all of the sub-title of the management functions has been observed. The most common problems have been identified as supervision, helpful staff, office hours, school fees, school garden area and the number of students.
A20|EffectEffective use of educational platform ((Edmodo)) for students of mathematics and Computer specialty in t|"Of the highlights of the events witnessed this era is the information revolution, which made a big coup in the nature of receiving the information both on the level of the lesson or lecture, or at the level of general culture and knowledge-current technology, and techniques of social communication ""Admodo- Edmodo"" educational platforms. A modern technological programs that help deliver information to students, and the benefit of educators, parents, coaches and administrators, and generally in the teaching, learning and administration. -Known as electronic ""Aladmodo"" educational platforms as an interactive learning environment that employs Web 2.0 technology, combining the advantages of e-content management systems and the networks of social networking Facebook, and enables teachers to disseminate lessons and objectives, and the dissemination of the duties, and the application of educational activities, and contact teachers through techniques multiple, as it enables teachers to conduct electronic tests and the distribution of roles and the division of students into working groups, and help to exchange views and ideas between student teachers. And the participation of the scientific content and allows parents to communicate with teachers and see the results of their children, which helps to achieve high quality educational outcomes.This research aims to:First, identify the educational software platforms ""Admodo- Edmodo"" and its applications and the most important advantages in education and contemporary learning."
A20|The Determinant Of Success In Basic Economics Courses Taught By Department Of Economics At The University Of Economics In Prague|In comparison with other basic courses at the University of Economics in Prague there are basic economics courses taught by the Department of Economics that regularly show higher fail rates, specifically more than 35 %. A standard evaluation should be done in time and shall use different methods. Using quantitative methods, our analysis tries to identify key determinants of students? success. The data were obtained via a questionnaire during the last lecture in WS 2016/17. As opposed to existing studies, we also consider variables that weren?t previously possible to observe, such as the use of IT technologies during lectures and studying from materials in electronic form.
A20|Reconsidering Communication Regarding Economic Phenomena. Some Hints from a Complexity Approach|This paper, inspired by the notion of complexity and the use of network analysis, is presented as a short survey on communication in economics when it is addressed to people who approach the subject neither for study nor for professional purposes. Their perception of the economic system has also been shaped by events interpreted by opinion and political leaders. Its main contribution is an attempt to avoid current misunderstandings arising from a mechanical notion of the economic system and a consequent excess of confidence in what political economy can do in pursuing welfare. To do this, after a brief review of useful perceptions of phenomena both at system level and at firm level, we will propose some hints arising from complexity and network theory for an alternative viewpoint on political prescriptions and for a better appreciation of the entrepreneurial function. At the end, we will conclude with some teaching suggestions along with final remarks about understanding economics.
A20|Diversification of Research on Economic Awareness and Education of Poles|The principal objective of this review is to determine whether the conducted studies provide a diagnosis of the Poles’ economic awareness and of economic education actions undertaken in Poland. To make this evaluation we first analysed the issues which the studies are focused on and synthetically presented their key results. We further analysed which groups participate in those studies and what institutions commission such research. The summary, in addition to conclusions resulting from the presented considerations, offered initial recommendations which, if implemented, could contribute to better verification of the Poles’ economic awareness and knowledge in empirical studies. The authors first reviewed the literature, which resulted in defining conceptual boundaries of terms critical to the topic of this paper. The core research material was constituted by selected reports from studies of economic awareness and education of Poles and an analysis of those studies.
A20|Financial education and financial literacy in Gen Y - Alternative forms of financing|This study was designed to assess knowledge and awareness of students of Polish economic universities in terms of forms of enterprise financing. Particular attention was focused on innovative forms of capital raising as crowdfunding due to its dynamic development in the world, but also crowdfunding seems to correspond to the needs of Generation Y as future entrepreneurs. The research hypothesis is that Polish Generation Y has only a theoretical knowledge of the sources of funding enterprises. Polish students, although they are proficient in new technologies, they do not know innovative capital raising on the Internet because they do not receive this knowledge at the university. The quantitative research was conducted and designed to test knowledge of the forms of financing and knowledge of the development of innovative funding methods. The qualitative research was used to indicate the needs of Millennials as to the possibility of obtaining financial knowledge as well as the skills to use it. The main findings demonstrated a gap in education for innovative methods of funding but also indicated recommendations for potential changes in the education of Generation Y
A20|The Relative Value of AER P&P Economic Education Papers|The CEE had been allocated one session in the AER Papers and Proceedings (P&P) since 1964. In 2008, the American Economic Association evaluated the allocation of AER Papers and Proceedings sessions to various AEA Committees. In response, the CEE was asked to prepare a one-page rationale for keeping that session. Their response (Committee on Economic Education, 2008) made several important defenses of the session, including that the quality of the papers published in these sessions must speak for itself. In this paper, we propose to evaluate the relative quality of AER P&P papers through citation analysis. Using the Social Science Citation Index, the citation counts of CEE AER P&P papers are compared to other papers included in the issue.
A20|Which tests not witch hunts: A diagnostic approach for conducting replication research|Replication research can be used to explore original study results that researchers consider questionable, but it should also be a tool for reinforcing the credibility of results that are important to policies and programs. The challenge is to design a replication plan open to both supporting the original findings and uncovering potential problems. The purpose of this paper is to provide replication researchers with an objective list of checks or tests to consider when planning a replication study. The authors present tips for diagnostic replication exercises in four groups: validity of assumptions, data transformations, estimation methods, and heterogeneous impacts. For each group, the authors present an introduction to the issues, a list of replication tests and checks, some examples of how these checks are employed in replication studies of development impact evaluations, and a set of resources that provide statistical and econometric details. The authors also provide a list of don'ts for how to conduct and report replication research.
A20|Students Economic Literacy between Real and Ideal|This paper presents vary perspectives on what could represent economic literacy, based on analysis of different tests of economic literacy used to identify economic knowledge and thinking skills of youngsters with special focus on students. The basic assumption is that although all tests of economic literacy are describing the minimum level of economic education needed for an optimal functioning and integration of a person in a contemporary society, for Romanian pre-university system, they are describing more an ideal for economic education than the existing reality. This assumption has been tested in a group of teachers of economics and business from 14 counties in Romania, including Bucharest, the capital city, that have provided information regarding economic knowledge and mentalities they identified at students.
A20|Higher Education System Development in Russia. Realization and Criticism|The paper is based on the research devoted to the development of higher education system in Russia. It deals with the topical issues related to the educational reform, competitiveness of Russian universities on the international market of educational service, and ways to promote Russian universities and business schools through world rankings such as The Times Higher Education World University Rankings, QS World University Rankings, Academic Ranking of World Universities. The paper describes the project initiated by The Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation which is aimed at the integration of leading universities into the global educational environment. The main point is connected with the analysis of the Project 5-100 as the innovation approach to the management of higher education reform with a view of achieving concrete results including entering at least five Russian universities into the top 100 of the most influential education rankings.
A20|Paul Samuelson on His 90th Birthday|Editorâ€™s Introduction Originally published in Volume 51, Number 2, Fall 2007, page 39 . John Kenneth Galbraith (1908-2006) was one of the leading voices of American liberalism during the latter half of the twentieth century. Even though Professor Galbraith served on the economics faculty of Harvard University for fifty years, he is remembered today more for his role as a public intellectual and policy advisor to presidents than for his academic contributions to economic theory. Intensely interested in public policy, Professor Galbraith served several presidential administrations, including time as Ambassador to India under John F. Kennedy. During his lengthy career, he authored numerous bestselling books, including the influential The Affluent Society in 1958 and, The New Industrial State in 1967. In this short paper published posthumously, Professor Galbraith celebrates the 90 th birthday of another prominent economist of his generation, Paul Samuelson. Professor Galbraith outlines his views on Samuelsonâ€™s impact on the profession and posterity.
A20|The 10 Greatest Films for Teaching Economics|We asked economic educators from around the country to identify five films that they found most useful in teaching economics. Our sample of 105 educators reflects wide-ranging opinions about the greatest films for teaching economics. We provide summaries of each of the Top 10 films in our list and short descriptions of the next 10. The films surveyed are an eclectic mix that spans different eras and genres. It is our hope that this list will spur conversations about economics among interested readers and economic educators.
A20|Targeting Teaching Lecture Capture Learning: Do Students Perform Better Compared to Face-to-Face Classes?|Online learning has become more prevalent in colleges and universities as new technology is introduced. One such technology is lecture capture, which allows a live lecture to be recorded and packaged with classroom media and delivered online to many more students than a traditional face-to-face class. This article studies the selection process and educational outcome differences between students enrolled in a lecture capture and a face-to-face course in economic principles. Students could select either course format, both with the same instructor and course requirements, without capacity restrictions. We find that studentsâ€™ attitudes toward online learning are the chief determinant of their choice of class over demographics, opportunity cost measures, or past online experiences. Additionally, our findings suggest that lecture capture students perform as well as those who take a face-to-face course when not accounting for self-selection. When selection is taken into account, lecture capture is not significantly worse than face-to-face.
A20|The bubble game: A classroom experiment|We propose a simple classroom experiment on speculative bubbles: the Bubble Game. This game is useful to discuss about market efficiency and trading strategies in a financial economics course, and about behavioral aspects in a game theory course, at all levels. The Bubble Game can be played with any number of students, as long as this number is strictly greater than one. Students sequentially trade an asset which is publicly known to have a fundamental value of zero. If there is no cap on asset prices, speculative bubbles can arise at the Nash equilibrium because no trader is ever sure to be last in the market sequence. Otherwise, the Nash equilibrium involves no trade. Bubbles usually occur with or without a cap on prices. Traders who are less likely to be last and have less steps of reasoning to perform to reach equilibrium are in general more likely to speculate.
A20|Targeting the Profession: Teaching Preparation and Placement in “Non-top-tier” Ph.D. Programs|In a recent article, Jacobson (2015) provides an invaluable economics job market guide for economics Ph.D. candidates from “non-top-tier” programs in the United States. Her treatment is detailed and, to a large extent, thorough. However, Jacobson fails to discuss the development of effective lead teaching experience in graduate school as a (potentially central) aspect of job market preparation. In the present comment, we develop and summarize a job posting and placement data set that focuses on Ph.D. candidates from non-top-tier programs. The data strongly suggests that the development of lead teaching experience in graduate school, rather than an optional line on one's vita, is an often pivotal ]element of realized job placement for Ph.D. candidates of non-top-tier programs. These findings corroborate with List's (2000) finding that, “a candidate's teaching portfolio was highly influential in the academic market” (p.197). We also discuss the acquisition of lead teaching experience and benefits of early teaching experience that may extend beyond first job placement.
A20|Modern Educational Methods - Gamification at Schools of Higher Education in Poland|According to statistics, in recent years gamification has been listed as one of the most important trends. Among the gamification applications one should mention marketing, sales, recruiting, motivating, training and development of employees, health, personal development, education etc. The use of gamification in education brings with it enormous potential, increasingly often one talks today about it in the context of teaching at schools of higher education. This new approach to academic courses designing is used at Polish schools of higher education since 2012. The aim of the article is to introduce initiatives of gamification implementation in higher education in Poland and to examine whether the introduction of elements of games to courses of higher education may be attractive to students. The article presents the main assumptions of gamification and its most commonly used mechanisms. The authors present implemented gamification solutions, as well as the prospects of gamification in polish schools of higher education. The article is enriched with the results of research conducted among the students of Czestochowa University of Technology on the state of their knowledge about gamification, the scale of interest in gamification mechanisms and finally their wish to take part in the gamified e-learning course.
A20|Inconsistencies in Textbook Presentation of Substitution and Income Effects|Labour economics textbooks present inconsistent methods for determining substitution and income effects. Hicks (1939) and Samuelson (1953) developed two different methods separating substitution and income effects. While both methods result in the same conclusion regarding the direction of the effects, they differ on magnitude of the effects. Furthermore, economics instructors are typically unaware of the inconsistency in labour economics textbooks, causing them to consider students? answers as incorrect when they may not be. This paper advocates for the selection of a standard approach in labour economics instruction, and acknowledges that these different methods are currently a source of confusion for students.
A20|Rozważania nad istotą klastrów|Popularność pojęcia klaster znacznie przerosła wiedzę o tym zjawisku. Celem artykułu jest przedstawienie tego fenomenu gospodarczego, zgodnie z definicją zaproponowaną przez twórcę koncepcji klastra – Michaela Portera. W artykule przywołano przykłady definicji klastra pochodzące z różnych prac badaczy tego zjawiska i skomentowano zgodność tych definicji ze źródłami. Rozważania o relacjach w środowisku klastrowym, przyczynach powstawania i dynamice rozwoju klastra, służą lepszemu zrozumieniu istoty tego zjawiska. Opierając się na metodzie pogłębionych krytycznych studiów literaturowych, autor przedstawia podstawowe elementy koncepcji klastra Michaela E. Portera, a także jej zalety, polegające na elastyczności jej stosowania i wykorzystania przy tworzeniu strategii rozwoju gospodarczego. Ta elastyczność stwarza jednak problemy związane z wychodzeniem poza ramy wyznaczone przez jej twórcę. Mnogość definicji i metod identyfikacji klastrów daje duże możliwości ich stosowania, lecz także duże problemy standaryzacyjne. Wzrost popularności klastrów wynika z tego, że są one coraz ważniejszym instrumentem stymulacji rozwoju gospodarczego, konieczne jest więc uporządkowanie chaosu, który wkradł się do stosowania koncepcji klastrów przez nadużycie jej elastyczności. Artykuł jest próbą uporządkowania dyskusji o klastrze, przez wskazanie w jego definicji najistotniejszych cech, z których wynika, że jest to samoistnie powstające w gospodarce zjawisko.
A20|A Comment on “What Is Wrong with the West’s Economies?” by Edmund Phelps|Abstract The paper confront the Phelps’ theses on a decay of what he calls a flourishing era of capitalism with the commentator’s own experience with approaches that countries in Central and Eastern Europe must have adopted in the early 1990s during the so called transition. Unlike Phelps, the commentator states that an attachment to the text-book economics can hardly prevent the innovativeness and creativity of architects of institutional change. Moreover, the commentator claims that not only the 19th century but also the above few years of the end of the last century enjoyed Phelpsian flourishing.
A20|Die Krise der VWL und die Vision einer Pluralen Ökonomik<BR>[The Crisis in Economics and the Vision of Plural Economics]|Zusammenfassung Die andauernde Finanzkrise hat tiefliegende Probleme des ökonomischen Mainstreams offengelegt und lässt Forderungen nach einer Erneuerung des ökonomischen Denkens lauter werden. Die Autoren beschreiben die Kritik am Status quo und gehen dabei auf die Vorwürfe von Einseitigkeit, blinden Flecken, Realitätsferne und impliziter Normativität ein. Als vielversprechender Gegenentwurf wird die Vision einer Pluralen Ökonomik vorgestellt und anhand von fünf charakteristischen Säulen beschrieben: Theorienpluralismus, Methodenpluralismus, historische Fundierung, wissenschaftstheoretische und ethische Reflexion sowie Interdisziplinarität.
A20|Examining the Performance of the South African Economics Departments, 2005-2014|This study examines the teaching and research activities of 17 Economics Departments in 2005-2014 by consulting the information from each university’s faculty prospectus, publication in accredited local and international peer-reviewed journals, Economic Society of South Africa (ESSA) conference participation, Economic Research Southern Africa (ERSA) working paper series and the National Research Foundation (NRF). The results indicate there is big variation in the departments’ teaching and research activities during the period. Nonetheless, research output increased, in particular publication in accredited international journals in both absolute and proportional terms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A20|La formación en economía social. Análisis de la oferta universitaria de posgrado en España<BR>[The training in social and solidarity economy. Analysis of the university offer in Spain]|En el presente artículo se analiza la importancia que tiene la formación para el fomento de la economía social, prestando especial atención a la caracterización de la oferta formativa de este tipo de estudios y diferenciándola respecto a la oferta formativa convencional en el área de Administración y Dirección de Empresas, emprendimiento e innovación. Previo a ello, se reflexiona, en base a un breve análisis bibliográfico, sobre las relaciones que se establecen entre educación y economía para, posteriormente, centrarnos en la caracterización de este tipo de formación, prestando especial atención a la que se centra en la Economía Social. Para ello, en primer lugar, se ha elaborado una base de datos en la que se incluyen todas las titulaciones de posgrado relacionadas con los estudios de Economía. Asimismo, se ha diseñado un cuestionario estructurado con el objetivo de caracterizar este tipo de formación. Se concluye la escasa importancia que tiene en el sistema universitario de posgrado español la formación en Economía Social, detectándose algunas diferencias significativas en la caracterización del proceso formativo entre las titulaciones de Economía Social y las convencionales de Administración y Dirección de Empresas, emprendimiento e innovación empresarial, en aspectos tales, como: los valores, las competencias, las habilidades, la forma de entender y transmitir el funcionamiento de la economía, etc. A partir de estas conclusiones se dan una serie de recomendaciones que pueden contribuir a fomentar y dinamizar, mediante la formación en posgrados, la Economía Social.
A20|Curriculum reform in UK economics: a critique|This paper offers a multi-dimensional critique of recent reforms to UK Economics curricular frameworks. The paper assesses the reforms in terms of their extent and the positions taken within them on their approach to economics, treatment of politics, and, crucially, educational philosophy. Despite claims of innovation and new epistemological caution in the wake of the global financial crisis, the reforms are found to be minor and superficial. The CORE programme and the revised Subject Benchmark Statement document for Economics still ignore educational philosophy; yet they are implicitly educationally instrumental and remain limitedly pluralist. Our conclusions are buttressed by contrasts made between UK reforms and the curriculum architecture found in the Brazilian system.
A20|Determinants of financial rewards from industry-university collaboration in South Korea| The external circumstances for universities have been changing rapidly. In order to be competitive, survive and flourish, universities have turned to external sources to generate revenues. The literature refers to this phenomenon as academic capitalism, defined as the involvement of colleges and their faculty in market-like behaviours, which has become a key feature of higher education finances in most countries. As a result, technology transfer, technological commercialisation, and patents via industry-university collaboration represent a source of financial rewards. This paper explores the determinants of financial rewards of universities sourced from academic engagement through industry-university collaboration in South Korea. We have found that technology transfer per employees working at technology licensing offices, participation of engineering faculty, patent approvals, and the number of firms with incubators within universities significantly contributes to university revenues. The following determinants of financial performance are unexpectedly not contributors to revenue: technological commercialisation using technology transfer, distinguished faculty and incentive rules for inventors. In the light of these findings, it appears that an entrepreneurial university program is likely to play a strong role in university finances in Korea.
A20|Determinants Of Financial Rewards From Industry–University Collaboration In South Korea|The external circumstances for universities have been changing rapidly. In order to be competitive, survive and flourish, universities have turned to external sources to generate revenues. The literature refers to this phenomenon as academic capitalism, defined as the involvement of colleges and their faculty in market-like behaviours, which has become a key feature of higher education finances in most countries. As a result, technology transfer, technological commercialisation, and patents via industry–university collaboration represent a source of financial rewards. This paper explores the determinants of financial rewards of universities sourced from academic engagement through industry–university collaboration in South Korea. We have found that technology transfer per employees working at technology licensing offices, participation of engineering faculty, patent approvals, and the number of firms with incubators within universities significantly contributes to university revenues. The following determinants of financial performance are unexpectedly not contributors to revenue: technological commercialisation using technology transfer, distinguished faculty and incentive rules for inventors. In the light of these findings, it appears that an entrepreneurial university program is likely to play a strong role in university finances in Korea.
A20|Mjerenje financijske pismenosti studenata Sveučilišta u Zagrebu|Financijska pismenost ključna je sastavnica svake racionalne financijske odluke i preduvjet za ostvarenje vlastitog financijskog blagostanja. S porastom kompleksnosti financijskih proizvoda i usluga raste potreba za financijskim obrazovanjem građana, a provedena istraživanja pokazuju da je posebnu pažnju potrebno posvetiti upravo studentskoj populaciji. Cilj ovoga istraživanja je procijeniti razinu financijske pismenosti studenata Sveučilišta u Zagrebu. U tu svrhu razvijena je jedinstvena mjera financijske pismenosti koja je temeljena na podacima prikupljenima anketnim upitnikom. U istraživanju je sudjelovalo 1600 studenata te su uključene sve 33 sastavnice Sveučilišta u Zagrebu, a odabrani proporcionalni stratificirani uzorak omogućava vjerno oslikavanje proučavane studentske populacije. Radi podrobnije analize i kvalitetnijih rezultata, kvantitativno istraživanje upotpunjeno je primjenom metode skupnog intervjua. Rezultati istraživanja ukazuju na veliku heterogenost u razini financijske pismenosti među studentima različitih studijskih područja. U odnosu na značajke studija i radno iskustvo, sociodemografske karakteristike studenata pokazale su se manje važnima. Najvažniji zaključak rada je da formalno financijsko obrazovanje značajno poboljšava razinu financijske pismenosti studenata.
A20|Wer hat Angst vor der BWL? Was die Konsumentenbildung von der Betriebswirtschaftslehre lernen kann|Die Wirtschaftsdidaktik versteht ökonomische Bildung als einen wesentlichen Beitrag zur Verbraucherbildung“ (DeGöB). Dieses Bekenntnis ist weit weniger klar, als es klingt. Denn was jugendliche Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher von ökonomischer Bildung erwarten können und was nicht, hängt davon ab, wie man ökonomische Bildung konzipiert. Der Mainstream der Wirtschaftsdidaktik versteht ökonomische Bildung als bevorzugt volkswirtschaftliche Bildung und als Bildung durch das Paradigma der Ökonomik; damit blendet er betriebswirtschaftliche Denkweisen weitestgehend aus. Welche Folgen hat dies für eine verbraucherorientierte Wirtschaftsdidaktik? Was kann Konsumentenbildung gewinnen, wenn sie sich auf die Methodologie der Betriebswirtschaftslehre stützt?
A20|Von der Betriebswirtschaftslehre lernen? Handlungsorientierung und Pluralismus in der ökonomischen Bildung|Das schulische ökonomische Wissen droht zunehmend irrelevant für die wirtschaftliche Praxis zu werden. Denn seit etwa zehn Jahren fixiert sich der wirtschaftsdidaktische Mainstream fast ausschließlich auf einzelne mikroökonomische Richtungen der Volkswirtschaftslehre. Er ignoriert zugleich eine ganze wirtschaftswissenschaftliche Disziplin: die Betriebswirtschaftslehre. Was folgt aus dem orthodoxen Ansatz ökonomischer Bildung für das Bildungsziel, wirtschaftlich kompetenter handeln zu lernen? Würden betriebswirtschaftliche Denkfiguren die ökonomische Bildung handlungswirksamer machen?
A20|Sozialwissenschaftliche ökonomische Bildung|In diesem Beitrag versuche ich exemplarisch zu zeigen, wie fragwürdig verbreitete Selbstverständlichkeiten einer wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen ökonomischen Bildung sind. Als Alternative dazu skizziere ich Elemente eines sozialwissenschaftlichen Ansatzes ökonomischer Bildung. Eine sozialwissenschaftliche Wirtschaftsdidaktik und eine sozialwissenschaftlich angelegte ökonomische Bildung unterscheiden sich in einigen Punkten erheblich von den rein wirtschaftswissenschaftlichen Konzeptionen.
A20|Sozioökonomische Bildung in der sozialwissenschaftlichen Domäne|Sozioökonomische Bildung gehört zur Domäne Sozialwissenschaften. Ökonomische Phänomene und Probleme lassen sich nur mit Wissen aus allen Sozialwissenschaften sinnvoll analysieren. Am Exempel Ökonomisierung der Lebenswelten zeigt sich, dass vor allem die Soziologie ökonomische Aufklärung verspricht.
A20|Financial Literacy and Self-employment|In this paper, we study the relationship between financial literacy and self-employment. We use established financial knowledge-based questions to measure financial literacy levels. The analysis shows a highly significant correlation between self-employment and financial literacy scores. To investigate the impact of financial literacy on being self-employed, we apply instrumental variable techniques based on information on economic education before entering the labour market and education of parents. Our results reveal that financial literacy positively affects the probability of being self-employed. As financial literacy is acquirable, findings suggest that entrepreneurial activities may be raised via enhancing financial knowledge.
A20|Finanzmarktwissen bei Selbstständigen besonders ausgeprägt|Unternehmerische Aktivität ist ein dynamischer Treiber wirtschaftlicher Entwicklung. Finanzmarktwissen befähigt Individuen zu einer besseren Abwägung von Chancen und Risiken. In diesem Beitrag wird geprüft, ob ein höheres Maß an Finanzmarktwissen auch einen Einfluss auf die Entscheidung hat, sich selbstständig zu machen. Dieser Zusammenhang wird auf der Basis von Umfragedaten für Deutschland empirisch bestätigt.
A20|Financial Literacy and Self-Employment|In this paper we study the relationship between financial literacy and self-employment. We use established financial knowledge-based questions to measure financial literacy levels. The analysis shows a highly significant correlation between self-employment and financial literacy scores. To investigate the impact of financial literacy on being self-employed, we apply instrumental variable techniques based on information on economic education before entering the labour market and education of parents. Our results reveal that financial literacy positively affects the probability of being self-employed. As financial literacy is acquirable, findings suggest that entrepreneurial activities may be raised via enhancing financial knowledge.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|American Economic Association Universal Academic Questionnaire Summary Statistics|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|PhD by Publication as an Argument for Innovation and Technology Transfer: with Emphasis on Africa|The contribution of African researchers to knowledge by means of scientific publications is low compared to other regions of the world. This paper presents an argument in favour of PhD by Publication as a tool for innovation and technology transfer. Building on the literature on the key role of a knowledge economy in 21st century development and catch-up processes, we argue that: (i) in order for PhD dissertations to be more useful to society, they should be harmonised with scientific publications which centre on improving the design and quality of existing and new products in developing countries. (ii) Obtaining a doctorate degree should not simply be reduced to a change in candidate’s title as is often the case with a traditional thesis. (iii) The PhD by Publication is a more effective route to ensuring that the contribution to knowledge is widely disseminated. The conceptual framework consists primarily of the clarification of the models of PhD by Publication and the linkages between the doctoral education, innovation, technology transfer and development catch-up. Implications for scientific research policies in the light of contemporary challenges to African development are discussed.
A20|Reshaped for Higher Order Learning: Student Outcomes in the Redesign of an Undergraduate Macroeconomics Course| We consider the impact on student learning outcomes of a re-design of an undergraduate macroeconomics course. Changes were made to move from lower- to higher-order taxonomic dimensions, with emphasis on application and analysis. We use 13 questions which appeared on final exams before and after the re-design to evaluate changes in student learning outcomes. The analysis shows that after the re-design students improved performance on questions classified as higher-order, while performance suffered on questions classified as lower-order. These results suggest that the re-design was a shift of teaching and learning resources, not an overall improvement that impacted equally all taxonomic dimensions. The course before the re-design may have used its resources well, but in pursuit of improving application and analysis over memorization and understanding.
A20|Slaughterhouse in Southeastern Afghanistan: A Public–Private Partnership| A contractor faces a decision whether to bid on becoming the private partner in a public–private partnership in the capital city of a southeastern province in Afghanistan. At stake is an investment in building an open-air slaughter facility and operating costs in return for 75% of generated revenues. The contractor works to develop a budget to estimate the economic viability of the operation. Factors encouraging risk analysis include estimates of daily animal slaughter numbers and the viability of and enforcement of a facility-use requirement to support use estimates. This teaching case is suitable for advanced undergraduate or graduate courses in business strategy examining the challenges faced by small-scale agribusinesses in an emerging economy. It is also appropriate for executive education considering foreign investment or management opportunities.
A20|Scrambled questions penalty in multiple choice tests: New evidence from French undergraduate students|This note evaluates the scrambled questions penalty using multiple choice tests taken by first-year undergraduate students who follow a microeconomics introductory course. We provide new evidence that students perform worse at scrambled questionnaires than at logically ordered ones. We improve on previous studies by explicitly modeling students individual skills thanks to a fixed effects regression. We further show that the scrambled questions penalty does not differ along gender but varies along the distribution of students' skills and mostly affects students with lower-intermediate skills.
A20|The Economic Geography of Human Capital in Twentieth-Century Latin America in an International Comparative Perspective|In this paper we present results for educational achievement in the different economic regions of Latin America (Big countries: Mexico and Brazil; Southern Cone; Andean countries; Central America; and others) during the twentieth century. The variables we use to measure education are average years of education, literacy, average years in primary school, average years in secondary school, and average years in university. To attain a broader perspective on the relationship of education with human capital and with welfare and wellbeing we relate the educational measures to life expectancy and other human capital variables and GDP per capita. We then use regressions to examine the impact of race and ethnicity on education, and of education on economic growth and levels of GDP per capita. The most significant results we wish to emphasize are related to the importance of race and racial fractionalization in explaining regional differences in educational achievement. Southern Cone countries, with a higher density of white population, present the highest levels of education in average terms, while countries from Central America and Brazil, with a higher proportion of Indigenous Americans and/or blacks, have the lowest levels. In most countries the major improvements in educational achievement are: the expansion of primary education during the first half of the twentieth century, and the expansion of secondary education after 1950. In all cases, average years in university are low, despite improvements in university quality during the last decades of the century when professors exiled during dictatorships returned to their countries of origin. International comparisons (continental averages for years of education weighted by country population size) place twentieth-century Latin America in an intermediate position between the USA and Europe at the top, and countries from Asia and Africa at the bottom.
A20|Romania’S Economy In Its Current Functionality|This paper is part of the specialists’ engagement to help deepen economic knowledge and empower people in their double function: that of shareholders and direct beneficiaries of the optimal functioning of the economy. We consider the undeniable reality that the economy is always a complex human activity, organically framed in our society. The research was conducted on the basis of four defining coordinates: understanding the economic phenomena as permanent social phenomena; the gradual tension between the limited economic resources and the unlimited human needs; the complex functioning mechanism of the economy; matching Romania’s economy functioning with the demands of the European integrated economic model. The conclusions of this paper can be used for elaborating and implementing various policies to improve the Romanians’ quality of life in the context of international integration.
A20|The Choice of Valuation Techniques in Practice: Education versus Profession|We use a survey approach to learn about valuation professionals' choices and implementations of valuation techniques in practice. The survey design allows us to control for a respondent's professional subgroup (e.g., consulting), education, experience, and valuation purpose characteristics. We find support for the 'sociological hypothesis' that profession matters more than education; different professions have different valuation cultures. Other factors are less important. There are also many commonalities across respondents. Most use both multiples and DCF, but implement DCF in a way that almost turns it into a multiples exercise. Confusion reigns with respect to interest tax shields and the WACC. Higher educational levels do not reduce the confusion. Our overall findings matter because valuation professionals function as intermediaries in the capital allocation process. The relative unimportance of education raises questions about the role and benefit of higher level finance education.
A20|Youth Unemployment And School Dropout|"Unemployment is one of the most serious problems of the contemporary world, fact which is expressed not only by all European statistics, statistics showing a growing number of unemployed, despite the consistent concern of the governments of all developed countries. Worse is that the unemployment is the highest among young people up to 25 years, many of them being university graduates. This way the trend of young people to stop attending studies appeared ... seeing as useless their efforts to invest in their future through university studies, the chances of finding a job are minimal despite their diplomas. Hence the name of ""the lost generation"" - the way that young people are called nowadays. The market economy, based mainly on private property is not considering social issues, it pursues just one goal: profit, more exactly the profit maximization."
A20|The Choice of Valuation Techniques in Practice: Education versus Profession|We use a survey approach to learn about valuation professionals’ choices and implementations of valuation techniques in practice. The survey design allows us to control for a respondent’s professional subgroup (e.g., consulting), education, experience, and valuation purpose characteristics. We find support for the “sociological hypothesis” that profession matters more than education; different professions have different valuation cultures. Other factors are less important. There are also many commonalities across respondents. Most use both multiples and DCF, but implement DCF in a way that almost turns it into a multiples exercise. Confusion reigns with respect to interest tax shields and the WACC. Higher educational levels do not reduce the confusion. Our overall findings matter because valuation professionals function as intermediaries in the capital allocation process. The relative unimportance of education raises questions about the role and benefit of higher level finance education.
A20|The Rise of a Mainstream in Economics|Our paper contends that the existence of mainstream economics ought to be understood as a particular case of the now widespread certification phenomenon, which defines good practices on the grounds of a compliance with well-defined standards. Basing our analysis on Leijonhufvud’s vision of the construction of economic theory, we document the fragmentation process which economics has undergone from the marginalist revolution to the present. Studying the evolution of five sub-branches of economics, we show how at the end of the 1970s loose standards for good research practices were replaced by narrower ones in each of them. We claim that this change and the emergence of a mainstream were two faces of the same process.
A20|Perceptions and Practices of Replication by Social and Behavioral Scientists: Making Replications a Mandatory Element of Curricula Would Be Useful|We live in a time of increasing publication rates and specialization of scientific disciplines. More and more, the research community is facing the challenge of assuring the quality of research and maintaining trust in the scientific enterprise. Replication studies are necessary to detect erroneous research. Thus, the replicability of research is considered a hallmark of good scientific practice and it has lately become a key concern for research communities and science policy makers alike. In this case study we analyze perceptions and practices regarding replication studies in the social and behavioral sciences. Our analyses are based on a survey of almost 300 researchers that use data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP), a multidisciplinary longitudinal multicohort study. We find that more than two thirds of respondents disagree with the statement that replications are not worthwhile, because major mistakes will be found at some point anyway. Nevertheless, most respondents are not willing to spend their time to conduct replication studies. This situation can be characterized as a “tragedy of the commons”: everybody knows that replications are useful, but almost everybody counts on others to conduct them. Our most important finding concerning practical consequences is that among the few replications that are reported, a large majority is conducted in the context of teaching. In our view, this is a promising detail: in order to foster replicability, one avenue may be to make replication studies a mandatory part of curricula as well as of doctoral theses. Furthermore, we argue that replication studies need to be more attractive for researchers. For example, successful replications could be listed in the publication lists of replicated authors. Vice versa, data sharing needs to receive more recognition, for example by considering data production and subsequent data sharing as scientific output.
A20|Perceptions and Practices of Replication by Social and Behavioral Scientists: Making Replications a Mandatory Element of Curricula Would Be Useful|"We live in a time of increasing publication rates and specialization of scientific disciplines. More and more, the research community is facing the challenge of assuring the quality of research and maintaining trust in the scientific enterprise. Replication studies are necessary to detect erroneous research. Thus, the replicability of research is considered a hallmark of good scientific practice and it has lately become a key concern for research communities and science policy makers alike. In this case study we analyze perceptions and practices regarding replication studies in the social and behavioral sciences. Our analyses are based on a survey of almost 300 researchers that use data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP), a multidisciplinary longitudinal multi-cohort study. We find that more than two thirds of respondents disagree with the statement that replications are not worthwhile, because major mistakes will be found at some point anyway. Nevertheless, most respondents are not willing to spend their time to conduct replication studies. This situation can be characterized as a ""tragedy of the commons"": everybody knows that replications are useful, but almost everybody counts on others to conduct them. Our most important finding concerning practical consequences is that among the few replications that are reported, a large majority is conducted in the context of teaching. In our view, this is a promising detail: in order to foster replicability, one avenue may be to make replication studies a mandatory part of curricula as well as of doctoral theses. Furthermore, we argue that replication studies need to be more attractive for researchers. For example, successful replications could be listed in the publication lists of replicated authors. Vice versa, data sharing needs to receive more recognition, for example by considering data production and subsequent data sharing as scientific output."
A20|The Model of the Formation and Implementation of the Creative and Innovative Potential of the Russian System of Higher Education|Theoretical interpretation and applied projection of the dynamics of the innovative role of higher education as a scientific basis for developing a model of the formation and implementation of the creative and innovative potential of the Russian higher education system are one of the most controversial problems of the modern Russian and world economy. The research is based on the principles of the system, system-situational and integrative approaches, macroeconomic and microeconomic analysis, methods of the structural and functional characteristics of the processes under study, research and projection of economic relations in their real dynamics with respect to their historical and logical origin. The integrating potential of the model of the transformative (creative and innovative) university is an adequate response to the challenges of the new era. This model allows to integrate and overcome a whole range of social and economic gaps in the public system precisely because it embodied the fundamental bases that meet the essence of the new era.
A20|Features of Students’ Economic Competence Formation|The paper provides the verification of a proposed technique aimed to develop students’ economic competence and considers criteria of students’ economic competence formation: Motivational that is characterized by personality’s qualities and properties, tolerance and psychological readiness for future profession; cognitive that identifies the level of economic literacy development, assimilation of knowledge, mastering a complex of concepts, categories, laws; activity-based that assumes mastering actions that have an economic focus; abilities of rational labour organization; use of knowledge in non-standard situations; realization of design, organizational and implementation skills necessary for economic activity. On the basis of proposed criteria the authors revealed problems in the levels of students’ economic competence formation, and the technique was elaborated to enrich cognitive, motivational and activity-based components that feature the degree of experts’ readiness for vocational activity. Materials from the article can be useful for teachers of economic disciplines to select and structure the training content for students specializing in economic disciplines.
A20|Management Security of Personality: The Pedagogical Aspect|The relevance of the study is conditioned by the revaluation of values in modern society. The threat of terrorism demands a new look at security as a state of protection of vital interests of person, society and state from internal and external threats. Identity becomes a major object of safety and security of the person’s safety is purposeful activities of state and public institutions. The person itself begins to consider security as a public good. The aim of the article is to identify pedagogical aspects of security management of the person. The leading approaches to the study are process and competence-based approaches, allowing considering of the safety of the individual as a process of its protection ensuring and readiness formation for safe behavior. The article reveals the essence and content of personal safety; clarifies external threats to information-psychological security of the personality; gives a comparative analysis of information culture and information competence, as pedagogical conditions of management of informationpsychological security of the personality; defines the criteria of information-psychological security of the person (accessibility, pertinence, value, adequacy, security). The paper submissions can be useful for managers and teachers of educational institutions; employees of the centers of advanced training and retraining of personnel in the selection and structuring of the content for the training of scientific and pedagogical staf
A20|Practical Recommendations on the Improvement of the Effectiveness of Anti-corruption Policy in Universities|The relevance of the study is conditioned by the expansion of the scale of corruption in higher education. The purpose of the article is to develop practical recommendations for improving of anti-corruption policy’s effectiveness at universities. The study involved 450 teachers, 1200 students from 140 Russian universities. The main results of the study are to identify the causes of bribery and popular tools of counteraction of corruption in universities, organizational and practical measures for improving of the anti-corruption policy’s effectiveness (the creation of the university’s anticorruption environment, the formation of the stable orientation of students, faculty, staff of the university on anti-corruption activities, including in the content of higher education of teaching material about the anti-corruption policy). This study provides important findings. Firstly, the effectiveness of anti-corruption policy in universities is increased while forming of anticorruption outlook and anti-corruption attitudes among the entities of the educational process determining the intellectual and valuable-emotional attitude to corruption and influencing the readiness for anti-corruption activities. Secondly, the effectiveness of anti-corruption policy in universities is increased with the application of cognitive, activities-related, interactive and integrative methods’ complex
A20|What determines students’ perceptions in course evaluation rating in higher education? An econometric exploration|While student evaluation of courses (SEC) in higher education is an intensely researched area, the existing literature has not paid due attention to rigorous econometric analysis of the SEC data. Using the four-year (2010–2013) evaluation results for economics courses on offer at a leading Australian university, this study employed a random effects ordered probit model with Mundlak correction to identify factors influencing student ratings of courses. This represents an innovative application to educational data.
A20|Second-order accelerator of investment: The case of discrete time|This paper presents a discrete time version of Hillinger’s (1992,2005) second order accelerator model that investigates the dynamic behavior of capital, for pedagogical purposes. Such a version is put forward as a means of improving student acquaintance with the analysis of investment cycles -defined as quasi-periodic cyclic movements of capital- and with the convergence towards the steady-state when capital is subjected to trigonometric oscillations. In addition, we extend the analysis, introducing the exogenous interest rate on loans in the behavioral equation of investors. It is inferred that the introduction of this credit term results in a lower equilibrium level of capital.
A20|Student-crafted experiments “from the ground up”|If experiential learning activities support engagement and deeper student learning, student-owned experiments constructed “from the ground up” might have benefits that exceed pre-designed classroom experiences. This paper provides a framework for embedding a custom experiment project within an existing course. Students manage every aspect of the process, from experimental design to analysis. Two example implementations are described. Undergraduate behavioral economics students created original experiments, exploring anchoring and adjustment in the context of pyramid scheme pitches (in spring 2013) and reciprocity in attraction (in fall 2014). Perceived benefits and potential pitfalls are explored. While this paper does not represent a controlled study of student learning or engagement, both student reflection and instructor observation support the continued use of this pedagogical approach.
A20|Putting yourself in the picture with an ‘ECONSelfie’: Using student-generated photos to enhance introductory economics courses|Students in economics classrooms are increasingly digital natives, raised in a culture of engagement, expression and learning through online interactions using technological devices. We have turned the concept of a ‘selfie’ into an instructional tool for students to demonstrate their understanding of economic concepts, as well as to engage personally with those concepts. A student self-assessment survey supports the expectations of the literature that our ECONSelfie assignment leverages the power of visuals and narratives to help students link themselves with introductory economics material for improved learning outcomes.
A20|Economics: An elite subject soon only available in elite universities?|There are some alarming stories coming out of the UK about the state of academic economics there. It appears that “economics” is becoming an elite subject for elite UK universities. This paper examines the Australian situation to see if similar patterns exist. This paper considers the trends in the availability of economics degrees across the nations and looks at the implications of these trends in Australia in terms of research outcomes, teaching and learning and the impacts on socio-economic opportunity. The similarities between the UK and Australian situation are disturbing and present a challenge to economists, and to the economics community and society as a whole.
A20|El pensamiento económico en los estudiantes de economía de Chile|In this paper, we report the results of a representative inquiry from undergraduate and graduate students in economics from Chile, in five universities, about subjects in economic thought. A comparison among universities that teach economics in Chile allows concluding differences, with singular characteristics of students from each university. Another comparison among Chilean, European and North American students of economics allows identifying the characteristics of the Chilean economic thought among economics students.// En este artículo reportamos los resultados de una encuesta representativa realizada a los estudiantes de economía de Chile, de pre y posgrado de cinco universidades sobre temas de pensamiento económico. Una comparación entre estudiantes de las universidades chilenas que imparten economía permite concluir diferencias entre éstos, con características propias que se estarían imprimiendo como un sello en los estudiantes de las distintas casas de estudio. Por último, una comparación entre los estudiantes de posgrado chilenos, europeos y estadunidenses permite verificar en varios sentidos las particularidades del pensamiento económico en los estudiantes de economía del país
A20|Grading systems of degree projects and labor market entry: Students choices and perceptions of the importance of grading scales in the labor market|This paper studies which grading systems students choose for their degree projects if they are to choose, and what the motivational factors behind making this choice are. Furthermore, students’ perception the importance of grades and the quality of their degree project for their competitiveness in the labor market are studied. Student record data and a survey dataset to students conducting their degree project at the Department of Industrial Economics and Management at KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden during 2016 are used to study students grading scale choices. During spring semester 2016 students were able to choose between the Pass/fFail or A-F grading scale for their degree project which implies that the data reflect students revealed preferences for grading scale. Data from study record transcripts show that 55 percent selected the two-step (Pass/Fail) grading scale, while 45 percent of the students selected the seven-step grading scale (A-F). The GPA score among students choosing the Pass/Fail scale is somewhat higher compared to students choosing A-F grading scale. Among the empirical findings it could be mentioned that perceptions of how a Pass/Fail grading scale promotes good learning and to what extent it motivates students to do a good job on the degree project are rather dispersed among students. What they do agree on is that the Pass/Fail grading system reduces stress.
A20|“Retaking a course in Economics: Innovative methodologies to simulate academic performance in large groups”|Students who have to retake courses at university are often not only low-achieving, but also unmotivated and lacking self-confidence. These problems may be accentuated in large groups of repeater students. In this context, the implementation of new teaching approaches to cater for their needs is a priority. This paper reports the experience of a teaching strategy based on the implementation of flipped classroom, team-based learning, and frequent testing methodologies in large groups of students retaking a subject. The study was carried out during the academic years 2013/14 and 2014/15 at the Faculty of Economy and Business, University of Barcelona (Spain). The results reflect a significant increase in the motivation and academic performance of these students, and validate the application of this strategy in large groups.
A20|Does an extra year of primary schooling yeild higher earnings?: Evidence from Kenya|In 1985 significant school reforms prolonged the duration of primary schooling in Kenya from 7 to 8 years. The goal of the reforms, amongst other changes, was to increase skills and consequently increase earnings for workers with primary school education. This paper explores whether the extra year of primary schooling may have enhanced skills and consequently increased relative wages for workers with the additional eighth year of primary schooling. Such an analysis is important for two reasons. First, we are the first to gauge the impact of the reforms on relative wage changes for workers with primary school education in a developing country setting particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Second, and more importantly, such an inquiry is warranted because by focusing solely on relative wage changes for primary school educated workers, we consider whether the reforms did actually increase relative wages for workers with more i.e. 8 years of primary schooling without the confounding effects of post primary school education (i.e. secondary, tertiary, middle-level and university education) on earnings. Our empirical technique takes advantage of exogenous variation induced by the new policy and employs a data-driven pseudo regression discontinuity design to consider whether the new school reforms did indeed create a wage discontinuity for workers with 7 and 8 years of primary school education at the cutoff point in 1985. Utilizing data from the 2004/2005 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey, our findings shed new light. We find that although the relative wage for workers with 7 years of primary schooling is marginally higher, the trajectory of the age-earnings profile is relatively steeper for workers with the 8th year of primary schooling. This finding, consistent with human capital theory, suggests that workers with the extra year of primary schooling would earn a higher future relative wage. As such, from a policy standpoint, increasing the duration of primary school education may be a necessary but not a sufficient condition for increasing relative wages for workers with the added year of primary schooling at least in the short run. Short run underlying factors, such as differences in age, years of labor market experience, compounded by transition bottlenecks (not considered in this paper but widely discussed in the literature) may inhibit an instantaneous wage increase for workers with the added year of primary schooling.
A20|Jack Soper: A Pioneer in Economic Education|John â€œJackâ€ Soper passed away on August 9, 2013. A prolific researcher who retired as the John J. Kahl Sr. Chair in Entrepreneurship at John Carroll University, Soper was a leading light in the field of economic education. His scholarship in the 1970s and 1980splayed a very important role in establishing the field. In this educational note, we summarize and highlight his contributions to the measurement of economic literacy and the modelling of student learning in the collegiate and precollege classrooms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
A20|JET: A New Journal Takes Off!|The mission of Journal of Economics Teaching is to transmit innovative teaching ideas to teachers of economics at all levels...
A20|Advice on Implementing Supplemental Instruction in an Introductory Level Economics Course|Supplemental Instruction (SI) is a program where a current undergraduate student assists a professor in delivering course material by providing a peer-delivered format. The use of ...
A20|Mattress Money|Students sometimes ask if saving in the form of placing cash under a mattress can decouple the link between saving and investment. This paper provides a ...
A20|"Explaining ""In the Aggregate"" Concepts with Clickers"|"Concepts such as the marginal propensity to consume can lead some students to respond, ""But that's not how I would behave!"" Using clickers (or any classroom..."
A20|An Exercise on Creating a Student Expenditure Basket|"Concepts such as the marginal propensity to consume can lead some students to respond, ""But that's not how I would behave!"" Using clickers (or any classroom..."
A20|The Investment Multiplier: a Different Pedagogical Approach|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|Monitoring the International Monetary System: Its Development in the West, and Future in the East|The “gold standard” is frequently mentioned in text books, but few without an economics background can fully understand it. This paper thus begins in 1896, when U.S. Presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan declared, “You shall not crucify mankind on a cross of gold.” Since going back to the middle ages, the world has had numerous monetary systems, which are here explained in comprehensible terms. A modern reoccurring idea is to return to some form of the gold standard, while some argue for switching to the Chinese yuan or another international reserve currency, which the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will adopt in their Special Drawing Rights starting in October, 2016. This paper is normative in that it comments on the current international structure, but uses economic principles to support its argument in favor of an internationally strong dollar. It thus traces the history of a topically contentious subject, with a basic regression indicating important predictive factors for the future. It offers that a new gold standard would not be in the world’s interest, interfering with monetary policy, while emerging market countries would be best to import more and financially deepen, which the regression shows was why the Chinese yuan was adopted by the IMF, then looking ahead to other parts of Asia and towards bitcoins.
A20|Demographic Transition Theory and Its Link to the Historical Economic Growth|In the absence of convincing evidence, data for Sweden and Mauritius are used in academic publications to illustrate the Demographic Transition Theory. These data are closely examined and found to be in clear contradiction of this theory. Demographic Transition Theory is also contradicted by the best available data for England. Other examples of contradicting evidence are also discussed.
A20|Philosophical Origins of Seventeenth Century American Economic Thought|This paper examines the philosophical origins of seventeenth century American economic thinking, considering the contributions of both Puritan thought as derived from the abundant written legacy its followers left behind, and that of Quaker thought, which though less voluminous proved to be more influential in the long run development of American economics. Before addressing the dominant theme of this essay, the paper begins with a discussion of protohistory, a concept essential to understanding the contention that historiography has overvalued the significance of Puritanism at the expense of Quakerism.
A20|12th International Conference on Teaching, Education and Learning (ICTEL) in Mauritius|The 12th International Conference on Teaching, Education and Learning (ICTEL) was held on the 25th and 26th November 2016 at Middlesex University. In this hectic time closing this year, eight academics who also wrote research papers made a formal presentation of their work. Dr Banally of Global Research and Development Services (GRDS) acted as the moderator for all the presentations that took place on both days. The conference invited topics from various spheres of tertiary education while it allowed for a panoply of subjects to be treated. There could be a high level of convergence seen from the fact that traditional teaching methodology, though still persistent, should leave the way for modern student-focused learning. This should be coupled with high level of student interaction, the use of online technology, new methods of motivating modern learners and the need to understand generational shifts. A selective notes of conference is provided in the following paragraphs to highlight the diversity of topics treated by the various academics in this conference.
A20|Mechanism of Hyperbolic Growth Explained|Fundamental law of growth is used to explain the mechanism of hyperbolic growth of human population and of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Hyperbolic growth is described by a simple mathematical formula and the explanation of its mechanism turns out to be also simple. Historical economic growth was prompted by the familiar net market force, which was on average directly proportional to the existing wealthexpressed usually as the GDP. The larger was the GDP, the stronger was the driving force and the faster was the economic growth. It is shown that this simple force generates hyperbolic growth. No other force is required. Hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force. Historical growth of population was prompted by thebiologically driven force of procreation, which was on average approximately constant per person. This force includes the natural, familiar, biologically controlled process of births, aging and dying. Here again, hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force.Explanation of two demographic transitions in the past 12,000 years in the growth of population and of the currently experienced transition is also proposed. Currently, economic growth and the growth of population are no longer unconstrained. Other additional forces contribute significantly to the growth process and the growth is no longer hyperbolic.
A20|Financial Education and the Debt Behavior of the Young|Young Americans are heavily reliant on debt and have clear financial literacy shortcomings. In this paper, we study the effects of exposure to financial training on debt outcomes in early adulthood among a large and representative sample of young Americans. Variation in exposure to financial training comes from statewide changes in high school graduation requirements. Using a flexible event study approach, we find that both mathematics and financial education, by and large, decrease reliance on nonstudent debt and improve repayment behavior. Economics training, on the other hand, increases both the likelihood of holding outstanding debt and the prevalence of repayment difficulties.Received July 9, 2014; accepted December 5, 2015 by Editor Stefan Nagel.
A20|An Exploratory Study of Career Anchors in Business Higher Education|In this paper we aim to explore the topic of Schein’s career anchors in a particular local context (business higher education in Romania). In order to so, we studied the literature on career anchors and applied the test for 86 students of Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Faculty of International Business and Economics, 1st year of study. As expected, we observed a higher negative correlation between general managerial and lifestyle anchors and a series of other general relationships. More than a half of the respondents are autonomy-anchored and more than a third seem to have the entrepreneurial creativity anchor. We are cautious with respect to the results, since people without work experience might find a series of statements very interesting, but value them incorrectly based on a series of assumptions they make. For our small sample we could not validate the hypothesis that women are more lifestyle oriented than men.
A20|The Dichotomy, Inconsistency, and Peculiar Outmodedness of the „Mainstream“ Textbook. The Example of Institutions|This paper critically reviews the leading microeconomic textbooks of Varian, Pindyck/Rubinfeld, and Schumann/Meyer/Stroebele, with a focus on their theoretical inconsistencies and their lack of an institutional perspective.
A20|Why economics textbooks must, and how they can, be changed into a real-world and pluralist economics. The example of a fundamentally new complexity-economics micro-textbook|We argue that economics must, and can, be taught in fundamentally different ways than the simplistic and ideology-laden “economics of x”. We illustrate this with a fundamentally new textbook, “Microeconomics of Complex Economies” (2015). The mainstream’s ambivalence between some relevant research and its simplistic teaching in terms of “optimum”, “equilibrium”, and “market”, and the resulting textbook structure, incoherent between the static and “optimal” equilibrium and some reference to more recent real-world phenomena, will be characterized. We show how this can be changed by showing the process of getting a “heterodox” complexity textbook published, and by the structure of its content.
A20|PhD by Publication as an Argument for Innovation and Technology Transfer: with Emphasis on Africa|The contribution of African researchers to knowledge by means of scientific publications is low compared to other regions of the world. This paper presents an argument in favour of PhD by Publication as a tool for innovation and technology transfer. Building on the literature on the key role of a knowledge economy in 21st century development and catch-up processes, we argue that: (i) in order for PhD dissertations to be more useful to society, they should be harmonised with scientific publications which centre on improving the design and quality of existing and new products in developing countries. (ii) Obtaining a doctorate degree should not simply be reduced to a change in candidate’s title as is often the case with a traditional thesis. (iii) The PhD by Publication is a more effective route to ensuring that the contribution to knowledge is widely disseminated. The conceptual framework consists primarily of the clarification of the models of PhD by Publication and the linkages between the doctoral education, innovation, technology transfer and development catch-up. Implications for scientific research policies in the light of contemporary challenges to African development are discussed.
A20|Estática comparativa e indeterminación de signos en un modelo macroeconómico neoclásico sencillo<BR>[Comparative statics and sign indeterminacy in a simple neoclassical macroeconomic model]|In this paper, we analyse a simple two-period neoclassical macroeconomic model -short and long term- that exclusively considers the real sector of the economy (labour and goods markets). It is shown how, under a general characterization, some important signs of comparative statics are undetermined. This ambiguity is a consequence of the ubiquity of the real interest rate tying intertemporarily the four markets considered. By adding simplifying assumptions, the signs are determined at the cost of losing generality and empirical adequacy. This fact limits the empirical relevance of a large part of the models commonly used in teaching macroeconomics, where ambivalent results are avoided because of the need of clear answers on the effects of fiscal and monetary policy interventions. Taking a positive view, these results compels to take general interdependence seriously and to pay more attention to the complete set of theoretical possibilities that arise when modelling macroeconomic systems.
A20|University students’ support to an NGO that helps children with cancer: Lessons learned in thirteen academic projects|In this article we discuss thirteen academic projects undertaken by undergraduate and graduate students on the behalf of Casa Assistencial Amor e Esperança-CAAE (Home Care Love and Hope), a Brazilian NGO that helps poor families with children with cancer and other non-communicable diseases. Our intent is to share with the Action Research community our findings in an experience that involves co-operation between university students and an NGO that operates on behalf of children and their families. We present our findings by means of a systemic analysis.
A20|Paulo Freire and the methodology of thematic investigation for permanent teacher education|This text presents the principles which were the basis of permanent teacher education, as it was constructed and applied in the city of São Paulo’s public school system, during the period in which Paulo Freire was the Municipal Secretary of Education. The article also highlights the method-ology of thematic investigation (Freire, 1987), within the paradigm of Action Research, as it brings a new perspective to teacher education, under-stood as a path to help teachers gain a deeper understanding, and to critically evaluate their own practices. The research on the relevance of Paulo Freire’s thought nowadays is presented, in this text, as part of the work that has been developed at the Paulo Freire Cathedra at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo (PUC-SP), in Brazil. Amongst the em-pirical works, within the ambit of this research, emphasis will be given to a doctoral thesis which adopts Freire’s concept of permanent teacher education and, at the same time, applies the methodology of thematic investigation as the principal methodological process, recreating this proposal in the context of teacher education-research.
A20|The Impact of Vocational Education on Economic Growth of Pakistan|Vocational training improves productivity and enhances efficiency of labour for better participation in economic development. The objective of this study is to determine the impact of vocational education on economic growth of Pakistan. The study finds the impact of public investment in vocational education and availability of teachers in vocational education. Thisstudyuses timeseriesdatafor empirical analysis. The findings of the study show that there is a positive relationship between vocational education and economic growth. Better vocational education improves the efficiency and productivity of labour force which further enhances economic development .It is suggested that existing vocational education system should be upgraded. The shortage of teachers in technical institutions should be fulfilled and proper training should be provided to teachers.
A20|Gamblers, scratchers and their financial education|Abstract We develop an online survey to investigate the characteristics of slot/videopoker players and scratchers (individuals buying tickets of scratch-off lotteries). We find evidence of a negative relationship between gambling and financial literacy. More specifically, after controlling for gender, education, income, employment status and area of residence: (1) slot and/or videopoker players have an 8% lower probability of answering correctly to all of the three standard financial education questions; (2) scratch-off players have a 10% lower probability of answering correctly to the (third) mutual fund risk diversification question, (3) a correct answer to all financial education questions raises by 14% the probability of declaring unwillingness to play due to lack of economic convenience. Scratch-off players are as well more impatient and more likely to sacrifice expected value for positive skewness and they overestimate the probability of winning at least the price of the ticket. Our findings suggest that scratchers and slot/videopoker players may be unable to evaluate the overall consequences of gambling on their economic wellbeing due to their lower financial education.
A20|Comment appréhender les temporalités de l’histoire économique ? Plaidoyer pour une cliométrie des événements rares|L’objet de cet article est d’élaborer, par la combinaison de l’approche systémique et de l’idée de régulation, une grille de lecture théorique susceptible de contribuer à un renouveau méthodologique pour une meilleure appréhension des temporalités de l’histoire économique. Le système régulé entraîne des cycles ; il génère des chocs. Ce sont les reflets de la temporalité d’un système économique donné. Ce faisant, nos investigations cliométriques participent d’un vaste programme de recherche visant à réconcilier l’épistémologie du Verstehen (comprendre) avec celle de l’Erklären (expliquer). Elles ambitionnent de favoriser la rencontre du fait avec le fait stylisé ; les modélisations théoriques de la croissance, des cycles et des systèmes économiques avec les interrogations empiriques aux frontières de l’histoire économique.
A20|Teaching economics in Hungary after the crisis|In the wake of the economic crisis, a question arises increasingly often: what is the role of economic culture in overcoming the crisis? Since the mid-2000s, leaders of developed countries have kept pointing out that fostering political and economic education is a driver of growth and development. Curricula are being overhauled; new modules are appearing in the study programmes of secondary schools, colleges, and university-level undergraduate courses; significant curriculum developments have been launched at the world’s leading universities in the last few years. Hungarian higher education cannot exclude itself from this process.
A20|Using authentic materials in second language teaching|In bridging the gap between the classroom and the world outside, the teacher often makes use of authentic materials, which are examples of language that were not originally produced for language learning purposes but which are now being used in that way. The most important thing is not to confine ourselves to passively exploiting the authentic materials, but to integrate them into the various activities that develop the students’ communicative competence.
A20|Considerations regarding the benefits of using methods to stimulate creativity in higher education|The idea for this article started from the desire to find out how creativity and innovation are used in universities, how are they related to student training, preparing them to deal with the knowledge acquired in their years of education in a global environment where competition increases. Therefore it is necessary to obtain valid information from students, to discuss their views, their opinions and to encourage them to develop the skills necessary to achieve this during classes and seminars. The Romanian education system generally focuses on the effective transmission of information, while in the economically more developed countries, teachers are trying to find ways to involve the student in finding, processing and structuring of personal information, in the creation of creative students (such as e-learning systems). Therefore, the need to use methods that can develop and stimulate creativity in higher education becomes more imperative.
A20|Considerations on English synonyms from a semantic point of view|This paper aims at analyzing the behaviour of semantic relations in context. We started our research considering G. Leech’s definition according to which synonyms are the result of intuition, on the one hand, but also of social, behavioural and psychological context, on the other. Context becomes very important in structuring the types of synonyms and in analyzing them at semantic level. The basic idea is that the synonymic relation cannot be total, but it depends on the context; two lexical items may be in a total synonymic relation in one context or more, but never in all. Differences may be of stylistic, register, emotional, dialectical nature, etc.
A20|The necessity of teaching functions in the foreign language class|The ultimate goal of the teaching-learning process in teaching foreign languages is to acquire that linguistic component, which involves not only the grammatical competence, the cultural competence, but also the communicative competence. Pragmatics is that part of grammar which studies the way language is used, namely the stylistic or rhetoric competence. The paper insists on the necessity of developing functions within the framework of the foreign language class, that is the communicative competence – the kind of accuracy and fluency that a native speaker has in conversation.
A20|Assembling the research profile of Greek Economic Departments|The publications of 298 faculty members of thirteen Greek Economic Departments and one Economics research institute was retrieved and analyzed together with other information like the institution and the date that they received their PhD diploma. We progressively assembly the research profile of each department providing detailed statistics on various research indices, like the number of publications and citations, h and g-index, the Gini coefficient of the distribution of publications within departments and the co-authoring links with domestic and foreign economic departments. We finally apply hierarchical cluster analysis to derive the research profiles of those departments.
A20|Student Preconceptions and Learning Economic Reasoning|Economic views held by the general public tend to differ significantly from those of economic experts. To what extent would these differences fade away if people were exposed to economic instruction? In this paper we identify first-year college students’ initial preconceptions about economic issues, explore some cognitive biases behind them, verify their persistence, and test whether beliefs are correlated to course performance. We conduct a survey at the beginning and the end of the semester on a sample of students taking an economic principles course. We find evidence of preconception persistence, inconsistencies and self-serving bias. Most students do not incorporate the newly learned tools into their thinking process, even if they perform well. Many economics senior students have some beliefs that are contradicted in a principles course. Instruction in economics could be more efficient if it explicitly addressed students’ preconceptions and biases, a path already taken in other disciplines.
A20|Student preconceptions and learning economic reasoning|Economic views held by the general public tend to differ significantly from those of economic experts. To what extent would these differences fade away if people were exposed to economic instruction? In this paper we identify first-year college students’ initial preconceptions about economic issues, explore some cognitive biases behind them, verify their persistence, and test whether beliefs are correlated to course performance. We conduct a survey at the beginning and the end of the semester on a sample of students taking an economic principles course. We find evidence of preconception persistence, inconsistencies and self-serving bias. Most students do not incorporate the newly learned tools into their thinking process, even if they perform well. Many economics senior students have some beliefs that are contradicted in a principles course. Instruction in economics could be more efficient if it explicitly addressed students’ preconceptions and biases, a path already taken in other disciplines.
A20|Teaching and Learning Alternatives to a Comparative Advantage Motivation for Trade|Introductory economics courses emphasize opportunity cost, comparative advantage, and specialization to show the benefits of trade. We assert that this emphasis leads to erroneous student mind-set that trade requires specialization based on comparative advantage. We test students who have been exposed to the typical textbook and classroom presentation of specialization and trade with real but paradoxical situations where the same goods are both imported and exported by a country. Students are found to generally understand comparative advantage calculations but wrongfully apply the idea to this multiproduct trade situation for which specialization is not relevant.
A20|Financial Education Programs in Colombia: Challenges in Assessing their Effectiveness|Abstract: Financial education programs enjoy widespread governmental and financial industry support. They are considered an important tool for improving financial literacy, encouraging financial inclusion, and increasing consumer financial protection. Therefore, assessing their effectiveness is important to guarantee that public and private resources are allocated wisely. As we highlight in this paper, the available empirical literature casts serious doubts on the effectiveness of those programs in achieving their main objectives. Even properly designed—from an impact evaluation viewpoint—financial education programs fail to deliver long-run effects on individuals’ financial literacy or financial choices. We highlight the challenges to evaluate the impact of financial education programs and, consequently, their merits. We showcase the international experience in assessing the effectiveness of these programs and draw lessons for Colombia. We offer a set of recommendations regarding the minimum set of attributes that financial education programs should have to allow serious policy evaluation.
A20|Didácticas para la formación en investigación contable: una discusión crítica de las prácticas de enseñanza|Resumen El presente artículo indaga sobre la forma en que se enseña la investigación en los programas de Contaduría Pública de Medellín. El método seguido en el estudio corresponde a un diseño combinado entre explicativo e interpretativo, que acudió a las fuentes primarias al consultar la experiencia de los profesores. Los resultados se dividen en tres grandes apartados: el primero expone la forma en que la investigación aparece en el currículo, el segundo analiza las experiencias aportadas por los profesores y el tercero discute el sentido que se halla en tales experiencias.
A20|¿Debería la Historia del Pensamiento Económico ser incluida en los planes de estudio de Economía en pregrado?|Resumen: Este artículo discute los puntos de vista de la corriente de pensamiento dominante respecto a la utilidad o inutilidad de la Historia del Pensamiento Económico (en adelante HPE). Estos puntos de vista se basan en un supuesto oculto: una “visión acumulativa” según la cual el punto de llegada provisional de la economía contemporánea debe incorporar todas las contribuciones teóricas anteriores de una forma mejorada. Los críticos del positivismo le permitieron a la filosofía de la ciencia reconocer la existencia de diferentes enfoques, tanto en la economía como en otras ciencias. La conceptualización, reconocida por Schumpeter como la primera etapa en la teorización económica, permite que las diferentes visiones del mundo en las cuales se basan los diversos enfoques, tomen forma y alcancen un mayor reconocimiento. Es aquí donde la HPE juega un papel esencial. En este artículo se toma como ejemplo las diferencias entre los enfoques clásicos y marginalistas de la Economía. De esta forma, la HPE resulta esencial en los Planes de Estudio de Economía tanto a nivel de pregrado como de posgrado. En el primer caso como una ayuda decisiva para una mejor comprensión y evaluación de los teorías/modelos ya formalizados y, en el segundo caso, como una formación en el método filológico de investigación, esencial en la primera etapa de la teorización. / Abstract : Mainstream views concerning the uselessness or usefulness of HET are illustrated. These rely on a hidden assumption: a ‘cumulative view’ according to which the provisional point of arrival of contemporary economics incorporates all previous contributions in an improved way. Critiques of positivism led philosophy of science to recognise the existence of different approaches – in economics, as in other sciences. Conceptualisation, recognised by Schumpeter as the first stage in economic theorising, is the stage in which the different visions of the world underlying the different approaches, take shape – and are better recognised. In this, HET plays an essential role. As an illustration, the differences between the classical and marginalist conceptualisations of the economy are illustrated. Thus HET is essential in both undergraduate and graduate economic curricula, as a decisive help towards a better understanding and evaluation of formalised theories/models in the first case, and as an education to the philological method of research, essential in the first stage of theorising, in the case of graduate curricula.
A20|¿Se pueden aplicar las ideas Keynesianas al largo plazo? Unas reflexiones teóricas y un modelo ilustrativo|El modelo que se construye en este artículo quiere mostrar que la más importante idea Keynesiana, el principio de la demanda efectiva, no se aplica solamente a un corto plazo en el que unos precios son fijos o rígidos. También se aplica a un largo plazo en el que los precios son perfectamente flexibles y vacían el mercado, las firmas maximizan sus ganancias y la distribución funcional del ingreso depende de las productividades marginales. También se muestra que la naturaleza Keynesiana de un modelo no depende de sus resultados – en unos casos bajar los salarios es una buena idea y en otros no lo es; en unos casos la paradoja del ahorro vale en el largo plazo y en otros no vale – sino del hecho de incorporar (o no incorporar) la noción de demanda autónoma. Para terminar, se le da un sustento a la idea de que la forma en la que se trata el asunto de los salarios monetarios (y su flexibilidad) en la Teoría General no se puede aplicar al mundo “financiarizado” en el que estamos. ****** This paper presents a model intended to show that the most important Keynesian idea, the principle of effective demand, cannot be only applied to short terms, in which some prices are fixed or sticky; but also to long terms where prices are perfectly flexible and empty the market, firms increase their profits, and where the functional income distribution depends on marginal productivities. Moreover, we will show that the Keynesian nature of a model does not depend on its results, in some cases lowering wages is a good policy and in others it is not. In some cases, the paradox of thrift stands out in the long run and in some others it does not; instead, this nature depends on incorporating (or not) the notion of autonomous demand. To conclude, we will support the idea stating that the way in which monetary wages (and flexibility) are addressed in the General Theory is not applicable to the financialized world, where we live.
A20|Disciplina, clima y desempeño escolar en Chile|En este trabajo se evalúa el efecto de la influencia del profesor en el clima escolar dentro de la sala de clases mediante un análisis estadístico de observaciones de video en el aula, aplicado a 51.329 profesores. Se observa que ciertos aspectos del ambiente en la sala tienen una poderosa influencia en el rendimiento de los alumnos; en particular, que el manejo del grupo del curso que ejerce el profesor en el aula es más relevante y significativo que otras medidas del desarrollo de la clase. También se aprecia que el ambiente en el conjunto de las clases del establecimiento es un mejor predictor de los resultados de los alumnos que el ambiente en la sala de clases específica que reportan las pruebas de aprendizaje. Ello sugiere que mejorar el ambiente en la escuela es el desafío más relevante, aunque ello está menos al alcance de cada profesor individualmente.
A20|¿Se comporta el alfabetismo financiero como un bien económico?|El alfabetismo financiero (AF) se entiende generalmente como un bien económico cuyo consumo el individuo decide sobre la base de su aporte esperado en la toma de decisiones financieras. Sin embargo, este marco conceptual no ha sido puesto a prueba empíricamente. En este trabajo se analiza la variación en el AF de individuos que experimentan eventos del ciclo de vida, observables en los datos y de presumible repercusión en las finanzas personales. El análisis de un panel de aproximadamente 12.000 individuos muestra que de 17 eventos seleccionados, 13 evidencian una correlación con las decisiones financieras, pero solo uno de ellos, la capacitación laboral, resulta asociado a un cambio en el af. Esta evidencia pone en tela de juicio la conceptualización del AF como bien económico, y se suma a un grupo de trabajos que, por una u otra razón, han cuestionado la solidez conceptual del AF.
A20|Classroom discipline, classroom environment and student performance in Chile|This paper assesses the extent to which teachers’ actions in the classroom influence the school environment. The assessment is based on a statistical analysis of videotaped classroom observations of 51,329 teachers. The classroom environment was found to have a significant influence on students’ performance. More specifically, the teacher’s ability to handle the class as a group is consistently more significant than other measures of class environment. It was also founds that the overall school environment is a better predictor of students’ test results than the environment in the classrooms of the students whose test results are being reported. This suggests that the most effective course of action would be to improve the overall school environment, although individual teachers have less control over this factor.
A20|Is financial literacy an economic good?|Financial literacy (fl) is generally regarded as an economic good which individuals choose whether or not to consume depending on how much of a contribution they expect it to make to the quality of their financial decision-making. This construct has not, however, been tested empirically. In this study we analyse variations in fl on the part of individuals who experience major life-cycle events that show up in the data and that can be assumed to have repercussions on their personal finances. The analysis of a panel made up of approximately 12,000 people indicates that there is a correlation between 13 of the 17 selected life events and financial decisions, but only one of those events (job training) is associated with a change in fl. This evidence casts doubt upon the conceptualization of fl as an economic good and is in line with a series of other studies that, for one reason or another, have questioned the soundness of the current conceptual approach to FL.
A20|Exploring Easter Island economics with Excel|Students learn more from doing than from viewing. By seeing and diagramming the relationships they have developed themselves, students learn more than by merely reading over what someone else has done. For the dynamic problems encountered in environmental and resource economics, Excel has a comparative advantage as a learning aid. We develop a simple, flexible Excel assignment to illustrate the Brander and Taylor (1998) model of the Easter Island economy. On Easter Island a crucial natural resource, the island's palm forest, was an open-access resource, leading to over harvesting and eventual societal collapse much like ordinary predator–prey models in biology. This paper guides instructors through an assignment using Excel to illustrate this dynamic. We also provide suggested extensions from the literature on Easter Island economics.
A20|Bringing imagination back to the classroom: A model for creative arts in economics|This paper draws from the cognitive and neuroscience literature to develop theoretical support for the use of creative arts in college economics classrooms. The research suggests that creative arts activate important neurological pathways that aid the transfer of information from short- to long-term memory, where it can be retrieved for future problem-solving. To encourage meaningful learning and economic literacy, students must be able to mentally organize and retain information from their classroom experiences. The fresh metaphors and imagery present in creative arts such as poetry can deepen and clarify conceptual meaning, and allow students to learn and express their understanding of economics in a more personal and memorable way.
A20|Reflections on the one-minute paper|This paper captures the perceptions of both a new academic and his students on the use of the one-minute paper (OMP). Much of the originality of this paper derives from the multi-layered qualitative approach which provides a deeper insight into the direct and indirect mechanism through which the OMP is perceived to work. This paper argues that, more than the prevailing literature suggests, in order to increase the benefits of using the OMP then considerable investment in time is required. The findings show that the academic’s cost in terms of time is greatest when asking ‘lecturer effectiveness’ type questions, but the benefits derived are potentially longer term than standard ‘lecture content’ based question. Students value the use of the OMP, principally because it demonstrates respect for them; this helps to create an atmosphere of trust, which can encourage engagement and an active approach to student learning. The research informs a discussion on how practical implementation techniques can be used to maximise the benefits and limit the costs.
A20|¿Debería la economía heterodoxa ser enseñada en departamentos de economía, o existe algún espacio para la economía backwater?|Ha habido varios llamados estudiantiles para un mayor nivel de pluralismo en las salas de clases. Este artículo esboza las razones por las cuales es improbable que tales llamados sean escuchados. Los economistas ortodoxos creen que ya existe suficiente pluralismo y debate al interior de la ortodoxia y no llegan a darse cuenta que los economistas heterodoxos pueden hacer contribuciones positivas al campo de la economía, creyendo por el contrario que sus contribuciones consisten mayormente en diversas críticas al paradigma dominante. Además, la situación presente no es conducente a un mayor pluralismo dado que existe un excesivo flujo de oferta de doctores en economía dispuestos a perseguir una carrera académica. Un mayor pluralismo en el aula a de clases puede requerir entonces la creación de un campo nuevo, distinto del de la economía.
A20|Competency Based Education And Technology In Teaching Statistics|This research focuses on proposing answers to crucial questions for improving statistics teaching. There is a perception not yet overcome that statistics is abstract, not useful, rigid, that generates anxiety and negative attitudes especially in management science and socials students. Neumann, Hood and Neumann (2013) provide an overview of recent research on teaching and learning statistics. Makar & Ben-Zvi (2011), Gardfield & Ben-Zvi (2007) and Scheaffer (2001) have suggested teaching approaches that include more real-life data and less theory, more data analysis and intuition-based knowledge building supported on active student participation and suitable technology and software. Research findings on how student learns, competency-based education, teamwork and communications and information technologies provide the platform to device and test new answers. Our study reports results achieved in our university (UANLFACPyA) from an exploratory research. We share these results with all those statistics teachers and instructors in business and industry organizations facing theses challenges
A20|Does Exposure to Economics Bring New Majors to the Field? Evidence from a natural Experiment|This study investigates how being exposed to a field of study influences students’ major choices. We exploit a natural experiment at a Swiss university where all first-year students face largely the same curriculum before they choose a major. An important component of the first-year curriculum that varies between students involves a multi-term research paper in business, economics, or law. Due to oversubscription of business, the university assigns the field of the paper in a standardized way that is unrelated to student characteristics. We find that being assigned to write in economics raises the probability of majoring in economics by 2.7 percentage points, which amounts to 18 percent of the share of students who major in economics.
A20|Natural disasters and university enrolment: evidence from L’Aquila earthquake| Although there are several studies looking at the effect of natural disasters on economic growth, less attention has been dedicated to their impact on educational outcomes, especially in more developed countries. We use the synthetic control method to examine how the L’Aquila earthquake affected subsequent enrolment at the local university. This issue has wide economic implications as the University of L’Aquila made a large contribution to the local economy before the earthquake. Our results indicate that the earthquake had no statistically significant effect on first-year enrolment at the University of L’Aquila in the three academic years after the disaster. This natural disaster, however, caused a compositional change in the first-year student population, with a substantial increase in the number of students aged 21 or above. This is likely to have been driven by post-disaster measures adopted in order to mitigate the expected negative effects on enrolment triggered by the earthquake.
A20|Class Absence, Instructor Lecture Notes, Intellectual Styles, and Learning Outcomes|At many universities, undergraduate introductory economics courses are taught in large lecture halls. Casual empiricism suggests that rates of student absenteeism are significantly greater in the large lecture format compared to the smaller classroom format. There is also the compounding factor that numerous empirical studies have identified a statistically significant negative relationship between absenteeism and student performance. Using panel data, it is estimated that the average student with less than perfect attendance is better off attending the lecture, but studying from instructor-provided lecture notes can significantly reduce the negative effect of absence on exam performance. Additional estimates of the differential effects of intellectual styles show the notes were the least beneficial for the auditory intellectual style. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|Active Learning in Economics: Increasing Student Engagement, Excitement and Success|No abstract is available for this item.
A20|Flipping Out! A Case Study on How to Flip the Principles of Economics Classroom|The benefits of active learning are well established. Nevertheless, many instructors are unable to implement active learning in the classroom due to pressures to cover many core topics in a principles course. This paper discusses a pedagogical tool that addresses this problem: the flipped classroom. In a flipped classroom, students are asked to study classroom material prior to class, allowing more class time to be used for active learning activities such as group discussion, problem solving, and experiments. This paper reports on our experience “flipping” a large enrollment (900+ students) microeconomic principles classroom using a methodology that was enhanced over the course of several years. Students were assigned to watch multimedia pre-lectures which included embedded questions prior to attending each lecture which then focused on active learning activities. Using empirical data collected from our semester-long case study, we provide an argument for best practices aimed at improving the effectiveness of a flipped classroom model to increase student learning outcomes. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|Cooperative Learning as a Supplement to the Economics Lecture|As stakeholders clamor for alternative teaching and learning strategies, many options are worthy possibilities. Central to choosing among such alternatives are those that require little outlay of cash, can be used in practically any learning environment, and are proven to be beneficial to both students and educators. In order to accommodate a change from lecture as the primary format of education, choices are available for the educator who wants to expand into student-centered education. One such method is cooperative learning where interdependence becomes the integral element of learning. As a teaching tool, it provides many of the benefits necessary for efficient education, including improvements in group work, critical thinking, individual responsibility, communication, and interpersonal relationships. Additionally, ample research touts the effectiveness of cooperative learning as a proficient tool for education. In order to evaluate cooperative learning in the classroom, a number of reasons are presented in support of cooperative learning as are examples and results from a number of exercises used in both micro- and macroeconomics courses. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|Student Demographics and the Impact of Team-Based Learning|The use of active learning strategies has frequently been suggested as a way of helping disadvantaged students bridge the achievement gap as all of the usual advantages of active learning (more hands-on nature, focus on problem solving and critical thinking, etc.) are seen as particularly important to this group. This paper examines differences in student outcomes and experiences with Team-Based Learning (TBL) on the basis of several demographic characteristics (age, gender, race/ethnicity, and socioeconomic status). The study population includes students in principles-level economics courses and undergraduate and Master of Business Administration (MBA)-level quantitative methods courses at a mid-sized state university. We find a small, significant improvement in learning outcomes for low-income and minority students when compared to others. We also document several differences in the subjective experiences of minority and low-income students with TBL-based courses. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|The Write Experience in Economics: A Case Study from Central Connecticut State University|The ability to engage in efficient and effective written communication is essential for those pursuing a career in economics. Unfortunately, it is a skill often overlooked by many undergraduate economics programs. Those that do emphasize writing often wait to introduce the skill until students are at an advanced point of their studies. Although this approach is preferred to one that omits the skill entirely, students often find this approach frustrating, as they feel unprepared for the written work now expected of them. The reasons for this omission are varied, but include: resource and time constraints, a lack of experience teaching writing, and a feeling that teaching writing is not the responsibility of the economics department. Advances in technology have, however, made the introduction of written work less costly for faculty and more beneficial to students. The Write Experience software (available as part of the Cengage learning-technology package) has been used several times within the economics department at Central Connecticut State University (CCSU). The software has increased student’s exposure to open-ended questions and provided the opportunity for students to hone their written communication skills. Using ordered probit estimation techniques this research identified the factors that influence the quality of a CCSU student’s written work. Results indicate that the written communication skills of CCSU students differ by race, gender, and field of study. These findings highlight the need for continued development of written communication skills at various points in the curriculum and identify areas where additional resources may provide the greatest benefit. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|Service Learning and the Capstone Experience|This paper is based on a senior-level course that uses experiential learning techniques to assess student learning outcomes (SLOs) as part of the assessment process required for the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). Three options that provide evidence of the SLOs are business simulations, case study analysis, and a service learning project with a research paper. The simulation project had been used in the past at the undergraduate level and is currently in place in a Masters of Business Administration (MBA) assessment program. The undergraduate program also explored case study analysis, but recently employed the service learning project with a research paper. This study analyzes the results of this learning strategy by using a follow-up survey that rates the student on 20 categories of character using the Service Learning Benefits (SELEB) scale (Toncar et al. Journal of Marketing Theory & Practice, 14(3), 223–238, 2006 ). Business and economic majors at colleges and universities are being challenged to create learning experiences outside the classroom. This allows the student to participate in experiences that may be used as “resume builders” and networking opportunities. The project analyzed is a one credit course that each graduating senior completes in teams of four students. Results indicate that students rate personal responsibility, communication skills and leadership skills highest in this service learning experience. Additionally, students’ perceptions of the learning experience have improved since the program’s inception. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
A20|Learning Heckscher-Ohlin Model in Five Easy Steps|With students in the policy and business schools with no formal economics background in mind, we propose an intuitively appealing and simple step-by-step graphical approach to explain the Heckscher-Ohlin (HO) model. Our approach is simple because it needs only two pieces of information, specifically about factor endowments and factor intensities, and from there it uses straightforward logic to construct the HO model. In easy five steps we show how to build the HO model and derive its three theorems, specifically, pattern of trade, factor price equalization, and income distribution.
A20|The influence of media use on laymen s monetary policy knowledge in Germany|We analyse the German citizens knowledge about monetary policy and the European Central Bank (ECB), as well as the public s use of mass communication media to obtain information about the ECB. We employ a unique representative public opinion survey of German households conducted in 2011. We find that a person s own desire to be informed about the ECB together with the use of various media channels to keep informed are decisive for both (i) the own perception of knowledge about the ECB and (ii) the actual level of knowledge. The media-related influence differs with a person s level of education and is stronger for subjective knowledge. Women are less interested and knowledgeable. We conclude that the ECB is well advised to continue its education programmes to convince the public of the importance of monetary policy literacy.
A20|"Benchmarking As A Tool For Improving The Management Of Organizations Of Secondary Vocational Education In The Context Of Execution Of The State Program ""Development Of Education In Moscow"""|"This article discusses some features of benchmarking and the possibility of its practical use in the system of professional education during the implementation of the state program ""stolichnoe obrazovanie"" in order to improve the efficiency of the educational organization"
A20|On Teaching Production Theory: Integrating Short-Run and Long-Run Analysis|The microeconomic theory of production is typically presented to undergraduates in a way that leaves many students with a disjointed view of the subject. The short run is described as one kind of world, in which the firm pursues one set of objectives, commonly identified as “optimal factor employment.” The long run, on the other hand, is depicted as a very different kind of world, in which the firm pursues a different set of objectives, known as “optimal factor combination.” The purpose of this essay is to bring together familiar diagrammatic tools in a way that allows instructors to integrate short-run and long-run principles of factor employment.
A20|A Closer Look at the Relationship between Grades and Teacher Evaluation: The Role of Grade Knowledge|Economic behavior theory was used to frame an investigation of the role of grade knowledge in student ratings of professors. A two-group experiment was conducted in which one group had midterm exams and thus received grade feedback before completing student evaluations of teaching (SET), while the other group did not have a midterm exam and thus had no specific grade knowledge before completing the SET. Both groups had a final exam and received exam feedback after the SET was administered. Results revealed that only in the midterm condition were grades significantly associated with SET. That is, SET is more strongly related to grades when students have had clear grade feedback prior to SET administration, implying that both students and professors engage in economic behavior and that a reciprocal relationship exists between students and professors. Moreover, two implied debatable issues on this topic are briefly discussed in the conclusion.
A20|Does Exposure to Economics Bring New Majors to the Field? Evidence from a Natural Experiment|This study investigates how being exposed to a field of study influences students' major choices. We exploit a natural experiment at a Swiss university where all first-year students face largely the same curriculum before they choose a major. An important component of the first-year curriculum that varies between students involves a multi-term research paper in business, economics, or law. Due to oversubscription of business, the university assigns the field of the paper in a standardized way that is unrelated to student characteristics. We find that being assigned to write in economics raises the probability of majoring in economics by 2.7 percentage points, which amounts to 18 percent of the share of students who major in economics.
A20|Entrepreneurship Education: A Selective Examination of the Literature|We build two different frameworks of analysis in order to examine recent literature on entrepreneurial education at two levels: (i) theoretical contributions, and (ii) emerging challenges and solutions in the entrepreneurial classroom. These simple frameworks are used to classify and analyze articles published on the subjects of entrepreneurship education, encompassing methodologies, theories, contents, frameworks and evaluation of programs/subjects, selected from a wide range of journals in the fields of Management and Education over the period 2000–2011.
A20|Financial Literacy in Nepal: A Survey Analysis from College Students|This study surveys 436 college students to examine their financial literacy; the impact of demographic, educational and personality characteristics on financial literacy. Mean, ANOVA and logistic regression were used in carrying out analysis. Results show that most of the students have basic level of financial knowledge but they lack in understanding of credit, taxes, share market, financial statement and insurance. Students are highly influenced by their parents at home and they have positive attitude towards savings. The study further identified income, age, stream of education, types of college, and attitude of students as determinants of financial knowledge; and financial knowledge is unaffected by gender, university affiliation, financial behavior and influence. It is concluded that college students have basic level of financial knowledge. However, overall financial knowledge of the students is affected by some of their demographic, educational and personality characteristics.
A20|System Tasks of a Doctoral Dissertation|The study of the system tasks of a doctoral dissertation is a topical issue for the research advancement of the contemporary knowledge-based economy. The purpose of the present study is to understand the basic system components and links in the research guidance of doctoral students for writing their dissertation thesis (PhD research, writing and defense), such as mentoring procedures, primary systematization of work activities, research structure and so on, and to indicate their place and role in the doctoral research process. The research object of the paper covers the PhD student processes in all phases of the PhD training (mentoring, research, writing and defense of a dissertation), while the research subject of the paper is the extrapolation of the general content of selected basic system links of the doctoral dissertation. The analysis includes the following highlights: a) system tasks in doctoral training; b) primary systematization of the PhD thesis; c) system positioning of the research structure; d) main system tasks of the doctoral student activities; e) composition of the doctoral thesis; f) systematic functional technology of the research completion; g) the scientific character as a strategy for successful PhD research and defense.
A20|Policies for inclusive and sustainable growth in Indonesia|Indonesia has a very good record of poverty reduction, having halved its incidence over the past two decades. Nevertheless, almost 30 million people still live below the national poverty line, mostly in rural areas and in certain provinces. In order to make further progress in lifting these people out of poverty and economic vulnerability, policy needs to focus on generating strong, inclusive and sustainable growth. Pro-poor growth can assist in the process of economic convergence by facilitating the migration of workers out of the low-productivity agricultural sector into the industry and services sectors. By putting in place the right fundamentals, such as a well-designed and inclusive education system, efficient infrastructure and a stable macroeconomic environment, Indonesia will have decades of strong growth ahead by virtue of economic convergence with frontier countries. This has the potential to lift millions more out of poverty without exacerbating income inequality. Moreover, it will set Indonesia up for the next phase of innovation-driven growth that will propel it into the ranks of high income countries. While existing poverty reduction programmes have become increasingly effective, more resources are required, and efficiency could be further enhanced, especially through better targeting. The distribution of income has become markedly more unequal over the past decade and needs to be kept in mind when formulating growth policies. This Working Paper relates to the 2015 OECD Economic Survey of Indonesia (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-indonesia.htm) Des politiques en faveur d'une croissance inclusive et durable en Indonésie L’Indonésie a obtenu de très bons résultats en matière de réduction de la pauvreté, dont l’incidence a été divisée par deux au cours des vingt dernières années. Néanmoins, presque 30 millions d’Indonésiens vivent toujours en dessous du seuil national de pauvreté, dont la majorité dans des zones rurales et dans certaines provinces. Pour qu’il soit possible de continuer à aider ces populations à sortir de la pauvreté et de la vulnérabilité économique, l’action publique doit viser en priorité à susciter une croissance forte, inclusive et durable. L’instauration d’une croissance favorable aux pauvres peut rendre plus aisé le processus de convergence économique en facilitant le redéploiement des travailleurs du secteur agricole, à faible productivité, vers l’industrie et les services. Pour autant qu’elle mette en place les fondamentaux adéquats, comme un système éducatif bien conçu et inclusif, des infrastructures efficientes et un environnement macroéconomique stable, l’Indonésie aura devant elle des décennies de forte croissance en vertu de la convergence économique avec les pays frontières. Une telle évolution a le potentiel d’aider des millions de personnes à sortir de la pauvreté sans accentuer les inégalités de revenus. De plus, l’Indonésie sera ainsi bien placée pour aborder la phase suivante, celle de la croissance tirée par l’innovation, lui permettant ainsi de se hisser aux rangs des pays à haut revenu. Par ailleurs, les programmes existants de réduction de la pauvreté sont devenus de plus en plus efficaces, mais des ressources supplémentaires sont nécessaires, et l’efficacité pourrait être encore améliorée, notamment grâce à un meilleur ciblage. La distribution des revenus est devenue sensiblement plus inégale au cours de la dernière décennie et il conviendra de ne pas perdre cet élément de vue lors de la formulation des politiques en faveur de la croissance.
A20|Financial literacy gaps of the Austrian population|Most people lack financial knowledge and have trouble dealing competently with their financial affairs, as evidenced by recent empirical research on financial literacy in various countries. We investigate financial literacy among Austrians based on a novel dataset covering about 2,000 persons. Our findings corroborate the existence of substantial knowledge gaps, which are most conspicuous among respondents with low educational attainment and low incomes, among younger and older people as well as women. We provide tentative evidence for a positive link between financial knowledge scores and financial behavior, such as setting aside rainy day funds or using several sources of information when choosing financial products.
A20|oTree—An open-source platform for laboratory, online, and field experiments|oTree is an open-source and online software for implementing interactive experiments in the laboratory, online, the field or combinations thereof. oTree does not require installation of software on subjects’ devices; it can run on any device that has a web browser, be that a desktop computer, a tablet or a smartphone. Deployment can be internet-based without a shared local network, or local-network-based even without internet access. For coding, Python is used, a popular, open-source programming language. www.oTree.org provides the source code, a library of standard game templates and demo games which can be played by anyone.
A20|Are short Economics teaching videos liked? Analysis of features driving “Likes” in Youtube|We analyze the factors that determine the number of clicks in the Like button in online teaching videos. We perform a study in a sample of Spanish-language teaching videos in the area of Microeconomics. The results show that users prefer short online teaching videos. Moreover, some other features of the videos have shown significant impact on the number of “likes”. Videos produced by entities other than Universities, conducted by female instructors, where the instructor appears on the screen along with slides or graphic tablets are preferred in terms of “likes” received.
A20|Procesos de internacionalización en la educación superior de Costa Rica<BR>[Internationalisation Processes in Costarican Higher Education]|One of the most important dimensions in the development of contemporary higher education is internationalization. The growing economic, political and cultural integration of today's society, favors the intensification of the activities of internationalization by settlements and the various tertiary education systems, as well as the elaboration of public policies to promote global linkages and aggregation of this dimension as a key element in the management of educational institutions in this sector. Among the most notable actions of internationalization are the mobility of students and teachers; the multiplication of networks and institutional and academic associations, in various areas of knowledge. There so, the application of mechanisms of mutual recognition of accredited degrees and programs; the promotion of shared titles or double degree programs; the inclusion in the curriculum of the international dimensions, as well as the proliferation of cross-border programs. All of them are expressions of internationalization in contemporary higher education. The purpose pursued with the study is to carry out an approach to knowledge about the level reached by the processes of internationalization in Costa Rican higher education. The investigation on the main actions promoted in this field, the forms of institutional arrangements adopted for its development, existing institutional policies and the impact of initiatives in institutional life and shape how internationalization is conceptualized, are some of the ways followed to get this purpose.
A20|Theoretical Approaches Of Endogenosu Regional Development|The territory affects how economic systems work, geographic proximity being a primary source of economic and social benefits. Generally speaking, territorial development is minimal determined by exogenous factors, while the main factors that influence the potential of local development are: endowment, resources, human and social capital, accessibility, infrastructure etc. These factors can be found in the regional growth theory which, by its scientific nature, is assimilated with macroeconomic theory. New economic geography emphasizes the importance of these factors, which focus on the lower production costs. At the same time, technological change and diffusion of technologies are considered endogenous variables which react to the market signals. Positive externalities are produced by using technological investment, employment and income redistribution in society. Research development, entrepreneurial skills, local production, innovation, knowledge, learning networks etc. are considered to be the engine of economic growth. In this paper, there are presented the main theoretical approaches of endogenous growth, which have contributed to understanding the implications and the effects of this process upon regional development.
