A23|Why should financial aid affect university participation? A review of the literature|This contribution reviews the literature on the role of financial aid in enhancing university participation. This aim will be reached through three main steps. First, we describe a theoretical framework based on rational action theory that could explain the effects exerted by the different measures. Second, we analyse the main forms of financial aid developed by the policy makers in Europe and in the US. More precisely, we look at the role played by: grants, tuition fees, loans and a novel approach in the financial aid debate: asset building. The paper attempts to provide an overview of the different measures’ effects on enrolment, academic performance and completion. Third, based on the reviewed literature, the paper tries to derive some general policy implications for the Italian case.
A23|Sustaining the Implementation of Dual-Language Programme (DLP) in Malaysian Secondary Schools|Objective - The implementation of Dual-Language Programmes (DLP) in the teaching and learning of Science and Mathematics is an initiative under the 'Upholding the Malay Language and Strengthening the English Language' (MBMMBI) policy. Though it has some similarities with the previous policy known as 'English for the Teaching of Science and Mathematics' (PPSMI), its execution is idiosyncratic in its own way. Since its inception in 2016, the programme has entered its third cycle involving students in primary and secondary schools in Malaysia. The curiosity to scrutinise the programme implementation has led to this study. The study aims to investigate the execution of this programme and to assess its sustainability. Methodology/Technique - Gleaning through the students' language capabilities, attitudes, teachers' support and acceptance of the programme, the study uses a questionnaire with open-ended questions and focus group discussions to unravel the aforementioned issues. 1,530 students from secondary schools across Malaysia were selected as the respondents of this study. Findings - The results reveal findings that may represent a measure on the direction of this programme. Looking from the student perspective, the challenges confronted in addition to those put forward may further serve as an indicator for the sustainability of the program. Novelty - This study infers how the programme can be further enhanced in terms of its implementation in its fourth year since inception. The findings of this study may assist policy makers in shaping the direction of the programme.
A23|Construction and Validation of the Learning Management System Success Scale in the Higher Education Setting|Objective - The concept of education is entirely outdated. Currently, many higher education institutions are adopting blended learning pedagogy to nurture 21st-century skills. The integration of ICT has become a recent global trend in education with universities and colleges using Learning Management Systems (LMS) as their primary method of disseminating and administrating teaching and learning processes. The exploration of the factors crucial for successful implementation of LMS is therefore essential. However, most literature on this topic focuses on the technical quality of LMS's, and few address the educational quality and efficiency of LMS. Previous research also fails to discuss the conceptualization and measurement of LMS success. This study aims to construct and validate an instrument to measure LMS success in higher education institutions. Methodology/Technique - Various IS success frameworks were used to design the constructs in this study. A quantitative methodology was adopted with the sample of 379 randomly selected responses from university/college students, academics, and course administrators from India (n=297) and the Maldives (n=82). IBM SPSS AMOS 25 was used to check the validity and reliability of the instrument and to identify the measurement invariance. Findings & Novelty - This study concludes that information quality, educational quality, system quality, service quality, intention to use, user satisfaction, and net benefits are the critical constructs for measuring LMS success. The findings of this study can be used to support scholars in developing and examining other information system-related theories, as well as to higher education institutions while implementing different LMS's.
A23|Analysis of Higher Education in Indian National Education Policy Proposal 2019 and its Implementation Challenges|Systematic education policy is essential for offering school and college education in a country due to the reason that education leads to progress in society. Different countries use different education systems with different stages during its life cycle of school and College education levels. Recently, the Government of India received a draft Education policy suggested by an expert committee headed by Dr. K. Kasturirangan, former chairman of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). The committee suggested both incremental and drastically changes in existing Indian education policy and give guidelines to effective implementation in the country by 2030. This is also in line with the Objectives of fourth Sustainable Development Goals to provide quality education for all citizens through fourth Educational Industry Revolution (EIR 4.0) in the country. This paper reviews the related literature during last few years on Indian Higher Education Policies and their consequences, Salient features and their focuses on the present draft of National Education policy 2019 through content analysis. The paper highlights on various policies proposed in the draft with the special emphasis on higher education section and compare them with the previous policies. The analysis also compares the possible effects of NEP 2019 proposal on private and public HEIs in terms of facilities & restrictions. The strength and weakness of the new policy are identified with respect to various stakeholders and listed. Appropriate suggestions are made to realize the policy and make it defect free and effective from a public point of reference and for the prosperity of the country.
A23|Impact of entrepreneurship education on youth unemployment: A Case of Ummaru Ali Shinkafi Polytechnic Sokoto, Nigeria|Educational orientation of youths in Nigeria is white-collar job directed, which is one of the factors responsible for the youth unemployment in the country, because the educational system itself fails to empower the ones passing through it. To solve the problem of unemployment in this situation, there is need to reorient the youths to think of job creation away from the mindset of job seekers, by inculcating entrepreneurship skill into the youths and building their interests towards entrepreneurship, especially while they are still in school. The study examined the strength of entrepreneurship education on impacting the right skills and attitudes to students and determined the extent to which students exposed to entrepreneurial education are willing to undertake the establishment of their own enterprises. The methodology adopted was based on Descriptive survey design which relied on primary and secondary sources of gathering data, through the use of structured questionnaires. Two hundred (200) questionnaires were administered, and one hundred and fifty four (154) were returned. The study adopted simple random sampling technique. The data was analyzed and Presented using Descriptive statistics (frequencies, percentages) and chi-square was adopted to analyze data. The study shows that entrepreneurial education in Ummaru Ali Shinkafi polytechnic is effective in imparting entrepreneurial skills and attitudes to students as well as building their interests towards establishing their own businesses.The study recommends that tertiary institutions, government, parents and the international donors supporting higher education projects must work together to create an ecosystem of support including training, mentorship, and access to finance Start -up Capital should be provided through micro-finance banks and other specialized agencies to adequately empower young entrepreneurs. There is an urgent need for the government to provide an enabling environment in the forms of efficient and available basic infrastructural facilities.
A23|The influence of the level of education on investors risk tolerance level|Increased attention is being given to the influencethat demographic factors have on financial risk tolerance. Financial risk tolerance is the overall amount of uncertainty an investor is willing to take with regard to his/herinvestment decisions. The aim of this article was to investigate whether an investor?s level of education plays a role in the level of financial risk that they are willing to tolerate.Data for this article was purposefully collected using a quantitative questionnaire thatwas electronically distributed to 600 investors within the South African market. Previous research suggests thata positive relationship exists between the level of education and risk tolerance. In other words, an investor with a higher level of education will be willing to tolerate more financial risk due to being able to take more calculated financial risks. The results of this study indicated similar findings to previous research wherean individual with a postgraduate degree was more likely to be high risk tolerant compared to an individual with a lower level of education. Individuals who had some level of schooling were more likely to be risk adverse.
A23|Shaping The Competences Of Graduates Of Higher Education For The Needs Of The Eu Labour Market - Case Study Of Business School Students|It is a well-known fact that undergraduate students have to be equipped with relevant types of key competencies in order to be successful in the job market. Complex challenges that companies face in today?s world and the fast development of technology shift employer?s expectation for knowledge towards competency and abilities to use skills and talents (European Commission, 2010). Higher Education Institutions need to create a curriculum that will support students to develop a correct set of life long competencies. However, in many cases students struggle to recognize the importance of developing key competencies during their time at University and only focus on key knowledge. That is why Higher Education Institutions struggle to convince students of the value of certain activities which take place within the curriculum. The aim of this paper is to investigate the perception of Business School Students of key competencies of lifelong learning. The applied research procedure combines analysis of the literature with empirical research and is based upon searching for the answer to the questions about how Business School students view the importance of lifelong learning competencies.The research shows that the most desired lifelong learning competencies by business programme students are experience, industry expertise, certificates, awards confirming completion of studies/programs/skills, followed by technology competencies and cultural awareness.
A23|Should we and can we motivate university students? ? The analysis of the interpretation of the role and the teaching methods of university teachers|Reducing student drop-out rates is a challenge faced in Hungarian higher education. Our research and development project is intended to contribute to this effort: we analyse the notions and experiences of teachers concerning the possibility of motivating students, as well as their own role models as teachers and their teaching methods. We also explore students? motivation, their experiences and expectations related to classes at the university.It was studied whether the motivation of students appears in the teachers? understanding of their own role. Do they accept or reject the motivation of students as a task? Is there a difference in the teaching methods applied between those who consider a part of their role as teachers to motivate students and those who reject this? We were also curious how the opinions of teachers and students were similar or different concerning the motivating effect of various teaching methods.We collected data from teachers and students at six Hungarian institutes of higher education. The teachers? questionnaire was completed by 210 respondents, and semi-structured, in-depth interviews were also conducted with 41 of them. The students? questionnaire was completed by 1,130 respondents. In the analysis of the data, we used both quantitative and qualitative methods.Based on the results, half of the teachers faced with difficulties in connection with motivating students. In the interpretation of the role models of the majority of them, the intention of motivating students appeared positively. By contrast, in the opinion of 68%, academic success depends on the students alone.There was agreement in that the respondents considered the use of digital tools, interactivity, practicality as having the most motivating effect. In the frequency of encountering various methods, however, there was a difference in the assessment given by students and teachers. The interviews shed light on the fact that, despite the best intentions, the actual achievement of motivation of students in the classrooms is often missing. The reason may be the lack of pedagogical and methodological knowledge and consciousness.
A23|Un héritage des Annales, la cliométrie à Strasbourg|C’est par sa volonté de combiner la rigueur des modèles théoriques et mathématiques avec la prise en compte, de la façon la plus exhaustive possible, de la complexité de toutes les données (qualitatives et quantitatives) que l’Ecole cliométrique strasbourgeoise reste fidèle à l’esprit des Annales et prolonge le mouvement initié en 1929 par Marc Bloch et Lucien Febvre.
A23|Natural rate estimates differ: By how much?|We examine the natural rate of unemployment estimates of two international organizations (OECD and European Commission) and various release dates. Since estimates differ to a large extent, empirical research results which use natural rate estimates will also vary depending on the data source chosen. We highlight the extend of these effects by focusing on Spain, but also present evidence for several other EU-countries.
A23|Interactive macroeconomics: A pluralist simulator|The aim of our contribution is to present an innovative instrument to teach macroeconomics at the undergraduate and master level. We develop a digital learning platform to present and explore some controversies at the very foundations of macroeconomic theory. For this purpose, we explicitly present two competing paradigms, the new-Keynesian and the post-Keynesian one. Several interactive scenarios are made available where the user can take control over different economic policy instruments and is guided through a set of problems that require appropriate actions in the context of the different approaches.
A23|Investigation of Business Strategies in Higher Education Service Model of Selected Private Universities in India|Many Countries in the globe have adopted private University system as a part of their higher education offering strategy. India, being second in the number of private universities in the World, has given exactly 50 % shares to privately governed Universities (Private & Deemed to be universities together) and remaining 50% are Govt. Funded universities (Central & State Govt. together). Presently in India, there are 264 private universities spread over 22 states. Due to non-availability of any financial support from the state and central governments, private universities are trying to sustain through their only strategy of service differentiation through 21st century curriculum and industry integrated programme design. In this paper, we have studied the business strategies of some of the private universities in India which include Admission Strategies, Growth strategies, Innovative strategies, Research Strategies, Collaboration Strategies, Placement Strategies, and Technology adoption strategies to add competitive values to services provided to the stakeholders The paper also suggests some recommendations based on the observations and intuition to contribute to the business strategies to improve the performance and brand image of private universities.
A23|How and Why Wharton Business School became World Topper – A Case Study on Organizational Quest for Excellence of First US Business School|After accepting quality higher education as service, many global business schools are competing to attract intelligent students to various innovative courses and by training them to become further smart, providing better challenging placements in the corporate sector with lucrative salaries. Such schools competing globally by differentiating their education model through top-level infrastructure, globally competitive faculty member, providing industry oriented and research-based curriculum, customized curriculum and teaching methods through providing a choice from an infinite number of electives, and competence based examination and evaluation system. Recent ranking results announced by the USA based Elsevier’s SSRN identified Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, USA as Ranked ONE business school in the world in terms of its number of annual research paper publications. Wharton’s 235-plus professors are one of the largest, most published faculties at any business school. The standing and affiliated faculty members of WBS work within and collaborate across 10 academic departments. For 2019 outgoing MBA batch, the school admitted 863 students from 65 countries out of 6,692 applicants. In this paper, we have analysed the operational and business strategy of Wharton business school in its quest for excellence and courage to innovate decisions on academic performance and research performance and compared with its competitors in the same country like Booth School of Business, Harvard B-School, Stanford Graduate B-School, Stern B-School, Columbia B-School, and Sloan B-School.
A23|Methodology of Islamic economics: Is the subject worth discussing?|The word methodology has several usages. Here, we shall use it to denote its two uses. First, it is the subject that fixed targets for economics to achieve and supervises the discipline from outside to see how far those targets have been achieved with the passage of time. In this sense, methodology is a branch of the theory of knowledge with philosophical import. In this sense, the discussions on methodology in Islamic economics are fruitless and misleading. Second, methodology as a part of economics helps design research and its supervision. In this sense, the methods used in Islamic economics are unduly loaded with Western approach and techniques and call for reform. The controversy and confusion on the issues involved has been lingering for long but has of late assumed disquieting proportions. The paper discusses the subject in the light of the prevalent puritan versus pragmatic approach to the study of Islamic economics. Indeed, their confrontation threatens the very survival of the subject as a distinct academic discipline. The paper suggests a way out of the predicament evaluating the efficacy of the rising concerns and focus on the subject.
A23|‘Economics’ of prosperity: Why the dominant perspectives may be unhelpful to make sense of underdevelopment|"The article is essentially a book-review of Professor Vijay Joshi's recent work, '""India's Long Road: The Search for Prosperity"". In this critical essay, I take a slightly revisionist approach when it comes to a 'typical'book review. For example, the length of this article goes well-beyond the standard convention. The ‘deviation’ from rules, however, has specific objectives. I have critically analyzed Dr. Joshi’s work and in so doing include relevant evidences, debates and questions not just from economics but also from other disciplines such as history and political science."
A23|‘Economics’ of prosperity: Why the dominant perspectives may be unhelpful to make sense of underdevelopment|"The article is essentially a book-review of Professor Vijay Joshi's recent work, '""India's Long Road: The Search for Prosperity"". In this critical essay, I take a slightly revisionist approach when it comes to a 'typical'book review. For example, the length of this article goes well-beyond the standard convention. The ‘deviation’ from rules, however, has specific objectives. I have critically analyzed Dr. Joshi’s work and in so doing include relevant evidences, debates and questions not just from economics but also from other disciplines such as history and political science."
A23|A novel Optimization Plan for Multiple-Area Economic Dispatch : An Electro Search Optimization Approach|Economic dispatch is an approach that can indirectly improve the power system resonance. A novel algorithm called JAYA is introduces in this manuscript to have an answer for the non-convex multiple-area economic dispatch (MAED). MAED comprises some zone which satisfy the load-generation balance in each area. The aggregated cost is minimized through transferring the energy from the area that has the lower cost to the zone owns the higher-cost. In above of the transmission line rating, our proposed approach provides the scientists with the multiple petroleum cost function for the generators as well as the prohibited zones for generating the power in the large-scale power generations. Moreover, a new procedure according to the electro search optimization algorithm (ESOA) is projected to obtain the global solution for the MAED problem, when all the limitations are simultaneously considered. The proposed approach is tested to validate its performance through a case system consist of seven generators located in two areas. The results show that the proposed ESOA procedure is more efficient in compare with the other approaches.
A23|Reforming Undergraduate Economics Education in India: A Case for Inter-disciplinarity|Since India is a nation of unique diversity, with its economy and society driven by many agencies, institutions and beliefs, the application of economics as well as other social sciences is required to address the various socio-economic problems in India. This approach of inter-disciplinarity has to be followed in the graduate curriculum of economics which has been severely criticised by the academic community as neither job-oriented nor able to understand the full extent of the nature and problems within the Indian economy. This article tries to initiate discussion in kerala context on various grounds such as pedagogical changes, evaluation of course and curriculum, resource constrains and issues of politics and bureaucracy are all inevitable part of the reformation of graduate curriculum of economics.
A23|Image Improvement of the State Islamic University (UIN) Alauddin Makassar through the Satisfaction and Trust of Stakeholder on Graduate Quality|This study aims to determine and analyze the influence of UIN Alauddin Makassar graduate quality to stakeholder satisfaction, stakeholder trust and image of UIN Alauddin Makassar either directly or indirectly. This study categorized in exploratory research. This research included in the descriptive research. The population of this research is all stakeholders in Makassar City. The sampling technique used in this research is purposive sampling. The sample criterion used is a private banking company that employs UIN Alauddin Makassar graduates. The sample size uses maximum likelihood (ML). The number of samples in this study is 100 respondents. In this study, the techniques used include (1) questionnaire; (2) observation; (3) interviews and (4) documentation. The method of analysis used in this research is structural equation modelling (SEM) analysis. The conclusion of this research are: (1) the quality of UIN Alauddin Makassar graduates has a positive and significant impact on stakeholder satisfaction, stakeholder trust and image of UIN Alauddin Makassar; (2) stakeholder satisfaction has a positive and significant impact on stakeholder trust and image of UIN Alauddin Makassar and (3) stakeholder trust have positive and significant impact on UIN Alauddin Makassar image.
A23|Re examination of Kinked Demand Oligopoly Market: Theory, Evidence and Policy Implications from Lakshadweep|There are number of markets discussed in the economic theory seems only as imaginative and lacks proper investigation on the existence in the real world situation and their validity. The kinked demand curve hypothesis is a famous one among them which is under crux among the economic researcher. In the past few decades the existence of this market in the real world economies and its impact is continue to be a puzzle and a very few attempts were made in this areas with a few oscillating conclusions. With this backdrop this attempt is made to fill this gap in economics literature of re examining the existence and the impact of the kinked demand theory hypothesis with a special reference to Lakshadweep islands of India.
A23|Challenges To Higher Education In Canada And Australia|This paper provides an overview of the higher education sector in Canada, so it can serve as a comparison to that in Australia. It seeks to identify stresses and challenges to this sector in Canada. The study also seeks to offer possible lessons for the direction of higher education policy in Australia and to raise concerns for the direction in Canada. The focus of the study is on the period since 2000 when consistent data for Canada largely became available. In 2005, the Rae Report Â– the last major overall review of higher education in Canada Â– was published followed by three volumes of evaluative studies of the state of higher education in Canada (Beach, Boadway and McInnis, 2005; Beach, 2005; and Iacobucci and Tuohy, 2005). So earlier and detailed commentaries are readily available from these sources. The present paper includes discussion of both universities as well as colleges that jointly make up the higher education sector in Canada. The perspective of the discussion is largely economic and heavily based on comparative statistics and the incentives they reveal. The paper proceeds as follows. The next section points out the major distinguishing features of the Canadian higher education system. Section 3 identifies a number of challenges and stresses the higher education sector has been facing in Canada. Then Section 4 examines some background influences on the higher education sector in both Australia and Canada. Section 5 then raises concerns about the growing role of metrics in higher education and the incentive issues they raise. And Section 6 concludes with some lessons to be considered in both countriesÂ’ tertiary education sectors.
A23|Stem Students And Entrepreneurship Education: A Critical Discourse Analysis Approach|In this paper we apply a critical analysis of institutional influence in shaping perceptions and social construction of STEM education and entrepreneurship education at high education level in Croatia. The reseach is based on identifying and analysing of qualitative data: policy documents on entrepreneurship education (strategy for entrepreneurship education, curricula) as well as national strategy on education, science and technology. Scientific papers in the field of higher education concerning entrepreneurship education and STEM education in Croatia have also been used. The method we use is critical discourse analysis. The aim of the paper is to identify dominant discourses in entrepreneurship education and STEM education at the university level and their potential impact on students' perceptions of the career choice in STEM and/or entrepreneurship field. We identify high level of symbolic capital for STEM subjects in analysed documents and these are academic disciplines that attract relatively few female students. Social constraints can prevent women converting their cultural capital into economic capital.
A23|Manufacturing pluralism in brazilian economics: the role of ANPEC as institutional mediator and stabilizer|Brazilian academic economics has been traditionally characterized by its openness to different strands of economic theory. In contrast to the standards prevailing in most of Europe and North America, economics in Brazil can be justly described as pluralistic, with competing schools of thought enjoying relatively secure institutional positions. One of the reasons frequently ascribed for this outcome is the role played by ANPEC, the Brazilian economics association, in mediating conflicts among graduate programs affiliated to different research traditions. A crucial episode in this respect took place in the early 1970s, when the recently born association chose to adopt an inclusive stance towards its membership, welcoming the filiation of the strongly heterodox program at the University of Campinas (Unicamp) even against threats of withdrawal from one of its most prestigious members, the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV). Using a host of primary sources related to the early years of Brazilian academic economics, the paper uncovers the processthat led ANPEC, with strong support from the Ford Foundation, to adopt an inclusive and ‘pluralistic’ attitude, and how it related to the political context prevailing in Brazil during the 1970s.
A23|How to Measure Research Efficiency in Higher Education? Research Grants vs. Publication Output|An ongoing debate in the literature on efficiency of higher education institutions concerns the indicator for research output in the empirical analysis. While several studies chose to use the number of publications, others rely on the overall amount of research grants. The present study investigates whether both lead to similar or different assessments of universities. Besides the amount of research grants and the absolute number of publications, the number of publications belonging to the 10% and 1% most frequently cited papers in the corresponding subject category and publication year are evaluated. We show that there is a high correlation of efficiency values between the estimations using these indicators; however, the concordance is partly lower. The results do not only provide a helpful guideline for researchers, but are also valuable for policy makers deciding which incentives to create through funding.
A23|The Completion Shift of German Universities of Applied Sciences|In research on higher education, the evaluation of completion and drop-out rates has generated a steady stream of interest for decades. While most studies only calculate quotes using student and graduate numbers for both phenomena, we propose to also consider the budget available to universities. We transfer the idea of the excellence shift from the research (Bornmann et al., 2017) to the teaching area, and particularly to the completion rate of educational entities. The completion shift shows institutions’ ability to produce graduates as measured against their basic academic teaching efficiency, thereby avoiding the well-known heterogeneity problem in efficiency measurement. Their politically determined focus on education makes German universities of applied science the perfect sample for evaluating this novel method. Using a comprehensive dataset covering the years 2008 to 2013, we show that the shift produces results, which correlate considerably with the results of the standard Data Envelopment Approach (DEA). Thus, we recommend the completion shift as an alternative method of efficiency measurement in the teaching area. Compared to DEA, the computation of the shift is easy and the results are understandable to non-economists.
A23|Dynamic Macroeconomics: A Didactic Numeric Model|Teaching Dynamic Macroeconomics at undergraduate courses relies exclusively on intuitive prose and graphics depicting behaviours and steady states of the main markets of the economy. But when the case of forward-looking agents and the macroeconomic implications of their actions are discussed, intuitions and graphical representations offered to students may lead to unsupported conclusions. This happens even if the teacher and students use the chapter upon a dynamic macroeconomic model of one of the most didactic and ordered texts ever published: Williamson (2014). In this paper we try to sustain this assertion.
A23|Does It Pay to Graduate from an 'Elite' University in Australia?|In Australia, the so-called Group of Eight (Go8) universities have lower student-to-staff ratios, better qualified staff, superior research outcomes, and generally better placement in university rankings compared to non-Go8 universities. They are also typically the most competitive universities for prospective undergraduates to enter. Prior published research, mainly focusing on the United States, has found that graduates of prestigious and selective colleges enjoy a wage premium over graduates of other institutions when they enter the labour market. In this paper, we use data from the Graduate Destination Survey and data on Australian Tertiary Admission Ranks (ATARs) to investigate the existence of a Go8 premium in the Australian labour market and to determine the extent to which it is due merely to the recruitment of better students. We find statistically significant evidence of unconditional Go8 premia ranging from 4.3% to 5.5% and find that between 13% and 46% of these premia are due to student selection. We also find evidence of considerable heterogeneity within the Go8 and other university groupings, and that field of study and geographical region have relatively large impacts on graduate starting salaries. We conclude that, while Go8 premia exist, a graduate's alma mater is a relatively minor consideration in the determination of graduate salaries in Australia.
A23|"Stochastic Linkage Analysis And Structural Changes That Influence The Educational System In The European Union In Accordance With The ""Europe 2020 Strategy"""|"At European level of education and training plays a crucial role in the development strategies. ""Strategy Europe 2020"" is a a key tool for the modernization of the education and training not only to the general level the European Parliament but this document pays a special attention to each Member State of the European Union. In the conditions under which the most Europeans significantly spend much time in the process of education, reflect through no fault of their own to join in higher education, as well as the participation in the initiatives of learning throughout the life cycle for the purpose of retraining or a change of his political career. The manifestation of this phenomenon is due to the diversity of opportunities that it provides its citizens to study and work in order to improve the economic performance of the European Union."
A23|Academic rankings and pluralism : the case of Brazil and the new version of Qualis|The paper approaches the theme of the relatively higher level of pluralism in Brazilian economics, when compared to the other countries, from a different approach used in the literature. Considering the Qualis as an instrument of great impact in the research of the Brazilian graduate education centers, mainly because of its impact in the CAPES evaluation of the centers, we analyze the abrupt change in the journal ranking that occurred in 2016. Before presenting this data, we first focused in understanding the metrics that are part of the Qualis, and how relevant the biases from other indexes than the Impact Factor are. Afterwards, we present a review of the national literature concerning the academic production in economics, showing how some problems due to incentives and structure still persist. We, then, present our results: we found out that the increase of journals in the higher strata of the Qualis without a research agenda bias, and with a great inclusion of specialized sub-fields of the discipline. Besides, the impact that this change will cause in the 2017 CAPES’ evaluation cannot be seen as favoring centers by their division in mainstream and non-mainstream. Having this in mind, we argue that the modifications keep incentives to pluralism, besides correcting many problems in the ranking.
A23|Kenya Commercial Banks are Star Performers: Myth or Truth? Exploratory Empirical Evidence from Nairobi Securities Exchange|The profitability of commercial banks in Kenya has been a subject of intense policy debate over the past two decades. This paper explores and adduces evidence that the perceived abnormal profitability in the industry is reflected in stock returns. The study utilizes time series data obtained from the NSE and five macroeconomic variables for the period 1996: 2015. We regress portfolio monthly excess returns, predict and graph these returns to determine if the banking sector outperforms other sectors of the economy. The empirical evidence presented here suggests that the banking industry outperforms other sectors of the economy in Kenya.
A23|Intergenerational field transitions in economics|This note documents trends of socialization and intergenerational mobility across research networks (fields) in economics. Using data on advisor–advisee pairs, we find that intergenerational field similarity is more prevalent in larger and successful fields. We then show that researchers who do choose different fields than those of their advisors are more likely to switch to highly demanded fields in the job market. These results are consistent with the equilibrium of a model in which advisors’ have concerns for their advisees’ socialization and production outcomes. We also document a positive relation between field productivity and the median level of co-authorship at the field level, which is consistent with complementaries between socialization and productive efforts.
A23|Conducerea unei echipe [Team Leading]|The way you lead others will determine your success as a manager. Management is not a specialist job but rather a generalist one. It implies a generous overview and a lot of intuition. Team leadership is action-driven, being an illustration of our responsibilities to employees in the three key areas: good business development, human resource development and team building. “Team” and “teamwork” may sound the same, but each has a distinct meaning in the culture of success. In order to understand how to lead a team, it is useful to start by examining the behavior of the groups, then to create a proper team. Teamwork involves establishing objectives, strategies and values, regular sessions by reviewing performances.
A23|Munca in echipa [Team Work]|Team work is a didactic strategy which emphasizez on developing the competences of interpersonal communication, of student’s social behaviours. The traditional paradigms, focused on transmitting and assimilating knowledge, are slowly starting to no longer fit to the educational reality. The emphasis is on the student, on developing his oral and written communication competences, and digital ones. Team work is an old activity, which failed to be promoted constructively by education. This is why children nowdays fail to communicate, understand, cooperate. Only a gifted teacher can use such strategies in class, in any subject. Team work is a term which hides a variety of educational approaches, combining the effort of both students and their teachers. It is a form of collaborative learning, a technique of educational training where students work in groups in order to achieve tasks and reach mutual purposes, each of them contributing to it individually. It values the students’ need to work together as a real team, in a collegial climate, of mutual help, continuous advice, constructive communication, divergent thinking.
A23|Interactiunea dintre scoala, familie si societate [Interaction between School, Family and Society]|This paper tries in a concentrated form to present the role of the school and the family in preparing future generations,emphasizing that the knowledge society, learning, mastery and exploatation of information are the guarantors of individual and collective succes.Thus, the transmission and the power of information, the capacity of use become the primary tasks of the school and the family.In this process the role of the school is radically changed,which from an autonomous institution orientated in the transmission of the science from the book, becomes the interface in the relation between the individual and society, and the family is the first and the most important partner.
A23|Doar prin educatie se construiesc caractere [Only through education you build characters]|“Above the line” the best way to encourage your students to self-correct when they fall short. Why we need innovation in our education management and how this could help teachers to be good guides in students life. I think children need more support also from parents and from their teachers, they need to grow nice and strong. This is all about education, about the way that they learn things and also about what they learn.
A23|Invatamantul simultan-deziderat si realitate [Simultaneous Learning – Desideratum and Reality]|Due to the accentuated depopulation of villages in recent decades and the demographic characteristics of communities, some schools have to work with simultaneous teaching. Simultaneous teaching is a teaching system in wich the teacher have to work with several classes at once, using independent work for each class. This results in a great effort from the teacher, who has to plan carefully the activities at the class. This method has benefits but also has disadvantages, wich need to be carefully balanced.
A23|Parteneriatele scolare - factori cheie in eficientizarea managementului educational [School partnerships – key factors in making the educational management more efficient]|Society, not just the Romanian one, is in constant change. In order to adapt to these needs, tomorrow's man must be prepared to cope with change, be flexible, be informed, and above all, not to scare change and want to succeed.In this sense, school meets these needs, bringing it almost the main factors involved in the educational-educational process starting with family, local authorities, economic agents, various governmental and non-governmental organizations. Society, not just the Romanian one, is in constant change. In order to adapt to these needs, tomorrow's man must be prepared to cope with change, be flexible and informed.
A23|Legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [The Connection between School, Family and Society]|Parents` participation in school improvement process supposes, at least, that every parent should know his legal rights and obligations regarding his child`s education, the importance of his attitude in his child`s school success and the strategies for effective collaboration with school. It is necessary to exist an effective partnership/dialogue between teachers and parents; teachers have to be prepared to have a relationship with parents - that should be considered a professional skill- and parents have to be prepared to play their educational role in the co-operation with the teachers; schools have to provide the necessary assistance to parents such as associations.
A23|Gandirea critica si creativitatea [Critical thinking and creativity]|"People identify with their beliefs and opinions, so when someone criticizes their opinions, they think it is an attack on their person. But it must be noted that critical thinking does not mean ""attacking the person"" of the person expressing another opinion, sometimes even contrary to the opinions of others. Critical thinking is a condition and a way to achieve effective learning with an essential role in developing individual personality. Forming the critical thinking of students of all ages means first of all educating them in the spirit of critical thinking, later understanding them why it is necessary to act in one way or another."
A23|Relatia dintre scoala, familie, societate [The Relationship between School, Family and the Society]|In terms of lifelong learning, the relationship between school, family and community is characterized by complementarity of the three main sources for the development and education of human personality. Consonance collaboration is a first requirement being understood her views not only drive, but the drive attitudes educated. Collaboration also means besides the unity of views and coordination of actions in achieving unity. School aims to coordinate collaboration factors education, because it is uniquely qualified for such action. Active cooperation of the school and teachers with other educational factors - family, local community, media, church, NGOs - should lead to the development of sustainable partnerships, conducive to a positive approach to various problems of young students.
A23|Rolul curriculum-ului ascuns in sporirea calitatii invatarii [The Role of the Curriculum Hidden in Increasing the Quality of Learning]|The structural approach, the curriculum is teaching a system of actions planned to achieve positive influence on the students. These actions are to be achieved in practice through the educational process. Capitalization of knowledge, skills and abilities of school children is done by teachers in all activities. By thematic projects work teachers have complete freedom to observe the peculiarities of individual age and by creating learning situations that allow students to progress in different ways, the purpose being the same goals. Upgrading school curriculum is a natural step in the process of curriculum development. Upgrading school curriculum is a natural step in the process of curriculum development. Instead of promoting the learning of abstract, theoretical, insufficiently connected to the communicative needs of schoolchildren, current training programs aimed at children and young personality.
A23|Managementul educational - perspective in Romania si in lume. Relatia scoala – familie - comunitate [Educational management – perspectives in Romania and worldwide. The relationship between school-family-community]|The title of my article: Management, education, innovation - Relationship school – family – community. My article contains a chapter and a subsection. In this article I focus on management innovation. The current article study aims to catalogue the means of manifesting innovation at the level of the management of school and the effects and the family intervenes in the school`s life if his child goes to school.
A23|Aspecte ale relatiei scoala– familie si modalitati de aprofundare a acesteia, prin activitati comune [Aspects of the Relationship between School and Family and Ways of Deepening through Mutual Activities]|Education is a common task in which parents and teachers have the same goals: to rise happily gaining more and more knowledge. In order to achieve these goals an efficient collaboration based on mutual respect is very important. Intermittent meetings with parents are not enough to strengthen the relationship and collaboration; I think parents should be involved in collective activities: trips, open-days, sports contests, and holidays. This way they will have the possibility to know each other better, to discuss about problems and to find solution for these problems.
A23|Leadership-ul - o fateta a managementului [Leadership – A Facet of Management]|Leadership is just one of the many assets a successful manager must possess. A manager cannot just be a leader, he also needs formal authority to be effective. A manager may only have obtained his position of authority through time and loyalty given to the company, not as a result of his leadership qualities. A leader may have no organisational skills, but his vision unites people behind him.
A23|Managementul educational - functii si principii [Educational management – functions and principles]|Management of education is the theory and the practice, the science and the art of design, organization, coordination, evaluation, adjustment of the elements of educational activity (not only of resources) as a free, integral, harmonious, human, permanent development activity for the independent and creative assertion of the personality, according to the ideal set at the level of educational policies.
A23|Relatia scoala, familie, societate din punct de vedere managerial [The Relationship between School, Family and Society from a Managerial Point of View]|It is required that educational partnerships between family ,school and society don't remain at a level of parent-teacher meeting, house calls, pedagogic lectures and extra-curricular activities but progress by involving the parent , and through them the rest of society as a whole in school life. In the context of reforming Romanian School System, educational partnerships must off concrete and real solutions to the big problems that the school system is facing, solutions which need to be contributed to by: School System personnel, students, parents/legal guardians, local authorities, governmentaland non-governmental organizations, religious representatives, economic agents, etc.
A23|Importanta parteneriatului scoala – familie in cresterea randamentului scolar|Collaboration between the school and pupils families is important for the education of students. The family must accompany children throughout their education. The family, together with the school plays a key role in shaping the child's personality. Teachers will propose joint projects for parents and students to establish common objectives. To involve parents in school and extracurricular activities, permanent measures are needed. By involving parents in their children's education the quality of student learning will increase.
A23|Triunghiul educational: familie, scoala, societate [The Educational Triangle: Family, School and Society]|A child's education takes place in an educational triangle formed by family, school and society. From the three sides, a family occupies a special weight, although lately it is attached an increasingly higher importance to school and to the act of education achieved in school. Every educational institution must take into account the fundamental principle of education, love. If a child is unconditional loved in his family, if he is properly respected and appreciated at school, he will be able to cope with challenges later in a mature and balanced way.
A23|Managementul educational, competenta si autoritate [Educational Management, Competence and Authority]|When we are talking about management we refer to the action of leading, organizing, coordinating and evaluating the activity of an institution. The manager is the one who manifest authority over his subordinates, but not in a dictatorial sens. The manager is more than a leader, and the management is more than the leadership. A good manager holds the qualities of a leader, but improves them true the professional competence witch is bound to have. The management assumes interdependence between authority, competence and responsibility. The competence transforms a leader into a manager. The responsibility makes the manager an example for all that surround him.
A23|Managementul educational - aspecte specifice scolilor minoritatilor nationale [Educational management – specific aspects for school of national minorities]|This article is about the problem of education in language of minorities, in condition of descentralization and democracy of education.It follows legal and managerial problems, the impact of diminuation school population.
A23|Managementul educational - comunicarea scolii cu familia si societatea [Educational Management – Communication between School, the Family and the Society]|Education, just like any other organized action, involves three important factors in its progress: school, family and society. School represents the organized framework in which the educational process takes place, under the guidance and coordination of teachers, family instills the first behaviors into the child and supports the educational actions of the school, and society has the role to promote true/real values. The convergence of those three factors and an agreeing upon the means of achieving this common goal become the main ways of accomplishing the educational ideal.
A23|Program de educatie antreprenoriala in cadrul proiectului tematic: profesii si meserii [Program of antreprenorial education within the thematic project: professions and crafts]|„Show them how they can make money, but also what they can make with them and how they can make the world a better place” Brad Hancock, directior of the Center of Neely entrepreneurship of the Texas University. Children from other Europeean countries are prepared like this since kindergarten for a career in entrepreneurship. Starting form the daily wishes of children we realized that money represent a frequent subject between parents and children and many times these discutions become the basis of how children think about money, how we get them, their purpose and who has financial succes in life. A good financial education assures us that the formed habits now will influence the way the child will decide how he will gestionate his money an entire life time, being know the fact that once begun, entrepreneurship education never ends. It is important to teach children at an early age how to administrate their money.
A23|Management educational – perspective in Romania si in lume [Educational management – perspectives in Romania and worldwide]|This paper aims identifying the main trends in educational management, after a short briefing regarding the meaning and action scheme of this type of management, alongside with its relevance for the XXI century. We are forced to adapt, to try new methods of learning, new abilities, to use new tools, and all this can be achieved only to educational management. Education sprouts in many forms depending on how you look at it. Our views of what it should look like and how it should materialize depend on our value of it and our experience with it. Education sprouts in many forms depending on how you look at it. Our views of what it should look like and how it should materialize depend on our value of it and our experience with it. The paper identifies the main trends in educational management, trends that can be applied anywhere, that are not hard to provide and are cost efficient. Education must change, and is our duty to be a part of this.
A23|Educatia si parteneriatele scolare [Education and School Partnerships]|"Romanian education from the perspective of management, has a certain structure or natural setting levels. We speak, so an institutional system of education management among its elements there, according to I.Jinga (2001) ""ties of subordination and / or cooperation in relation to the functional responsibilities established by law and other regulations."" Educational partnership should be seen as a positive factor that supports the development of the institution, requires the active participation of all those involved and also constitutes a strong point to establish a constructive interactions among the partners involved, the motivation the integration of kindergarten in the community and active participation the formation of the future adult."
A23|Strategiile interactive – studiu de caz [Interactive strategies – case study]|The didactic strategy is constituted from a complex and circular ensemble of methods, techniques, means of education and forms of organizing the activity on the basis of which the teacher elaborates a work plan with the students, in order to efficiently achieve learning. The imperative of quality in education obliges the teacher's educational approach to be reconsidered, so that the didactic strategies developed are focused on learning and especially the learner.
A23|Modelul suedez [The Swedish Model]|"""The Swedish Model is an article in which I have wanted to present the way in which the Swedish understand to do education. The educational management centered on the needs of each child/student has at the basis, but at the same time as result, the bond between school, family and the Swedish society. The Swedish, a warm and very tolerant people, have made education their personal and national priority. Their system is quite different from ours and I say that starting from the fact that students learn in open spaces, meaning there are no desks, school registers or hierarchy, only individual freedom of development and respect for the others. This approach on education made Sweden a developed country and the Swedish very indulgent. I hope you will also like the ""The Swedish Model""."
A23|Managementul conflictelor in institutiile educationale [Conflict management in educational institutions]|Organizational practice shows that conflicting situations can be transformed into important strategies in achieving the best possible outcome. Consequently, conflict must be seen as an element of organizational life. It is normal to see differences between attitudes, goals and ways of acting against a situation in the management process. In these cases, stress management can make the difference between success and failure. When people analyze and discover the sources of a conflict, they are able to conceive and develop a method to face the dispute.
A23|Modelul suedez [The Swedish Model]|Classroom management is crucial in classrooms because it supports the proper execution of curriculum development, developing best teaching practices, and putting them into action. Preventive approaches to classroom management involve creating a positive classroom community with mutual respect between teacher and student. Teachers using the preventive approach offer warmth, acceptance, and support unconditionally – not based on a student’s behavior. Fair rules and consequences are established and students are given frequent and consistent feedback regarding their behavior. One way to establish this kind of classroom environment is through the development and use of a classroom contract. The contract should be created by both students and the teacher. In the contract, students and teachers decide and agree on how to treat one another in the classroom. Some characteristics of having good teacher-student relationships in the classroom involves the appropriate levels of dominance, cooperation, and awareness of high-needs students. Dominance is defined as the teacher’s ability to give clear purpose and guidance concerning student behavior and their academics. By creating and giving clear expectations and consequences for student behavior, this builds effective relationships. Such expectations may cover classroom etiquette and behavior, group work, seating arrangements, the use of equipment and materials, and also classroom disruptions. Assertive teacher behavior also reassures that thoughts and messages are being passed on to the student in an effective way. Assertive behavior can be achieved by using erect posture, appropriate tone of voice depending on the current situation, and taking care not to ignore inappropriate behavior by taking action. Robert Di Giulio sees positive classroom management as the result of four factors: how teachers regard their students (spiritual dimension), how they set up the classroom environment (physical dimension), how skillfully they teach content (instructional dimension), and how well they address student behavior (managerial dimension). In positive classrooms student participation and collaboration are encouraged in a safe environment that has been created. A positive classroom environment can be encouraged by being consistent with expectations, using students' names, providing choices when possible, and having an overall trust in students. Ignoring and approving is an effective classroom management strategy. This involves ignoring students when they behave undesirably and approving their behavior when it is desirable. When students are praised for their good behavior but ignored for their bad behavior, this may increase the frequency of good behavior and decrease bad behavior. Student behavior may be maintained by attention; if students have a history of getting attention after misbehavior, they may continue this behavior as long as it continues to get attention. If student misbehavior is ignored, but good behavior results in attention, students may instead behave appropriately to acquire attention.
A23|Comunicarea- un deziderat al managementului educaþional modern [Comunication- A Goal of Modern Management Education]|Communication involves social interaction in educational management, through modes of behavior innate or acquired. Effective communication relational dimension determines a relationship deeply serious between the school manager and the people they lead. A low level of communication instead determines a superficial relationship, formal affect the smooth running of the whole teaching process. Community dimension of communication in educational management requires a coherent relationship, sincere manager institutions and local communities, with social groups. Option size of a modern educational management is a purposeful policy of the school, without which the development of education can not be conceived in the decisions of institutional identity and school practice. An important role in creating a climate conducive to stimulate and develop an educational process in addition to good communication is the manager's attitude towards creativity and spontaneity of the people they lead, playing an active and balanced approach any of these.
A23|Relatia familie - scoala si importanta ei in dezvoltarea omului de maine [The relationship between family and school, and its importance in developing the man of tomorrow]|A good management in education requires innovation and communication. It also needs creativity and observing what others cannot. It is not easy working with children, but it also is the most beautiful job in the world. Parents should be our main parteners, but this is not always what we get. They sometimes just forget or just don’t realise the mean of being a parent. Education si not just what children study at school, but it is also what they do at home, what they see or how they react in different situations. All children are unique, different, and they have to remain this way.
A23|Managementul educational. Legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Educational Management - Link between School, Family and Society. Summary]|If the family is the first educational setting, kindergarten is the first factor of social, launch pad in preparation for school. Suitable for school attitude yielded by children, high school performance. The school is the social institution in which the organized education of the young generation. She factor that contribute to a person able to participate in the formation of society. The child learned to follow rules and behave responsibly in the family and in school, it will fit perfectly in society when it matures. School-family-community relationship is a beneficial factor interrelate with each other to provide contemporary society, young well-trained, competitive labor market, featuring multiple capabilities and skills.
A23|Managementul clasei de elevi: comunicarea profesori-elevi-parinti [The management of the class of students: communication between teachers, students and parents]|In developing the topic, I chose verbal communication as a subject and described some barriers to effective communication. To avoid these situations, we have presented ways to improve communication, focusing on the use of person I (knowing that the second person's language implies judging the interlocutor and interrupting communication due to the defensive reactions he triggers). Dialogue becomes a tool of knowledge and development only when it is carried out in a permissive atmosphere, without tension and fear of admonishment and punishment; depends on the nature of the interpersonal and group relations of the class and on the teacher's art to produce the communicative process in such a way that the values of the dialogue act productively.
A23|Performanta in leadership (Performance in Leadership)|Along the years, there have been many attempts to define the term leadership. To be an effective leader one has to balance two complementary roles, a charismatic one and an architectural one. Although in practice, we can define various styles of leadership, there is no mistaking the fact that a charismatic leader performs much better than the one focused solely on task achievement. The modern world has entered a new age of leader – follower relationship and it is more evident than ever that there is a direct connection between leadership and performance at the work place.
A23|Rolul parteneriatelor in sistemul de invatamant [The Role of Partnerships in the Educational System]|Human education is the function that must satisfy both the nature of the human being and the community present in his life. Variety of factors that contribute to the educational process in the social environment and society are stakeholders - school or educational establishment, the company concerned, state, family, institutions and companies interested in promoting the education and training centers Church. To educate is to adapt the child to the adult social environment, taking into account its own nature, the individual possibilities of assimilation, is to appeal to the means, methods and procedures that correspond to the child's necessities. To educate is patience and persistence, means a continuous daily work.
A23|Dezvoltarea personalitatii prin joc [Personality development through game]|The instructive-educational activity is based on the game as a method to finalize concrete tasks in the didactic process, as well as for the knowledge of the children's psychic peculiarities. The evolution of the game (symbolic, imitation, competition) is the expresion of child's evolution. More games they play, the more their physical and mental capacities develop, helping them to adapt to any situation and gain self-confidence. The game is recognized as a human activity, being associated with the realization of human potential by developing feelings of dedication, modesty, temperance, patience, indulgence or love for others.
A23|Managementul educational participativ [Participative Educational Management]|A participative management approach leads to the formation of the school of a participatory management approach leads to the formation of a community school level professional facilitate the introduction of change, institutionalizing innovative practices and Increased school performance. In schools where the professional community is strong, teachers work together effectively, share professional community that will facilitate the introduction of change, institutionalizing innovative practices and increased school performance. In schools where the professional community is strong, teachers work together effectively, share the vision and mission of the school and make joint efforts to create conditions for learning each student.
A23|Managementul scolar [School Management]|The article analyses the role and the importance of the school manager in the act of leadership and the main components of the educational act, so that the theory, the practice and the experience combined represent the key to an effective, performing and qualitative educational act. The conclusion is that, in order to achieve an effective educational management in Romania, if someone aspires to the position of manager in education, they need solid and proper theoretical and practical training, to be fulfilled in the appropriate institutional environment, which should secure them the acquisition of aptitudes and competences to ensure their continuous adaptation to the social, economic and cultural changes happening in Romanian schools, in comparison with the evolution of this domain in the world.
A23|Management educational- perspective in Romania si in lume [Educational management – perspectives in Romania and worldwide]|The profession of manager implies a professional commitment so it becomes necessary to create a social-cultural image as well as its social status. As a conclusion, managers have a decisive role regarding the dimension and achievement of the performance of their team. In a world that is constantly changing, managers need to be aware of the importance of change. Together with the change, they need stability and continuity. In both the Romanian and the world educational field, the influence in getting good results can be put together, along with the competent institutions, also by the the family environment actively participating with children at various school activities.
A23|Parteneriatul dintre scoalã, familie si societate [The Partnership between School, Family and Society]|The following paperwork presents the importance of a proper communication between school, family and community, which has as result a permanent and competent education in the life of young students. Families and communities implication in the educational process beside school is important in developing a mutual cofidence. An efficient relation between school-family-community gives an important fundation to the process of education and helps to raise an active generation of youth. A strong community in which each part takes full responsability can lead to an efficient collaboration in problem solving in the teaching-learning process.
A23|Cunoasterea gradului de motivare a personalului unitatii scolare. Studiu de caz [Knowing the level of Motivation of the Personnel in School Units. Case Study]|A manager transforms decisions into actions through a key function of management, namely the drive and motivation, who called the function of motivation. In the context or managerial motivation is to stimulate the members of the organization through various means, to act towards reaching both organizational objectives, and of the individual. Degree of motivation research work of the teaching staff of the School of Technology „Ion Ghica”Olteniþa, aims to identify those elements that motivate the teachers to obtain higher performance so that they fully utilize their availability for physical and intellectual achievement of the performance optical set is the big change it brings to motivate employees.
A23|Managementul educational – perspective in Romania si in lume catre o scoala noua ...[Educational management – perspectives in Romania and worldwide, towards a new school]|In this study there is a brief presentation of the Romanian schools until 1990, where the appreciated pupil was good, conformist and was able to reproduce information. After 2000 school functions as a baby-sitting network; the children are supervised for 5-6 hours a day, the parents are not interested in what is happening there. Teenagers nowadays do not accept a school which is guarded militarily and it is torn away from life’s reality. We have to take an example from others regarding to education. The best example regarding to professional education is the German one, and also the Finns who are on the first place in resolving the PISA tests. We need to reform our educational strategies, our curriculum, and we have to stimulate self-studying and inter-studying. It is the chance of teachers of this generation to change education and to produce a model structured differently and functioning by new principles.
A23|Exemplu de bune practici. Internatul Gaudeamus din Sighisoara- camin al liceenilor [Example of Good Practices – The Gaudeamus Boarding School in Sighisoara – Home of High School Students]|Boarding school is the best alternative for students coming from the countryside or from poor environments. The Gaudeamus campus from Sighisoara offers home to 40 students, by creating the modern circumstances which can contribute to a harmonious, secure integration in the school system and society. As the result of the cooperative educational work between teachers and civil volunteers, students, whose whose social status wouldn’t allow the continuation of their studies, have the chance of a lifetime to experience the values of belonging to a community and to develop their social identity by continuing their studies, their education.
A23|Modele de leader educational [Models of Educational Leaders]|The leader in education is representing a very important link to develop the main activities in schools. He can support the goal to achieve all objectives in a educational institution. He is the main guarantor for students and parents that the school will provide assets and knowledge for all people who come to become specialists. There are many types of leaders and manors of leading, all those being chosen by the situations geographical, economical, governmental, the specific of the school and the personal choice of leader himself.
A23|Roluri si competente specifice managerului scolar [Roles and competences specific for the educational manager]|In education, the art of leadership is very important because it emphasizes much better the personality of the leader, and his personal example plays an essential role in achieving the goals set for unity. The art of leadership is actually the art of working with people, that is, the new, modern and distinct dimension of the educational unit leader. The school manager, in his or her capacity as a state representative in the school, public or private, must interpret and assume throughout his / her activity a set of roles, proving through them managerial skills, legal, psycho-pedagogical, economic-financial And administrative-household, managerial, cultural and socio-moral, and to be fully concerned with the problems of the community they manage.
A23|Managementul educational ca management al institutiei scolare [Educational management as a management of the school institution]|Within the article entitled „Educational Management as School Institution management”, there have been analyzed the most important principles and functions which constitute the foundation of „educational management concept”. There have been analyzed a series of global issues and also strategies that aim to solve the multitude of problems per whole educational system. A very important role has been assigned to the assessment function, with practical applications within the educational system. Strictly following and applying these principles and functions during the educational practice helps shaping the individual`s personality.
A23|Educatia, scoala, familia si societatea, un tot unitar [Education, School, Family and Society as a Whole]|The school is one of the key institutions of society whose results influence the evolution of both its direct beneficiaries, as well as the communities, indirect beneficiaries. The family is the first community that has an impact on human nature and at the same time, the first school that lays the foundation of future personalities. The school must be open to community needs, identify those areas where it can develop community partnerships: alternative leisure for children and youth, activities of road education, health, helping the elderly, poor families etc. A school is developed in response to a wider range of needs of its clients, it is open to partnerships with people trained and motivated.
A23|Managementul organizatiei scolare [Management of School Organization]|The educational management is the dynamic path of education which handles the educational institutions which include human resources and as well the physical ones. Moreover, there are ideas, laws and regulations which influence the educational process. All these parts form the educational management assembly and the scope is to bring the human resources to a higher forming state of the ideas and society values. Educational management is an unique activity, a continuous process which isn’t based only on the science conquer but also on social aspirations of a nation.
A23|Aplicarea noului curriculum pentru educatie timpurie – o provocare? [Applying the new curricula for early education – a challenge?]|The role of the evaluation in the management of the process of teaching consists in prolonging the operations of mesuring and evaluating in acts of decision making which contribute to the improvemment of the overall activity according to the macrostructural and also to the smaller scale goals postulated in the documents regarding the education policy. The value-related quantity evaluation involves all the three managerial operations: the mesuring (the quantity), the evaluation (the quality) and the decision taking – the begining of the improvement of the whole situation, according to the methodological and procedures and the pedagogical recomandations.
A23|Scoala - o familie de rezerva? [School – A Backup Family?]|Each institution providing education has the task to establish priorities concerning the strategic goals they want to achieve during their educational processes. These goals are going to define the direction all the members of the educational process are going to. There certainly will be distracting elements during this process that can come from the teachers, the students or the parents. It is the role of the school to take over certain tasks from the parents and to create an appropriate environment for the harmonious development of children.
A23|Management educational [Educational management]|The educational management is a system of concepts, methods and instruments for orientation and leading. The educational management is based on ideas, relations, people and resources. In order to get results in educational management it is necessary to have a form of management which represents a rationalization of paradoxes. The educational management is the leader’s art of reaching the goals through the mobilization of the efforts of all the members of the organization. The educational management is realized by following the accomplishment of an action under the best conditions, by acknowledging and assuming the responsibilities, the overachievements and the failures, being a process of guiding a group towards the achievement of the organizational objectives.
A23|Consilierea si indrumarea corpului profesoral catre servicii educationale de calitate, cu privire la integrarea fireasca a elevilor cu cerinte speciale [Counselling and Guidance of Professors towards Qualitative Educational Services, regarding the Natural Integration of Students with Special Needs]|"Children with disabilities represented in Romania, ""the most controversial category of children protected under Law 3/1970"". During the communist era, these children hospitalized in an institution was considered the most appropriate care and possibly their schooling because it is thought that they needed an environment adapted to specific requirements. One of the directions pre-university education strategy is the inclusion of all children with disabilities or special schools. Theoretically, the degree of disability does not have a direct link to forms of education that are available to every child. Even having a certificate of severe disability, a child can be enrolled in school meals. Instead, only the certificate of admission to degree of disability and the parents wish, a child can be enrolled in a special school. Also, the certificate issued by the CPC guarantees the child in the support program, where he attends an inclusive school."
A23|Management educational – parteneriatul scoala, familie si comunitate [Educational Management – Partnership between School, Family and Community]|"School-family-community partnership has an important role in personality development. Each party has to learn from each other, while analyzing the positive and negative aspects of each party. School aims to bring as many benefits for students and involve community members through various projects. Only harnessing all aspects of family and community, the school will be able finally to ""attract"" students in the knowledge and research, the fruits of the involvement of all students in making a child-friendly schools."
A23|Leadership sau management educational in sistemul de invatamant romanesc? [Leadership or educational management in Romanian educational system?]|"The current transformations of society and the future, different points of view of current and future education in the world and in Romania, ask the educational managers the following question: ""Leadership or educational management in the Romanian educational system?"" The importance of leadership and effective management for success in school activities enjoys a special recognition in many parts of the world, the tendency towards autonomous management of school institutions in Romania has led to an increased appreciation of the importance of managerial skills of education leaders. Lately, there has been an increase in the differences between leadership and management, coupled with the understanding that school principals must be both good leaders and effective managers."
A23|Modelul de evaluare al programelor educationale [The Evaluation Model of Educational Programs]|The program represents all activities social and / or projects oriented towards a goal / objective group in which to produce goods, services or environmental changes in response to specific needs are properly organized human, material and financial. The programs are a means of implementing the policy, projects are components of the program. Evaluation is a process of learning, developing skills of all those involved in the program of self-assessment, to assess the work and results of the project team to participate in the evaluation process. Evaluative research in education includes the proper use of methods and research techniques to assess and improve planning, quality, effectiveness and efficiency of educational programs.
A23|Rolul cunoasterii personalitatii in managementul resurselor umane in institutiile de invatamant [The Role of Knowing the Personality in the Management of Human Resources in Learning Institutions]|This present document has the goal to present personality theory of Fritz Riemann (depressive, schizoid, obsessive and hysterical) in order to get to know and develop human interactions within the framework of an educational institution. I meant to write a personality description with weak and strong peculiarities and realize the assesment of each type of personality in school institution. The conclusion of my work is that if we don’t make effort to know ourselves and other people then we will not make changes in our life and in the life of the institution that we are making part.
A23|Rolul si importanta legaturii dintre gradinita si familie [The Role and Importance of the Connection between Kindergarden and Family]|Based on the experience I gained throughout a few years, the importance of a systematic, balanced and confidential relationship between families and the nursery school proved to be true. The consequences of these experiences lead me to the decision to analyze the possibilities of maintaining relationships between parents and the nursery school. In the first part of the study I dealt with two vital scenes of child socialization: the importance of the family and the nursery school. In the other parts of the study I detailed the possibilities of maintaining relationships between the nursery school and parents and the applicability and efficiency of these relationships. I believe that a persistent relationship and communication are the bases for a good cooperation, which help in overcoming barriers and build a bridge between the home and the nursery school.
A23|Relatia scoala-familie –comunitate [The relationship between school, family and the community]|Education is a specific, social human phenomenon that arises with society, from a certain necessity of its own - that of man's development as a man, as a work force and a social being. School and community make education possible. School is one of the central institutions of the community, it has specific roles but cannot function and cannot develop without taking into account the specificity of the community in which it operates. The whole didactic activity is determined by the pedagogical relations established between teachers and pupils, between pupils and pupils, as well as the relations between family and school, between teachers and parents, between pupils and parents. The school-family-community relationship is one where each factor interrelates with others. Collaboration between school and family requires not only mutual information about everything related to the child's orientation, but also the arming of parents with all the problems that this action involves.
A23|Provocari ale managementului educational in invatamantul din mediul rural [Challenges of Educational Management in Rural Education]|An important implication is that school leaders should devote a major part of their work to capacity building in the school and will place a high priority on knowledge management to build the intellectual capital of the school. Also the school leaders should ensure that they and their colleagues are up-to-date with their knowledge of good practice in school improvement, and that the building of social and intellectual capital lies at the heart of the work of senior leaders in the school. Successful leaders are increasingly focused on learning, the central and unique focus of educational organizations. The school manager needs to be a great communicator.
A23|Managementul educational – legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Educational Management – Connection between School, Family and the Society]|This papers aims the importance of educational management and its benefits. Nowadays we are surrounded by technology and information. Everything its moving fast, children learn faster, have more aces to various fields of science, they can engage in different activities online and offline. The children psychology is changing, they don`t have the same desire to learn just theoretical information, they want to explore, to test and engage in communication skills. This is the era of new discoveries regarding human intelligence, the iq is no longer a number that establish how smart you are, because according to science there are nine types of intelligence: naturalist intelligence, musical intelligence, mathematical- logical intelligence, existential intelligence, interpersonal intelligence, kinaesthetic intelligence, linguistic intelligence, intra-personal intelligence, spatial intelligence. Educational managers need to have the ability to explore as much as they can and for this they need logistics, trained teachers and flexibility to adjust their curricula in order to keep the children interested. In this paper is presented, along with the basic info about an educational manager duties is also a study which claims that in Romania 42% of pupils are functional illiterate, which means that they don`t have the ability to understand an information and to work with it. This study is a living proof that we need educational management and we need to adjust to the population needs.
A23|Particularitati ale imaginii de sine la adolescenti din familii monoparentale - directii in managementul scolar [Particularities of the self-image in teenagers from monoparental families – directions in school management]|The study aims to analyze the teenager from a single-parent family, in regard to the formation of his personality. In the same time, the study specifically examines his relationship with his parent/ the extended family and his attitude towards different social experiences. The results indicate that self-esteem in adolescence is directly related to the type of family, whereas self-confidence is independent of the type of family. Thusly, adolescents coming from one single parent families register lower scores than adolescents coming from traditional families, regarding the level of self-image.
A23|Educatia pentru cariera [Education for Career]|Work is the fundamental form of human activity, oriented towards a fundamental purpose, developed knowingly and willingly. It represents the way in which the person expresses and affirms its personality, proving his capacities and competences. It involves a succession of actions, and physical and intellectual operations, manually made, using: tools, instruments, machines, etc., in order to produce goods and services necessary for satisfying the fundamental human needs of food, existence, security, as well as the superior needs: appreciation, self-achievement, etc.
A23|Campania 2%- un ajutor bine-venit [The 2% Campaign – A Welcomed Help]|In this work is presented a fundraising project, the 2% campaign which was unfolded at the level of the secondary school from Liebling, through which the school is sustained by the community members the ones who wanted to sustain a non-profit organization and who produced wages' income could assign 2 % from theincome tax, a right which was given to them by 227/2015 Law-New Fiscal code by completing the 230 form. This project took place through O.D.I.S.(The Development and Social Implication Organization) from Timiºoara, with which the secondary school from Liebling signed a partnership.
A23|Schimbare si conflict in organizatia scolara [Change and conflict in school organization]|Living in a world characterized by change, we observe this phenomenon also within the organizational culture of the school. Organizational change is a permanent phenomenon that affects the entire organization or just its compartments. Management has an important role to play in making change effective. Planning and introducing any change contain a potential conflict. Conflict correlation - organizational change is a topical one for the contemporary organizational environment. Conflict states can be both a source of change and a determinant of resistance to change. The emergence of conflicts during the processes of change is inevitable.
A23|Triada scoala-familie-societate [The Triad School-Family-Society]|Education is a main problem for humanity in wich work together the school, family and community. The school is one of the central institutions of society but it’s value increases only including the family and society. The school offers students the opportunity to integrate in the real society. Family is the most important social group because it defines the human being by insuring the best climate for emotional development. Community must support school and family. Working together, they must assume their responsibilities, so they create a better future for our children.
A23|Functii ale managementului educational: controlul-evaluarea-monitorizarea [Functions of Educational Management: Control – Evaluation - Monitoring]|Control-monitoring-evaluation is the latest and perhaps the most important function of the educational management. This function is measuring the degree of achievement of other management functions and establish corrective measures of the deficiences found. The most important documents on wich it is made the control-monitoring-evaluation of the employees in a school are: the job description and the evaluation work sheet.
A23|Legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Connection between School, Family and Society]|This paper reflects the necessity of implementing an authentic partnership school – society, seen from an educational perspective. This cannot be done randomly; it involves organizational measures that have at their grounds purposes, objectives, methods and concrete activities of implementation – basic tasks that lay also on the grounds of educational management. Educational management strategies lead to educational outcomes – motivated students, ready to learn and finally, ready for social and professional integration.
A23|Motivarea personalului - obiectiv prioritar al managementului resurselor umane [Motivating the staff – main objective of human resources management]|Motivation is a major component of management and a subject frequently approached by specialists. Motivation is the action of motivating another individual, and motive represents all reasons (either conscious or not) that cause people do certain things, select from several options a certain behaviour, act in a certain way to reach targets. Motivation is associated to the reasoning action and possibilities to choose a certain action option. The targets that the individuals aim to through their work are of economic nature or could be connected to his own psycho-social development.
A23|Calitate si profesionalism in managementul educational [Quality and Professionalism in Educational Management]|School management appears as a system of actions exercised consciously organized systematically to transform students' personalities, according finality who proposed it. Besides school manager directs, organizes and manages all organizational issues at school level. Thus, school management supports quality education, effectiveness and progress of the school. When we talk of progress must necessarily start from an assessment of what has been an assessment of what has been achieved until then. So it requires an assessment of the work of teachers, students, and a self manager. Best reflects the quality by assessing student achievement and hence the work of teachers.
A23|Managementul conflictelor [Conflict management]|The management of conflict involves the styles or strategies used to handle these conflictual situations and the intervention at every level (interpersonal, intragroup or intergroup). The organisation’s effectiveness can be enhanced if the manager decides to use a good strategy in solving or managing the conflict. A good manager knows when to intervene or whether there is need for intervention. The manager intervenes to reduce the conflict at all levels, he or she, in order to be more efficient, has to manage the conflict rather than solve the conflict.
A23|Colaborare scoala-familie. Conditie pentru reusita scolara [The Collaboration between School and Family. Conditions for Scholar Success]|For children, family is the natural environment, the closest and the most useful one they need to have a proper personal development and lead a successful life. The education they get during the so-called “seven years from home” or the total lack of it is of utmost importance in every man's destiny. School and family have the same educative goal: training children to become people developed on many and various levels. To achieve this unique aim what is needed is unity of action and concordance between the specific means of influence used by these two social institutions.
A23|Management educational. Actualitate si evolutie [Educational Management – Actuality and Evolution]|The paper Educational Management- Actuality and evolution is a presentation of the concept of educaþional management and at the same time highlight the need for professionalization of leadership educational institutes. Also, try to show that educational management should be done by professionals, people who have mastered the art of management methods and techniques, people balanced, moral and not least the people who really love children and education . Also present work aims to provide elements of general management and educational development of current and short of it.
A23|Managementul sedintei cu parintii [Parents-Teacher Conference – a Management Method]|Parents-Teacher Conference is a management method by which information is transmitted, needs are identified and solutions found, solutions that must be accepted by most of those involved. The homeroom teacher is the class coordinator, tutor and organizer, a mediator between school and family, a partner who works with parents to help students throughout their learning process. PTC initiated by both class council and parents, remains the most effective form of communication, which helps school and family as well to find optimal solutions in the education of students.
A23|Sisteme informale manageriale pentru institutiile de invatamant - canale de comunicare [Informal managerial systems for teaching institutions – communication channels]|Effective interpersonal relationships means, first of all, effective communication. Communication systems prefer to not only transmitting informations but also expressing oralli or writing methods. A good quality of expressing presume objective, strategies and rigurous, long established activites.
A23|Elaborarea procedurilor operationale la nivelul unitatii scolare [Developing the Operational Procedures at School Level]|According to Minister of Finance no. 946/2005, as amended and supplemented, approving the Internal Control Code / managerial comprising managerial control standards at the public entities, any school unit must prepare written procedures communicated to all employees involved. This paper covers the steps to follow for the development of operational procedures. Some steps include concrete examples at the school level.
A23|Managementul educational – legatura cu familia si comunitatea [Education Management - Family and Community Relationship]|Managers education: teachers, professors, teachers, headmasters, Methodists, etc. have a common goal: increasing the quality of education. Without a real and sustained support from the community and family there can be no real success of the objectives set by the school. Such a partnership we have achieved in our school, with a parish priest by the introduction of an educational project partnership, the volunteers „ Free time- otherwise”.
A23|Istoricul, evolutia si concepte actuale ale managementului educational [History, Evolution and Current Concepts of Educational Management]|The work has two chapters. The first chapter refers to the history and evolution of educational management and the second on its existing concepts. In studying organizations, school organization and therefore, one of the most important aspects was the reference to effective leadership. Competent and effective leadership education both at the system and from the school requires its scientific substantiation. The basis of this is science fundamentals driving education or educational management.
A23|Managementul educational [Education Management]|The Management reprezents a methodogy of global approach, optimum & strategic of the activity of education, an ensemble of principles & functions, of norms & methods of leadership. It assures the achievement of the objectives of the educational system. The educational management implies the master oe theory, of metodology, of principles, a certain mentality, an art of guiding, an involvement of resources. In education the management studies the events which occur in the decision of organising of a pedagogical activity being an explicit conception, a methodology of action in obtaining sucess in education.
A23|Leadership educational [Educational Leadership]|School leadership is the process of enlisting and guiding the talents and energies of teachers, pupils, and parents toward achieving common educational aims While school leadership or educational leadership have become popular as replacements for educational administration in recent years, leadership arguably presents only a partial picture of the work of school, division or district, and ministerial or state education agency personnel, not to mention the areas of research explored by university faculty in departments concerned with the operations of schools and educational institutions.
A23|Scoala-familie-societate, imreuna pentru viitorul nostru [School – Family – Society, Together for Our Future]|"Educational management, as a field of study and practice, is a part of general management. The difference between general management and the educational one is represented by finalities. The final products of educational management are the ""graduate"" and an informational package. They are used in obtaining financial profit, which in turn is the end goal of general management. For a larger financial profit, the graduates need to be well prepared. For this purpose, educational management is required to foresee the current and future needs of society. These are usually represented by the needs of the work market."
A23|Inovatie in managementul educational [Innovation in Educational Management]|In nowadays our society, whose development is based on knowledge, teachers represent one of the most important resources called to face this challenge, to ensure modernisation and on-going efficiency of the efforts dedicated to a complete capitalisation of the human potential. This article aims to catalogue the means of manifesting innovation at the level of the management of school units and the effects this produces regarding the partnership dimensions school-community, school-designed curriculum and the teachers working in the school unit.
A23|Parteneriatul educational - o solutie reala in sprijinul managementului grupei [Educational Partnership-a Real Solution in the Support of the Group’s Management]|The implementation of the most adequate strategies, on the level of the educational partnerships, provides the fulfillment of a Qualitative Education, on the pre-school level.
A23|Managementul educational- intre ieri si azi [Educational Management – Between Yesterday and Today]|"Analysis of socio-organizational perspective school could be considered, at first glance, an unusual approach, taking into account the specific schools, her basic human dimension. But there is human activity, especially individual and unfolded in time, that would not involve the act of leadership, management. Education is one of the instruments which stimulate the company, directs and controls the development processes. For the teacher, knowledge and mastering the art of management is essential, because knowledge management as a complex process does not mean ,, dirigisme ""and managers did not ensure immediate success of an action."
A23|Managementul clasei de elevi la confluenta cu stilurile parentale [Management of the Pupils’ Class at the Confluence with the Parental Titles]|In the contemporaneous school, the teacher staff has multiple tasks: good observer, guide, persuasive, advisor, counsellor and manager of the class.
A23|Managementul educational in invatamantul prescolar [Educational Management in Pre-School Education]|Starting from the belief that the methodology management can ensure consistency of curriculum, from design to evaluation by the human essence of education, supporting the need to train managers for all educators, whatever their place in the hierarchy of school organization, initial training and continuous, single coherent thought as phases of individual development and organizational responsibility as teachers involves adding several roles: the teacher, the parent, the counselor. The effort is considerable and often requires much organization, dedication, patience and sacrifices. Only the satisfaction that comes after three years of working with preschoolers when making that bridge between kindergarten and preschool is the only source of energy required class manager to continue this noble activity.
A23|Mangementul educational-legatura dintre scolala, familie si societate [Educational Management – The Connection between School, Family and Society]|In my opinion the school has an extremely important role in the further evolution of the young because it shapes the character of students.Firstly, the education received in school, along with the education provided by parents, has a major role in the development of character, personality and, in particular, behavioural patterns in society. Secondly, the education received in school does not always beneficial effects in young's later evolution, because when this education differs from that provided by the parents, the young man becomes confused and, instinctively choose to adhere to the education provided by parents, thus ignoring the one offered in the school.
A23|Management educational – provocari si evolutie [Educational Management – Challenges and Evolution]|The text refers to the connection between Educational Management and the Education itself. The changes occurred in the Educational system brings necessarily adaptation of the Educational management as well. We present further what new needs require new Management, and the „new educations” that have issued from the society in a continuous development. The educator’s role in this process is to respond through all his/her work to the new challenges, and we insist on the responsibility the educators have on this respect. In the last part of our study we distinguish the two kinds of management teachers have to deal with, the class management and the organizational management of the leaders of Education. Successful education methodology and disturbing factors are also dealt with.
A23|Familia-scoala–comunitatea. Parteneri in educatie [Family-School-Community. Partners in Education]|Active cooperation of the school and teachers with other educational factors - family, local community, media, church, NGOs - should lead to the development of sustainable partnerships, conducive to a positive approach to various problems of young students. School must find optimal forms by those involved in this education process can manage human resources, have knowledge of psychology and pedagogy, to adapt quickly to change management in today's society. However, important role, at least now, she has school teachers, teachers whose activities developed, may developed rules and conduct sociomorale students can developed skills and moral civic behavior in current European context.
A23|Legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate – in noua legislatie [The Link between School, Family and Society in the New Legislation]|The school is an institution that provides educational, convey knowledge, develop skills, competencies forms, norms, values recognized and socially acceptable. She works amid changes over which the Romanian society, seeking search and crystallization of identity, school plays a crucial role in restoring social identity and enhancement of human potential, a community made up of many factors of education that have turn offer educational family, authorities, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, police, church, etc. Community is defined in the Explanatory Dictionary of Romanian as a group of people with similar interests, beliefs or rules of common life, all the inhabitants of a town, of a country, all those who live in the same place and the same habits, the same rules of life etc. The family is a factor of formal education, on the other hand, it has obligations and rights arising from the status of students by children in the formal education system.
A23|Management educational- actualitate si evolutie. Aspecte generale despre management si manager scolar [Educational Management – Actuality and Evolution. General Aspects on Management and School Management]|Educational management is the science and art of preparing human resources for according to some finality to form personalities requested and accepted by society individual. It can be analyzed in effect acted operational, practical, tactical, procedural theory, global general, strategic, scientific.Work characteristics of management wishes to submit educational actual and its evolution since the emergence of the concept. Education to ensure high efficiency and performance required knowledge and application of management science education. Role (manager) education is a profession and, like any profession, be learned.
A23|Management educational. Legatura dintre scoala-familie-societate [Educational Management. Connection between School, Family and Society]|This article highlights that educational management can be defined as a system of concepts, methods, tools, guidance, leadership and coordination. Educational managers are persons who conduct a certain level hierarchical school organization to fulfill the goals pursued. The school aims to establish a solid relationship with the child’s family. The family become a partner of the teachr in the educational relationship with the children. The society is the environment in which children will grow and develop. Therefore, cooperation between family, school and sociey is a priority.
A23|Managementul crizelor si arta negocierii. Negocierea si medierea conflictelor [Crisis Management and the Art of Negotiation. Negotiation and Conflict Mediation]|"Conflict resolution depends also on the type of management structure and leader, a lax system, the conflict will be much more difficult to solve than in a structured management organization that seeks clear objectives. Negotiation is not an inflexible bargaining positions of power and it is no problem solving. Mediation is described as ""an informal process” in which a neutral third party with no power to impose the solution helps the warring parties to reach an acceptable mutual agreement."
A23|Scoala si partenerii sai [School and its Partners]|Children's education has been a priority for all nations since the older times. They have learned from their parents or families that without work, knowledge not education they will not be able to cope and overcome the obstacles that will arise in their lives. School efficiency (as becoming personalities shapers) can grow through cooperation that must coexist between the school and the family. Today, the family is regarded as a true and necessary partner in act for education, together with another important factor that is the local community. The process of collaboration between the three essential factors in education: school-family-local community, primarily involves assuming all responsibilities.
A23|Managementul Educational -scurta introducere- [Educational Management. Short Introduction]|The article is an introduction to the theory of educational management, briefly presenting the etymology of the term, its definition from various perspectives, as well as its functions. Finally, the author proposes a discussion regarding time management but also a managerial Decalogue.
A23|Dezvoltarea resurselor umane, restructurarea personalului si reconversia profesionala [Development of Human Resources, Personnel Restructuring and Professional Reconversion]|Human resources management is a dynamic and complex system that evolves together with the entire organization. It is comprised of a series of processes which interact with and define both the staff’s individual careers and their rapports with the organization. Both intrinsic and extrinsic motivation can be used either simultaneously or alternatively, but every manager should know that long-term motivation is always non-financial, and it is up to their abilities as a manager how the two kinds are applied in their interaction with the employees.
A23|Managementul educational- locul si rolul profesorului manager [Educational Management – Place and Role of the Manager Professor]|"Management education is theory and practice, science and art design, organization, coordination, evaluation, adjustment elements of business education (not just resources) as development work free, full, harmonious, of human individuality, permanently, to assert autonomous his personality and creative, according to the ideal set educational policy. I.Jinga is different pedagogical management believes that science and art of preparing human resources to form personalities, according to finally accepted by the individual and society. Then it is defined as a set of principles and functions, rules and management methods which ensure that the objectives of the education system, the quality and efficiency standards as high as possible, and at the level of each educational system is state specific notes ""."
A23|Managementul resurselor umane ale organizatiei [Management of Human Resources in an Organization]|General management and, more specifically, human resources management, are areas which involve highlighting and employing people’s best abilities; that means, finding the right place for every one of them in the context of the organization. The people are the most important resource of an organization, regardless of its kind, and the correlation between the best management and each employee’s performance is made according to the used motivational tools.
A23|Educatia – element cheie in formarea resurselor umane [Education – Key Element in the Formation of Human Resources]|Modern organisations accept the existence of incotrollable situations. The fear of the unknown future and the fear of losing job helps the organisations in the proces of conditioning the human resources. In order of mantaining behaviors and the expectances of the team in normal limits, the social control uses a special statement between motivation-obligation based on the abilities of the leaders.
A23|Management educational - legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [The Relation between Family, School and Society in Education]|In educating the ”human child”, the most important factors in the training procedures are family, school and society. The relations between these factors and the child are educational, with repercussions that we must take consideration of. In the relational process between the educator and the child, the educator’s lifestyle, attitudes and behavior leave a mark on the child, influencing his personality from an early age. We as society, family and school must be involved in a constant manner in helping the new generations forming process. This way we provide our future in a civilised world characterised through a never ending evolving action in all it’s fields of activity.
A23|Eficienta organizatiei versus eficienta managementului [The Efficiency of the Organization versus the Efficiency of Management]|The efficiency of the activity is determined more or less by staff practicies, top leader’s vision and career’s management in the organisation and at the individual level. The potential must be encouraged through accent on the skills. There has to be a preocupation for training, orientation and involvment of the employees through different posibilities of encouraging theirs careers on the way to success.
A23|Colaborarea scoala si familie-factor hotarator in educarea scolarului pentru integrarea in societate [Collaboration between School and Family – Decisive Factor in Educating the Students to Integrate in the Society]|Starting from the definition of educational management, I have shown in this paper that children's success depends largely on harmonizing approaches the school with the family and the good cooperation between teachers and parents to establish an educational continuity. We paid particular interest for decision making, negotiation and management of activities leading to the interrelation of three factors-society -the family school.
A23|Managementul intalnirilor (sedinta, lectorat, simpozion, conferinta) [Meetings Management (Meeting, Lecture, Symposium, Conference)]|The meetings are reunions mostly attended by people who are working in the same field or the same object of activity. These meetings are materialized in work-shops, lectures, symposiums, conferences, debates. Therefore, they must be carefully prepared through a rigorous analysis of the topic and its opportunity and impeccable organization through the display of the meeting. This means observing the steps and specific procedures, the duties and the skills of its actors, the overall structure and experience gathered up in the professional culture.
A23|Rolul managerului in prevenirea si combaterea actelor de coruptie in scoala [The role of the manager in preventing and fighting acts of corruption in school]|The main purpose of this conference paper is to highlight the problem of defining corruption, to identify the perspective of a theoretical analysis of corruption, the ways of its manifestation in school and the practical ways of controlling and preventing it. The abundance of personal information and experience makes the beneficiaries of education (students and parents) agree that corruption is a major ”obstacle”, not only in schools but also in other areas. Chapter 1 deals with the role of internal managerial control in improving quality and preventing corruption phenomena in schools. Chapter 2 deals with methodological issues and analyses, concrete examples of practices and abuses in various educational institutions, as well as the practical ways / tools that the school principal can use to create an organizational culture.
A23|Impactul aprecierii scolare asupra elevului in familie si societate [The Impact of School Appreciation of Students within the Family and the Society]|School Assessment is a key factor in becoming young student responsible with initiative and educated. Professor and families need to motivate, encourage exceeded all limits and orderly development of student skills, to achieve full potential. The teacher must guide students on the content and process of focusing on learning and less on the mark obtained. Parents are advised to observe the skills of their children and support them in developing child acestora. No pressured to bring high marks in all subjects, try to form a child assured, a strong personality with high self-esteem and without fear take it over again. In this case, at least in part the child has skills, they will soon occur.
A23|Relatia dintre succesul scolar si stilul de predare al profesorului [The Relationship between School Success and the Teacher’s Teaching Style]|This paper highlights the relationship between school success and teaching style. Participatory and creative learning has become the central problem of modern didactics, which started numerous researches in order to discover effective ways to educate students in the spirit of conscious and active attitudes, to engage them in a permanent learning activity and to ensure them with the capabilities that are needed for productive learning activities that require intense logical operations. This is why the communication between teachers and pupils has achieved a key element in active, participative training. Creating an appropriate social- educational context, using the methods that have the maximum efficiency and impact for each learning sequence, adapting the methods of teaching - learning - assessment to each content, to each form of organization and to the psychological profile of the students, provides the optimal setting for an intellectual development that every teacher should ensure in his class work.
A23|Managementul pedagogic [Pedagogical Management]|"Management Education / Pedagogy is the science teacher, developed through a research strategy of interdisciplinary, engaged in ""studying the events involved in the decision to organize a pedagogical activities determined in management education programs"" (The Landsheere, Gilbert). In terms of philosophy and policy of education, pedagogical management is on the one hand, a methodology to address global-optimal-strategic activity Education A) ""management system and educational process"" B) and on the other hand a leadership model of the base of the education system, applicable by the school complex (""school organization management"")."
A23|Managementul relatiilor interpersonale in scoala [Management of the Interpersonal Relationships in School]|Teachers as managers of students teams hold as an ideal both academic performance and human formation. Interpersonal relationships in school should be coordinated by teachers working with students. In class work, interpersonal relationship management is done permanently. The management of interpersonal relationships involves managing conflict situations. In schools, the conflicts are common between pupils and between pupils and teachers. Other conflict situations that occur in school are between parents and teachers, parents and students, but there may be conflicts between teachers and between teachers and school officials (director). During business hours or on break, teachers supervise and guide student behavior. Also, the teachers are developing interpersonal relationships with parents.
A23|Valorizarea personalitatii elevului prin instruire diferentiata [Valuing the Student's Personality through Differentiated Training]|"The key innovation millennium education and education management is to use multiple intelligences. An Intelligence for Succes is an Integrated set of skills, necesary to achive succes in life, no matter how one defines it within their socio-cultural context. ‘’People’s intelligence should be quantified by capitalizing on them as much as possibles. In this line of thought, recognising one’s weaknesses should stand as a starting point in conecting them and compensching for them.’’[1} Contemporary teacher should know that each student shows not only intelligence, but ""smart profiles""[2]."
A23|Managementul consilierii educationale [The Management of Educational Counselling]|The management of educational counseling is a disciplinary branch of the educational branch and at the same time a field of strategic action, integrated and complementary to that of counseling, which has as objectives: leadership, coordination, administration and control of services and programs of educational counseling. The role of the counseling is an active and proactive one, which implies the prevention of personal and educational crisis situations of the pupils.
A23|Calitati ale unui manager si management de succes [Qualities of a Successful Manager and Management]|"We hear more and more people talking about “management"" and ”manager"", nouns associated with at least one of the adjectives effective, ineffective, defective. Most often, discussions are about what managers should do and almost never about what they can do. Those of us whose knowledge is at least above average, know that managers have the freedom of movement, of action and of involvement, and the results obtained confirm or deny the value of the management. The manager, as a managerial-trained person, must have the necessary information and correctly shape the group in which they exert their manager quality, as their only task should be centered on amelioration and improving efficiency."
A23|Planificarea resurselor umane - planificarea organizationala [Planning of Human Resources. Organizational Planning]|The evaluation of the performances of an organization’s employees, also known as the evaluation of the employees’ results or employee classification, has gained a deeper meaning during the modern times rather than from a classical viewpoint; previously, it was simply regarded as estimating the degree at which an employee manages to fulfill his work duty. Each employee has a personal view regarding the achievement of performance at work, influenced by various factors, such as: education, family, past experiences, earnestness, and the desire for performance.
A23|Importanta implicarii familiei in dezvoltarea performantelor scolare ale elevilor [The Importance of Family Involvement in the Development of Students’ School Performance]|Education should play a major role in every society, because human culture cannot exist without its two important institutions: family and school. The aim of my paper was to express the importance of family involvement in a child’s education and the role of family and school collaboration. Children get their good family upbringing during early childhood and later on school continues shaping this, according to their age and personality. School is extremely important, but without the family’s involvement it will not lead to the desired purposes. The family’s involvement in a partnership with the school depends on how interested the family is in a child’s education. The more of a value school is to the family, the more involved the family will be. Children who are supported by their families, who see their parents having a pro-school attitude, achieve high school results. The family’s attitude towards school is transferred to children and it is manifested in the child’s interest in school activities, homework, school results and appreciations.
A23|Management. Istoric si evolutie [Management. History and Evolution]|"We hear more and more people talking about “management"" and ”manager"", nouns associated with at least one of the adjectives effective, ineffective, defective. Most often, discussions are about what managers should do and almost never about what they can do. Those of us whose knowledge is at least above average, know that managers have the freedom of movement, of action and of involvement, and the results obtained confirm or deny the value of the management. The manager, as a managerial-trained person, must have the necessary information and correctly shape the group in which they exert their manager quality, as their only task should be centered on amelioration and improving efficiency."
A23|Scoala - inima comunitatii si a partenerilor educationali [School – The Heart of the Community and the Educational Partners]|In the context of a society which is in a continuous changing, operating modifications in shape and substance at all its subsystems, the Romanian educational system assumes a new perspective over its functioning and evolution. The Education, under all its forms, is engaged to find solutions through which the child should adapt quichly and efficiently to the society he/she lives in. No matter how hard school may try, it can’t replace the rest of the institutions which have the mission to form the new young generation.
A23|Profesorul-manager si leader in procesul educational [Professor – Manager and Leader in the Educational Process]|Educational management is a discipline needed to improve the effectiveness of educational relations to stimulate transformation in the personality of the students, but also teachers. In the classroom, the teacher assumes the role of transmitting not only knowledge, but also the role of manager (organizer, coordinator and evaluator of the resources necessary to achieves the objectives set). As leader of the class, the teacher contribute to pupils personalities, their formations as individuals and citizens. Therefore, there is an acute need for management training, pedagogical preparation to connect to the realities and problems of the school and classroom level.
A23|Rolul stilului de conducere in managementul institutiei scolare [The Role of the Leadership Style in the Management of School Institution]|An approach regarding the management and the workplace relations within the school is required in the current operational and legislative context. The Working Group Management within the primary and pre-primary education implies certain peculiarities regarding curent tasks, taking risks, and recommended managerial styles. Therefore, we analyzed, within the kindergarten in which we operate, the relevance of the relationships between the latent and the acttual teachers leadership styles and their management potential.
A23|Leadership versus management educational [Leadership versus Educational Management]|Management notion refers to taking responsibility in achieving a goal and the efficient allotment of resources (material and human) in this purpose. On the other hand, the leadership notion refers to the process of influencing and directing of the organization members to the goal achieving. A good thought inspired formulation of management could be that of the russian poet Evtushenko who claimed that management is an “applied philosophy”. Manager is not an ordinary man, but he gets in this position because of his technical background, professional ability, but also his personality factors and the competence of approaching those in interaction with him. These factors could ensure success of an organization.
A23|Performanta managementului educational – cheia alinierii invatamantului romanesc la cel european [The Performance of Educational Management – The Key to Aligning the Romanian Educational System to the European One]|In the conditions of the decisional process’s conditions, the managers should take charge of their actions more and more, in a new cycle which supposes: data – fundaments – actions and which is, actually, the knowledge management. In this way, the accomplishment of a good organized knowledge management is imposed, in order to assure performance and efficiency in the educational domain.
A23|Antrenorul – managerul activitatilor sportive de antrenament si competitie [The Coach—the Manager of Sports Activities for Training and Competition]|Synthetically, managing requires skills of leadership from the manager who is due to fulfill the task working with other people(the practitioners). At a close analysis of the concept of ”management„ we notice a pregnant overlaping of this word with the meaning of other usual words in different contexts, for example: supervising, leadership, commandment, executive, administration, control, etc. No matter the central element of these definitions, there are some sharing elements, meaning: the need for purpose and objective for any activity; the importance of due timing in individual growth; the proper work is partially or completely done by other individuals than those who are managing it.
A23|Management educational din perspectiva relatiilor de management [Educational Management – Perspectives of the Management Relationships]|Management model with its emphasis on self- assessment, teamwork, strategy, analysis and leadership has a universal message. It is about to the establishment of equal opportunities for each and every student efficient utilization of resources, to successful operation of the institutional system, to the issue of quality and efficiency of education. The best aspects of professionalism role are about care and high academic and vocational standards. Blending the best aspects of professionalism with total quality is essential to success.
A23|Managementul educational de la origini pana in prezent [Educational Management from Origins]|The Management represent that aware process of coordination and leading of a group or individual actions and the resources of the company for reaching its socio-economical objectives. The Educational Management is very important for modern world because is training and prepare human resources, that are so necessary for the society by forming their personalities. The Educational Management is referring at the organization and usage of school personell and resources to reach the best level of performance.
A23|Managementul resurselor in institutiile de invatamant [Management of Resources in the Educational Institutions]|Within the framework of the educational institution there is a need for a change, a reform.This vision is being assured by a proper management system that gives an answer to big questions: What kind of services do we need? Who will do it? Which are the proper methods and strategies? Who will have the benefit from it? For these questions we find explanations in this present work.
A23|Managementul unitatilor de invatamant care scolarizeaza elevi cu cerinte educationale speciale [The management of school units that teach children with special educational needs]|Recently, the educational management received an important role in Romania, but also in european society. This article resumes the way in which this concept is presented in public educational institutions in Romania which admit pupils with special educational needs as well as the teacher's position who shapes the future generations and who manages the problems that occur in the classes which have children with educational special needs. Also, here are exposed some modalities to solve the problemes that may occur in the instructive educational process in the case of children suffering of CES.
A23|Abordarea modelelor colegiale in scolile gimnaziale din mediul rural [Approaching Colleague Models in Middle Schools in the Rural Environment]|"This paper aims to analyze the collegial models in schools from rural areas from the perspective of efficient management and leadership, which are highly encouraged in the 21st century educational system. For this matter, we wish to highlight the importance of the experts' authority regarding educational management, the common objectives and values of the teaching staff and also the importance of consensus in decision-making policies. Finally, this paper correlates the term ""collegiality"" with the three leadership models from the perspective of true collegiality vs. artificial collegiality."
A23|Managementul educational - ca stiinta [Educational Management – as Science]|The competence of leadership and the efficiency of education, at the system level and also at the level of the institution, requires scientifical groundwork. The basis of this groundwork/ substantiation is the educational leadership or the educational management. Being a manager of education is a profesion/ job and like any job, it has to be learned. For best result in this field, every manager must know the principles of education, the levels and functions of educational management.
A23|Strategiile manageriale in relatia scoala-comunitate [Managerial Strategies in the Relationship between School and Community]|To ensure good quality, education requires that each school to develop a strong partnership with the community. It is necessary to redefine the balance of decisions made by school education and initiatives from parents or local factors. It needs to move quickly from authoritarian and unique role of the school to a system of humanistic values, importance on responsible initiative coming from all sides involved in educating young people.
A23|Management versus leadership in societatea moderna [Management vs. Leadership in Modern Society]|A very important component of human resources in organizations is the managers. Their contribution to establishing and achieving the organization's objectives is obviously no substitute for the work of other staff, often decisive. Addressing notions of leader and manager has changed considerably over time, while also influencing the relationship between the two concepts. The relationship between leadership and management, default between leaders and managers, has generated divergent opinions between specialists and scholars in science management. Regarding the interface between leadership and management and default leader and manager of opinions specialists are different. Many authors consider that there is a clear distinction between management and leadership, while others believe that this distinction is not recommended, leadership is considered part management component targeting human dimension, in particular side or involvement of a group of people drive by a leader.
A23|Managementul resurselor umane in organizatia educationala [Human resources management in educational organization]|Human resources management plays a decisive role in the functioning and the development of an educational organization. This type of management involves assuring, developing, motivating and maintaining the human resources of the organization in order to efficiently achieve the objectives which were proposed and also to meet the needs of the employees. In order to achieve its goals, human resources management has to make the employees of the organization work the way they are required work and on the other hand the organization must also meet their needs. The development of human resources in education aims at diversifying the offers concerning the initial and continuing education and also at the career opportunities for teachers and other categories of human resources from the system of education, initial training and continuous training.
A23|Impactul parteneriatului scoala, familie si societate asupra absolventului de maine [The Impact of the Partnership between School, Family and the Society on Tomorrow’s Graduate]|Due to the ongoing dynamics of processes occurring in all political, economic, social and cultural areas, it is of outmost important the educational management to be flexible, attractive and competitive. At any level, it must focus on improving and finding new solutions for the benefit of the students and their educational organizations and proactively cope with the ongoing changes that disrupt the traditional educational management. In this paper I discuss the importance and the impact of the school-family-society partnership for the future of the students of tomorrow.
A23|Managementul educational la nivelul liceului tehnologic Crimpoia- traditie si calitate [Educational Management in Crîmpoia Technological Highschool – Tradition and Quality]|Management and leadership alike-is a blend of traditionalism and innovation, between the administration and the formation of values and goals, which leads to the development of a quality management education in the evolution of a school organization. The quality of education and Romanian school involves a reorganization such that young people are encouraged and contribute their own ideas and initiatives in community development. Thus Crimpoia High Technology promotes ethical climate of communication and trust at all levels: Head-teachers; Director -students and parents, teachers - pupils, students - students; Local school-family-community.
A23|Management educational – perspective in Romania si in lume [Educational management – perspectives in Romania and worldwide]|Due to the frequent changes in the political and economic area, problems have gradually emerged within the educational management from the highest structures downwards. Thus, research has been started, which is quantitatively reduced, on the important characteristics of the national educational-educational process. The education system has the primary role of preparing children for the future, so education can be adapted to the socio-economic-cultural conditions.
A23|Parteneriatul educational - arc peste timp [Educational Partnership – Arc over Time]|In a contemporary society, the child is the target of the influence exercised by many educational partners. Increased or tends to increase the role of district or comunity, medical institutions, organizations of parents, private organization, police or media. Families, comunities and schools are educational partners which have an overwhelming influence on the formation and personality development of students. An equally important factor is the educational relations between the three courts, mutual attitudes they develop, position it adopts each other in school-family-community relationship. The following study tries to explain the history of this partnership and the ways in wich it could be improved. I really hope that in the future school will be supported for all these partners and develop a correct administration for the benefits of the students.
A23|Managementul educational, perspective in Romania si in lume [Educational management, perspectives in Romania and worldwide]|Educational management is, in Romania and in the world, the art of working with ideas (educational objectives, analytical programs, didactic strategies), relationships (organizational structure, decentralized links), people, resources.
A23|Managementul educational - legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate - stiinta, arta, practica [Educational Management – Connection between School, Family and Society – Science, Art, Practice]|In order to understand this concept of ,, educational management” it is necessary that everyone understand what it means. So, the term ,, management” cames from economical departament; The word referres to leadership skills. The term ,,education” means, the systematic instruction, schooling or training (...). The family education lays the foundation stone for the child`s future. The school education completes family education. The educational management is considered to be a „charmed” mixture of science, art and practice and its task is to design an alternative world in which education plays a vital role in shaping tomorrows leaders.
A23|Management educational. Actualitate si evolutie [Educational Management. Actuality and Evolution]|The role of the knowledge management in organizations is to create a work environment that promotes creation, distribution, storage and use of knowledge. The explicit management of knowledge through distribution and storage of knowledge in education, promote the continuous update and development of knowledge, innovation, skills and competences, that is to say, promotes learning. In addition, knowledge management encourages employees to share their experiences and knowledge, teaching each other in formal structured activities or informally in the day to day business.
A23|Management educational – elemente introductive [Educational management – introductive elements]|Beneficiaries of educational services are increasingly demanding school requirements, requiring detailed information on their quality. Changes in the labor market in general and the European one in particular, as well as increasing mobility and professional and geographic migration flows, call for formal validated information on the quality of education and management in educational institutions. The article falls within the educational management domain and has the slogan of presenting some productive elements regarding educational education.
A23|Managementul educational – legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Educational Management – the Connection between School, Family and the Society]|Selection of educational leaders promote their management structuras rigorous criteria and continuous improvement throughout their careers, will allow their professionalisation, increase their competence and promptness acts leading to beneficial effects on the efficiency and effectiveness of the whole school.
A23|Noi perspective in managementul educational- administrare sau inovare? [New perspectives in the educational management – administration or innovation?]|Educational management is a field which must be learnt, which indicates its own managing strategy but, in the same time, it is the successful skill of connecting the resources with the organisation needs. As a manager in the educational field you must be flexible in making changes in your way of leading and you must identify the differences between management and leadership, so much discussed in the last decade. Each manager needs to identify his own strategies which are applied to his institution because they are all different.
A23|Management si leadership [Management and Leadership]|"Change is the only certainty of an ever-evolving society and the educational institutions are obliged to follow in order to meet new requirements and standards. The progression of school as an organisation becomes acute as it is more and more left behind. It is at this point that the demand of a new type of management arises, following the principles of leadership, in order for formal education to remain relevant and actual to the present social conditions. The transition to leadership might prove difficult for some managers, as being a leader implies human-oriented skills, but not impossible. The final goal? Creating the necessary context for the transformation of school into a ""learning organisation""."
A23|Managementul imaginii in institutiile de invatamant [Management of the image in educational institutions]|This study paper regarding the management of education focuses upon the importance of the preschool education and establishes need for the conceptual unity regarding the concept of quality. In a general sense, education is the process (action) by which development of the human personality is realized. It is a necessity for the individual and for society. As a result, it is a specifically human activity, carried out in the context of social human existence and at the same time is a specific social phenomenon, an attribute of society, a condition of the perpetuation and progression. Therefore, it is reported, at the same time to the society and the individual. As a form of education , the formal education can be identified by an organized, systematic and institutionalized characteristic. The whole process of permanent education, it is a period of intensive training which is a central goal of educational action.
A23|Management educational – legatura dintre gradinita, familie si societate [Educational Management – The Connection between Kindergarden, Family and Society]|This dissertation has two main ideas: the first one is the cooperation between parents and institution, the second one is the partnership between institution and educational partners. The first section of the dissertation contains a discussion about open and accepting attitude of the kindergarten educator, about different ways on how parents should be involved in the institutional education of their children, about specific ways on how to introduce some rules to children which are accepted, respected and used by parents in everyday education. In the second section of the dissertation I am looking for available methods to create an active and efficient partnership between kindergarten and its possible educational partners: local authorities, mass media, library, museum, police. Their aim is to improve and to strenghten cooperation between parents, educators and community. Conclusion: It is important to establish a good long term cooperation between the families of children, kindergarten and educational partners in order to ensure a values-based education necessary for a democratic convention and community integration.ucation, innovation etc.
A23|Managementul educational - profesorul manager in contextul celorlalte profesiuni [Educational Management – The Professor Manager in the Context of other Professions]|"Management indicates a certain mentality, a personal manner, but also an art-handling, drive resources (Human), elements of the organization, which corresponds to consider itself as a science and art education. Educational management methodology would be an optimal global approach-education-strategic activity, but not a leadership model based unit of the education system, applicable by the school complex. Management education / teaching occurs as interdisciplinary teaching discipline, studying ""events that occur in the decision of organizing a determined pedagogical activities and in management education programs""."
A23|Managementul educational – perspectiva in Romania si in lume [Educational management – perspective in Romania and worldwide]|Educational management requires an interdisciplinary approach, which studies the events that take place in the decision to organize a certain pedagogical activity and in the management of educational programs. Managerial leadership also involves emphasis on ideas, on a systematic approach, on change, on innovation strategy. Educational management is a methodology of a global, optimal, strategic approach to education, the set of principles and functions, rules and methods of leadership that ensure the achievement of the objectives of the educational system.
A23|Management educational – legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Educational Management – Connection between Kindergarden, Family and Society]|The school needs to be more actively involved in maximizing the intelectual potential of each individual. This kind of stimulation helps an individual shape his or hers own personality. The partnership between school, family and comunity has to not only support and help the student to achieve the desired success in school, but also prepare the student for the next chapter in life. Involving the parents, local comunity and school in the student’s education, creates a functional support, that helps the individual develop professionally, ethically, morally and the integrity within the society nonetheless. A modern society has to be formed by the individuals that are responsible and well prepared profesisonally.
A23|Sansa la o viata normala! [A chance for a good life!]|Special needs students can develop abilities needed for a normal life but the environment needs to change in order to allow themselves to evolve. There should be a continuously interaction and change between these students and their environment. The students learn to adapt to the environment and the environment changes due to interaction with these students.
A23|Managementul educational- actualitate si evolutie [Educational Management – Actuality and Evolution]|Management education as a field of study and practice, was spun off, obviously of general management principles. In Romania, the term educational management came quite recently after the communist regime, its application in education still looming. Education management, viewed from today's perspective, but also from the future, looming as a central romanian education as a gateway to the mysteries of the world, ensuring the quality of information sent new generation preparing people for life, so that tomorrow be better than today.
A23|Invatarea organizationala [Organizational learning]|The paper addresses the concept of learning organizational emphasizing the following issues: the role of learning in ensuring the competitiveness of organizations; the currents of thought in defining organizational learning; the principles of organizational learning approach; types of organizational learning as well as the five disciplines of the learning set forth to Peter Senge.
A23|Problemele managementului haotic si birocratia excesiva din invatamantul romanesc [Issues of Chaotic Management and Excessive Bureaucracy in Romanian Educational System]|The Romanian education system is currently plagued by excessive beureaucracy and a lack of direction that gives the overall impression of a complete lack of organization, rather than the excessive regulation at the root. The following article attempts to analyze the effects of deficient management as one of the driving factors in the unravelling of the national education system, along with its potential threat to the private sector under the guise of state regulation, and speculates to the potential future implications of a perpetually faulty management structure on a national level, while outlining several potential solution strategies.
A23|Management educational – legatura dintre scoala, familie si societate [Educational Management – Connection between Kindergarden, Family and Society]|In order to integrate in a society, a person needs education, which usually starts in the family. The family is where the child starts to first build up the character and the personality, in this context, the parents being the first factors in a child’s education. Social events such as divorce or parents fleeing abroad for work have a negative impact on the child’s education. In the pre-school and early school years, the parents continue the education process alongside the teachers. The school contributes to the child’s education by forming a good managerial activity and a tight collaboration with the family and the local comunity. This process helps the child into building an adequate personality and integrate in the everday social life.
A23|Improvement of the Instruments for Studentsï¿½ Performance and Assessment in the Field of International Finance and International Politics|Students' assessment represents an integral part of the education process. It can be defined as processes and practices, applied by the academic staff with the purpose of obtainï¿½ing the most objective assessment of the stuï¿½dentsï¿½ achievements. The methods of teaching, the forms of studentsï¿½ performance and the inï¿½struments for assessment are highly diverse but there are certain practices that can make the assessment and the education process more effective. The article presents in a synthesized manner the results of a team research, which aims to explore the good practices in the field that are applied in leading European and American universities. It also includes proposals for improvement of the instruments for assessment of the students mainly in the field of international finance and international politics.
A23|Regulation, Institutions and Aggregate Investment: New Evidence from OECD Countries|Abstract This paper investigate the relationship linking investment (capital stock) and structural policies. Using a panel of 32 OECD countries from 1985 to 2013, we show that more stringent product and labour market regulations are associated with less investment (lower capital stock). The paper also sheds light on the existence of non-linear effects of employment protection legislation (EPL) on the capital stock. Several alternative testing methods show that the negative influence of EPL is considerably stronger at higher levels. Finally, and importantly, the paper uncovers important policy interactions between product and labour market policies. Higher levels of product market regulations (covering state control, barriers to entrepreneurship and barriers to trade and investment) tend to amplify the negative relationships between EPL and the capital stock and ETCR and the capital stock. Equally important is the finding that the rule of law and the quality of (legal) institutions alters the overall impact of regulations on capital deepening: better institutions reduce the negative effect of more stringent product and labour market regulations on the capital stock, possibly through the reduction of uncertainty as regards the protection of property rights. This result also implies that the benefit from product and labour market reforms may be smaller in countries with weaker institutions.
A23|Creación de Comunidades (CoP) y Redes de Práctica docentes (NoPs) para mejorar el aprendizaje activo en el contexto universitario<BR>[Creation of teaching Communities (CoP) and Networks of Practice (NoP) for enhancing active learning in the University context]|Resumen: En este trabajo se propone un modelo global que permita impulsar la implementación de Comunidades de Práctica (CoPs) y Redes de Práctica (NoPs) como instrumentos para mejorar el aprendizaje activo en las universidades. Se trata de diseñar un modelo en que los profesores puedan agruparse en redes locales de docentes (CoPs), insertas éstas a su vez en redes nacionales o internacionales, en las que la figura de expertos en diferentes metodologías activas resulta crucial. Todo ello, con el objetivo de superar los problemas y limitaciones derivados de la aplicación aislada y no uniforme de metodologías activas que, en términos generales, realizan los docentes de las universidades españolas. Los beneficios de crear y consolidar estas estructuras son múltiples, tanto para profesores, estudiantes, como para la propia institución. Ello ha de repercutir de forma indudable en una mejor formación del capital humano y social, al combinar conocimiento, el dominio de este conocimiento y la práctica compartida. En una universidad de calidad es esencial la capacidad de dar respuestas rápidas, eficaces y profesionales a las necesidades de los docentes a la hora de aplicar nuevas metodologías docentes y estas redes pueden convertirse en la respuesta a esta demanda. En este sentido, la acción colectiva tanto a nivel local como extra-local puede estar promovida por las instituciones, quienes además deben incentivar la movilidad presencial o virtual de los docentes y, sobre todo, promover la interacción entre docentes con el fin de mejorar de forma eficiente su propio aprendizaje activo en términos de metodologías activas. This paper proposes a global model to enhance the implementation of Communities of Practice (CoPs) and Networks of Practice (NoPs) as tools to improve active learning at universities on the principles of trust and sharing practice. We aim to design a model where academics can be grouped in local networks of teachers (CoPs), inserted in national or even international frames, where the presence of experts in active learning methodologies turns out to be decisive. The main goal of this scheme is to overcome some issues and limitations derived from the isolated and non-uniform application and use of active learning methodologies existing in the Spanish University context. The benefits of creating and consolidating the network approach to promote active learning with different levels are numerous, not only for academics and students but also for the institutions themselves, as it combines knowledge, shared domain and practice and an opportunity to organizational changes and intangible outcomes. In fact, we believe that enhancing teaching performance will benefit an evolving social learning model, a better training of human capital and therefore generating social capital. In a high-quality university context, the capability of providing a quick, effective and professional answer to academics’ needs on the use of active methodologies becomes a key factor. Institutional support should enable the collective action at the local and extra-local level. Besides, it can stimulate the face-to-face or virtual teacher’s mobility, and above all, to promote the interaction between academics with the final aim of improving their own active learning of active methodologies.
A23|Economics case study: Harvard Business School pedagogy techniques: From teaching entrepreneurship to influencing business policy through research|The case study explains the need for social entrepreneurship while remaining in the premise of mainstream economics. A detailed discussion is carried out on the vulnerabilities of economic policy making that has led to some of the new initiatives at Harvard Business School to promote such pedagogy practices at Business Schools that may eventually influence national and international policy making to the benefit of the society and not only the economies of developed and developing countries. Two brief cases are presented. First one takes evolution of HBS course at a Pakistani university to develop superior pedagogy for student learning towards social entrepreneurship. The other case maps the journey of bilateral relationships between China and Pakistan from Free trade agreement to CPEC as a matter of national policy to evaluate local business risks and potentials.
A23|Image, Credibility and Reputation: Perceptions of Deceitful Corporate Communication in the Classroom|In 2013, Drummond Ltd., a coal mining company, concealed and lied about the occurrence of a major coal spill on Colombia’s northern coast. In light of a pedagogical exercise in an executive education context, this paper analyzes international observers’ perceptions about the deceitful behavior of this multinational company when communicating with stakeholders after the mentioned accident took place. I do it by testing three constructs—perceived corporate image, credibility, and reputation—on a two-round basis, i.e., before and after the revelation of the company’s deception through its official ex-post communications. For that to happen, a combined exercise of group-based inquiries and individual self-administered surveys was performed. Respondents were 174 professionals of diverse nationalities and backgrounds, all of them enrolled in several graduate programs at an accredited French school of business. When both moments of measurement were compared, results showed a clear decrease in the mean value of all three constructs, but an increment in variability of responses. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed in light of the effects of deception in corporate communication, and the importance of this topic for the managerial education in general.
A23|Economic Education Retrospective|The American Economist has a long and significant history of publishing research in the field of economic education. This article provides a review and synthesis of the 70 economic education articles published by the journal between spring 1990 and spring 2015. The authors discuss The American Economist â€™s contribution to the field of economic education according to four primary themes: program design, instructional and assessment methodology, instructional materials, and student outcomes.
A23|Undergraduate Mathematics Courses Required and Recommended for Admission to Economics PhD Programs in the United States|This note presents a list of mathematics courses, normally taken at the undergraduate level, which are required or recommended as part of the admissions criteria for all economics PhD programs in the United States. The data in this note were gathered through a survey of PhD program directors, retrieval of data from PhD program websites, and personal conversations with PhD program directors in the United States. All of the data were collected during the spring and summer of 2016.
A23|Higher Education and Economic Growth: Evidence from Africa|This paper assesses the economic contribution of tertiary education for a sample of 13 African economies over the time period 1990-2013. Using a Panel VAR framework to account for the dynamic and endogeneous relationship between tertiary education(TER) and growth, our findings show that TER is positively and significantly related to the economic growth of the sample of African countries under study. It is noteworthy that the magnitude of the TER coefficient remains relatively smaller as those obtained for developed country cases and samples. Interestingly the study also found the presence of a reverse causation as output appears to be also a determinant of TER. In other words, output level which proxies for the earning capacity of the economy play an important role in TER, which is mostly financed by the government in the countries under study. In addition to the national income, domestic investment, education attainment, foreign direct investment and openness level being other determinants of such TER for these countries. Moreover, there is evidence that TER encourages private investment suggesting some indirect effects of TER on output via the private capital channel. As such similar indirect effect through the FDI channel is observed.
A23|Catching up or falling behind? Promising changes and persistent patterns across cohorts of economics PhDs in German-speaking countries from 1991 to 2008|Abstract We investigate economics PhDs minted at German, Austrian, and Swiss universities from 1991 to 2008. We find that cohort sizes increased overall, and the share of PhDs who publish in a peer-reviewed journal within 6 years after graduation increased from 18% in 1991 to 46% in 2008. Publishing rates are heterogeneous across departments. Younger cohorts publish slightly more compared to older cohorts, but these publications are not significantly better in terms of quality. Publication productivity is highly skewed within and between departments. A key difference between PhDs of the German-speaking area and North America lies in their patterns of collaboration.
A23|Commodity Science in Ukraine: Present And Future|Formation and development of commodity science and training specialists in this field in Ukraine are shown. The most important components of training highly qualified specialists in commodity science in KNUTE is analyzed. The basic t asks of commodity science development for the future are formed.
A23|Assessment of The Risks Posed by Heavy Metals Contained in Consumer Products Using The Bioindicative Measuring Method|The problem dealt with in this research work refers to not unequivocally defined safety requirements that relate to consumer products such as clothes, shoes, toys, upholstered furniture and decorative items. The aim of the study was to find out if any of the so - called heavy metals included in products as components of chemic al substances used during finishing processes might pose a real risk t o consumers. For the realization of the research purpose the samples of materials in which high quantities of heavy metals were detect ed have been subjected to extraction in different kinds of solution extracts and then the extracts were analyzed for the presence of such elements as nickel, copper, lead, cadmium and chrome. To verify the toxicity effect of extracts, the bioindicative measuring method based on ciliate sp. test organism s was applied. Changes in test organisms’behavior were analyzed based on microscopic observations and spectrophotometric measurements.
A23|Financial Capacity: Do students know what they need to know?|This paper reports a survey aimed at assessing students’ financial awareness and knowledge in the fields of banking and personal, corporate and public finance. The survey on the financial capability of students at the Gdansk University of Technology employed a questionnaire containing 64 questions. It lasted 6 months (June – November 2015) and involved 414 students. It was designed to collect comprehensive information regarding financial capability including knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviour. The present study has shown that the greatest shortcomings of students’ financial knowledge are in the areas of personal finance and corporate finance and they lack satisfactory skills in the fields of public finance and corporate finance. This means that we should now pay attention to the associated learning outcomes. Furthermore, university policy should be geared toward encouraging employers to notify universities of their expectations. On this basis, universities can change their programmes to help engineers make the right financial decisions. This study conducted among the students at the Gdansk University of Technology has allowed us to take a comprehensive look at many issues which could also be the subjects of study in other socioeconomic groups. On the basis of this study we are able to indicate some proposals for desirable changes of direction in the field of research concerning the financial knowledge, skills and awareness of students, and also the possibility of developing them in educational programmes.
A23|"A ""Model"" Model: McCloskey and the Craft of Economics"|In this essay, I highlight some of the contributions of Deirdre McCloskey to the practice of economics as a teacher and scholar. I highlight her influence on my teaching and scholarship in the areas of economic education and economic freedom.
A23|Die ökonomische Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Zum interdisziplinären Selbstverständnis der Volkswirtschaftslehre|Die moderne Volkswirtschaftslehre wirkt auf andere Wissenschaften, auf die Gesellschaft und die Politik ein. Im Kontext dazu wird in dem Paper das disziplinäre Selbstverständnis von Ökonominnen und Ökonomen herausgearbeitet, wie es den wichtigsten Lehrbüchern des Faches inhärent ist. Anhand von Thomas S. Kuhns Konzept der Lehrbuchwissenschaft wird die zentrale Bedeutung des Lehrbuches für die moderne Volkswirtschaftslehre aufgezeigt und dann im Rückgriff auf einschlägige Lehrbuchliteratur des Faches untersucht, welche wissenschaftshistorischen, methodologischen und didaktischen Grundpositionen darin festgehalten sind und im Rahmen akademischer ökonomischer Bildung vermittelt werden.
A23|Herausforderungen und Erfolgsfaktoren bei der Einführung Cloud-basierter Unternehmenssoftware: Erfahrungen aus der Praxis|Mit der zunehmenden Verfügbarkeit Cloud-basierter Softwarelösungen ergeben sich für Unternehmen neue Optionen für die Bereitstellung der für die Geschäftstätigkeit notwendigen Informationsinfrastruktur. Auf Basis eines konkreten Szenarios im Unternehmenskontext sowie einer strukturierten Analyse von Best-Practice-Beispielen und einschlägigen Literaturstellen beschreibt das vorliegende Arbeitspapier typische Fallstricke bei der Einführung und Ausgestaltung eines Cloud-basierten Enterprise-Resource-Planning-Systems (ERP). Dabei wird zwischen inhaltsbezogenen und prozessbezogenen Gestaltungskriterien unterschieden und für die untersuchten Kriterien die wesentlichen Erfolgsfaktoren in Form eines Leitfadens herausgearbeitet. Dieser kann bei konkreten Projekten wiederum als Hilfestellung dienen, um das Projektrisiko bei der Einführung einer Cloud-basierten Lösungen zu minimieren.
A23|Noun Gender in Romanian, a Lexical-Semantic Category|The aim of our research is to prove the fact that the gender of Romanian nouns cannot and should not be considered a grammatical category, but a lexical-semantic category, since this part of speech has gender even at a lexical level, a category that also ascends to the immediately superior level: the grammatical one. In contemporary grammar treatises, numerous linguists argue that gender belongs to the axis of grammatical categories that are specific to the Romanian noun, along with number, case and determination. At the same time, it is not a novelty that the gender of nouns, at the level of this entire class in the Romanian language, even where the phenomenon of gender suffixation is involved, does not represent a flectional criterion for this lexical-grammatical class, which does not have distinct opposable forms that mark out the class in question, unlike in the case of pronouns, adjectives or numerals. The actualization of the gender category in nouns, compared to its materialization in the other parts of speech that feature it and in which its status is undoubtedly that of a grammar category, should be discussed in entirely different terms. The grammaticalization of gender that has three components – masculine, feminine and neuter – in the other parts of speech from the nominal group confirms the existence of this category in nouns, but does not entail its grammaticalization in this lexical-grammatical class. Asserting that the gender of nouns is a fixed, given category pertains to the semantics of the part of speech in question. The oppositions between the category members are achieved between different lexemes, hence, outside the flective, and not between different flectional units and/or subunits.
A23|The Era of Crowning the Woman, as a Feminine Era|The present paper starts from a “gender relations” analysis to other explorations within the theological classic discourse (marked by the patriarchal pattern and by a marginality of woman condition, both as “Creator of values and civilization, of life and education”, and also, as a “positive presence, endowed with a personal, legitimate conception and discourse about the world, the gender relations and about herself”). We bring into attention challenging paradigms as “Feminine Era’, “Eon of Holy Spirit”, “The Era of Crowning the Woman” as tools for exploring modalities of surpassing the vitiated, obsolete pattern of patriarchalism and to search for real femininity, for real feminine values and ways of conceiving and transforming the world and the human being, the history, the theological discourse and the axiology. All these paradigms have as premise the woman as active, dynamic, creative, multi-dimensional, affirmative presence, capable and willing to enter into history and to shape it according to her perspectives and values. It is an Age of feminine dynamism and involvement in the private and public decisions, in the regional, national, trans-national and global decisions, in the theological, political, civilizational decisions, anywhere the patriarchal pattern exists. In this Era of the Woman, under the inspiration and the gifts of the Holy Spirit that is the Life Creating God, the feminine power is perceived as being construed in terms of love, care, protection of the underprivileged, marginalized, poor categories. Woman is taking the lead, by affirming her beauty, splendour and multi-dimensional ways of being herself, away from the limited and vitiated pattern of patriarchalism.
A23|The Graphic Novel – a Representation Medium of the Contemporary Society|The Graphic Novel obtained its cultural legitimization after a period of more than two Centuries when the Comic Strip had been unfairly considered as entertainment culture, vulgar and childish type of reading, or an environment for the propagation of illiteracy, violence and vices, with demoralizing and anti-educative effects. All these are implied within the meaning of the very term that made the Comic Strip famous: comics. Starting with the second half of the Twentieth Century many artists have written graphic novels where they have argued with complex socio-political problems, such as war and peace, democracy and totalitarianism, the concern for the environment, racism and intolerance, unemployment, the role of the individual in the society, depicting protests and social movements. In this article we render how the Graphic Novel, as a medium for the representation of the contemporary society, has contributed to the classification of the Comic Strip as the 9th Art. We shall analyse genres and topics addressed by artists, aiming at increasing the quality of discourse and narrative image in parallel with the cultural awareness of the public. We will also follow the process for the cultural legitimization of the Comic Strip from a criticised and censored reading to a respected one, with intellectual value, resulting in the inclusion of Comics in art galleries, museums and festivals mainly intended for adult audience.
A23|Tradition and Universality in Romanian Modern and Contemporary Portraiture|In Romanian art, portraiture evolved throughout a significant period, starting the medieval times until the present, and went through numerous changes in vision and technique. In this article, we will refer to a series of aspects specific to the modern and contemporary era of Romanian art, which are periods of maximum blossom of portraiture, when many artistic personalities distinguished themselves. We intend to analyse a series of remarkable works of art that have become true benchmarks of portraiture. We will refer to some of the most representative creators who stood out in this artistic genre, by evoking famous names of notable portraitists of the past two centuries. Touched by influences of western art but keeping, at the same time, an important genuineness mark due to our national cultural specificity, the evolution of Romanian portraiture aligned with the broader European trend of the genre, being recognized due to an individualized approach of features as well as to a careful speculation of the psychological depths of the represented models. In the current context, all these aspects concur in a character of integration of these works in the much more complex universal artistic phenomenon of portraiture.
A23|The Preposition-Opposeme of the Romanian Substantival Non-Ts|The aim of our paper is to prove that, in the Romanian language, at the intrapropositional level, the preposition/prepositional phrase can actualize two hypostases: preposition-relateme, marking the presence of relational meaning, vs preposition-opposeme, marking the absence of relational meaning, depending on the syntactic position in which it occurs alongside certain parts of speech with the status of lexemes, our analysis focusing on the substantival class: structural syntactic position of the type part of sentence and syntactical function, whatever these are, vs. non-structural syntactic position. Apposition or – as it is accepted, from a didactic point of view, by the Cluj-based neotraditional relational School of Grammar with which our research is affiliated – real apposition, by contrast with false apposition, is considered by G. G. Neamþu to be a non-structural syntactic position of the parenthetic or explanatory type, a peculiar syntactic phenomenon, which cannot be relationally subsumed through either coordination or subordination; in other words, it is a syntactical non-function or a non-Ts, regardless of the part of speech through which it is expressed. The placement of the preposition/prepositional phrase in front of the apposition does not change the non-relational context in which the latter is found (it becomes a preposition-opposeme and the apposition remains a non-Ts) or the casual substantival regime of this morphological value; it imposes, in the case of the substantival class that follows it (since Romanian is an inflected language), one of three possible cases – the accusative, the genitive or the dative. In the absence of the preposition/prepositional phrase, the flective of the substantival apposition represents, in its entirety, an opposeme (a unit of expression without a relational sense), a flective-opposeme, as the expression of the grammatical categories of opposition, implicitly, and the case, a flective-opposeme of case, the latter existing in a dichotomy with the flective-relateme of case, which may be actualized in certain syntactic structural positions of the type part of sentence and syntactic function, in the absence of the preposition-relateme.
A23|Direct versus Indirect Rewards for the Attraction of the Employees|What do employees need most in terms of rewards? There is a “optimum package” for rewarding? What percentage of direct and indirect rewards should contain a reward strategy? These are only a few of questions that are elucidated with this paper. In order to make a clear image about direct and indirect possible rewards, this article defines: wages, bonuses, premium pay, participation at profit, different incentives, other direct rewards, mandatory and pension rewards, insurances, paying the not worked time and other indirect rewards and benefits. Further, the theoretical background move forward and make connections also to the legislative connotation of the rewards. The main legislative texts discussed that influence Human Resource Management in terms of direct and indirect rewards are: Law 571/2003 from the Fiscal Code, Title IV from the Labour Code and Employee Benefits from the International Accounting Standards.
A23|"""The Senior Tourism"" in Russia: the Study of Motivation and Satisfaction Customers"|"In the study, we carried out a street survey, the objective being to identify the needs of older people in cultural and recreational activities. The results, based on a convenience sample of 195 people aged 65 years and older. The survey involved older people from St. Petersburg and guests of the city. Our study showed that the majority of older people want to lead an active life, to gain additional knowledge and skills to master new technologies, to communicate, to fill life with events, get positive emotions. Surprising: when conducting a sociological survey respondents did not put deterioration in the financial position to retire in the first place among their problems. It was found that older people are easier to adapt to a worse financial situation than to constant psychological stress, loneliness. Loneliness is what worries people today. This is a powerful destabilizing factor affecting health and the psycho-emotional state. In this regard, it is possible to offer a number of promising products that use the technology of tourism and recreation for older people: educational technology, technology museum, creative educational and cultural technology; technology volunteer activities; social entrepreneurship. Development of specialized cultural and educational tours for the consumer segment ""the senior tourism"" on the basis of the above technologies will help an older person to engage actively in public life and to keep up with modern life, using his full potential and internal reserves. The paper gives examples of the best Russian cultural practices in the segment ""the senior tourism"". The paper contains proposals for the managerial implications for product development and marketing to the market ""senior tourism""."
