A32|Effects of Psychological Factors in Life|"Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, emotion,intelligence, phenomenology, motivation, brain functioning, personality, behavior, and interpersonal relationships, including psychological resilience, family resilience, and other areas. Psychologists of diverse orientations also consider the unconscious mind.[5] Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causaland correlational relationships between psychosocial variables. In addition, or inopposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some?especiallyclinical and counseling psychologists?at times rely upon symbolic interpretationand other inductive techniques. Psychology has been described as a ""hub science"", with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, humanities, and philosophy. While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatmentof mental health problems, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in several spheres of human activity. By many accounts psychology ultimately aims to benefit society. The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings. Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior, and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings (e.g., medical schools, hospitals). Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas[9] such as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law. We will consider social factors of psychological problems in life through this paper."
A32|Boko Haram Insurgency: A Re-Visit To Economic Community Of West African States Free Movement Policy|BOKO HARAM INSURGENCY: A RE-VISIT TO ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES FREE MOVEMENT POLICY ABSTRACT Nigeria is facing security challenges occasioned by activities of a terrorist group called Boko Haram. The main objective of the group is establishment of an Islamic Theocracy with 7th century Wahhabis dictum enunciated in the Quran and Hadith. Boko Haram have demonstrated capacity to perpetrate act of terror in both military and civilian zones in most parts of Northern Nigeria and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Testimonies of BOKO HARAM combatants caught in action and surviving victims established the fact that, most of the top echelon and other ranks are citizens of neighbouring States who used ECOWAS citizens free movement agreement to come into the country, and most of them without their national identification papers. Because of this development and its threat to national security, Nigeria needs to weigh the implication of upholding clause warranting unhindered entry and exit of citizens of neighbouring countries. It is possible to be a member of the Sub-regional body and pull out of the clause of free movement of citizens, consequent to the insecurity facing the nation. Once that is done, threat and capacity to unleashed terror by Boko Haram will be drastically scaled down to negligible proportions. National interest and survival should supersede any sub-regional solidarity policy that is becoming a threat to the survival of the state and the wellbeing of its citizens. Keywords: Boko Haram, ECOWAS, Free Movement and Security
A32|"Professional Readers Challenged Again by Prof. Dr. Bernd Hallier with ""Food Waste Management"""|"Prof. Dr. Bernd Hallier, President of European Retail Academy, keeps working and moving ""FoRWaRd""… and announces a new challenging book: ""Food Waste Management. Systeme gegen Lebensmittelverschwendung""."
A32|Sustainable agriculture and rural development in terms of the republic of Serbia strategic goals realization within the Danube region. Rural development and (un)limited resources|International Scientific Conference „SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN TERMS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA STRATEGIC GOALS REALIZATION WITHIN THE DANUBE REGION - rural development and (un)limited resources“, which was held in period 5-6th June 2014 in Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia, through number of presented papers mainly provides an overview of results of scientific research on the integrated and interdisciplinary project No. III 46006 „SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN TERMS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA STRATEGIC GOALS REALIZATION WITHIN THE DANUBE REGION“. Besides the authors from Serbia in Thematic Proceedings are also presented the papers of authors from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania, Romania, Russia, Belarus, Poland, Austria and USA. The papers are systematized in 3 thematic sections: I RURAL ECONOMY IN THE FUNCTION OF INTEGRAL LOCAL DEVELOPMENT (section was represented by 30 papers); II ALLOCATION AND VALORIZATION OF RESOURCE POTENTIALS OF RURAL AREAS (section was represented by 26 papers); III THE REFORM OF THE EU COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY – A NEW DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK FOR THE PERIOD 2014-2020 (section was represented by 7 papers).
A32|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
A32|Formal REA model at operational level|Despite a lot of attention gained by the Resource-Event-Agent (REA) framework among researchers in enterprise modeling, it still lacks comprehensive formal description. Most of the formalization approaches to REA use only UML or other graphical representation. This paper aims to define REA ontology at operational level using formal logic tools. The general approach to formal logic description of REA was motivated by LTAP introduced by Ito, Hagihara and Yonezaki. After basic REA concepts are presented, semantics and logical language LREA are defined including axioms for the REA operational level. Future research is shortly described in conclusion.
A32|Book or paper, the trends in financial research|Traditionally, research results produced within the community of scholars in economics of financial intermediaries has been published as a book, while recently an alternative output, the «paper», often in English, published by an international journal after a review process, has gained ground.The Italian association on banking studies (Adeimf) has supported the creation of a web catalogue of recently published of Italian books.
A32|NBER International Seminar on Macroeconomics 2005|The NBER International Seminar on Macroeconomics brings together leading American and European economists to discuss a broad range of current issues in global macroeconomics. An international companion to the more American-focused NBER Macroeconomics Annual, the 2005 volume first explores macroeconomic issues of interest to all advanced economies, then analyzes topical questions concerning the eastward expansion of the European Monetary Union.
A32|Magison-ison: A parallel reality construction of war among Joloano Muslim Survivors in Sulu, Philippines|The Mindanao conflict in Southern Philippines is a long-standing controversy that has eluded comprehensive solutions. Despite efforts of the Government of the Philippines (GRP) and the representatives from the peoples of Mindanao in undertaking peace initiatives, “the war:” continues. The establishment of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) as embodied in an organic law provided in the 1986 Philippine Constitution has not seemed to bring about the much-anticipated progress. Even with the so-called “autonomy” already in place to substantiate the clamor of the Muslims for self-rule in the Tripoli Agreement, conflict has escalated signifying unrest among the people. Instead of dealing with the problem from the standpoint of an “outsider” who may know about the Mindanao conflict from what they hear, the study attempted to get a glimpse of “the war” from the “insiders” who have survived and lived to tell their own stories. From the perspectives of two distinct peoples of Sulu- the Christian and Muslim Joloanos, the study was able to penetrate the heart of conflict in Mindanao. The study was able to visualize “the 1974 war” and the on-going conflicts from two cultural lenses and in the process was able to demonstrate a “parallel reality construction” among the war survivors who provided interesting insights of “the war” from their “fantasy themes”. The research has not only surfaced conflicting notions in their revelations of “the war” as experienced (subjective realities) but has generated elements of “convergence” as their experiences were correlated with the institutionalized beliefs of war (objective realities) or the war as told. Despite distinct subjective realities, they have shown proclivity towards parallel perceptions. The Joloano war survivors’ subjective realities as applied in the study include their psycho-social trauma of the war and their portrayal of the role of “the other” culture as co-survivors of war. Among the elderly, descriptions of their fears and negative emotions have strongly echoed “old prejudices”. Among the middle-aged, “prudence” and tact in their narratives revealed a tendency to rationalize and to show sympathy towards “the other” culture. From the young war survivors a propensity towards confronting their dilemma suggested optimism and resilience in their perceptions. Transitions in the subjective realities of the war survivors are apparent across culture and age. Opposing views are very strong among the elderly except for one Christian and a Muslim who are associated with “the other” culture by reason of marriage with them. The older Christian Joloanos for instance believe that the war was “unnecessary” while the older Muslims were convinced it was “inevitable”. The study has strongly shown that “shifts” in perceptions could be anchored on the participants’ religious beliefs and changing circumstances that come with age, political set-up, economic climate and inter-marriage among others. Their reactions towards the prevailing issues of war (media war issues, other concepts and beliefs of war) which constitute the institutionalized-objective realities as defined in the study are “convergent” despite distinct experiences and personal circumstances. They have for example generally shown disagreement towards the commonly held concept that the mass media function to crystallize relevant issues, like the war in Mindanao. The majority of the co-authors furthermore negated the belief of the general public that “Christians and Muslims can never co-exist peacefully, and that the 1974 war was a form of “jihad” or a religious war among Muslims. In the study therefore, communication has been proven once again to play a vital role in clarifying issues of the Mindanao conflict. It performed an emancipatory role in ways that provided rhetorical and psychological relief by allowing an occasion for war survivors to deconstruct their realities through their narratives. And to reconstruct their meaning of war by actively taking part in correcting prevailing notions of war to bring about the much needed change in a war-torn community like Sulu.
A32|Frontiers in Health Policy Research, Volume 5|This important series presents timely economic research on health care and health policy issues. Each volume contains papers from an annual conference held in Washington, D.C. Topics include the effects of health policy reforms, changes in health care organization and management, measurement of health outcomes, health care output and productivity, the role of health-related behavior, health and aging, health and children, and health care financing.
A32|David W. Slater: An Economist for All Seasons|Festschrift literally means “celebration-writing” in German. And that is what this volume is. It celebrates the remarkable career of David Slater, which in the best Queen’s University tradition of John Deutsch and Clifford Clark spanned academia and public service, on the occasion of his 80th birthday. It follows an old academic tradition that at an appropriate stage in the career of an eminent scholar a volume be put together in their honour containing the writings of colleagues. Usually, the writings must have something to do with the scholar’s life work. In David Slater’s case, this was an easy task as his research and interests have been omnivorous. Finding contributors was also easy as over David’s long career he had many colleagues, friends and students who jumped at the chance to honour him and to participate in this endeavour. The purpose of this introductory chapter is to give an overview of David Slater’s life and career.
A32|Frontiers in Health Policy Research, Volume 4|This important series presents timely economic research on health care and health policy issues. Each volume contains approximately five papers from an annual conference held in Washington, D.C. Topics covered include the effects of health policy reforms, changes in health care organization and management, measurement of health outcomes, health care output and productivity, the role of health-related behavior, health and aging, health and children, and health care financing.
A32|Overview of the Festschrift|Festschrift literally means “celebration-writing” in German. And that is what this volume is. It celebrates the remarkable career of David Slater, which in the best Queen’s University tradition of John Deutsch and Clifford Clark spanned academia and public service, on the occasion of his 80th birthday. It follows an old academic tradition that at an appropriate stage in the career of an eminent scholar a volume be put together in their honour containing the writings of colleagues. Usually, the writings must have something to do with the scholar’s life work. In David Slater’s case, this was an easy task as his research and interests have been omnivorous. Finding contributors was also easy as over David’s long career he had many colleagues, friends and students who jumped at the chance to honour him and to participate in this endeavour. The topics covered by the papers in this volume include: fiscal federalism, taxation, pensions, international economics, globalization, regional issues, environmental economics, and labour economics. This overview provides a brief summary of each paper.
A32|Hemispheric dominance and language proficiency levels in the four macro skills of Western Mindanao State university college students|This study was conducted to determine the relationship between the hemispheric dominance (HD) and the English proficiency (EP) scores in the four macro skills of the Western Mindanao State University college students. It hypothesized that students’ HD would have a significant correlation a) with their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading and writing, b) with their global EP score, c) with both the macro and global scores when respondents would be grouped according to age, gender and area of specialization. In this study, there were 240 respondents selected through purposive, stratified, and random sampling techniques from the 5,096 students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education. Using the standardized HD Test, the standardized Listening and Reading Comprehension Tests, the researcher-made Speaking and Writing Skill Tests and Cloze Test and employing mainly the Pearson r for the statistical analysis, the study concluded: 1) that most of the students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education of Western Mindanao State University were left-brained (74.6%); 2) that the students were “good” in speaking, “fair” in listening and writing skills but “ poor” in reading and in global English; 3) that there was no significant relationship between the students’ hemisphericity and their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading, writing and global proficiency tests; and 4) that a significant relationship was shown between HD and EP scores when respondents were grouped according to age and area of specialization only.
A32|Frontiers in Health Policy Research, Volume 3|This series presents economic research on health care and health policy issues. The papers are written primarily for a policy audience. Each volume contains approximately five papers from an annual conference held in Washington, D.C. Topics covered include the effects of health policy reforms, changes in health care organization and management, measurement of health outcomes, health care output and productivity, the role of health-related behavior, health and aging, health and children, and health care financing.
A32|Frontiers in Health Policy Research, Volume 2|This series presents policy-relevant economic research on health care and health policy issues. The emphasis is on papers written primarily for a policy audience. Each volume contains approximately five papers from an annual conference held in the spring in Washington, D.C. Topics covered include the implications of health care policy provisions, health care organization and management, health outcomes, health care output and productivity, health-related behavior, health and aging, and health and children.
A32|Fiscal Policy: Lessons from Economic Research|Policymakers are often hard-pressed to understand what economists have to say on policy issues, and scholars and students need to know what the latest research findings are and what questions remain unanswered. Fiscal Policy: Lessons from Economic Research presents the work of leading contributors to the public finance literature. The papers were originally presented at a 1996 conference sponsored by the Robert D. Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California, Berkeley. Although the papers are broad in scope, they are not intended to be neutral, comprehensive surveys of the literature. Instead, authors were encouraged to focus on the issues they thought most important or interesting. The conference confirmed that on some questions there is a broad consensus, and on others there is strong disagreement. Because perspectives differ, after each paper two discussants offer their own views on the subject. More so than in many conference volumes, these comments are an integral part of each presentation. The eight chapters fall into three subject areas: government budget management and control, federal entitlement programs, and attempts to influence private sector behavior through tax code management.
A32|Notes on Operations Research, 1959|A collection of lectures from a special summer program at MIT's Operations Research Center treats topics in operations research for industry, military services, and governmental departments, beginning with the principles and application of probability theory.
A32|Review of Money and Calculation: Economic and Sociological Perspectives|There has been a considerable revival of academic interest in questions about the fundamental nature of money and its role in modern capitalist economies during the past decade. This has been evident mainly in the social sciences outside the mainstream of academic economics, but even here there has been some attempt to resolve the paradox that formal economic theory—particularly equilibrium theory—has been unable to explain money’s existence and to assign it an essential role in its models. These questions have become increasingly important and unavoidable in the face of the enormous expansion of evermore complex calculations of risk and value in financial and money markets. This collection of essays is the result of a workshop held at Bocconi University in May 2008 to explore these issues from a diversity of perspectives—phenomenology, economics, sociology and some contributions that defy such conventional classification.
