A33|Social Accounting Matrix: A user manual for village economies|The application of Social Accounting Matrices (SAM) is well established at the national level and provides a comprehensive economic framework. The procedure for developing national SAMs is extensively documented in literature. However, it can also be constructed for smaller economies, such as a village. Studies dealing with village SAMs are rare. In addition, there are hardly any guidelines for design. This gap will be addressed in this paper, which provides a manual for the construction of a village SAM. Theoretical principles and data requirements are discussed. A hypothetical village SAM is constructed by using numerical examples. Subsequently, the SAM of a real-world village case study from Zambia is analyzed. It is demonstrated how macroeconomic indicators can be calculated and microeconomic information obtained. Furthermore, a village SAM provides the database for scientific modelling approaches which are presented. Village SAMs are thus a useful management tool and support policy planning at local and regional level.
A33|Machine learning at central banks|We introduce machine learning in the context of central banking and policy analyses. Our aim is to give an overview broad enough to allow the reader to place machine learning within the wider range of statistical modelling and computational analyses, and provide an idea of its scope and limitations. We review the underlying technical sources and the nascent literature applying machine learning to economic and policy problems. We present popular modelling approaches, such as artificial neural networks, tree-based models, support vector machines, recommender systems and different clustering techniques. Important concepts like the bias-variance trade-off, optimal model complexity, regularisation and cross-validation are discussed to enrich the econometrics toolbox in their own right. We present three case studies relevant to central bank policy, financial regulation and economic modelling more widely. First, we model the detection of alerts on the balance sheets of financial institutions in the context of banking supervision. Second, we perform a projection exercise for UK CPI inflation on a medium-term horizon of two years. Here, we introduce a simple training-testing framework for time series analyses. Third, we investigate the funding patterns of technology start-ups with the aim to detect potentially disruptive innovators in financial technology. Machine learning models generally outperform traditional modelling approaches in prediction tasks, while open research questions remain with regard to their causal inference properties.
A33|The Effects of Drama Education on Student Self-Concept in Senior Secondary Education|The Effects of Drama Education on Student Self-Concept in Senior Secondary EducationW.B.A.Vitharana Department of Languages, Cultural Studies and Performing ArtsUniversity of Sri JayewardenepuraNugegoda, Sri LankaWijayasri@sjp.ac.lkAbstractThere is a significant amount of attention given to student self-concept in education today. It is known that low confidence can lead to a variety of issues such as intellectual underachievement, academic overachievement, drug addiction and aggressive behavior. Also, comprehensive educational reform movements such as multiculturalism and cooperative learning can to a certain extent improve student self-concept. The theoretical foundations of this study are linked to the theoretical work in cognitive development, psychomotor development and movement, self-concept, and perceived wellness. The key theorists include Jean Piaget, Moshe Feldenkrais, Rudolf Laban, and Albert Bandura. Drama is a performance which comes from a balanced body of facts and can successfully lead to lifelong value. The achievement comes from presentation, participation and the creation of drama. Thus drama education is a major contribution to a person?s well-being when it comes to the mind-body interaction; benefiting the individual emotionally, cognitively, and physically. This study explores the effectiveness of formalized drama education and training on student performance, particularly regarding the overall perceived wellness and self-concept of drama students in grade eleven. Drama, as an art form and formal guidance method, is an important resource that can give out a link to cognitive development, emotional growth and psychological health in adolescents, which is also associated with the academic performance of students. This study focuses on documenting the relationship between drama and its influences on the variables by comparing students who are both involved and not involved in drama programs. A significant difference is found between drama and non-drama for perceived wellness, self-concept, and cumulative marks. The evidence supports constructive contact on academic performance, but there is a need for involvement that addresses recovered views of wellness and self-concept among the drama population. Key Words -self-concept, drama education, cognitive, psychomotor, emotional, psychological, adolescence
A33|Paolo Sylos e Vito Laterza, un’amicizia oltre i libri (Paolo Sylos Labini and Vito Laterza, a friendship beyond the books.)|"The author shares some memories about the professional and private relationship between Paolo Sylos Labini and Vito Laterza, his commissioning editor at publishing house Laterza. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Paolo Sylos Labini e la politica delle riforme"", held at Sapienza University of Rome on 04 December 2015, organized by the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia Civile."
A33|A Manual for Selecting Sampling Techniques in Research|The Manual for Sampling Techniques used in Social Sciences is an effort to describe various types of sampling methodologies that are used in researches of social sciences in an easy and understandable way. Characteristics, benefits, crucial issues/ draw backs, and examples of each sampling type are provided separately. The manual begins by describing What is Sampling and its Purposes then it moves forward discussing the two broader types: probability sampling and non-probability sampling. Later in the text various types of each of the broader category are discussed. Reading the manual from beginning to the end you will find some points are repeated under various headings. This is done to make each topic exclusively a complete whole so that there might not remain any requirement to read other topics for understanding the one. Also, similar examples with a little modification are used in the description of different sampling techniques. The purpose behind doing this is to clarify the minor distinction in the applicability and usage of different types of sampling techniques. I have also included a section Comparison of some Resembling Sampling Techniques, the purpose of which is to eliminate confusions among the techniques that look somewhat similar to each other. Both types of characteristics are described: that make the techniques resembling, and that create the difference between them. In the section Which Sampling Technique to use in your Research, it has been tried to describe what techniques are most suitable for the various sorts of researches. So one may easily decide which particular technique is applicable and most suitable of his or her research project. There are three appendices in the manual which are giving a concise view of all the techniques discussed in the text. Appendix I is giving a comparison of two broader categories of sampling methods: probability, and non probability. Appendix II is portraying a brief summary of various types of probability sampling technique. Appendix III is presenting a brief summary of various types of non-probability sampling technique. A glossary is also provided in the manual. The words that are used as synonyms to one another are mentioned. Moreover, definitions of the terms that are repetitively used throughout the manual are provided. The words defined in the glossary are written with italic letters in the text.
A33|Business cycles and growth|Volume III contains entries on the development of major fields in economics from the inception of systematic analysis until modern times. The reader is provided with succinct summary accounts of the main problems, the methods used to address them and the results obtained across time. The emphasis is on both the continuity and the major changes that have occurred in the economic analysis of problematic issues such as economic growth, income distribution, employment, inflation, business cycles and financial instability. Each Handbook can be read individually and acts as a self-contained volume in its own right. It can be purchased separately or as part of a three-volume set.
A33|Donatello Strangio & Giuseppe Sancetta (Eds.), Italy in a European Context: Research in Business, Economics, and the Environment|Contributing to support the diffusion of an European culture and sense of citizenship. This is the aim of the book “Italy in a European Context: Research in Business, Economics, and the Environment” edited by Donatella Strangio & Giuseppe Sancetta. It is a collection of scholarly articles that cover the main issues related to role of Italy offering different perspectives ranging from economics and management, among others. It is a good read not only for students and scholars with a specific interest in the subject, but also for the institutions willing to reflect on the various issues surrounding the book. The authors contributing to this handbook are leading scholars conducting research on different fields. In fact, one of the main strengths of the book is the variety of perspectives offered by its chapters. After an introduction by the editors, the book is structured into two parts. The first section helps in understanding the critical role played by EU economic policies and aspects that concern political and social inequality. The second section of the book focuses on issues concerning counterfeiting, finance and environment.
A33|Importance of Psychological Effects in Life|"The word psychology derives from Greek roots meaning study of the psyche, or soul (???? psukh?, ""breath, spirit, soul"" and -????? -logia, ""study of"" or ""research""). The Latin word psychologia was first used by the Croatian humanist and LatinistMarko Maruli? in his book, Psichiologia de ratione animae humanae in the late 15th century or early 16th century. The earliest known reference to the word psychology in English was by Steven Blankaart in 1694 in The Physical Dictionary which refers to ""Anatomy, which treats the Body, and Psychology, which treats of the Soul."" In 1890, William James defined psychology as ""the science of mental life, both of its phenomena and their conditions"". This definition enjoyed widespread currency for decades. However, this meaning was contested, notably by radical behaviorists such as John Watson, who in his 1913 manifesto defined the discipline of psychology as the acquisition of information useful to the control of behavior. Also since James defined it, the term more strongly connotes techniques of scientific experimentation. Folk psychology refers to the understanding of ordinary people, as contrasted with that of psychology professionals. Through this paper, we study effects of psychological factors in life."
A33|A Note on Credit Spread Forwards|This note presents the most commonly used definition of credit spread forwards discusses two alternative definitions and proposes one of these three definitions as the standardized version that should be used in the future to prevent confusion In addition this note gives an overview on the definition of this credit derivative contract in the most relevant hand and textbooks in banking and credit risk management that include topics on credit derivatives It also exemplifies by means of one textbook that although being a standard textbook in banking and financial institutions management for years and read by thousands of practitioners and students there are still books that erroneously mix definitions which motivates the present note
A33|Handbook on DSGE models: some useful tips in modeling a DSGE models|Despite there are useful books and text books from recognized authors about modeling macroeconomics through various types of methods and methodologies, “Some Useful tips in Modeling a DSGE models” try to add special features through an economist can use to model macro and micro relations to explain different scenarios in an specific economy. In this sense, this work begin since basic conceptions of difference equations to build a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium model covering special topics like rule – of – thumb consumers, monetary and fiscal policies, sticky prices, investment and problem of the firms, topics in Dynare and others.
A33|Utilitarianism and anti-utilitarianism|Volume III contains entries on the development of major fields in economics from the inception of systematic analysis until modern times. The reader is provided with succinct summary accounts of the main problems, the methods used to address them and the results obtained across time. The emphasis is on both the continuity and the major changes that have occurred in the economic analysis of problematic issues such as economic growth, income distribution, employment, inflation, business cycles and financial instability. Each Handbook can be read individually and acts as a self-contained volume in its own right. It can be purchased separately or as part of a three-volume set.
A33|Forecasting and Policy Making|Policymakers use forecasts to project the consequences of particular policy decisions for certain policy targets. This chapter investigates the use of economic forecasting in policy making by discussing practical examples, providing new empirical evidence and computing forecasts using different macroeconomic models. First, a theoretical framework is presented to differentiate the role of forecasts in simple feedback rules, optimal control policies, and forecast targeting. Then, we review institutional details of the forecasting process at fiscal authorities and central banks. We provide empirical evidence that central bank policy rate decisions in the United States and the Euro area are well described by interest rate rules responding to forecasts of inflation and economic activity rather than recent outcomes. Next, we provide a detailed exposition of methods for producing forecasts. We review forecasting models and provide practical applications. In particular, we illustrate how to use economic structure in interpreting forecasts and how to implement different conditioning assumptions regarding certain planned policy initiatives. Finally, we evaluate the accuracy of central bank and expert forecasts and investigate the interaction between forecasting and policy making by evaluating the performance and robustness of forecast-based policy rules under model uncertainty.
A33|Financial Markets|"This paper provides a brief exposition of financial markets in Post Keynesian economics. Inspired by John Maynard Keynes's path-breaking insights into the role of liquidity and finance in ""monetary production economies,"" Post Keynesian economics offers a refreshing alternative to mainstream (mis)conceptions in this area. We highlight the importance of liquidity-as provided by the financial system—to the proper functioning of real world economies under fundamental uncertainty, contrasting starkly with the fictitious modeling world of neo-Walrasian exchange economies. The mainstream vision of well-behaved financial markets, channeling saving flows from savers to investors while anchored by fundamentals, complements a notion of money as an arbitrary numeraire and mere convenience, facilitating exchange but otherwise ""neutral."" From a Post Keynesian perspective, money and finance are nonneutral but condition and shape real economic performance. It takes public policy to anchor asset prices and secure financial stability, with the central bank as the key public policy tool."
A33|Testing for adverse selection of crop insurance in northern China|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the efficiency of current subsidized crop insurance products (SCIPs) in Miyun county, in northern China, by testing the existence of adverse selection. Design/methodology/approach - The authors examine the efficiency of SCIPs from a farmers' point of view by testing the existence of adverse selection using nonparametric tests and logit regression on data from individual interviews in Miyun County. Due to adverse selection, producers with more risk should be more likely to buy crop insurance in pursuit of the benefits from SCIPs. Findings - However, both methods conclude no existence of adverse selection, which indicates that the programs are inefficient. This may not be surprising based on the issues of concern cited above. The opportunities and challenges of a growing interest in weather index insurance are discussed toward the end of the paper. Originality/value - This paper weaves together literature on traditional and weather index insurance, along with primary data from a survey, to examine the pros and cons of each type of insurance. Implications for policy makers are to compare the tradeoffs between concerns of the two types of insurance examined here, traditional and weather index insurance. Ultimately, the political goals might best determine which option is most desirable.
A33|Desarrollo de capacidades para emprender. Una metodologí­a para el apoyo de microemprendimientos productivos|This article aims to present and disseminate the work done in a research funded by the Sectorial Commission for Scientific Research (CSIC, Universidad de la República), which developed a methodology to support micro entrepreneurs at the Local Development Center of North Carrasco in Montevideo. The research developed a methodology of work for he technical teams of the institutions thar promote entrepreneurship in populations with social vulnerability characteristcs, with the objective of promoting capabilities on potential entrepreneurs in order to be protagonists in the construction of their own future as a space of freedom and empowerment. This required the construction of a conceptual framework for a comprehensive approach to the problem, considering: economic-productive subjects; motivations, desires and needs of the potential entrepreneurs; the environment; capacity building; prospective analysis; and the production of subjectivity as an individual and collective process that affects the link between the entrepreneur, its environment and the workplace. Then, this article presents the main issues related to the conceptual development involved in the methodology, as a result of an interdisciplinary approach. Detailsof how the methodology is implemented in practice can be read in a manual (which is the main product of the research) that has been recently published.
A33|A strategic risk management program for agriculture|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate how an organized framework for risk management called Risk Navigator SRM Design/methodology/approach - The program makes complex risk principles easier to understand and access by linking together disparate and difficult risk management concepts into a single strategic risk management (SRM) framework. The strategic framework is organized into ten steps in order to organize and develop a practical and applied risk management plan. This paper demonstrates the SRM process in a crop insurance example. A simple version of the program, called Risk Navigator Lite Findings - This manuscript elaborates upon how the SRM process may be effectively implemented by agricultural producers. The information herein should also help students of risk management better comprehend how to apply what they learn. Originality/value - The contribution of Risk Navigator is to make underused, sophisticated risk management concepts and tools more available to farm and ranch managers, and others, by putting them into a framework that is both easy to use and comprehensive.
A33|Stylized Facts in the Geography of Innovation|The geography of innovation describes the importance of proximity and location to innovative activity. As part of what has been termed the new economic geography, this area of research is less than 20years old, and is now developed sufficiently so that the discussion can be organized around certain stylized and commonly accepted facts:•Innovation is spatially concentrated.•Geography provides a platform to organize economic activity.•All places are not equal: urbanization, localization, and diversity.•Knowledge spillovers are geographically localized.•Knowledge spillovers are nuanced, subtle, pervasive, and not easily amenable to measurement.•Local universities are necessary but not sufficient for innovation.•Innovation benefits from local buzz and global pipelines.•Places are defined over time by an evolutionary process.
