A39|A Framework for Brand Rejuvenation: Private Universities in Malaysia|Objective – University branding becomes critical issue due to increasing number of private universities in Malaysia. Although education efforts in Malaysia has been continuously progress, institutions have difficulties to maintain as a powerful brand in competitive industry. Methodology/Technique – Bringing back a brand that consumers already familiar can save a lot of money. While some of institutions are able to maintain its brand image, some are still struggling even to meet the break even and unable to reposition the brand. While there are past studies and experiences on brand knowledge structures in hand, it is still confusing stage for how one could rebuild the brand image to achieve the intended positioning. Findings – The academic literature is particularly sparse in addressing this, and it is a confusing issue for the practitioners. The research discovers the theoretical foundations that relate to rebranding concepts and most critical factors that contribute to rebuilding the brand image of private institutions in Malaysia. Novelty – The current study seeks to shed light on the challenges of undertaking a rebranding exercise and introduce a framework that caters to the needs of brand managers at higher education institutions in Malaysia. Type of Paper: Review.
A39|Experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months|This research was conducted with the objective of investigating the experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months. This study employed phenomenology in line with the concept of Husserl. The informants for the study comprised thirteen full-time working mothers who with exclusive breastfeeding experience over the past two years and success in exclusive breastfeeding for six months. Data was collected by conducting in-depth interviews and content analysis under the method of Colaizzi (1978).The findings on the experiences of the full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfed for six months were categorized into the following three groups: 1) The meaning of breastfeeding exclusively for the first six months was a) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is symbolic of the perfect family; b) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is best for the baby; c) exclusively breastfeeding for six months is a maternal role and duty, combined with feelings of maternal pride, breastfeeding joy, mother-child contentment, maternal kindness, self-worth and attachment; 2) the reasons for exclusively breastfeeding for six months were three-fold a) intention and determination; b) previous experience and witnessing examples; c) supportive encouragement and motivation and 3) the management of exclusively breastfeeding for six months comprised the following: a) planning for exclusive breastfeeding; b) period of return to work; c) management of problems and barriers to exclusive breastfeeding occurring during the preparation period for returning to full-time work. These research findings provide understanding about the perceptions, feelings and experiences of full-time working mothers who exclusively breastfeed for six months, which may be used as a guideline for the development of a holistic nursing practice guideline aimed at effectively promoting successful exclusive breastfeeding for six months.
A39|Ways Of Using Humor In Interpersonal Relationships: An Analysis Between Turks And The Spanish|Humor is an effective and significant part of interpersonal relations. Humor has always had a slight role in maintaining or ending relationships, and in relational conflict management. People make their addressee laugh by cracking a joke, receive their approval, and win them over or gain self-confidence.Besides the fact that humor facilitate the solution of many problems in relationships, the partners may choose to use humor at the breaking points of their relationships, and this may cause the relationship to end.Expressions (actions) are created by using various functions of humor in relationships (Affiliative humor, Self-enhancing humor, Aggressive humor, Self-defeating humor). Since it facilitates the hardships, humor has always been the most popular way of dealing with stuff in relationship conflicts. Humor is most frequently used when solving problems. However, this may lead to adverse outcomes if the partner?s vulnerabilities are neglected. A sense of humor on a common ground is one of the essential building stones of a sound relationship.This study has been designed to reveal the most common function of sense of humor used by the Turkish and the Spanish in their ?nterpersonal relationships. In-depth interviews conducted with 5 Turks and 5 Spaniards through questions regarding four different styles of humor in HSQ Humor Styles Questionnaire (Martin et al., 2003) form constitute the research methodology of this study.
A39|Code of Conduct for MNCs in relation to Environment Issues|?Meeting environmental objectives are part of a dynamic and integrated process in which economic, social and environmental objectives are closely intertwined?. This declaration made at the Rio+20 Declaration on Justice, Governance and Law for Environmental Sustainability encapsulates the basis of legal framework governing and regulating Multinational Corporations. Globalisation has benefited MNCs largely and the world has noticed that countries often undervalue their natural resources in order to attract investments from such gigantic corporations. Regulating and controlling MNCs is a complex task since they have become global actors with great economic power and political influence. Therefore, the international community, comprising of global and civil society organizations, expressed concerns about environmental degradation caused by industrial activities and demanded greater awareness with respect to business decisions that might have a prospective impact on the environment. Resultantly, considerable number of international instruments and multilateral agreements providing for environmental protection were adopted. However, what concerns us is the skewed debate on the role such MNCs play in ensuring sustainable development.So, what is the real threat that is posed by MNCs? The authors, through this paper, have highlighted the major affects of operations of MNCs on environment and the role played by governments at national level, in trying to reduce the negative impacts. International law does not provide easy solutions to the social and environmental issues posed by the activities of MNCs, since it is addressed to state parties and therefore, does not impose obligations directly upon such corporations. This trend led to the proliferation of international as well as domestic codes of conduct for MNCs. The authors seek to establish the nexus between MNCs and the environmental issues, highlighting the incidents of Ecuador, India, Bougainville, Ivory Coast, Nigeria and Papua New Guinea. The sanctity of these codes of conduct for MNCs, in promoting standards of ethical business practices, is marked well through case analysis and changing legal systems of different nations.This paper dwells upon the aspects of state sovereignty, sustainable development; polluter pays principle, precautionary principle, and principle of preventive action, co-operation, and principle of common but differential responsibility. In review of some of the most significant codes of conduct at international level, we have tried to propose a socially desirable standard which the MNCs could unhesitatingly self-apply in their business plans. Lastly, the paper summarizes the role of MNCs in imparting environment friendly technology and ideas in developing states through foreign investment.
A39|Importance of Psychological Effects in Life|"The word psychology derives from Greek roots meaning study of the psyche, or soul (???? psukh?, ""breath, spirit, soul"" and -????? -logia, ""study of"" or ""research""). The Latin word psychologia was first used by the Croatian humanist and LatinistMarko Maruli? in his book, Psichiologia de ratione animae humanae in the late 15th century or early 16th century. The earliest known reference to the word psychology in English was by Steven Blankaart in 1694 in The Physical Dictionary which refers to ""Anatomy, which treats the Body, and Psychology, which treats of the Soul."" In 1890, William James defined psychology as ""the science of mental life, both of its phenomena and their conditions"". This definition enjoyed widespread currency for decades. However, this meaning was contested, notably by radical behaviorists such as John Watson, who in his 1913 manifesto defined the discipline of psychology as the acquisition of information useful to the control of behavior. Also since James defined it, the term more strongly connotes techniques of scientific experimentation. Folk psychology refers to the understanding of ordinary people, as contrasted with that of psychology professionals. Through this paper, we study effects of psychological factors in life."
A39|The Use of Local Plans in Limiting the Expansion of Outdoor Advertising in the Public Space as Exemplified by Coastal Communes of Western Pomerania|The aim of this paper is to determine whether municipalities have sufficient tools for shaping spatial policy allowing to maintain or gain (recovery) order and aesthetics of public space as well as whether these tools are used. For the analysis six coastal communes of Western Pomerania have been selected. The reason behind the selection as the object of the analysis of the coastal communes was the assumption that, due to their location in the attractive tourist space, those municipalities are on the one hand subjected to strong pressure senders of advertisers and, at the same time, users of this space expect a high level of spatial aesthetics as a place of recreation and rest.
A39|Boko Haram Insurgency: A Re-Visit To Economic Community Of West African States Free Movement Policy|BOKO HARAM INSURGENCY: A RE-VISIT TO ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES FREE MOVEMENT POLICY ABSTRACT Nigeria is facing security challenges occasioned by activities of a terrorist group called Boko Haram. The main objective of the group is establishment of an Islamic Theocracy with 7th century Wahhabis dictum enunciated in the Quran and Hadith. Boko Haram have demonstrated capacity to perpetrate act of terror in both military and civilian zones in most parts of Northern Nigeria and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Testimonies of BOKO HARAM combatants caught in action and surviving victims established the fact that, most of the top echelon and other ranks are citizens of neighbouring States who used ECOWAS citizens free movement agreement to come into the country, and most of them without their national identification papers. Because of this development and its threat to national security, Nigeria needs to weigh the implication of upholding clause warranting unhindered entry and exit of citizens of neighbouring countries. It is possible to be a member of the Sub-regional body and pull out of the clause of free movement of citizens, consequent to the insecurity facing the nation. Once that is done, threat and capacity to unleashed terror by Boko Haram will be drastically scaled down to negligible proportions. National interest and survival should supersede any sub-regional solidarity policy that is becoming a threat to the survival of the state and the wellbeing of its citizens. Keywords: Boko Haram, ECOWAS, Free Movement and Security
A39|The Family Business in Collectivist Societies: Traits and Implications|The way a family business functions is greatly influenced by the structure of the society it originates from. A wide range of literature has recently attempted to emphasise that it is, therefore, not possible to create global family business theories without taking into consideration the remarkable differences that cultural and traditional context can make. Our attention is drawn to the role that collectivism plays in influencing family culture and the way in which it manifests in entrepreneurial activity throughout family generations. Collectivist societies and the family culture experienced by its individuals can have an important influence on the family business and the entrepreneurship it fosters. The term “collectivist society” describes how individuals often behave while following imposed sets of social patterns. On a smaller scale the same paradigm applies to family businesses where the family and the business life cycles complete each other. Hamza El Fasiki, Head of Research and Studies at the Moroccan Center for Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship, describes the impact of the collectivist society on the family business paradigm and explores how organisational and family culture become one, and the power hierarchy that ensures.
A39|The Family Business in Collectivist Societies: Traits and Implications|The way a family business functions is greatly influenced by the structure of the society it originates from. A wide range of literature has recently attempted to emphasise that it is, therefore, not possible to create global family business theories without taking into consideration the remarkable differences that cultural and traditional context can make. Our attention is drawn to the role that collectivism plays in influencing family culture and the way in which it manifests in entrepreneurial activity throughout family generations. Collectivist societies and the family culture experienced by its individuals can have an important influence on the family business and the entrepreneurship it fosters. The term “collectivist society” describes how individuals often behave while following imposed sets of social patterns. On a smaller scale the same paradigm applies to family businesses where the family and the business life cycles complete each other. Hamza El Fasiki, Head of Research and Studies at the Moroccan Center for Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship, describes the impact of the collectivist society on the family business paradigm and explores how organisational and family culture become one, and the power hierarchy that ensures.
A39|Valuation of foreign direct investment positions - final report|The mandate of the Task Force on Valuation of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Positions was to review the methods to value direct investment positions stated in Annex III of the Guideline ECB/2011/23 on External Statistics. In particular, the work of the Task Force was focused on reviewing recent developments that may justify amendments to the current method and assessing whether new methods to be applied in the national contributions to the euro area aggregate would lead to a more reliable international investment position (i.i.p.), in particular by increasing the consistency in the valuation of FDI assets and liabilities. The report concluded that in some cases where the use of own funds at book value (OFBV) data would lead to significant biases in the national net i.i.p., other valuation methods than OFBV could be used, adding that national compilers shall exchange information on those positions with the other relevant Member State(s). National compilers should then consider, on a case-bycase basis, adjusting the valuation of those positions in order to strive for a consistent recording of these investments by counterpart EU countries. The Task Force JEL Classification: A39, C82, F21
A39|Teachers’ Perception Regarding Malpractices used in Examinations in Urban areas of District Peshawar|The study aimed at investigating factors associated with malpractices used in Secondary School Certificate Examination in the Urban Areas of District Peshawar. The main objectives of the study were to gather information from teachers about various cheating techniques used in examinations and know main factors that force students to cheat in examinations. Twenty (20) educational institutions for boys, including public and private, were purposively selected from urban areas of District Peshawar for the data collection. Questionnaires were distributed among 60 teachers of sampled High and Higher Secondary Schools in order to collect data. Majority of the respondents agreed to the fact that students usually use small chits as cheating technique in S.S.C. examination as they considered it safer and easier to hide from the examination conducting staff. The study further showed that the board officials, colleagues of the duty staff (examination conducting staff), fear of stopping of annual increments, pressure from the higher authority, poor standard of teaching, parents, and well reputation of institutions were key factors responsible for cheating in Secondary School Certificate Examination in urban areas of district Peshawar. An encouraging aspect of the study is also that the principals of the institutions were not involved in this unfair activity.
A39|Introduction of the Profit Surface|The profit surface is a visualization technique for data computed from trading rules. I simulate price paths and operate the trading rules to compute cumulative returns for the rule under different specifications. The specifications are pairs of integers, filter lag lengths, so a contour plot is useful to display cumulative returns for more specifications than can be shown otherwise.
A39|A bibliometric review of the research papers of the Central Bank of Turkey|This paper presents a bibliometric assessment of the research papers produced in the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey from 1988 to 2009. Concentration over subjects and the Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) classification codes are provided in addition to the time distribution of bibliography cited in the research papers. Overall, it is observed that the examined series did provide an adequate pool of knowledge for both academics and the general public.
A39|State of Governance in Bangladesh: Problems and Prospects|This paper discusses the problems and issues on the political failures in Bangladesh as well as identifies some possible solutions. The approach here is analytical mostly reviewing current news, reports and other related materials. A comparative study is also done between the present and proposed system to get a quick glimpse on the overall situation. The idea here is to seek out reasonable and practical solutions that would yield better result for Bangladesh and bring about positive changes in the political scenario that would allow the country to move forward as a successful and dignified nation. I’ve kept the scope of this paper limited to political party, elections and governance.
A39|The Reform Treaty: Its Impact on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)|The Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) was created in 1993 by the Maastricht Treaty1 as the second of the three pillars that shapes the European Union. The main coordinator of the CFSP is the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy (High Representative CF/SP). Under the ¨European Constitution¨ the pillar structure was going to disappear, which meant that the role of the CFSP would be further incorporated into the functions of the rest of the Union. Moreover, the office of the High Representative was going to be merged with the post of the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs to create a “Union Minister for Foreign Affairs.” However, the project of the ¨European Constitution¨ is programmed to be transformed into a ¨Reform Treaty¨. This paper will examine how the “Reform Treaty” will modify the functions of the CFSP, the position of High Representative CF/SP, and its role on the international stage.
A39|Cost Return Analysis of Cocoyam Production at NRCRI, Umudike|A cost return analysis of cocoyam production at the National Root Crops Research Institute Umudike showed that the enterprise is profitable. Labour constituted about 50% of total variable cost of production, which is the most important resource in cocoyam enterprise. A hectare cost of cocoyam production was N140, 114 while total revenue was N257, 400 and net return was N117, 286. The study showed that small-holder cocoyam enterprise is profitable by returning N1.27 for every N1.00 spent.
A39|Magison-ison: A parallel reality construction of war among Joloano Muslim Survivors in Sulu, Philippines|The Mindanao conflict in Southern Philippines is a long-standing controversy that has eluded comprehensive solutions. Despite efforts of the Government of the Philippines (GRP) and the representatives from the peoples of Mindanao in undertaking peace initiatives, “the war:” continues. The establishment of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) as embodied in an organic law provided in the 1986 Philippine Constitution has not seemed to bring about the much-anticipated progress. Even with the so-called “autonomy” already in place to substantiate the clamor of the Muslims for self-rule in the Tripoli Agreement, conflict has escalated signifying unrest among the people. Instead of dealing with the problem from the standpoint of an “outsider” who may know about the Mindanao conflict from what they hear, the study attempted to get a glimpse of “the war” from the “insiders” who have survived and lived to tell their own stories. From the perspectives of two distinct peoples of Sulu- the Christian and Muslim Joloanos, the study was able to penetrate the heart of conflict in Mindanao. The study was able to visualize “the 1974 war” and the on-going conflicts from two cultural lenses and in the process was able to demonstrate a “parallel reality construction” among the war survivors who provided interesting insights of “the war” from their “fantasy themes”. The research has not only surfaced conflicting notions in their revelations of “the war” as experienced (subjective realities) but has generated elements of “convergence” as their experiences were correlated with the institutionalized beliefs of war (objective realities) or the war as told. Despite distinct subjective realities, they have shown proclivity towards parallel perceptions. The Joloano war survivors’ subjective realities as applied in the study include their psycho-social trauma of the war and their portrayal of the role of “the other” culture as co-survivors of war. Among the elderly, descriptions of their fears and negative emotions have strongly echoed “old prejudices”. Among the middle-aged, “prudence” and tact in their narratives revealed a tendency to rationalize and to show sympathy towards “the other” culture. From the young war survivors a propensity towards confronting their dilemma suggested optimism and resilience in their perceptions. Transitions in the subjective realities of the war survivors are apparent across culture and age. Opposing views are very strong among the elderly except for one Christian and a Muslim who are associated with “the other” culture by reason of marriage with them. The older Christian Joloanos for instance believe that the war was “unnecessary” while the older Muslims were convinced it was “inevitable”. The study has strongly shown that “shifts” in perceptions could be anchored on the participants’ religious beliefs and changing circumstances that come with age, political set-up, economic climate and inter-marriage among others. Their reactions towards the prevailing issues of war (media war issues, other concepts and beliefs of war) which constitute the institutionalized-objective realities as defined in the study are “convergent” despite distinct experiences and personal circumstances. They have for example generally shown disagreement towards the commonly held concept that the mass media function to crystallize relevant issues, like the war in Mindanao. The majority of the co-authors furthermore negated the belief of the general public that “Christians and Muslims can never co-exist peacefully, and that the 1974 war was a form of “jihad” or a religious war among Muslims. In the study therefore, communication has been proven once again to play a vital role in clarifying issues of the Mindanao conflict. It performed an emancipatory role in ways that provided rhetorical and psychological relief by allowing an occasion for war survivors to deconstruct their realities through their narratives. And to reconstruct their meaning of war by actively taking part in correcting prevailing notions of war to bring about the much needed change in a war-torn community like Sulu.
A39|Hemispheric dominance and language proficiency levels in the four macro skills of Western Mindanao State university college students|This study was conducted to determine the relationship between the hemispheric dominance (HD) and the English proficiency (EP) scores in the four macro skills of the Western Mindanao State University college students. It hypothesized that students’ HD would have a significant correlation a) with their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading and writing, b) with their global EP score, c) with both the macro and global scores when respondents would be grouped according to age, gender and area of specialization. In this study, there were 240 respondents selected through purposive, stratified, and random sampling techniques from the 5,096 students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education. Using the standardized HD Test, the standardized Listening and Reading Comprehension Tests, the researcher-made Speaking and Writing Skill Tests and Cloze Test and employing mainly the Pearson r for the statistical analysis, the study concluded: 1) that most of the students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education of Western Mindanao State University were left-brained (74.6%); 2) that the students were “good” in speaking, “fair” in listening and writing skills but “ poor” in reading and in global English; 3) that there was no significant relationship between the students’ hemisphericity and their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading, writing and global proficiency tests; and 4) that a significant relationship was shown between HD and EP scores when respondents were grouped according to age and area of specialization only.
A39|Seniority and Monopsony in the Academic Labor Market: Comment|No abstract is available for this item.
A39|Seniority and Monopsony in the Academic Labor Market: Comment|No abstract is available for this item.
