B00|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.
B00|From Integrated Capitalism to Disintegrating Capitalism. Scenarios of a Third World War|In the last decade significant changes in capitalism are appearing, it entered a new stage. After the political breakdown of Feudalism in World War 1 a stage of capitalism that aimed at integration of all parts of society was slowly developing. 15 years later the authoritarian regimes of national socialism, Fascism, intermitted the evolution of Integrated Capitalism. Since 1945 it flourished again, though its political governance on a global level in recent decades ran into more and more contradictions. After the deep economic crisis of 2008 a turning point towards authoritarian governance of capitalism - in particular in the USA - is evident. Since this type of new nationalist authoritarian capitalism destroys global integration it is called Disintegrating Capitalism. An immediate consequence of the global contradiction between worldwide interwoven production processes and rivalries between nationalist regimes is a rapidly rising danger of a third World War. The second, more speculative part of the paper explores possible forms, which this WW3 could take on. A conclusion provides some ideas on possibilities to react to war tensions.
B00|Introduction : Malaise dans la science économique ?<BR>[Introduction: Economics and Its Discontents]|"This is the introductive chapter to the book ""Wassily Leontief and Economics"", published in February 2019 (ENS editions). Economists produce their statements and forecasts from devices articulating abstract theories with mathematical models and statistical instruments of measurement. What is the empirical significance of these theories, models and instruments? We consider this question from the reflection of Wassily Leontief, 1973 Nobel Prize winner, on the role of mathematics and statistical analysis in economics. His perspective makes it possible to reconsider why, in economics, ""the connection does not go by itself"" between the theory and the observation, according to the expression of Alain Desrosières. We reconstruct Leontief’s methodology of economics as an empirical science. From there, we show how the input-output device paves the way to empirical and disaggregated macroeconomics."
B00|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B00|A Century of Education in Romania|Education is not just a matter of national interest, it's strategic, it's a fundamental interest. For over 100 years, the Romanian education system has been constantly changing. At present, there is still a need to modernize the national education system and to create mechanisms for integrating young graduates into the labor market according to their professional training. The year 2018 is an anniversary one in Romania. Statistics of education could reflect the social development of the nation, in term of education system evolution and structure during the last century. This paper presents a summary of data on education collected from a diversity of old statistical yearbooks, historical studies and databases provided by National Institute of Statistics.
B00|Romania at the Centenary - Population Dynamics|Romania has witnessed a new positive evolution, after 1918, through the new framework created as a result of the unification of Basarabia, Bucovina and Transylvania. In that time, Romania was one of the countries with the strongest economic, political and cultural development in Europe. This paper presents a summary of data on population collected from a diversity of old statistical yearbooks, historical studies and databases provided by National Institute of Statistics.
B00|L'organe comme marchandise fictive: une mise en perspective|La problématique des limites de la sphère marchande est aujourd'hui centrale en science sociale. D'où proviennent ces limites ? Comment sont-elles justifiées d'un point de vue moral ? L'objectif de ce texte est de tenter de dégager le fondement moral du rejet de la marchandisation de certains objets. Pour ce faire, on partira de l'étude d'un type d'objet (au sens physique du terme) dont la marchandisation est aujourd'hui largement rejetée : le rein. On essaiera dans un premier temps de comprendre le fondement moral de ce rejet. On fera ensuite le parallèle entre cette « économie morale » et celle qui s'était dressée contre la montée en puissance de l'économie de marché au moment de la révolution industrielle. On observera alors une similarité certaine entre les deux cas.
B00|Matematikk og statistikk som metodefag ved NHH: De første femti år|Denne rapporten gir en oversikt over utviklingen av matematikk og statistikk som metodefag i studiene ved Norges Handelshøyskole, fra starten i 1936 og 50 år framover til omlag 1986. Spesiell vekt er lagt på perioder da viktige beslutninger ble fattet, og til de ulike synspunkter hos de interesserte parter om veien videre. English This report (in Norwegian) gives a survey of the development of mathematics and statistics as methodology topics in the study programs at the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), from the beginning in 1936 and 50 years forward to about 1986. Emphasis is given to times when important decisions were taken, and to the different viewpoints among the interested parties about the path to follow.
B00|Varieties of Capitalism and post-Keynesian economics on Euro crisis|The 2008 global financial crisis that began in the US housing sector mutated into a sovereign debt crisis and an economic depression for countries in southern Europe, threatening the very existence of the Eurozone. The paper contrasts analyses of the eurocrisis based on the Varieties of Capitalism (VoC) approach and post-Keynesian analysis. The VoC analysis has argued that the eurocrisis is ultimately a crisis of incompatible institutional settings, in particular wage bargaining institutions, tied together in a monetary union. The Mediterranean Market Economies lack the institutional capacities to restrain wage growth. The Coordinated Market Economies (in northern Europe) have managed to maintain modest wage growth and inflation because export-oriented sectors play the role of wage leader. Post-Keynesian analysis has interpreted the crisis as the outcome of the unsustainable growth models and neoliberal policies in Europe; i.e. a neo-mercantilist export-led demand regime in the North and a debt-driven demand regime in the South and the EMU policies of financial deregulation that accompanied European economic integration. What is specific to the Euro area is the absence of adequate central fiscal stabilization or effective lender of last resort facility for the member countries. The ECB was hesitant in its unconventional monetary policy and began buying government bonds of countries under pressure only at a late stage of the crises. The imbalances resulted in a full blown sovereign debt crisis. We argue that the VoC analysis has important shortcomings as it focuses excessively on labour market institutions and that the post-Keynesian approach integrates financial factors and economic policy in explaining the crisis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B00|Market Mechanism in the View of Ibn Taymiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taymiyya reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept on justice.
B00|Pemikiran Ekonomi Al-Ghazali<BR>[Economic Legal Minds By Al-Ghazali]|Al-Ghazali is a scholar whose ideas are concerned with the state of society. Some of his work deals with the improvement of social life at that time. The writing of this article aims to examine the work of Al Ghazali and connect it with the economic and political situation in the life of Al-Ghazali. The method used is the descriptive method. The results show that Al-Ghazali is a scholar who cares about the problems of society, including the economic problems of society.
B00|Economic Legal Minds By Al-Ghazali|Al-Ghazali is a scholar whose ideas are concerned with the state of society. Some of his work deals with the improvement of social life at that time. The writing of this article aims to examine the work of Al Ghazali and connect it with the economic and political situation in the life of Al-Ghazali. The method used is the descriptive method. The results show that Al-Ghazali is a scholar who cares about the problems of society, including the economic problems of society.
B00|Hisbah Pemikiran Ekonomi Islam Umar Bin Khattab<BR>[Islamic Economic Islamic Thought Of Umar Bin Khattab]|This article writes about the thoughts of Islamic economic figure Umar Bin Khattab during his caliphate as the 2nd khalifah of the Rashidin Khulafah. The method used is the historical approach of Islamic economic thought through a historical method that reveals the thought of the Islamic economic figure Umar Bin Khattab in the field of Islamic economics. From the results of the analysis it can be concluded that Umar Bin Khattab during his reign, gave many brilliant ideas and ideas and established practical, technical, and operational policies for a country. In the reign of Umar Bin Khattab, the basic practices and concepts of al-Hisbah were formed even he him self became his muhtasib. Economic system that prevailed in the Umar Bin Khattab is the forerunner of the growth of Islamic economy. The economy aims to prosper and prosper society to prevent poverty.
B00|Market Mechanism in the View Of Ibn Taimiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taimiyyah reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept of justice.
B00|The concept of economic thought Ibn Khaldun|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis (text analysis). The results of this study indicate that the economic thought of Ibn Khaldun explains the concept of multidimensional economy involving various social aspects. Ibn Khaldun's economic concept implies an economic system that requires five components, namely sharia, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
B00|Konsep Riba menurut Ibnu Al-Qayyim al-Jauziyyah|This article uses a literature review approach focusing on explaining how the concept of usury in the view of Ibn al-Qayyim al-jawziyyah. This article asserts that usury is one of the forbidden transactions in Islam because it is recorded in the letter of Al-Baqarah verse 275, In interpreting the verse related usury, Ibn al-Qayyim explains that usury is divided into two namely usury of fadl and usury of nasiyah. Usury has become a core in conventional banking in modern times better known as flowers.
B00|Ibn Khaldun's Economic Thought|This article describes the economic thinking of Ibn Khaldun. This study uses the historical approach of Islamic economic thinking through textual exegesis. The results of this study indicate the economic concept of Ibn Khaldun implying an economic system that requires five components is the Shari'a, government, society, ownership, free and fair economic activity.
B00|Teori pertukaran dan evolusi pasar perspektif Al-Ghazali|ABSTRACT This article confirms that Al-Ghazali's socio-economic thinking is rooted in the Islamic welfare concept. The method used in this paper is literature research that is reading and reviewing various sources related to the topic. The conclusion of Al-Ghazali's economic thought is the voluntary exchange and market evolution which includes demand, supply, price, profit and market ethics as well as usury and the role of the state in the advancement of the public economy.
B00|Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyyah’s Usury Concept|This article uses a literature review approach focusing on explaining how the concept of usury in the view of Ibn al-Qayyim al-jawziyyah. This article asserts that usury is one of the forbidden transactions in Islam because it is recorded in the letter of Al-Baqarah verse 275, In interpreting the verse related usury, Ibn al-Qayyim explains that usury is divided into two namely riba fadl and usury nasiyah. The usury has become a core in conventional banking in modern times better known as flowers.
B00|Pemikiran Ekonomi Al-Maqrizi<BR>[Al Maqrizi's Economic Thought]|This article writes about the thinking of Al-Maqrizi Islamic economic figure. The method used in the concept of money according to Al-Maqrizi is literature study. Al-Maqrizi is in the second phase in the history of Islamic economic thought, a phrase that begins to show signs of slowing innovative intellectual activities in the Islamic world. Al-Maqrizi is an Islamic economic thinker who conducts special studies on money and inflation. The socio-economic phenomenon and the effects of inflation depend on the nature of income and wealth of each group. If income is fixed or rising, but lower than the rate of inflation then the condition declines. Conversely, if their income rises higher than the rate of inflation, then their material welfare increases.
B00|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|Religious war and the separation of Church and state affairs in the global north contributed in the emergence and implementation of various ideologies. Instead of its positive impact these ideologies became a source of extreme violence and corruption across the planet. Liberalism, non-intervention in the socio-economic affairs of mankind is considered as an advanced state of mankind ideological evolution and End of History. In addition, it is believed that liberalism is free from internal contradiction and which can be settle by an alternate ideology. In sharp contrast, Muslims believes that beside other one of the unresolvable contradictions between liberalism and Islam is the gnosis of human being which the present study will undertake. Question to be explored that what concept of man has been held by economists (Liberals/Islamic) in their analysis of the behaviour of individual man, and to what extent they have universalized their concept of the individual to mankind?
B00|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|After the defeat of Marxism and the triumph in the war in Iraq, pundit in the global north labelled neoliberalism as the End of History and last form of mankind ideological evolution. It is believed that neoliberalism successfully satisfied all the previous ideological contradiction. In contrast, Muslims believe that besides others one of the prominent and unresolvable contradictions between Neoliberalism and Islam is the gnosis of humanity which the present study will undertake. In this paper using the methodology of library research we will explore how the liberal and Islamic economists conceptualize man in their analysis of human behaviour and the degree to which the concept of man has been universalized.
B00|Determinants Of The Performance Of Microfinance Institutions: A Systematic Review|Microfinance institutions (MFIs) generally aim at improving the access of the poor to financial services while at the same time being financially sustainable. But what do we know about how MFIs reach and combine these two goals? We carry out a systematic review of close to 170 papers discussing the determinants of the financial and social performance of MFIs. The review shows that the most important determinants addressed in the literature are MFI characteristics (size, age and type of organization), their funding sources, the quality of organizational governance and the MFIs’ external context such as macro‐economic, institutional and political conditions. The evidence on these issues is rather mixed. Moreover, the direction of the relationship between these drivers and MFI performance depends on the context, particularly the country‐specific context. Finally, there is a lack of consensus in the literature on the measurement of financial and social performance. Due to the complexity of the concept, we argue that social performance should only be assessed by using a multidimensional perspective. This can be done either by applying recent and holistic social performance measures such as the SPI4, or at least by using a combination of proxies, such as outreach, gender and rural measures.
B00|From constrained optimization to constrained dynamics: extending analogies between economics and mechanics|Since the beginnings of modern economics, economists sought to emulate the revolution in physics initiated by Newton’s ‘Principia’ (1687). Concepts from mechanics have influenced economic models both in terms of methodology and content. The aim of this theoretical paper is to put forward a novel economic modeling framework that extends the analogies between economics and classical mechanics from constrained optimization to constrained dynamics. We introduce the concepts of economic forces and economic power that bear striking resemblance to physical forces and the reciprocal value of mass. In this setup, the change of a variable is determined by the forces agents employ to change it according to their desire, their power to assert their interest, and constraint forces emerging from system constraints. The approach is based on a genuine dynamic out-of-equilibrium analysis and can incorporate heterogeneous agents, prisoner’s dilemma situations, and behavioral assumptions different from rationality and utility maximization. Thereby, it seeks to overcome some restrictions inherent to approaches based on optimization under constraint and provide an out-of-equilibrium foundation for equilibrium models. We transform a static textbook exchange model into a dynamic model, and reflect on advantages, extensions and caveats of our modeling approach.
B00|Politics, Not Economics, Ultimately Drives Inequality| Depicting economic inequality as a product of natural economic forces is the ideology that itself has led to greater inequality, argues the author. Ideology has had a part in rising inequality for centuries. Now it takes the form of a supposed “objective” science of economics. This is the challenge, writes the author, that those who seek more equal incomes now face.
B00|Academic rankings and pluralism : the case of Brazil and the new version of Qualis|The paper approaches the theme of the relatively higher level of pluralism in Brazilian economics, when compared to the other countries, from a different approach used in the literature. Considering the Qualis as an instrument of great impact in the research of the Brazilian graduate education centers, mainly because of its impact in the CAPES evaluation of the centers, we analyze the abrupt change in the journal ranking that occurred in 2016. Before presenting this data, we first focused in understanding the metrics that are part of the Qualis, and how relevant the biases from other indexes than the Impact Factor are. Afterwards, we present a review of the national literature concerning the academic production in economics, showing how some problems due to incentives and structure still persist. We, then, present our results: we found out that the increase of journals in the higher strata of the Qualis without a research agenda bias, and with a great inclusion of specialized sub-fields of the discipline. Besides, the impact that this change will cause in the 2017 CAPES’ evaluation cannot be seen as favoring centers by their division in mainstream and non-mainstream. Having this in mind, we argue that the modifications keep incentives to pluralism, besides correcting many problems in the ranking.
B00|The contributions of warfare with revolutionary and Napoleonic France to the consolidation and progress of the British industrial revolution: revised version of working paper 150|This revised and reconfigured essay surveys a range of printed secondary sources going back to publications of the day (as well as includes research in primary sources) in order to revive a traditional and unresolved debate on economic connexions between the French and Industrial Revolutions. It argues that the costs flowing from the reallocation of labour, capital and technical knowledge to wage warfare from 1793-1815 have been overstated in relation to a range of benefits that accrued from: crowding out a potential invasion by Napoleon’s armies; improvements to the skills and discipline of the workforce; the integration of Ireland into a national market; the accelerated diffusion of technologies associated with coal and iron; the circumvention of diminishing returns to agriculture and above all from a victory that provided the economy with a more efficient State, Navy and Merchant Marine that, for a century, retained most of the gains from trade and servicing the international economy obtained at the expense of rivals during these long wars with France. My conclusion is that the costs and benefits (derived from participation in a global war from 1793 to 1815, that was integral to the era’s geopolitical and mercantilist international economic order) cannot be measured. But in the context and history of that order it is difficult to represent their outcome as anything other than positive and significant for the consolidation and progress of Britain’s famous transition to become Europe’s First Industrial Nation.
B00|Was the first industrial revolution a conjuncture in the history of the world economy?|No abstract is available for this item.
B00|Schumpeter and Schumpeterians on economic policy issues: re-reading Schumpeter through the lens of institutional and behavioral economics. An introduction to the special issue|Abstract We develop a critical interpretation of Schumpeter’s thinking that allows two alternative ‘operationalizations’ of his theoretical approach to economic development and institutions. We show that they are compatible with the two dominant neo-Schumpeterian economic dynamics approaches - one focused on the national economic and institutional conditions required for a commitment to an innovation based strategy for competing at the world technology frontier, and one that combines Schumpeter’s insights on technological change with Keynesian policies supporting demand for consumer goods and investment in the context of radical uncertainty and heterogeneous behavior. The implications for policy of these two perspectives are discussed in relation to Schumpeter’s ambiguous stance on economic policy issues. Finally, based on an articulation of institutions and individual behavior in light of recent developments in behavioral economics, we provide some implications for new perspectives on economic policy.
B00|Social-scienciation of Economics and its Consequences: On a Relative Convergence between Economics and Sociology|We are currently in times in which an increased discussion on interdisciplinarity is on the agenda. Economics tends to go into directions of sociology, history, and psychology, taking on topics of their domains. Questions of convergencies and divergencies between the academic subjects are a result. This observation goes parallel with sociological debate on the status of sociology. Major questions remaining are: (1.) Has the field of sociology changed since Emilé Durkheim or Max Weber? (2.) Which domain can sociology claim as being its exclusive ground? Answers to these questions have to identify a broader landscape of academic division: Economics is moving increasingly in the direction of social topics and sociological ground. The “imperialism of economics” (Granovetter) is increasingly approaching traditional academic fields of history, psychology, and sociology. However, at least two psychologists (H. Simon, D. Kahneman) and an economic historian (R. Fogel) have received Nobel prizes in economics. How can sociology map with this trend, how can this challenge be converted into an academic opportunity? The paper will explore observed trends in detail in order to conclude that the public image of sociology may have declined during recent decades, but the strategic use and importance of (economic) sociology has never been greater. Economic sociology seems to have become an upgraded discipline since social networks, communication processes, institutions and culture are increasingly considered as core dimensions. Of course, the conclusion follows exactly the script of earlier instructions provided by Max Weber or Joseph Schumpeter.
B00|On theories and estimation techniques of fiscal multipliers|The fiscal multiplier is a condensed key figure of the complex transmission mechanism of fiscal policy into output. I give an overview and systemize the numerous contributions to the theory and measurement of multipliers. The analysis is not confined to a certain model class but is intended to be as inclusive as possible to lay out the relevant channels of influence that have been discussed in the literature, while pointing to some blind spots. I also review the econometric problems when estimating fiscal multipliers and the estimation techniques at hand.
B00|Against Samuelson’s Whig Interpretation of History of Economic Analysis and its Current Legitimation|The paper presents a negative view with respect to Paul Samuelson’s whig interpretation of history of economic analysis – to what he reduces historiography of economics, and actually against its current legitimation, seen in Medema and Waterman (2010) and Medema and Waterman, eds. (2014). The analysis is focused on the unity of Samuelson’s whig historical and theoretical approaches. The attention is drawn to a series of original methodological and theoretical views in his influential publications, identifying his position, which (views) as a matter of fact disprove his claim for ‘better’ whig interpretation of history of economic science. It is pointed out that it is not a mere idiosyncrasy of Samuelson’s contribution amongst the figures of post-World War II economics; it is an expression of the general tendency in mainstream economics to embody in its theory the whig historical approach.
B00|The Relationship between Psychology and Economics: Insights from the History of Economic Thought|Psychological ideas had always played a role on the formation of economic thought as can be seen in the works of many influential pre-classical and classical authors. Up to the beginning of the 20th century, there was almost no methodological objection regarding the incorporation of ideas from psychology into economic theories. After this period, a fundamental shift in mainstream economics took place which is also known as the Paretian turn. This conceptual change, initiated mainly by Vilfredo Pareto and completed with the emergence of the theories of choice in the first decades of the 20th century, attempted to expel all psychological notions from economic theory. However, in the last three decades, the increasing appeal of subjective well-being research and especially of the new behavioral economics, re-brought the topic onto the surface. In order to better comprehend and to contribute to the recent discussion concerning the relationship between the two disciplines, the study of relevant views found in history of economic thought is necessary. The paper starts with a brief sketch of the history of the relationship between economics and psychology, focusing also to the recent literature which points to a reconsideration of this relationship. After an examination of psychological ideas found in influential pre-marginalist writers, the paper discusses the arguments supporting the case for the interaction between the two fields. It also suggests that the work of Richard Jennings can be seen as the peak of the early interaction between economics and psychology. Finally, it considers the relevance of these arguments for the current debate concerning the relationship between economics and psychology.
B00|Historical Prevalence of Infectious Diseases, Cultural Values, and the Origins of Economic Institutions|It is widely believed that economic institutions such as competitive markets, the banking system, and the structure of property rights are essential for economic development. But why economic institutions vary across countries and what are their deep origins is still a question that is widely debated in the developmental economics literature. In this study, we provide an empirical test for the provocative hypothesis that the prevalence of infectious diseases influenced the formation of personality traits, cultural values, and even morality at the regional level (the so called Parasite- Stress Theory of Values and Sociality), which then shaped economic institutions across countries. Using the prevalence of pathogens as an instrument for cultural traits such as individualism, we show in a two-stage least squares analysis that various economic institutions, measured by different areas of the index of Economic Freedom by the Heritage Foundation, have their deep origins in the historical prevalence of infectious diseases across countries. Our causal identification strategy suggests that cultural values affect economic institutions even after controlling for a number of confounding variables, geographic controls, and for different sub-samples of countries. We further show that the results are robust to four alternative measures of economic and political institutions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B00|Trends and Features of Research on Foreign Aid: A Literature Review|This paper reviews the economics literature on foreign aid. Aid supporters tend to emphasize results, while its detractors tend to highlight the incentives it provides (although they may still acknowledge some of aid’s positive results, particularly on public health). Like the modes to deliver it, research on foreign aid has evolved over the years. From the traditional aid-growth regressions research has refocused towards micro issues, including institutional inefficiencies or sector-specific bottlenecks. This tendency is positive, in so far as it can lead to useful policy advice that improves the way aid is given. Great gaps in knowledge remain, though. Notably, the aid market is poorly understood in aspects such as donors’ interaction with the recipient government or donors’ coordination. In terms of political economy, recipient countries’ decision making with regards to aid fungibility or the incentives provided by new types of aid (notably China’s) have been largely unexplored. Moreover, the types of public goods that improve households’ living standards are little understood. The scarcity of research on these questions is greatly due to lack of data – or even data opacity; if aid is to be better understood and improved, far greater efforts must be made in terms of collecting and sharing data.
B00|Reproduction Structure and Technological Progress in Economy: The Role of Talents as Capital|"Human activities in concrete production are diversified from product manufacturing, service production to management technology. Technological progress is organized into such various human activities. This paper is written on our “Talents capital hypothesis”, after surveying the genealogy of economic thought since Smith, and, carefully examining the theoretical basis of the hypothesis. The concept “Talents capital” comprehensively captures the human activities. The hypothesis is that realistic technological progress should be based on qualitative development of ""Talents capital"", that is, accumulation and succession of production-related knowledge and technology, embodied in workers group (=personal owner of individual enterprises as well as employee (including corporate officer) in general enterprises) ."
B00|Thomas Malthus, de los indios en América a la planificación familiar<BR>[Thomas Malthus, from the Indians in America to family planning]|Throughout history, many have worried about the future of the human race and how it will survive in future times, with the same eyes as before and with hope of hope, as well as with previous solutions, that there are some that already they have been considered as appropriate for their time and their end, others that are in history as the others, as an economist like Thomas Malthus is related to these issues, from their approaches that relate the growth of the population and food in different proportions, until present times in which these postulates are taken into account when creating public policies aimed at procreation.
B00|The Unification Of The Philosophical And Behavioral Social Sciences|This research design overcomes the three problems of coordinating the micro and macro behavioral sciences of Gintis defined as: (1) the identification of an overarching casual theme, (2) the identification of an integrative methodology, and (3) the identification of a series of a series of compatible frameworks. This is achieved by the comparison of the competing Hume-Smith versus Marx-Engels foundational-political-economic philosophical theories in relation to the outcome of the 20th Century Ideological Experiments. This paper contends that the range of valid foundational-political-economic philosophical theories, and the corresponding series of psychological, political, economic theoretical frameworks in the social sciences, can be reduced considerably across the board considerably, and then integrated laterally.
B00|Why have only humans and social insects evolved a complex division of labor|Social species, those that have a complex division of labor, comprise about two thirds of the earth’s biomass. These social species – humans and social insects – are located at extreme points of the set of possible evolutionary paths. The queens of small social insects produce thousands of small larvae, whereas human females invest heavily in their children, who are born already with a very large brain. In spite of these and many other evident differences, social insects and humans have conquered the earth because they share two characteristics: a highly developed system of social cooperation, and a complex division of labor. These observations prompt two questions: If there are evident evolutionary advantages of cooperation and specialization, why have only few species been able to increase their fitness in this way? Why have these characteristics emerged as such extremely different forms of life? In order to answer these two questions, we will focus on possible “transition societies” in the evolutionary paths towards social species. We will argue that, in both the human and social insect cases, sexual selection had a crucial role in the development of the division of labor and entailed that the division of labor required either minimum or maximum unitary investments in the offspring. The species located in between these two extremes could not exploit the advantages of specialization.
B00|La théorie de l’entrepreneur, son évolution et sa contextualisation|Few economists have considered that the entrepreneur is at the center of the global dynamics of capitalism, which is more important than the economic actor itself. Nevertheless, three economists, Cantillon, Say, and Schumpeter, have developed an analysis where the entrepreneur is the main economic engine of the global process of capital accumulation. In their analysis, the entrepreneur is not an individual, but an economic function which represents a systemic link between socioeconomic structures of capitalism and entrepreneurial motivations (profit, challenge, social recognition, innovation, etc.), which makes it possible to understand their decisions and to analyze their consequences on the business cycles. From these historical foundations of the economic analysis of entrepreneurship, other economists have developed their analysis according to the economic and social problems (innovation, unemployment, employment, etc.) of their time. JEL Codes: B00
B00|Co-operation in Production, the Organization of Industry & Productive Systems: A Critical Survey of the 'District' Form of Industrial Organisation & Development|Liberal economics has traditionally put strong emphasis on individualisation and specialisation – and has struggled with the notion of co-operation. Thus, Alfred Marshall's pioneering work on the English industrial districts of his day posed a significant challenge to the conventional wisdom, which embraced laissez-faire markets and Adam Smith's claim that improvements in efficiency depend upon the increased division of labour within firms competing in them. Marshall found that an important determinant of the competitive success of industrial districts was effective co-operation within and between firms, supported by a dense network of institutions, and markets regulated by agreed rules, norms and standards. He theorised that these generate external economies of scale and scope that enable the district and its constituent small firms to successfully compete with large, vertically integrated firms. From the mid-1920s, however, with the emergence and growth of very large, highly successful firms, the conventional wisdom shifted to suppose that the historical tendency in capitalist development was towards large firm dominance; and the small firm sector was progressively reduced to a residuum. However, the rediscovery of the industrial district by Italian scholars during the 1960s revived interest in Marshall's notion of localised productive systems and attracted considerable attention to this form of industrial organisation. This paper traces themes within this literature, from the earliest theorising by the Classical Political Economists to the present, focusing on the role of co-operation in production, the relationship between the organisation of production and markets, and the nature and functioning of productive systems.
B00|Another Road to Serfdom| Are we on another road to serfdom? This author thinks so. Now the source of central power derives not from the state but from business and the wealthy. What lessons can we derive from van Hayek’s famed book? One, at least. His oversimplifications gave rise to a kind of potential serfdom that is the result of markets themselves. As Pope Francis said in 2013, quotes the author, “A new tyranny is thus born, invisible and often virtual, which unilaterally and relentlessly imposes its own laws and rules.”1
B00|Unemployment in a Just Economy|This paper is based on the ideas of political philosopher John Rawls who suggested that a just society is one which would be created behind a “veil of ignorance”, that is to say, without knowing where one would end up in the society’s distribution of talent and other attributes valued in the labor market. Today’s labor market does not meet this criterion inasmuch as risk averse people would not be willing to enter it at random, being too concerned about ending up among the excluded, i.e., those without full time jobs which today in the U.S. is still 10% of the labor force or some 15 million people (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2014). This is substantial but it does not even include about 5 million additional people who have dropped out of the labor force altogether or the 2.3 million convicts in jail. Thus, a just labor market would strive for full employment beyond the implications of NAIRU. The latter concept is actually misleading, because most economists and commentators in the media equate it with “full employment”. As a consequence, endemic and large scale un- and underemployment is accepted as an inevitable attribute of the labor market. This is insidious inasmuch as the concept assumes that the institutional structure of the labor market is held constant. According to Rawlsian principles the aim should be to bring unemployment down to the minimum feasible rate which in the U.S. is most likely around 1.2%,--the rate which prevailed in 1944 and which probably represents an attainable lower bound. Instead of the prevailing system, the right to work needs to be recognized as a natural right, because the right to life depends upon it. Several ways are proposed to create an inclusive labor market that distributes the available work in a more equitable fashion than the current system and envisions a just economy on Rawlsian principles that risk-averse people would be willing to enter at random.
B00|Emotion Research in Economics|Emotions were central to the development of economics, especially in utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory basically abolished emotions, behavioural economics more recently reintroduced emotions in utility theory. Beyond utility theory, economic theorists use emotions to explain behaviour which otherwise could not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed.
B00|Fundamentos económicos y cuentas nacionales: una propuesta de medición de la evolución del valor|El producto social anual de un país es concebido unilateralmente como una masa de valores de uso, cuya evolución es captada por la medición a precios constantes. En tal contexto, el presente artículo desarrolla dos objetivos consecutivos. Primero, sobre la base de una relectura crítica de los fundamentos generales de las distintas escuelas de pensamiento, presenta una conceptualización alternativa del producto social, que considera también su carácter de masa de valor. Segundo, propone un indicador de la evolución de dicho carácter, complementario al producto a precios constantes. Como cierre, aplica este indicador al caso argentino para el lapso 1935-2010. ***** A country’s annual social product is unilaterally conceived as a mass of use values, whose evolution is captured by the measuring at constant prices. In this context, this paper aims to develop two consecutive goals. First, through a critical reading of the general principles of different schools of thought, it presents an alternative conceptualization for the social product, which also considers its character as a mass of value. Second, it proposes an indicator for that character, which is complementary to the product at constant prices. In sum, both indicators are applied to Argentina for the 1935-2010 period.
B00|Humanitarismo con rostro neoliberal|No abstract is available for this item.
B00|A Darwinian theory of institutional evolution two centuries before Darwin?|How effective institutions come about and how they change are fundamental questions for economics and social science more generally. We show that these questions were central in the deliberations of lawyers in 17th century England, a critical historical juncture that has motivated important institutional theories. We argue that the lawyers held a conceptualization of institutional development that foreshadowed many elements of Darwinism, more than two centuries before Darwin’s great contributions. To this end, we first identify a set of features characteristic of Darwinian evolutionary social-science theories. We then match the lawyers’ own words to these features, revealing the many congruities between a Darwinian approach and the lawyers’ evolutionary model of institutional construction and change. Finally, we analyze the normative conclusions on institutional development that the lawyers drew from their evolutionary analysis.
B00|Credit supply, credit demand and unemployment in the mode of Augusto Graziani|Evidence shows that, in most European countries, both credit restriction on the part of banks and reduction of the demand for credit on the part of firms are in operation. This is particularly intense in Italy. The aim of this paper is to show that both phenomena ultimately depend on the decline of aggregate demand, insofar as it negatively affects firmsâ€™ current and expected profits. A macroeconomic schema is presented, based on Graziani's view that the operation of the credit market can trigger economic crises. Keynesian and Institutional arguments are also considered in order to analyse the links existing between the dynamics of the credit market and the path of wages and employment.
B00|The visible hand: the role of government in China’s long-awaited industrial revolution| China is undergoing its long-awaited industrial revolution. There is no shortage of commentary and opinion on this dramatic period, but few have attempted to provide a coherent, in-depth, political-economic framework that explains the fundamental mechanisms behind China’s rapid industrialization. This article reviews the Embryonic Economic Development theory put forth by Wen (2016a). This article reviews the Embryonic Economic Development theory put forth by Wen . It illuminates the critical sequence of developmental stages since the reforms enacted by Deng Xiaoping in 1978: namely, small-scale commercialized agricultural production, proto-industrialization in the countryside, a formal industrial revolution based on mass production of labor-intensive light consumer goods, a sustainable ‘industrial trinity’ boom in energy/motive power/infrastructure, and a second industrial revolution involving the mass production of heavy industrial goods. This developmental sequence follows essentially the same pattern as Great Britain’s Industrial Revolution, despite sharp differences in political and institutional conditions. One of the key conclusions exemplified by China’s economic rise is that the extent of industrialization is limited by the extent of the market. One of the key strategies behind the creation and nurturing of a continually growing market in China is based on this premise: The free market is a public good that is very costly for nations to create and support. Market creation requires a powerful ‘mercantilist’ state and the correct sequence of developmental stages; China has been successfully accomplishing its industrialization through these stages, backed by measured, targeted reforms and direct participation from its central and local governments.
B00|The Visible Hand: The Role of Government in China’s Long-Awaited Industrial Revolution|China is undergoing its long-awaited industrial revolution. There is no shortage of commentary and opinion on this dramatic period, but few have attempted to provide a coherent, in-depth, politicaleconomic framework that explains the fundamental mechanisms behind China’s rapid industrialization. This article reviews the New Stage Theory of economic development put forth by Wen (2016a). It illuminates the critical sequence of developmental stages since the reforms enacted by Deng Xiaoping in 1978: namely, small-scale commercialized agricultural production, proto-industrialization in the countryside, a formal industrial revolution based on mass production of labor-intensive light consumer goods, a sustainable “industrial trinity” boom in energy/motive power/infrastructure, and a second industrial revolution involving the mass production of heavy industrial goods. This developmental sequence follows essentially the same pattern as Great Britain’s Industrial Revolution, despite sharp differences in political and institutional conditions. One of the key conclusions exemplified by China’s economic rise is that the extent of industrialization is limited by the extent of the market. One of the key strategies behind the creation and nurturing of a continually growing market in China is based on this premise: The free market is a public good that is very costly for nations to create and support. Market creation requires a powerful “mercantilist” state and the correct sequence of developmental stages; China has been successfully accomplishing its industrialization through these stages, backed by measured, targeted reforms and direct participation from its central and local governments.
B00|A Confusion of Capital in the United States|Thomas Piketty’s book, Capital in the Twenty-First Century, reopens fundamental questions about the role and rewards of capital that economists have never resolved. It does so by exploring the history of capital and derives much of its credibility from the evidence it marshals in defence of its claims. In this paper, I evaluate the basis for Piketty’s arguments by considering them in light of the history of US capitalism. I argue that it is extremely difficult to make economic sense of Piketty’s historical analysis of capital in the US in the 19th and 20th centuries. That is true, only in part, due to the distinctive choices he makes, compared to mainstream economists, in defining and measuring capital. Much more problematic, in fact, are theoretical commitments he shares with them that preclude an understanding of capital’s historical role and rewards in the US economy. Based on a discussion of several important features of US economic history, I have argued that such an understanding demands an historical analysis of capital, both productive and financial capital, in relation to the evolving social organisation of capitalism in the US.
B00|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France, de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system Classification-JEL: B00; N14; N74
B00|Decision Making And Saint Petersburg Paradox: Focusing On Heuristic Parameters, Considering The Non-Ergodic Context And The Gambling Risks|The Saint Petersburg Paradox is still a contemporary issue because of the great impact on the probabilistic theory and decision-making. This article proposes some hints on avoiding the trap of the infinite expected value (EV). The highly stochastic mechanism and its EV have always to be contextualized in the limited period where we take our choices taking into account all possible limitations deriving from the theory (including the non-ergodic features and some inappropriate consequences we may attribute to the EV). This contextualisation is one of the most important factors to consider especially when we deal with infinite quantity coming from models that may misrepresent our field of application and therefore generate paradoxes.
B00|Emotion Research in Economics|Emotions were central to the development of economics, especially in utility theory in classical economics. While neoclassical utility theory basically abolished emotions, behavioural economics more recently reintroduced emotions in utility theory. Beyond utility theory, economic theorists use emotions to explain behaviour which otherwise could not be understood or they study emotions out of interest for the emotion itself. While some analyses display a strong overlap between psychological thinking and economic modelling, in most cases there is still a large gap between economic and psychological approaches to emotion research. Ways how to reduce this gap are discussed.
B00|New Result in Consumption Theory:Change in Savings and Income Growth – Nineteen Years Later|This new version uses the definitions and some of the results found in Sargent’s Macroeconomic Theory. Hall’s (1978) proof of the corollary 4,ct+1 = ct, can be found in Flavin (1981). Writing the same consumption stated in Flavin, for period t+1, in a different way for the summation of the expected future incomes, it is possible to show that changes in savings is a function of income growth. This new result has implications, for instance, in Keynes’ (1936) saving and dissaving.
B00|Hedging, arbitrage and the financialization of commodities markets| The paper provides an overview of the unfolding of the financialization of commodities in the 2000-2014 time frame. Different phases are described according to the positioning of the group of traders, their motivations, and the type of financial assets used to take a position in commodities. The main theme is the failure of arbitrage to level prices of similar financial assets traded in different markets. However, this failure does not depend on financing constraints suffered by arbitrageurs. Following Mirowski (2010) it is shown that arbitrage becomes a form of financial innovation rather than an equilibrating mechanism in contemporary financial markets. Historical accidents and changes in policy affect the positions of groups in the financial market game. The various strategies used are explained by creating a set of T accounts for the various groups that highlight the winners and the losers in the various phases.
B00|Negative interest rates on deposit facility in the Eurozone: a failed attempt to revive the unsecured interbank market|The paper reviews the negative deposit facility introduction in the Eurozone and tries to explain the rationale behind that decision. The usual explanation that the negative rate on deposit facility improves the transmission mechanism of monetary policy and contributes to the economic recovery of the area is rejected. In turn the rationale for such a policy is found in the interbank market. The malfunctioning of the interbank market among European banks dates back to the inception of the global financial crisis in 2007. The negative deposit facility rate is inserted in the frame of the monetary policy conducted by the ECB since then. Rather than being a conventional policy as some scholars have argued that policy is considered in this paper deeply unconventional because it does not target any more the overnight interest rate as the interbank market has practically lost in importance and size. The negative policy rate thus appears as an extreme attempt at reviving the unsecured interbank market, which, however, has failed.
B00|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system.
B00|Conceptual Approaches to Understanding and Ensuring National Economic Security: Scientific Theories and State Strategies|The author investigates the emergence and development of the economic security concept. He gives an overview of the main conceptual approaches to national economic security typical for the United States, Japan, China and Russia. The article introduces the concept of the homocentric and civitacentric paradigms to describe two fundamentally opposing approaches to national economic security. The analysis is carried out for scientific theories and state strategies. This allows to trace parallels and find contradictions between them. The paper shows the evolutionary path of the theories of economic security and identifies key factors that influenced the research in this area. The study reveals a number of internal contradictions in the official state strategies relating to economic aspects of national security. The result of the study is to develop a holistic view of the prevailing conceptual approaches to national economic security. This is important in the further development of optimal models of its ensuring in different socio- economic and political conditions. The results can be used for further scientific analysis of the theoretical foundation of ensuring economic security.
B00|Positive collaboration: Factors and mechanisms of evolution|This article proposes that two types of collaboration can be distinguished: a positive collaboration (not directed against third parties) and negative collaboration. I consider the hypothesis that in the process of social development, the transaction costs ratio of the three main types of coordination — competition, power, and collaboration — is changing in favor of the latter. The article examines the mechanisms that are responsible for the implementation of this tendency and attempts to explain its nonmonotonicity. It is shown that the strengthening role of positive collaboration is largely explained by cultural changes, including the enhancement of tolerance culture, spread of cosmopolitanism and altruism, and increase in the planning horizon as well as trust radius. I demonstrate the importance of the institutions that support positive collaboration in the process of catching-up development; it is shown that shock reforms could lead to the formation of negative collaboration mechanisms. A program of interdisciplinary research is outlined for the further development of these ideas.
B00|Positive collaboration: Factors and mechanisms of evolution|It is proposed in the article to distinguish between two types of collaboration: a positive (not directed against third parties) and a negative one. I consider the hypothesis that in the process of social development, transaction costs ratio of the three main types of coordination?— competition, power, and collaboration?— is changing in favor of the latter. The mechanisms responsible for the implementation of this tendency are studied, and an attempt to explain its nonmonotonicity is made. It is shown that the strengthening role of positive collaboration is largely explained by cultural changes: the enhance of tolerance culture, the spread of cosmopolitanism and altruism, increasing planning horizon as well as trust radius. I demonstrate the importance of the institutions of positive collaboration in the process of catching-up development; it is shown that shock reforms could lead to the formation of negative collaboration mechanisms. For the further development of these ideas, a program of interdisciplinary researches is outlined.
B00|Explaining the Euro crisis: Current account imbalances, credit booms and economic policy in different economic paradigms|The paper proposes a post-Keynesian analysis of the Eurozone crisis and contrasts interpretations inspired by New Keynesian, New Classical, and Marxist theories. The origin of the crisis is the emergence of a debt-driven and an export-driven growth model, which resulted in a rapid increase in private debt ratios and current account imbalances. The reason the crisis escalated in southern Europe, but not in other parts of the world, lies in the unique dysfunctional economic policy regime of the Euro area. European fiscal rules and the Troika impose fiscal austerity on countries in crisis and the separation of fiscal and monetary spaces has made countries vulnerable to sovereign debt crises and forced them to comply. We analyse the role different paradigms attribute to current account imbalances, fiscal policy and monetary policy. Remarkably, opposing views on the relative importance of cost and demand developments in explaining current account imbalances can be found in both heterodox and orthodox economics. Regarding the assessment of fiscal and monetary policy there is a clearer polarisation, with heterodox analysis regarding austerity as unhelpful and large parts of orthodox economics endorsing it. We conclude that there is a weak mapping between post-Keynesian, New Classical, New Keynesian and Marxist theories and different economic policy strategies for the Euro area, which we label Keynesian New Deal, European Orthodoxy, Moderate Reform and Progressive Exit respectively.
B00|New Result in Consumption Theory: Change in Savings and Income Growth – Nineteen Years Later|This new version uses the definitions and some of the results found in Sargent’s Macroeconomic Theory. Hall’s (1978) proof of the corollary 4, ct+1 = ct, can be found in Flavin (1981). Writing the same consumption stated in Flavin, for period t+1, in a different way for the summation of the expected future incomes, it is possible to show that changes in savings is a function of income growth. This new result has implications, for instance, in Keynes’ (1936) saving and dissaving.
B00|Monetary Expressions of Labour Time and Market Prices: Theory and Evidence from China, Japan and Korea| This article presents estimates of labour values and prices of production following two approaches: the first is based on the classical and Marxian theory of value and distribution; the second on the so-called ‘new solution’ to the ‘transformation problem’ and its variant, the Temporary Single-System Interpretation (TSSI). The major advantage of the latter approach is its simplicity, along with the relatively low data requirements. Our empirical findings from the economies of China, Japan and South Korea suggest that both approaches give estimates of labour values and prices of production which are extremely close to each other as well as to actual market prices. On further examination, however, we conclude that our empirical findings are absolutely consistent with the theoretical requirements of the classical approach and contradict those of the TSSI.
B00|Why economics textbooks must, and how they can, be changed into a real-world and pluralist economics. The example of a fundamentally new complexity-economics micro-textbook|We argue that economics must, and can, be taught in fundamentally different ways than the simplistic and ideology-laden “economics of x”. We illustrate this with a fundamentally new textbook, “Microeconomics of Complex Economies” (2015). The mainstream’s ambivalence between some relevant research and its simplistic teaching in terms of “optimum”, “equilibrium”, and “market”, and the resulting textbook structure, incoherent between the static and “optimal” equilibrium and some reference to more recent real-world phenomena, will be characterized. We show how this can be changed by showing the process of getting a “heterodox” complexity textbook published, and by the structure of its content.
B00|Позитивное Сотрудничество: Факторы И Механизмы Эволюции<BR>[Positive Collaboration: Factors and Mechanisms of Evolution]|It is proposed to distinguish between two types of collaboration: a positive (not directed against third parties) and a negative one. I consider the hypothesis that in the process of social development, transaction costs ratio of the three main types of coordination - competition, power, and collaboration - is changing in favor of the latter. The mechanisms responsible for the implementation of this tendency are studied, and an attempt to explain its nonmonotonicity is made. It is shown that the strengthening role of positive collaboration is largely explained by cultural changes: the increase of tolerance culture, the spread of cosmopolitanism and altruism, increasing planning horizon as well as trust radius. I demonstrate the importance of the institutions of positive collaboration in the process of catching-up development; it is shown that shock reforms could lead to the formation of negative collaboration mechanisms. For the further development of these ideas, a program of interdisciplinary researches is outlined. Рассматривается гипотеза о том, что в процессе общественного развития соотношение трансакционных издержек трех основных типов координации – конкуренции, власти и сотрудничества – меняется в пользу последнего. Исследуются механизмы, ответственные за реализацию этой тенденции.
B00|Capital after Capitalism The evolution of the concept of capital in the light of long-run sustainable reproduction of the species|The capitalist mode of production has fulfilled a most astonishing ‘historical mission’ for the human species. It enabled an explosion of labor productivity gains and the discovery of new utility dimensions. But this progress came at the price of accompanying explosion of contradictions, of unequal benefits and burdens across global and local classes of humans. This paper sets out to explore what will happen if capitalism is finally ending, if its mission collapses. To do so a workable definition of the essence of capitalism is needed, I propose this to be the ‘capitalist algorithm’ – for a detailed treatment see [Hanappi, 2013]. The most interesting question then concerns the social mechanisms that might overcome – revolutionize – what currently dominates the behavior of large production conglomerates as well as their military arms on a global level. Following the tradition of Hegel and Marx it can be assumed that a large part of the capitalist algorithm simply will have to vanish. But as history shows there also always is a remainder of a mode of production that in an inverted form (Hegel: negation, German Marxism: ‘Umstülpung’) becomes part of the next progressive mode of production. To identify what ‘Capital after Capitalism’ could be, what has to be abolished and what might survive in which form – remember the double meaning of Hegel’s concept ‘Aufhebung’ – is a central prerequisite for a proper understanding of the coming revolution of the current mode of production. Since each step on the ladder of global social evolution is also a step in social human consciousness, this step in understanding implies a direct impact in guiding the actions to accomplish this turnover.
B00|Al-Asadi and his work al-Taysir: A study of his socio-economic ideas|Muḥammad bin Muḥammad bin Khalīl al-Asadī lived in A.H. 9th/ C.E. 15th century. The details of his birth, life and death remain obscure. He authored many works on the socio-economic problems of his time. All these works have disappeared without trace except one: al-Taysīr (the Facilitation). This surviving work is the only source of information about his life and his ideas. He suggested efficient market administration, public distribution of food, elimination of monopolies, monetary reform, management of public income and expenditure, embryonic quantitative use in production and distribution, and measurement of inflation. The depth and significance of his ideas remains largely unexplored. The present paper attempts to address this need.
B00|The Discourse on Islam and Development: Western and Muslim Scholars’ Opinions|There is ongoing debate among scholars concerning the relation between Islam and development. The focus of the debate is particularly about the compatibility issue. Western and Muslim scholars have their own stance and argumentation. While the former have accused Islam as an obstacle to development, the latter have assured that Islam is essentially compatible to development. Based on the Qur’anic point of view, it is obvious that religion and development are essentially related in a positive, direct and causal manner.
B00|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - J. A. Schumpeter|J. A. Schumpeter was an Austro-American economist, historian of economic science, political scientist, lawyer and politician, ranking among the most famous, outstanding and cited economists of the 20th century. He created a dynamic theory of development based on innovations, researched economic cycles, issues including long waves, innovations, entrepreneurship, and theory of evolution.
B00|Population composition, urban neighborhoods, and future scenarios: a crystal ball perspective, from past to future|Abstract Racial/ethnic aspects of urban neighborhoods have been a major concern of social scientists post-World War II. As we move into the twenty-first century, however, the object of study is changing dramatically in that the majority US population will soon be minorities; this is already the case in many locales, and other countries are experiencing similar shifts. To recount this dynamic and provide context, the paper begins by considering the US city pre-World War II, ethnic enclaves, and their transition to the present day—giving rise to an immigrant ethos that remains prevalent. Attention then turns to general frameworks related to the immigrant experience, and their future applicability. Considered next is the current state of majoritizing the minority. As one outcome, urban neighborhoods will become demographically diverse and reflect socioeconomic differences rather than racial/ethnic ones; that is, in the jargon of past research, neighborhood composition will be determined by Class more than Culture. This should be largely driven by market forces as mediated by elements such as social networks (formal and informal) and personal preferences. Inertia effects also would operate to slow, but not eliminate, shifts in the urban landscape. Conceptually, these forces are represented by Market-Led Pluralism and Resurgent Ethnicity. Regarding other likely futures, as acculturation occurs a substantial increase in intermarriage is expected, leading to A Blended America. Economic shifts also play into the future as nations of the Global South strengthen, while production in the Global North becomes more automated. Hence, immigration will continue, but from different origins; and the overall level will be lower, leading to A Shrinking Nation.
B00|Quantifying the changing role of past publications|Abstract Our current societies increasingly rely on electronic repositories of collective knowledge. An archetype of these databases is the Web of Science (WoS) that stores scientific publications. In contrast to several other forms of knowledge—e.g., Wikipedia articles—a scientific paper does not change after its “birth”. Nonetheless, from the moment a paper is published it exists within the evolving web of other papers, thus, its actual meaning to the reader changes. To track how scientific ideas (represented by groups of scientific papers) appear and evolve, we apply a novel combination of algorithms explicitly allowing for papers to change their groups. We (1) identify the overlapping clusters of the undirected yearly co-citation networks of the WoS (1975–2008) and (2) match these yearly clusters (groups) to form group timelines. After visualizing the longest lived groups of the entire data set we assign topic labels to all groups. We find that in the entire WoS multidisciplinarity is clearly over-represented among cutting edge ideas. In addition, we provide detailed examples for papers that (1) change their topic labels and (2) move between groups.
B00|Do scholars follow Betteridge’s Law? The use of questions in journal article titles|Abstract In journalistic publication, Betteridge’s Law of Headlines stipulates that “Any headline that ends in a question mark can be answered by the word no.” When applied to the titles of academic publication, the assertion is referred to as Hinchcliffe’s Rule and denigrates the use of the question mark in titles as a “click-bait” marketing strategy. We examine the titles of all published articles in the year 2014 from five top-ranked and five mid-range journals in each of six academic fields (n = 7845). We describe the form of questions when they occur, and where a title poses a question that can be answered with a “yes” or “no” we note the article’s substantive answer. We do not find support for the criticism lodged by Betteridge’s Law and Hinchcliffe’s Rule. Although patterns vary by discipline, titles with questions are posed infrequently overall. Further, most titles with questions do not pose yes/no questions. Finally, the few questions that are posed in yes/no terms are actually more often answered with a “yes” than with a “no.” Concerns regarding click-bait questions in academic publications may, therefore, be unwarranted.
B00|Ideas económicas en torno al servicio de abastecimiento urbano de agua en la Gran Bretaña del siglo XIX|By the mid-nineteenth century, along with other network infrastructures typical of the second industrial revolution, began to take shape the modern system of water supply. The purpose of this paper is to examine the major economic ideas surrounding the beginnings of this new urban service in Britain during the second half of the nineteenth century, which marked a starting point for future analytical developments. First, the socioeconomic importance of improvement of public health through an intensive use of running water. Second, the emergence of the concept of natural monopoly. And finally, the debate about the organization of service management. This interesting case gives us the opportunity to observe the interaction, in both directions, between facts and economic ideas. KEY Classification-JEL: B00. B10
B00|What Drives Inequality?| Over the past 40 years, inequality has exploded in the U.S. and significantly increased in virtually all nations. Why? The current debate typically identifies the causes as economic, due to some combination of technological change, globalization, inadequate education, demographics, and most recently, Pikettyâ€™s claim that it is the rate of return on capital exceeding the growth rate. But to the extent true, these are proximate causes. They all take place within a political framework in which they could in principle be neutralized. Indeed, this mistake is itself political. It masks the true cause of inequality and presents it as if natural, due to the forces of progress, just as in pre-modern times it was the will of gods. By examining three broad distributional changes in modern times, this article demonstrates the dynamics by which inequality is a political phenomenon through and through. It places special emphasis on the role played by ideology â€“ politicsâ€™ most powerful instrument â€“ in making inequality appear as necessary.
B00|Economic Analysis Of Knowledge: The History Of Thought And The Central Themes| Following the development of knowledge economies, there has been a rapid expansion of economic analysis of knowledge, both in the context of technological knowledge in particular and decision theory in general. This paper surveys this literature by identifying the main themes and contributions, and outlines the future prospects of the discipline. The wide scope of knowledge-related questions in terms of applicability and alternative approaches has led to the fragmentation of research. Nonetheless, one can identify an enduring quest for analyzing various aspects of the generation, dissemination and use of knowledge in the economy.
B00|A brief history of international trade thought: From pre-doctrinal contributions to the 21st century heterodox international economics|The present paper outlines the development of international trade thought, from the pre-doctrinal contributions of Greek philosophers and scholastic theologians, through the theories of the first schools of economic thought, and up to modern and contemporary trade theories. I follow filiations of ideas in a chronological order, and show how theoretical investigation into the causes and effects of international trade—and the rationale for government intervention—has evolved over the last two centuries.
B00|¿Se pueden aplicar las ideas Keynesianas al largo plazo? Unas reflexiones teóricas y un modelo ilustrativo|El modelo que se construye en este artículo quiere mostrar que la más importante idea Keynesiana, el principio de la demanda efectiva, no se aplica solamente a un corto plazo en el que unos precios son fijos o rígidos. También se aplica a un largo plazo en el que los precios son perfectamente flexibles y vacían el mercado, las firmas maximizan sus ganancias y la distribución funcional del ingreso depende de las productividades marginales. También se muestra que la naturaleza Keynesiana de un modelo no depende de sus resultados – en unos casos bajar los salarios es una buena idea y en otros no lo es; en unos casos la paradoja del ahorro vale en el largo plazo y en otros no vale – sino del hecho de incorporar (o no incorporar) la noción de demanda autónoma. Para terminar, se le da un sustento a la idea de que la forma en la que se trata el asunto de los salarios monetarios (y su flexibilidad) en la Teoría General no se puede aplicar al mundo “financiarizado” en el que estamos. ****** This paper presents a model intended to show that the most important Keynesian idea, the principle of effective demand, cannot be only applied to short terms, in which some prices are fixed or sticky; but also to long terms where prices are perfectly flexible and empty the market, firms increase their profits, and where the functional income distribution depends on marginal productivities. Moreover, we will show that the Keynesian nature of a model does not depend on its results, in some cases lowering wages is a good policy and in others it is not. In some cases, the paradox of thrift stands out in the long run and in some others it does not; instead, this nature depends on incorporating (or not) the notion of autonomous demand. To conclude, we will support the idea stating that the way in which monetary wages (and flexibility) are addressed in the General Theory is not applicable to the financialized world, where we live.
B00|Libertades individuales y oportunidades factibles, un modelo de escogencia|En este texto se ofrece una versión sintética y actualizada de la tesis doctoral “libertades individuales y oportunidades factibles”. Luego de mostrar la versión que de la libertad individual tienen los teóricos de la elección social y después de citar las reflexiones de algunos literatos se expone un modelo de libertad real que tiene los siguientes componentes: deseos ilimitados y libre albedrío; metapreferencias, racionalidad limitada, oportunidades factibles y, finalmente, poder para actuar con el fin de superar las restricciones objetivas y subjetivas y, en lo posible, transformar el mundo mediante la acción libertaria.
B00|Waclaw Stankiewicz — a prominent researcher of the economics of defence, history of economic thought, and institutional economics|W. Stankiewicz, a trained soldier and economist, devoted most of his life to scientific work in three fields. The first one was the economics of war. W. Stankiewicz belonged to a small group of academics who refined the subject and set out the scope of research of this discipline. Moreover, contrary to his intentions, he also helped to popularize the term “logistics” and its development as a science and a practical activity in our country. No less fruitful, as a second field of research, was a combination of considerations in the field of military and economic sciences, which originally gave the results in the form of publications on the development of military and economic thought, and then a great synthesis of the development of universal economic thought. Institutional economics became the third stage and field of his research. W. Stankiewicz proved to be the first, most insightful expert in the economic school and its most ardent propagator.
B00|Political And Economic Relations Of Ancient Greek Temples|Religion and belief concepts accompanied human in the adventure that they lived throughout history. The religion phenomenon within the culture, which was transferred to future generations by developing and accumulating, is quite important. Humankind built their first religious buildings in coordination with the need to shelter. These sanctuaries, which were generally defined as temples until the emergence of divine religions, were turned into central economic Powers with the compensations granted. Their economic powers and oracles activities they applied based on prophecy enabled their political effects to emerge at the same time together with religion. This system was seen to settle especially in Western Anatolia. In the background of struggles between Persian-Lydia and Persian-Greek, effects of temples on politics attract the attention. However, Ancient Greek temples never transformed into institutions above politics. Temples were rather purported as an advisory council.
B00|The Scope, Challenges and Perspective of Croatian Development Policy in the Context of the EU Destiny|Approaching dialectically issue of globalization and transition of the world economy from A. Smith’s capitalism (capitalism I) over Keynes’s capitalism (capitalism II) we see the near future of the world as cybernetic-mega capitalism (capitalism III) before its transformation into global capitalism (capitalism IV). The future of Europe as a component part and decisive subject of globalization will be shaped by the future of globalization. Therefore Croatian economic and development policy depends upon position of RC within the EU either as an independent economic entity or as a region of the EU as a whole.
B00|Monopolio di beni durevoli: coase e pantaleoni a confronto|"""Monopoly of Durable Goods"": Coase vs. Pantaleoni This paper addresses certain issues of priority about the monopoly of durable goods. It argues that Maffeo Pantaleoni was the first scholar to address the topic: the monopolist has the possibility and convenience to sell the whole stock of durable goods he owns by applying a policy of price discrimination. It is worth noticing that Coase, similarly to Pantaleoni, recognises that the monopoly of durable goods sells the entire stock he owns. Nevertheless, on the other hand, he also denies that price discrimination can be pursued. As argued by this paper, Coase’s argument suffers of important flaws and, from certain points of view, is also contradictory. Moreover, in spite of the good it contains, his argument came after many decades since Pantaleoni understood the specificity of the question, addressed it convincingly, and wrote on it."
B00|The Making of an Economic Superpower―Unlocking China’s Secret of Rapid Industrialization|The rise of China is no doubt the most important event in world economic history since the Industrial Revolution. The institutional theory of development based on a dichotomy of extractive vs. inclusive political institutions cannot explain China’s rise. This article argues that only a radical reinterpretation of the history of the Industrial Revolution and the rise of the West (as incorrectly portrayed by the institutional theory) can fully explain China’s growth miracle and why the determined rise of China is unstoppable. Conversely, China’s spectacular and rapid transformation from an impoverished agrarian society to a formidable industrial superpower sheds considerable light on the fundamental flaws of neoliberalism and the Washington Consensus and provides more-accurate reevaluations of historical episodes such as Latin America’s lost decade and plagued debt crisis, 19th century Europe’s great escape from the Malthusian trap, and the Industrial Revolution itself.
B00|Production Factor Returns: The Role of Factor Utilization|Short-term increasing returns to production factors are usually found in empirical studies. We argue they can be due to omitted variables, particularly the intensity of factor utilization. Thanks to original French firm-level data (1992–2008), we show how increasing returns to scale disappear when working time, capacity utilization rate, and, particularly, capital operating time are introduced in the production function. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
B00|Examining The Evolution Of The Romanian System Ofaccounts|The account is the instrument through which the dual representation is ensured andthe most important procedure of the accounting method. To reflect each patrimonial asset andliability element, as well as the revenues, expenses, and outcomes, an account is opened inaccounting. All the accounts used by accounting form the system of accounts. All companies havetheir own system of accounts for keeping the books. That system of accounts is based on the generalchart of accounts contained by the accounting regulations in force. The objective of this study isto research the system of accounts of the Romanian companies, for evidencing the new accounts,the removed accounts, and other aspects resulted from examining the charts of accounts, indynamics and comparatively. By analysing the evolution of the national system of accounts in thelast twenty years, we intend to offer information to those interested in the accounting historydomain.
B00|„Good money” – alluring illusion, or antietatist diagnosis of the financial crisis?|This is a case study of a „classical” issue on the interpretation of money as a special kind of commodity, „balancing” and measuring the value of all the other commodities by its own value. The analysis is based on two main lines. The first line deals with the reasons of the doubts of the representatives of the Austrian School on the necessity to introduce a private market alternative to the „state” money „imposed” by the administration. The second line covers the issue whether and how much the „demonetization” of the precious metals in the 1970-ies as a „classical” symbol of money under the conditions of currency – financial crises, has been replaced now convincing enough by the contemporary circulation of paper money. Very interesting, although not indisputable views on a reform in the global currency are focused, that have been suggested by leading bankers and distinguished scientists.
B00|ECAES, SABER PRO y la historia del pensamiento económico en EAFIT|"El presente artículo estudia las implicaciones del rediseño del examen Ecaes (Saber Pro) para la presentación por parte de estudiantes de la Universidad EAFIT. Su enfoque particular es la manera como se adecua el plan de estudios en el área de historia del pensamiento económico como preparación para los módulos de Análisis Económico de los antiguos ECAES, hoy SaberPro, y para otros fines académicos. Las fuentes de información para el artículo incluyen conversaciones y correspondencias con los directores académicos y administrativos de la Escuela de Economía y Finanzas y del departamento de Economía de la Universidad EAFIT, tambien se revisaron los planes de estudios de Economía de la Universidad EAFIT, Universidad de los Andes, Universidad de Antioquia entre otras y los datos de los resultados del examen durante el periodo 2006-2009 obtenidos del ICFES. This article studies implications of the recent redesign of the ""Economic Analysis"" module of the standardized test formerly known as ECAES, lately redsignated SaberPro. Its main concern is with the implications to the curriculum at the Universidad EAFIT – more specifically, with the adequacy of the history of economic thought (h.e.t.) part of the curriculum as preparation for the test and for other purposes. The sources of information for the article include conversations and correspondence with the academic and administrative leadership of the EAFIT Escuela de Economía y Finanzas and Departmento de Economía. They also include h.e.t. course syllabi from the Universidad EAFIT and, by way of comparison, from the Universidad de los Andes, the Universidad de Antioquia, and elsewhere; documents regarding the objectives and format of the ECAES economics exam obtained from the ICFES and AFADECO websites; and data for exam results over the period 2006 to 2009 obtained from ICFES."
B00|How do banks create money, and why can other firms not do the same? An explanation for the coexistence of lending and deposit-taking|Thanks to the recent banking crises interest has grown in banks and how they operate. In the past, the empirical and institutional market micro-structure of the operation of banks had not been a primary focus for investigations by researchers, which is why they are not well covered in the literature. One neglected detail is the banks' function as the creators and allocators of about 97% of the money supply (Werner, 1997, 2005), which has recently attracted attention (Bank of England, 2014a,b; Werner, 2014b,c). It is the purpose of this paper to investigate precisely how banks create money, and why or whether companies cannot do the same. Since the implementation of banking operations takes place within a corporate accounting framework, this paper is based upon a comparative accounting analysis perspective. By breaking the accounting treatment of lending into two steps, the difference in the accounting operation by bank and non-bank corporations can be isolated. As a result, it can be established precisely why banks are different and what it is that makes them different: They are exempted from the Client Money Rules and thus, unlike other firms, do not have to segregate client money. This enables banks to classify their accounts payable liabilities arising from bank loan contracts as a different type of liability called ‘customer deposits’. The finding is important for many reasons, including for modelling the banking sector accurately in economic models, bank regulation and also for monetary reform proposals that aim at taking away the privilege of money creation from banks. The paper thus adds to the growing literature on the institutional details and market micro-structure of our financial and monetary system, and in particular offers a new contribution to the literature on ‘what makes banks different’, from an accounting and regulatory perspective, solving the puzzle of why banks combine lending and deposit-taking operations under one roof.
B00|Two Crucial Features in Cosciani’s Thought|The paper highlights two major contributions by Cesare Cosciani: the completion of an economic theory of public finance based on the Pantaleoni-De Viti De Marco tradition and the theoretical and administrative design of the Italian tax reform; moreover, it emphasises the similarity between the Stiglitz’s approach and the Cosciani’s one.
B00|The Erosion of the Personal Income Tax Base in Italy: Equity Aspects|This paper aims at analyzing the distributional (and revenue) effects of the deviations of the personal income tax (PIT) base in Italy from the taxpayer’s total income that was proposed as tax base by the Commission for the Study of Tax Reform in 1964 (which was inspired by the Schanz-Haig-Simons concept of income). It is clear in both the Report of the Commission and Cosciani’s writings that an equitable tax system requires that all income items are taxed within the PIT. However, financial income in Italy is excluded from the PIT since its introduction in 1974, and the erosion of the PIT base has continued to date. In the second part of the paper the contribution of the different types of income to the PIT base in Italy with respect to GDP between 1980 and 2012 is analyzed, and an assessment of the redistributive effect of the hypothetical inclusion of financial income in the PIT base is provided, using data from tax returns for 2010.
B00|The early history of environmental economics|This paper considers economists’ treatment of problems related to the environment prior to the establishment of environmental economics as a separate field in the 1960s. In discussing the literature from the late 18th century onwards, it looks on the one hand for awareness in the work of the early economists of the effects of economic activity on the natural and social environment and of the feedback from the environment to the economy. On the other hand, it describes how economic theory developed in a way which made it increasingly relevant for the study of environmental issues and the design of economic policy.
B00|Luigi Bodio: promoter of the political and high scientific mission of statistics and pioneer of the international statistical cooperation|Luigi Bodio (1840-1920) was an Italian economist and statistician, considered one of the founders of the Italian Statistics. He was one of the 21 founding members of the International Statistical Institute (ISI) in 1885, ISI Director-General during the first 20 years (1885-1905) and ISI President for 11 years (1909-1920). This article gives a short insight into Luigi Bodio’s life and may be useful to the Italian and the International Communities interested in the history of statistics and in the origins of international statistical cooperation.
B00|Catholic Social Teaching And The Origins Of European Union|Many papal encyclicals were not directly concerned about the appearance of European Union due to many historical, political and social contexts. The fundamental principles developed through several encyclicals from early 19th century to the present day reaffirmed the neutrality of the Church regarding to many forms of government. But the most important idea has its root in the restoration of the Christian principles in society. In a time of de-Christianization and secularism, the role of Church as the foundation of peace is also important to notice. It was considered that every modern democracy is the image of the revealed heart of the universal law of charity (Jacques Maritain). That is why between a supranational entity like the European Union and the Catholic Church should be a friendly and close relationship. A unite Europe has its roots in Christianity, especially in Catholicism. The soul of Europe is animated by religious principles. Whether we talk about Schuman or Adenauer, their Christian faith is the engine for their political success. After the Second World War, in Western Europe, the Christian democratic parties had a huge impact for the democratic governance. The socio-economic policies of these parties were anchored in Catholic social teaching.
B00|Academic Anti-Semitism and the Austrian School: Vienna, 1918–1945|The theme of academic anti-Semitism has been widely discussed recently in histories of the interwar period of the University of Vienna, in particular its Faculty of Law and Policy Sciences. This paper complements these studies by focusing on the economics chairs of this faculty and, more generally, on the fate of the younger generation of the Austrian School of Economics. After some introductory remarks the paper concentrates on three case studies: the neglect of Mises in all three appointments of economics chairs in the 1920s; the anti-Semitic overtones in the conflict between Hans Mayer and Othmar Spann, both professors of economics in the faculty; and on anti-Semitism as a determinant of success or failure in academia, and consequently of the emigration of Austrian economists. Finally, we have a short look at the development of economics at the University of Vienna during and after the Nazi regime. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
B00|La aldea perdida, de Palacio Valdés, alegato anti-industrialista/Palacio Valdés La aldea perdida, a Plea Against Industrialism|En La aldea perdida (1903), de Armando Palacio ValdÃ?Â©s, encontramos un buen muestrario de los principales planÃ?Â¬teamientos anti-industrialistas del momento. De hecho, la novela enlaza con el anti-industrialismo Ã?Â?fin de sigloÃ?Â? y tambiÃ?Â©n con los recelos del catolicismo social espaÃ?Â±ol frente al mundo industrial. Sin embargo, su fuerte componente anti-industrialista quedÃ?Â³ muy difuminado en la adaptaciÃ?Â³n cinematogrÃ?Â¡fica llevada a cabo por SÃ?Â¡enz de Heredia en 1948, en pleno primer franquismo: eran aÃ?Â±os en los que la retÃ?Â³rica oficial agrarista se combinaba con una orientaciÃ?Â³n abiertamente industrial de la polÃ?Â­tica prÃ?Â¡ctica. In Palacio ValdÃ?Â©sÃ?Â? La aldea perdida (1903) it can be found a good sampling of the major anti-industrialist issues of the moment. In fact, the novel is linked to the fin de siÃ?Â¨cle anti-industrialism and also to the distrust towards the industrial world of Spanish Social Catholicism. However, its strong anti-industrialist component was diminished in the film adaptation done by SÃ?Â¡enz de Heredia in 1948, during the early Franco period: in these years the official agrarian rhetoric was combined with an openly industrial orientation of practical politics.
B00|Jovellanos: La reconstrucción de un clásico/Jovellanos: The Reconstruction of a Classic|Hasta el año 2012, la bibliografía jovellanista sumaba algo más de 3.900 referencias, indicador del éxito editorial pero también del riesgo de que los intérpretes de Jovellanos, de seguir incrementándose, lleguen a superar algún día a sus propios lectores. Indudablemente, dentro de tal vorágine bibliográfica, abundan toda clase de usos, abusos y distorsiones, que no dejan de ser parte del lastre que persigue a cualquier autor que haya alcanzado la condición de «clásico». En este artículo se trata de explicar tanto la facilidad de esa proliferación de usos y abusos de «jovellanismo», como de remitirla a los contextos históricos específicos que la alimentan. Until 2012, the amount of bibliographic references on Jovellanos amounted to a number of 3,900, which is an indication of publishing success. However, this considerable amount also indicates the risk that, if the number of specialists on Jovellanos continues to increase, it will become larger than the number of his readers. Undoubtedly, within this bibliographic confusion, all kinds of uses, overuses and distortions can be found, and this is nothing but the burden that is usually attached to every author that has achieved the category of ?classic?. This article attempts to explain how easily the amount of uses and overuses has increased, as well as how this proliferation should be placed in historical contexts that have fostered it.
B00|Ignácio Rangel e a categoria dualidade básica: uma interpretação do Brasil [Ignácio Rangel and his conception of basic duality: a view of Brazil]|Ignacio Rangel is an author of immense originality, although his work has been little explored in the Brazilian history of economic thought. The objective of this work is to develop a movement to recover the Rangelian interpretation of Brazil, putting light on his conception of basic duality and reintroducing Rangel in the list of the great interpreters of Brazil.
B00|A Importância da História do Pensamento Econômico e do pluralismo metodológico em economia a partir da perspectiva da Escola Austríaca [The importance of Economic Thought and methodological pluralism according to Austrian School of Economics]|The paper aims to analyze the role that history of economic thought and methodological pluralism can play in Economics. In order to achieve such a goal, it presents two arguments related to the Austrian School of Economics: the role played by the entrepreneur in Kirzner’s approach to the market process as an analogy to what is seen in the history of economic thought, and Hayek’s arguments for liberty as a defense of freedom of research and the existence of methodological pluralism. It is argued that, under the Austrian point of view, history of economic thought and methodological pluralism might be more appreciated by economists.
B00|The Philosophy of Economics. The Austrian, Neo-Keynesian, and Neo-Marxist Schools [Filozofia ştiinţelor economice. Şcolile Austriacă, neo-keynesiană şi neo-marxistă]|Based on the ontological and epistemological problems and solutions exposed in the previous paper, we scrutinize the philosophical grounds of three main schools of economics. They are not opposing one another as solid blocks of incompatible ideas and theories, but each school contains different approaches and trends, which maintain their internal life and sustain the dialogue between them.
B00|The Progress Of Economic Thoughtfulness Concerning The Services|"Many interpretations of the services concept and the concerns related to other configurations in the field have determined the occurrence of vast and various literatures, provided by studies, analysis and research of some of the coryphaeus of the economic world, carried out during almost three centuries. Each of them has had its own significance and individuality, always deriving from the uppermost economic doctrine, but from the crystallization of new points of view and study directions. The variety of definitions issued by the representatives of the services theories consists in the result of heterogeneous activities that are included within the services class, as well as those many notions of the service term used in the current discourse. Basing upon the invoked issues, as regards the structure of services, one can see that the difficulty of evaluating services can be found within the presence of the following characteristics: the intangibility, the inseparability, variety of services, the outage or the lack of property. The situation can be corrected by means of some dominant attributes attached to services: sending some proofs credible to consumers; tangibility of services; using palpable indications and using the personal sources of information; carrying out the standardization of services, customization and automation of services.The conventional formula of promoting the services has recommended the investments in human capital and within the business infrastructure, as factors of stimulating the economic growth. The challenges of modern times have confirmed the risk taking carried out by the undertakers when implement the ""Schumpeterian type"" innovation within the services sector, as well as the need of new investments in their fields of activity, development and customization. One supports the idea according to which the unprecedented growth and diversification of services, the shape of useful effects resulted within the services production processes and the use of high level technologies will lead towards the growth f production level and the living standards of people. For the time being, one can characterize the economies of the developed countries and of many countries in progress of development, as being services oriented economies; the development and diversification of services was determined by the need of satisfying social needs, more and more diversified. In this way, the part of services aimed to become proportionally to their contribution, as regards the economic growth."
B00|Il lavoro tra disimpiego e tutela: Giuseppe Toniolo e la Settimana sociale di Brescia (6-13 settembre 1908) (Labor between underemployment and protection: Giuseppe Toniolo and the Settimana sociale of Brescia (6-13 September 1908)|From 6 to 13 September 1908, the second Social Week of Italian Catholics took place in Brescia. Coordinated by Giuseppe Toniolo, president of Unione popolare, the meeting tackled issues related to the world of work in the industrial and agricultural fields. Speechs of Giuseppe Toniolo, first of all, but also those of other speakers as Francesco Fontana and Giulio Bevilacqua, allowed to describe the conditions of the historic Italian underemployment and the need of a non-ideological and nonantagonistic unionism in Italy in the early twentieth century, in order to meet the evolving needs of the contemporary model of national development
B00|Profilo di Giuseppe Toniolo (Giuseppe Toniolo's profile)|Giuseppe Toniolo is probably the most important exponent of the economical and social catholic thought between ’800 and ’900. He analyzed the genesys and the positive as well as the negative contribution of Capitalism to the modern economy dinamics; he noted the role of Socialism in defense of the «legitimate needs» and the «exemplary rights» of popular classes, but he also highlights the allencompassing and deterministic aspects, deriving from Hegel, as well as the the non-religious aspect. Alternatively, he proposes a «Christian way» to build a new free and righteous society, where ethics is an intrinsic factor of economics, wealthy is not the final aim but instrumental, the profit is subject to the centrality of the human being, to be is predominant on to have, and «democracy» express through its representatives those everlasting moral values always reviving as well as deeply renewed.
B00|Giuseppe Toniolo: bilancio bibliografico (Giuseppe Toniolo: Bibliographical analysis)|This essay examines Giuseppe Toniolo’s main bibliography, with particular attention to biographical events, different steps of his educational path, his works, his scientific method and spirituality, the role he played in nationalwide and worldwide Catholic movement. This bibliographical work also analyses the relationship between Toniolo and the Catholic hierarchy as well as the one between ethics and economics, Thomism and Neo-Scholastic, medievalism, corporatism, statistics, social, theological, legal, political and above all economic thought, without excluding academic activity and promoting cultural institutions.
B00|Ripensare oggi Giuseppe Toniolo (Rethinking Giuseppe Toniolo)|Toniolo was altogether an economist and a social thinker. As economist he constituted an objective obstacle for the introduction and development of neo-classical economic theory in Italy. As a social thinker Toniolo set the bases of the ‘economic doctrine’ of Catholic Church. This doctrine was then largely utilized for many decades, even during the years of the foundation of the Italian Republic Constitution. As the Toniolo’s heritage is still alive, the author is tempted to think that the idea in favour of a mixed economy not only is still wide-spread, but is also intended to survive.
B00|GIUSEPPE TONIOLO. ECONOMIA SOCIALE, DIRITTI, COOPERAZIONE A cura di Marco Bianchini e Fiorenza Manzalini. Introduzione. L'economia sostanziale di Giuseppe Toniolo (Introduction. The substantial economics of Giuseppe Toniolo)|Reading Giuseppe Toniolo means reading a page of Italian history and national identity post 1861 unification. His views still live in some passages of the Republican Constitution and in the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church. With an institutionalistic framework his economic thought has its roots in the aristotelian-thomistic tradition.
B00|A sustainable architecture approach to the economic and social aspects of the bazaar of Tabriz|Sustainable architecture aims to design buildings and infra-structures, such as squares and bazaars, adapted to the social, economic, cultural and environmental contexts of certain place. The practice of sustainable architecture contributes to sustainable development, therefore for the development of future generations. The concept must integrate not only bioclimatic strategies, but also economic, social and cultural facets. Sustainable architecture research is either carried while the designing process takes place (the present) but is also focused on the built environment through the historical time of a place (the past). The aim of this article is to bring to the academic discussion new perspectives on sustainable architecture and debate the relationship between the architectural elements and the social and cultural aspects by taking the Tabriz Historic Bazaar Complex as case study. Infra-structures like Bazaars are geographically placed all over the world, from Turkey to Egypt, from Tajikistan to Iran. In Iranian cities, the bazaar keeps playing an important role as economic and social engine. Thus, research the main elements that keep the Bazaar of Tabriz so actively dynamic in the present will be discussed.
B00|Minority Policies of Turkey and Wealth Tax of 1942|This paper focuses on minorities in Turkey and influences of Second World War period which caused internal discomforts and inequalities upon Turkish minorities. First i review the position of minorities and contribute the framework for understanding the place of non-Muslim groups in Turkey, their challenges and dissapointments as well. Then try to enlighten effects of Second World War period on Turkish minorities and responses in Turkish society. Basically, Jewish people who escaped from Holocaust, the recruitment process of minorities and economic Turkification period, such as; Welath Tax of 1942 are handled in this article.
B00|Economy as the value streams. Preliminary study|Economy can be generally described as a bunch of value streams. At least a part of capital accumulation is assumed to be the consequence of value stream blockage, and a means too keep such blockage. Negative relation between capital accumulation and foreign trade balance coming out from this assumption is supported by the data from national accounts, and hence justify the idea of economy as the value streams. A lot of research ideas are following this assertion, most of them promising results useful for socio-economic policies, and for optimizing institutions and business practices in order to make them more conductive to capital flows.
B00|Financial Thought as a Shield: Bogotá’s Stock Exchange and the Financial Ideas during its Foundation and Consolidation|The document uses a historical approach to unveil the political nature of financial ideas generated by functionaries of Bogotá’s Stock Exchange in the years following its foundation. Particularly, it demonstrates how these ideas constituted interpretations that aimed at the consolidation of the entity in a dynamic historical and economic context that posed varying challenges to the institution. The interpretative discourse produced and transmitted by said Stock Exchange constituted an adaptive mechanism, which gradually refined so as to placate both existing and emerging social concerns regarding the role and the effects of an entity of the like.
B00|Saurashtra: A Language, Region, Culture & Community|This research paper summarize a region currently called Saurashtra, a silk weaver community that migrated thousand year ago to South India as community, the language they speak and their relation with old place after thousand years. Saurashtra of India and people in the region speaks Gujarati language. Saurashtra is a language in South India spoken by Suarshtrian community. Suarshtrian community might have migrated Saurshtra region of Gujarat many centuries ago, but have similarities in culture till date. Saurashtra in context to language and community is written with some variations like Souarshtra, Sourashtram, Soaurashrians etc. Suarshtra in context to region is also known as Kathiawar and Sorath. This paper is substantially a compilation of detail of the region, language and community captured from online open sources on Wikipedia & various blogs to describe culture, relation, commonality, linkages and contrast between western India’s Saurashtra region and south India’s Sourashtrian community & language.
B00|What Did Hold Back the Middle East? The Thesis of The Long Divergence Revisited|The present paper contends the thesis presented by Timur Kuran in his work The Long Divergence: How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East which asserts that since certain provisions of the Islamic Law, though egalitarian in nature, caused fragmentation of assets, they were responsible for the fall of the Middle East because they did not allow corporations, banks, and big trading companies to emerge, supposedly behind the rise of the West. It argues that the real factors that caused the rise of the West were different. In the Middle East adverse political, intellectual and economic factors, such as state’s apathy, irrelevant education and unscientific atmosphere, declining agriculture, trade and industry, were responsible for its fall behind the West. There was no question of Islamic law preventing them or causing their annihilation. This is clear from the development of the region during its early history as well as from its recent history.
B00|Thorstein Veblen, Iconoclastic Economist|This article offers a presentation of the works by Thorstein Veblen, as well as some biographical elements. After a brief presentation of Veblen’s main intellectual influences and after presenting the author’s context of an America dominated by robber-barons at the turn of the XXth Century, this article presents his theory of socio-economic evolution based on a Darwinian perspective, his theory of the elite and of the leisure class, his theory of capital as means of predation and, finally, discusses the heritage Thorstein Veblen left in social sciences.
B00|The Political Orientation of Thorstein Veblen|Veblen’s political orientation has been portrayed as nebulous. The absence of a systematic approach in his work leaves the door open to differing understandings of Veblen’s politics itself. All students of this intellectual agree that there is a radical component to his position, but there is no agreement as to how far his radicalism extends, nor even what the precise nature of his radicalism was. This opens the door to different understandings. The purpose of this paper is to attempt to position Veblen’s politics within the context of his analysis of the mature capitalism of his day – what may be called oligopolistic capitalism. His political perspective both informed and was informed by his economic theory of the capitalism that surrounded him. His critical economic examination of capitalism could not have been undertaken without his political orientation, and that examination of the “evolutionary” process of capitalism promoted the development and modification of his politics.
B00|Financial Capital and Industrial Capital. A Dichotomy that Tends to Evolve into an Antinomy|The theoretical framework of the paper is the Veblenian theory of the business and financial cycle. Compared to similar, contemporary (K. Wicksell and I. Fisher) or later (H. Minsky and F. Vicarelli), models, the basic idea and the novelty are the identification of a gradual trend towards the financialisation of the economies. The core of the paper is represented by an econometric valuation, for OECD countries, during the period 1998-2009, that considers as regressors of investments, also a “financialisation” index concerning share and other equity of investment funds. A second econometric analysis is proposed to quantify the determinants of the process of financialisation, that in our interpretation depends also upon the relative profitability between finance sector and productive sector. The results of the analysis verify both the connection between real accumulation and financial accumulation, and the antinomy between the two sectors of an economy.
B00|Overvalued and Underestimated. Veblen’s Contribution to the Analysis of (un-)Sustainable Consumption|Veblen’s concept of conspicuous consumption is often cited to explain why consumption habits in our consumer societies tend to be unsustainable and ever increasing. However, much more than blaming individual consumption habits Veblen sharply analyzed quite some of the societal and economic forces which drive the framework conditions for unsustainable consumption: the vested interests and the absentee ownership. The paper follows the path Veblen’s thoughts have taken trough economic and social literature over the last centuryand highlights how the actual sustainable consumption debate could make better use of Veblen’s insights e.g. in requesting the constitutive institutions for property. Opportunities for Strong Sustainable Consumption obviously presuppose radical changes, social innovations and thinking out of the box.
B00|Two translators: Gramsci and Sraffa|Through the Prison Notebooks and the papers left by Sraffa, it is possible to attempt a reconstruction of the intellectual paths taken by the two authors and discover unexpected convergences, as well as obvious differences. The key concept employed here is that of the 'translatability of scientific languages'. From this concept, Boothman has argued, stems the ‘open’ character of Gramsci’s Marxism. The theme of the translatability of languages is also present in Sraffa: in a Note written after the important theoretical turning point of the summer of 1927, he states his intention to write a book that will consist in the translation of Marx into English, that is in the translation of the ‘metaphysics’ of Hegel into that of Hume. It can be shown that issues that have a prominent importance in Gramsci’s thought help us to understand the meaning and importance of Production of Commodities by Means of Commodities.
B00|Open regional science|This presidential address will contrast two worlds of science. The first, and the one we regional scientists currently find ourselves embedded within, is what I will call captured science. While this is our status quo, it is not generally what holds everywhere in the broader scientific community where a second and new type of science is operative. This is what I will call open science. My purpose in this talk is to situate regional science within the paradigm of open science by arguing that our future should be linked to open data, open modeling, open software, open collaboration, and open publication. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
B00|Marshall, los Webb y Schumpeter en Estados Unidos: descubriendo una nueva realidad económica<BR>[Marshall, the Webbs, And Schumpeter in the United States: Discovering a New Economic reality]|Marshall, los Webb y Schumpeter, tres grandes nombres de la historia del pensamiento económico, viajaron a Estados Unidos en distintos momentos de la llamada Época Dorada del capitalismo, entre comienzos del último tercio del siglo XIX y la Gran Guerra. Este periodo coincidió con la fase de ascenso de Estados Unidos al indiscutible liderazgo conómico internacional, tras una rápida e intensa transformación desde una sociedad aún esencialmente agraria y rural a otra industrial y urbana. Marshall visitó Estados Unidos en 1875, los Webb en 1898, y Schumpeter en 1913. Los tres descubrieron una nueva realidad económica que contrastaba con la vieja Europa, pero las diferencias de percepción fueron notables, tanto porque visitaron el país en tres momentos distintos de su rápido proceso de transformación, como porque contemplaron la novedosa realidad que se les presentaba desde tres miradas bien dispares.
B00|Competitividad de la industria de bienes de equipo de España y Alemania (1993-2008): ventaja absoluta y costes relativos<BR>[Competitiveness of Capital Goods Industry in Spain and Germany (1993-2008): Absolute Advantage an Relative Cost]|El presente trabajo realizará un análisis comparativo del sector de bienes de equipo de España y Alemania, con el objeto de desentrañar los determinantes de la competitividad de esta industria. La hipótesis central es la siguiente: la industria de bienes de equipo de Alemania es más competitiva debido a su mayor productividad real y sus menores costes relativos. De este modo, se partirá de la teoría clásica y marxiana de la formación de los precios, y el modelo de las ventajas absolutas de Anwar Shaikh. Para nuestro propósito, se calcularán los índices de tipo de cambio, los índices de costes laborales unitarios reales y la balanza comercial bilateral de los bienes de equipo.
B00|On John Maynard Keynes’s Anti-Semitism Once Again. A documentary Note|This note presents new archival evidence about John Maynard Keynes’ attitudes toward Jews. The relevant material is composed of two letters sent by Robert G. Wertheimer to Bertrand Russell and Richard F. Kahn along with their replies. Between 1963 and 1964, Wertheimer – an Austrian-born Jewish immigrant then professor of economics at Babson College – wrote to Russell and Kahn asking for their personal reminiscences concerning Keynes’ anti-Semitic utterance. In their brief but still significant responses, both Russell and Kahn firmly denied any hint of anti-Semitism in Keynes, thereby providing significant first-hand testimonies from two of his closest acquaintances.
B00|The Illusion of Consumer Sovereignity in Economic and Neoliberal Thought|Contemporary economic policy discourses are heavily oriented towards competition and efficiency using modern conceptualisation of the market as an institution for resource allocation and governance. Market based policy approaches are considered necessary and sufficient instruments to achieve environmental goals while leaving individual freedom largely unaffected. This neoliberal position crucially depends upon the concept of consumer sovereignty. It encapsulates the idea that individual consumption is the only source of value and consumers are able to enforce their interests on producers via their power in the market place. Despite the concept of consumer sovereignty having huge importance in contemporary economic theory and policy, its meaning remains opaque. We explore how consumer sovereignty has been employed for political instrumental, market ideal and economic instrumental reasons by classic liberals, neo-Austrian and Neoclassical economists respectively. We go on to show that the concept of consumer sovereignty depends upon a series of problematic assumptions and fails to bear much relationship to reality. The theoretical basis of consumer sovereignty on individual preferences proves problematic, not least due to its ethical presumptions. Environmentalists search for what makes a just and sustainable society and neoliberalism is answering with the rhetoric of consumer sovereignty. This paper shows why that answer needs to be rejected and why environmentalism actually means critically rethinking the role of markets in society.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B00|The Illusion of Consumer Sovereignity in Economic and Neoliberal Thought|Contemporary economic policy discourses are heavily oriented towards competition and efficiency using modern conceptualisation of the market as an institution for resource allocation and governance. Market based policy approaches are considered necessary and sufficient instruments to achieve environmental goals while leaving individual freedom largely unaffected. This neoliberal position crucially depends upon the concept of consumer sovereignty. It encapsulates the idea that individual consumption is the only source of value and consumers are able to enforce their interests on producers via their power in the market place. Despite the concept of consumer sovereignty having huge importance in contemporary economic theory and policy, its meaning remains opaque. We explore how consumer sovereignty has been employed for political instrumental, market ideal and economic instrumental reasons by classic liberals, neo-Austrian and Neoclassical economists respectively. We go on to show that the concept of consumer sovereignty depends upon a series of problematic assumptions and fails to bear much relationship to reality. The theoretical basis of consumer sovereignty on individual preferences proves problematic, not least due to its ethical presumptions. Environmentalists search for what makes a just and sustainable society and neoliberalism is answering with the rhetoric of consumer sovereignty. This paper shows why that answer needs to be rejected and why environmentalism actually means critically rethinking the role of markets in society.
B00|Harry S Truman:The Economics of a Populist President|Harry S Truman is best remembered as the President who witnessed the swift arrival of the Cold War in the tumultuous years after World War Two. Little however has been written to show that he was also the populist President who set the political economic course for the United States to win it merely 40 years later. In this timely biography, E Ray Canterbery captures the spirit of the man, who first and foremost, was a politician who crafted political progams such as the Fair Deal program, full-employment program, New Deal program, reconversion, stabilization, and agriculture progams through the lens of progressiveness. He focuses on Truman's populist economics by charting Truman's early years, the makings of his populist character, his beginnings in Washington, Communism and the Truman Doctrine, the campaign of 1948, the Marshall Plan, the firing of General MacArthur, and the Korean War. While the economic aspects of his term were fundamentally that of war and peace, Canterbery analyses in great depth Truman's economic policies and instruments, such as the Employment Act of 1946 and the President's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) ¡ª results of Truman's presidency that other authors of books on Truman have largely ignored. Harry S Truman: The Economics of a Populist President shows how Truman should be remembered: As a progressive politician whose populist policies rank him among the ¡°near great¡± Presidents in the tradition of William Jennings Bryan, Theodore Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson. Contents: Introduction The Early Years The Political Making of a Populist Mr Truman Goes to Washington The Economics of War and Peace The Employment Act of 1946 and the President's Council of Economic Advisers Communism and the Truman Doctrine The Populist Campaign of 1948 The Marshall Plan Truman's Defining Test: The Korean War Afterward Readership: Economic historians, researchers, students and members of the public who are interested in American history and the early origins of the Cold War.
B00|Introduction|Many years ago I had my first encounter with Harry S. Truman. It was the summer of 1964. I was writing my Master's thesis in economics, which covered the President's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) under President Truman, as well as under other Presidents. On a whim, I decided to visit the Truman Library and Museum. At the time, I did not know that Truman spent much of his post-Presidential years at the Library. The stacks in the Library were open for researchers to browse. While browsing, Mr Truman came racing through the stacks, stopped and asked what I was looking for. He was 80 years old, but had the energy and speed of a much younger person. Later, I would read about his apparent tirelessness and quickness. It was legendary. When I mentioned the CEA, he began to pull books and documents off the shelves. They seemed to fly off the shelves. But what impressed me the most was the kindness and humbleness of the man…
B00|The Early Years|Harry S. Truman was a product of a frontier city with deep roots in an agrarian culture. To be exact, he came out of what was also then the frontier of the United States. Both had a lot to do with growing up to be a populist. Soon, Harry would encounter three presidential hopefuls who happened to be progressive populists, or at least, populists. First, we will consider the ground upon which the early Trumans would grow their crops.
B00|The Political Making of a Populist|We have arrived at the edge of Harry S. Truman, politician. But he was no ordinary politician. Already, we have inferred how populism was in the background. In the Introduction, we briefly defined what we mean by Progressive Populism. There nonetheless is a gap to be filled. We need to understand the history of “populism” to be sure that our definition is suitable. Thus, we will momentarily detour from the story of Harry the politician, to say more about what we mean by “populism.” Still, it helps to know what we have already discovered: Truman grew up during the heyday of American populism…
B00|Mr Truman Goes to Washington|Mr Truman went to Washington in the midst of the Great Depression. In May 1934 he filed as a Democratic candidate for the Senate. On August 7 he defeated incumbent Republican Roscoe C. Patterson. On January 3, 1935 Truman was sworn in as a US Senator along with 12 other Democrats. By the mid-1930s Washington DC was being transformed from a sleepy small southern city into a large metropolitan area of great diversity. It was being transformed by the activist Roosevelt administration…
B00|The Economics of War and Peace|On April 12, 1945, Harry S. Truman was sworn in as the 33rd president of the United States upon the death of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In the days immediately after becoming President, Alben Barkley advised Truman: “Have confidence in yourself. If you do not, the people will lose confidence in you.”1 He took the advice to heart, despite some initial doubts about himself…
B00|The Employment Act of 1946 and the President's Council of Economic Advisers|Every day, the change in the President became more obvious. Ironically, it had been the sweeping Republican triumph in the congressional elections that had given Harry Truman a new lease on life. At last, he was free from the shadow of Franklin Roosevelt. Charlie Ross told White House reporters, “The real Truman administration began the day after the elections.” The President was now a free man and could write a fine record. Henceforth, Harry Truman would be guided by the simple idea that he would be for the welfare of all the people without regard to political considerations…
B00|Communism and The Truman Doctrine|Harry S. Truman was very busy during his first days in the White House. In 1946 it seemed that the Communist menace was everywhere. The Soviets were threatening Turkey and Greece. Moreover, they loomed over a devastated Eastern and Western Europe. In Asia, Communism in China was flexing its muscles. The immediate Communist threat was at home, or so it was thought. In any case, it was something President Truman could not ignore. The Republicans would not let him.
B00|The Populist Campaign of 1948|1948. World War II was not far from memory but in its wake, another war was about to begin. While Truman was planning his Presidential Campaign, Stalin was to make a new play in Berlin which would require immediate, decisive action by the President…
B00|The Marshall Plan|Much was going on during the Campaign of 1948, including the laying of the groundwork for what would be called “The Marshall Plan.” Next, we focus on the forces that led to the Plan as well as re-visiting a famous speech. As already noted, Secretary of State George C. Marshall (1880–1959) was the key player, though there were others. Still, a good place to begin is with Marshall's speech at Harvard in which he said, “Our policy is directed not against any country or doctrine, but against hunger, poverty, desperation and chaos. Its purpose should be the revival of a worldwide working economy promoting the survival of free institutions.” The Soviets and their Eastern European satellites were not to be excluded from the program but rather, were invited to participate. While the Communist bloc countries could opt out of the plan, the burden of dividing the continent would fall exclusively on them. In short, it was going to be virtually a global plan, with ripple effects throughout the world community…
B00|Truman's Defining Test: The Korean War|In springtime 1948, the President was in good high humor, cheerful, chipper, but also very busy. Among new appointments he named Perle Mesta to be the new minister to Luxembourg, an appointment of no great importance but remembered fondly because it inspired a hit Broadway musical, Call Me Madam, with music by Irving Berlin and starring Ethel Merman…
B00|Afterward|Harry Truman's decision not to run again in 1952 was not an easy one because at the time he did not find the alternatives appealing. Thus, it is hardly surprising to find that he did not really retire. Rather, he remained active in politics, speaking his mind on issues, attacking the Republicans, and feuding with his nemesis Eisenhower. Just shy of his 69th birthday, Truman remained vigorous. Even before leaving office he had began planning a presidential library. He had a lot to do with site selection and other matters, and proudly opened it five years later…
B00|Anchoring in economics: On Frey and Gallus on the aggregation of behavioural anomalies|This paper examines the research area identified by Frey and Gallus (Aggregate Effects of Behavioral Anomalies: A New Research Area, 2014) and the relationship between it and the choices that economists make. It supports the Frey and Gallus view that, as a consequence of individuals employing external inputs rather than relying upon their own judgemental capacities, the quality of decision-making may differ at the market and macro levels from what has been observed in laboratory experiments. It seeks to forestall potential moves by rational choice theorists to argue that such processes, imposed by competitive pressures, will swiftly eliminate anomalous behaviour. But it questions Frey and Gallus's use of conventional rational choice theory as the reference point for judging the quality of real-world decisions. It argues that choice is an activity based on evolving sets of habits and rules, rather than based on given preference systems, and that Frey and Gallus's failure to consider alternative reference points is itself a manifestation of anchoring.
B00|Aggregate effects of behavioral anomalies: A new research area|Much recent research in economics focuses on exploring behavioral anomalies, i.e., systematic deviations from the assumptions of the rationally self-interested model of man. Laboratory studies are used to identify seeming inconsistencies with micro-economic theory on the level of individuals. Since economics is a social science, this article proposes that the next crucial step consists in shifting the focus to the macro-level. It examines the process through which behavioral anomalies are aggregated to a societal outcome. Since individuals are reactive when they interact with others and face institutional constraints, the aggregation process may lead to different outcomes than what has been observed in individual-level studies: the respective anomalies may disappear, or they may become stronger on the macro-level. The discussion demonstrates that there are a great number of aspects to be analyzed. The paper presents fragments of what could become a more extensive field of research.
B00|"My book ""Economic Development in the Context of China"": Its Origins plus Experiences in China in 1989 and their Sequel"| Outlines how as a result of a chance meeting with Professor Mao Yushi in Toronto, Canada in 1986 I was subsequently invited to visit China to give lectures at Nankai University in Tianjin (which I did in 1989). This visit was extended by my being awarded an Exchange Fellowship Academy of Social Sciences in Australia and the Australian Academy of Humanities in conjunction with the Chinese Academy of Social Science (CASS). This enabled me to make further contact with Mao Yushi who was Professor of American Studies at that time. Presentations of papers and academic contacts were made at various centres of learning in Wuhan, Xian and Beijing. One of the results of my visit to China was the publication of my book Economic Development in the Context of China. This was put online in 2011 by Palgrave Macmillan. The nature and genesis of this book is outlined, together with my experiences in China in 1989 and the sequel to my visit. The sequel includes subsequent visits to The University of Queensland of several Chinese economists, including Mao Yushi, my involvement in several research projects focused on China, as well as several articles dealing with Chinese economic and environmental issues. Some biographical information about Mao Yushi and Clem Tisdell is also included in this article.
B00|Government Is Whose Problem?|" This article addresses the political meaning of President Ronald Reagan's 1981 declaration that ""government is the problem."" Whereas, historically, the state had been used by elites to extract as much from producers as possible, with democratization of the franchise, the state became the sole instrument that could limit — or potentially end — this extraction. In principle, once control of the state is democratized by the ballot box, the fortunes of elites largely depend upon controlling ideology. In 1955, Simon Kuznets offered the highly influential conjecture that, while rising inequality characterizes early economic development, advanced development promises greater equality. However, rising inequality in most wealthy countries over the past four decades has challenged this hypothesis. What those who embraced Kuznets's conjecture failed to recognize is the dynamics by which the rich inevitably regain control over ideology — and thereby the state — with their far greater command over resources, education, and status. In the course of history, only the very severe crisis of the 1930s discredited the elites' ideology sufficiently to enable a sustained period of rising equality. However, by 1980, they had regained ideological ascendancy. This article examines how this struggle over ideology has unfolded in the US since the democratization of the franchise in the nineteenth century. It concludes with reflections on whether the current crisis holds promise of de-legitimating the elites' hold on power once more and of ushering in another period of rising equality."
B00|John Dewey’s social philosophy: a contribution to critical philosophy of the economics|This paper examines the links between philosophy and economics in John Dewey’s thought and underlines the contribution of the social philosophy by which the pragmatist philosopher constructs those links. We show that his social philosophy, that he considered as contributing to the resolution of social issues, is the ground for a fundamental critique of the institutions and of the economic science of his times. Dewey advocates a reconstruction of social philosophy which connects economics, politics and ethics and which demonstrates how the economic process should contribute to the development of a democratic society. It is from this perspective that the philosopher simultaneously criticises individualism as a social theory and as an organising principle of economic life, substituting in its place a philosophy of experience and an ethics of democracy based on the social control of economic forces
B00|On modesty and combativeness in economic philosophy|In this contribution I question the expression “economical philosophy” as an association of opposed terms which cannot be defined without referring to each other beforehand. Because of this original intertwining of philosophy and economics, philosophical reason is as bounded as economical reason and therefore unable to determine the place of the economy within the social totality. Therefore, the expression can only be understood as a double bind of modesty and combativeness. Modesty because the philosopher is unable to provide a foundation for the work of the economist, who is henceforth in charge to look for his own foundations. Combativeness because the work of the economist is always already contaminated by claims about the social totality and therefore subject for philosophical critique. In order to express this double bind, it is better to use the expressions “philosophy and economics” or “philosophy of economics”.
B00|intentional apple-choice behaviors: when amartya sen meets john searle|This paper suggests that Amartya Sen’s conception of rationality could benefit from insights borrowed to John Searle’s philosophy of mind. More precisely I argue that the work of Searle on intentionality provides a relevant conceptual apparatus to strengthen Sen’s conceptualization of context-dependent preferences in a way that suggests further analytical contributions to the latter’s line of research. The arguments developed in the paper are relevant for three interrelated issues on economic rationality that are currently discussed in economic methodology: (1) methodological dualism and intentionalitic explanations in economics, (2) the relationships between economics and philosophy, and (3) the recent rise of behavioral economics within the mainstream of economic theory.
B00|Lessons from the Historical Use of Reserve Requirements in the United States to Promote Bank Liquidity|Efforts in the United States to promote bank liquidity through reserve requirements, a minimum ratio of liquid assets relative to liabilities, extend as far back as 1837. Despite such requirements, banking panics and suspensions of deposit convertibility continued to occur. Eventually, policymakers created a central bank to ensure bank liquidity. This paper reviews the historical debates about reserve requirements, supplemented by empirical evidence, to provide insights relevant today about using reserve requirements to regulate liquidity. The insights are related to convincing institutions to use the reserve during stress events and the ways reserve requirements for banks affect interactions with other financial firms before and during a panic.
B00|Financial Responsibility. A Temporal Risk?|In Finance, when the context is particularly complex responsibility can be “invisible” from the perspective afforded by time. Hence, temporal risk can usefully be analyzed through the Greek concepts of time: Chronos (god of duration and sequential time), Kairos (god of opportunity and the moment of time) and Aeon (god of eternity and long-term time).
B00|Intentional Apple-choice Behaviors: When Amartya Sen Meets John Searle|This paper suggests that Amartya Sen's conception of rationality could benefit from insights borrowed to John Searle's philosophy of mind. More precisely, I argue that the work of Searle on intentionality provides a relevant conceptual apparatus to strengthen Sen's conceptualization of context-dependent preferences in a way that suggests further analytical contributions to the latter’s line of research. The arguments developed in the paper are relevant for three interrelated issues on economic rationality that are currently discussed in economic methodology: (1) methodological dualism and intentionalitic explanations in economics, (2) the relationships between economics and philosophy, and (3) the recent rise of behavioral economics within the mainstream of economic theory.
B00|The evolving domain of entrepreneurship research|Research on entrepreneurship has flourished in recent years and is evolving rapidly. This article explores the history of entrepreneurship research, how the research domain has evolved, and its current status as an academic field. The need to concretize these issues stems partly from a general interest in defining the current research domain and partly from the more specific tasks confronting the prize committee of the Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research. Entrepreneurship has developed in many sub-fields within several disciplines—primarily economics, management/business administration, sociology, psychology, economic and cultural anthropology, business history, strategy, marketing, finance, and geography—representing a variety of research traditions, perspectives, and methods. We present an analytical framework that organizes our thinking about the domain of entrepreneurship research by specifying elements, levels of analysis, and the process/context. An overview is provided of where the field stands today and how it is positioned relative to the existing disciplines and new research fields upon which it draws. Areas needed for future progress are highlighted, particularly the need for a rigorous dynamic theory of entrepreneurship that relates entrepreneurial activity to economic growth and human welfare. Moreover, applied work based on more careful design as well as on theoretical models yielding more credible and robust estimates seems also highly warranted. Copyright The Author(s) 2013
B00|La política educativa neoliberal: un enfoque teórico|La tesis de este artículo sostiene que las medidas que propone la teoría neoliberal perfeccionan la eficiencia pero no ayudan a una mayor equidad en educación. Esta teoría sugiere que el Estado debe intervenir en la educación básica para mejorar la distribución del ingreso. La educación posbásica debe ser financiada por el sector privado (familias y empresas). Se plantea que, en su mayoría, las personas con más recursos son las que ingresan a la universidad, y si el Estado gasta en este grupo socioeconómico se le está ayudando a las personas que más tienen. Por otro lado, las empresas privadas se benefician con la mano de obra calificada que no les costó formar. Los resultados del modelo dependen de cómo se aplique en cada sociedad. Antes de buscar una teoría educativa, necesitamos saber qué proyecto de nación deseamos para nuestro país. Saber cuál es la herencia cultural que anhelamos dejar para México/ The principal thesis of this working paper is that the actions proposed by the neoliberal theory improve efficiency and not helping a greater equity in education. This theory proposes that the State should intervene in basic education for a better distribution of income. Postbasic education should be supported by the private sector (firms and families). It supposes that people with more resources are mostly, those admitted to the University, and if the State spends at this level is helping those people who have more. On the other hand, private corporations take advantage from skilled labor that does not cost them form. The model results depend on how it is applied in every society. Before looking for an educational theory, we need to know which project of nation we want for our country. What cultural heritage that we want for Mexico?
B00|From the Zollverein to the Economics of Regionalism|The paper is a contribution to the special issue “150 years Journal of Economics and Statistics”. The starting point is a series of articles on the nature and the history of the German Zollverein by Gustav Fischer in the early volumes of the Journal. Both the perception of the Zollverein and the economics of preferential trade are traced over time. The focus is on the analogies between the Zollverein and the European Community and on the expansion of the Zollverein in view of the modern theory of sequencing in forming a trade bloc.
B00|Rotating the Necker cube: A bioeconomic approach to cooperation and the causal role of synergy in evolution|The paradox of widespread cooperation in an intensely competitive natural world has been a major focus of theory and research in evolutionary biology and related disciplines over the past several decades. While much of the earlier work in this vein was gene-centered and grounded in inclusive fitness (or kin selection) theory, more recent developments suggest that it might also be useful to view cooperation (and biological complexity) from a bioeconomic perspective. Here I will briefly explore the case for a paradigm shift, with special reference to the role of functional synergy as a distinct class of interdependent causal influences in evolution. I will argue that synergies of various kinds have been important drivers for cooperation in living systems at all levels. From this perspective, inclusive fitness and other factors may be enablers for cooperation, but the many exceptions show that genetic relatedness is neither necessary nor sufficient for the emergence of cooperative phenomena. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
B00|Hierarchy of Ideals in Market Interactions: An Application to the Labor Market|This paper argues that a hierarchy of ideals exists in market interactions that sets the benchmark on the norm of fairness associated with these interactions, thus affecting pricing decisions associated with market exchange. As norms emerge, an ideal determines the criteria of optimal behavior and serves as a basis for market exchange. Norms homogenize the diversity of commodities in market interactions according to a hierarchy of norms and values. The paper then goes on to illustrate how this hierarchy of ideals works in the labor market, leading to inequality of access to jobs and wages between groups of individuals. Groups socially perceived to be diverging from the context-dependent dominant ideal are likely to suffer most in market interactions.
B00|Development of Social and Economic Forecasting and Ideas of A. Anchishkin|The role of the prominent Soviet economist, academician A. Anchishkin (1933—1987), whose 80th birth anniversary we celebrate this year, in the development of ideas and formation of economic forecasting in the country at the time when the directive planning acted as a leading tool of economic management is explored in the article. Besides, Anchishkin’s special role is noted in developing a comprehensive program of scientific and technical progress, an information basis for working out long-term forecasts of the country’s development, moreover, his contribution to the creation of long-term forecasting methodology and improvement of the statistical basis for economic analysis and economic planning. The authors show that social and economic forecasting in the period after 1991, which has undertaken a number of functions of economic planning, has largely relied on further development of Anchishkin’s ideas, at the same time responding to new challenges for the Russian economy development during its entry into the world economic system.
B00|Transformation in the Nature of American Economics and Establishing Neoclassical Economic Technology|The study briefly focuses on the processes of gradual, though not linear, establishment of the dominance of Neoclassical view after interwar period, following the history of American economics. It is shown that by that (interwar) period there have already been present historically developed components, needed for the turn in the character of the economic theory and its application. This change is associated with converting effects of external determinants in the development of economics – and general aspects, or instruments, of the method of economics as a whole, into intrinsic features and specific tools of the advancing Neoclassical economics. Basically exploited is Mary Morgan’s (2001) conception of the natural interdependences in the processes of functioning of both sides of economics – the theoretical and the applied one – in the form of Economic technology. In this direction It is suggested, development of American, - and world, - economics from around 1930s-1940s through 2000s to be interpr ted through the prism of the formation and functioning (applying) of grand neoclassical economic technology, component (dominated) part of which appears to be the Keynesian economic technology.
B00|The role of income inequality in crisis theories and in the subprime crisis|An increasing number of economists argue that income inequality was a root cause behind the subprime crisis of 2007. The aim of this paper is to outline and contrast the theoretical underpinnings of Marxian, Post Keynesian and mainstream crisis theories and to compare their viewpoints regarding the role that inequality plays. The main finding of this paper is that despite important theoretical differences, economists from all three strands provide a similar explanation for the link between inequality and the subprime crisis (even though conventional mainstream crisis theories do not regard inequality as destabilizing factor). This suggests that the rise in income inequality indeed played an important role in the build-up of the crisis. To ensure that a wider audience accepts inequality as a prominent causal factor for the crisis it is however necessary that the negative effects of wealth concentration are also taken into account.
B00|Framing finance: A methodological account|The way in which financial markets are framed depends on who is doing the framing, although there are reflexive interdependencies between these framings. Mainstream economics frames financial markets as archetypical competitive markets, focusing on prices as the key information on which to base analysis. This follows from traditional positivist methodology where computability is the key to theory appraisal. Central banks draw on this analysis for their own framing, but modify it significantly in the face of the requirement to take decisions under palpable uncertainty; some understanding is perceived to be necessary for prediction. Participants in financial markets in turn employ quantitative models for forming their expectations; in conditions of market turbulence the limits to these models become evident, and indeed material to prices themselves. Further, for these participants, markets are a social phenomenon. Finally the households and firms whose experience of financial markets enables or constrains spending frame financial markets in yet another way. The underlying argument of the paper is that the way in which financial markets are framed in theory should reflect the different framings in the economy, and that this would benefit from input from other disciplines.
B00|The economic crisis between liberalization and government intervention|Abstract: The aim of this article is to provide a brief analysis of the current financial crisis, event that represents a major economic challenge and which reinforces the eternal dispute between the two economic thoughts: economic liberalization and government intervention. The analysis focuses on clarifying how these two concepts are represented, and the ways in which they have affected (or not) the recent events. Although the main variable in the crisis equation was supposed to be liberalization, this article finds out that it is the inadequate regulation that played an important role. In order to prevent such events, it is vital to properly understand the causes of the crisis and to identify the valuable lessons that can be learned.
B00|Does “Okun’s Law” state a Pi:1 ratio? Toward a harmonic interpretation of why Okun’s Law works|In Albers & Albers (Spring, 2013) we demonstrated that the historic development of U.S. real GNP, 1869-present, may be structured in recurring 14-year periods. A steady-state rate of growth of 3.4969% is thereby calculated, generating an increase in real GNP proportional to the famous “Golden Mean” (1:phi or 1:1.6180) every fourteen years on average. Building on this foundation we show herein that “Okun’s Law,” a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment, is actually a pi:1 proportion, created through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. The resulting model of economics in the United States is thereby aligned with geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis, rather than purely statistical methods.
B00|Meaning and measurement of national accounts statistics|This paper provides an introductory overview of the meaning and measurement of national accounts statistics. Attention is paid to the various uses of national accounts, the role of the international guidelines, the relationship with economic theoretic and administrative concepts and the measurement practice. The latter is also compared with compiling other statistics, econometric modelling and a barometer: what are the similarities and differences?
B00|Constant Returns to Scale: Can the Neoclassical Economy Exist?|Constant returns to scale (CRS) is one of the corner-stones of the competitive general equilibrium paradigm of neoclassical economics. This note argues that the equilibrium solutions of this paradigm are not compatible with CRS. CRS implies that all producers (whatever their scale of production) can produce goods at the same unit costs: and this makes self-production a feasible alternative to market production. In the event, an infinite number of equilibria become possible with a mix of markets and self-production. If labor is the only factor of production, self-production becomes the only option: and the market economy ceases to exist.
B00|A Review of C.L.R. James and Marxism in the United States|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the influence on the theoretical dimension of Marxism, advanced by Cyril Lionel Robert James, on the struggles in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s and to explore the influence that this intellectual had in the development of an understanding of Marxism in the U.S. during this period. In order to do so, it is important to chronologically follow James’s life. For the purpose of this paper, I will discuss some of the aspects of James’s Marxism which will allow us to see how he shaped his thoughts as a Marxist and the extent to which he was able to put his theories into practice. A fragment of James’s autobiography serves as a useful illustration: I had been reading…But the people who had passion, human energy, anger, violence and generosity were the common people whom I saw around me. They shaped my political outlook and from that day to this day those are the people with who I am concerned the most. That’s why I was able to understand Marx very easily, and particularly Lenin. When I went into Marxism I was already well prepared…Even in my days of fiction I had the instinct which enable me to grasp the fundamentals of Marxism so easily and then to work at Marxism having the basic elements of a Marxist view – my concern with the common people. James’s method was more or less empirical and his observations formed the basis for his exploration of ideas.
B00|Okun’s Law as a Pi-to-1 ratio: A harmonic / trigonometric theory as to why Okun’s Law works|“Okun’s Law” states a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in U. S. real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment. This paper argues that this ratio is actually a Pi:1 proportion, heretofore unrecognized because it is displayed through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. In Part One the Cartesian coordinate system is merged with the legal doctrines of actus reus (x-axis, actions) and mens rea (y-axis, thoughts). A unit circle of personal choice – including economic choice (trading vs. keeping) – may thereby be devised. This unit circle is then aggregated into a torus, half the circumference of which represents U.S. real GNP (Pi), the antipodal half-circumference its monetary value (Pi) and the radius the rate of employment necessary to its production (R = 1). Mainstream econometric analysis appears to support this theory of inverses with proximities of within 1.3%, 1.0%, 0.35%, 0.00105% and less than half a degree. In Part Two this model of Okun’s Law is connected closely to an analysis of the well-known Kondratiev Wave, a 56-year “Long Wave” of evolving social and economic relationships. This approach to macroeconomics is thereby aligned with a geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis of empirical data, rather than purely statistical methods.
B00|Why business historians need a constructive theory of the archive|Archival records are a constitutive element of business historical research, and such research, in turn, is fundamental for a holistic understanding of the role of enterprise in modern capitalist societies. Despite an increasing debate within business history circles about the need to theorize the historian as author and creator of narratives, a fuller reflection on the uses and limitations of the archive in business historical research has not yet taken place. This article takes its lead from theories of organisational epistemology, and asks to what extent business historians are trapped by an outdated, realist methodology and epistemology which is in danger of ignoring the multiple roles that archives play in their knowledge production.
B00|From Edgeworth to econophysics: a methodological perspective| Although most of the marginalist economists' methodology was influenced by nineteenth-century classical physics, the work of Francis Ysidro Edgeworth represents the highest point of classical physics influence to the development of mainstream economic methodology. Subsequent leading theorists were not as explicit, although economic theory continued to be influenced by physics as the work of Pareto, Fisher and Samuelson indicates. However, the physics methodological framework has made a recent reappearance in the relatively new field of econophysics. Although there are a few methodological similarities, there are also many important differences between mainstream economics and econophysics. Econophysicists' emphasis to statistical mechanics rather to mechanical models, their reservations towards rational agent theory and their rejection of many standard assumptions of mainstream economics are examples of such differences. The paper examines the above from a methodological viewpoint. It also discusses the possible reasons for this historical development and its implications for economic methodology.
B00|Ethical Investment and Consumers in Cultural History|A short cultural history of the impact of Ethical Investment and Consumers over the years. Primarily from a UK based perspective looking at the evoluton of ethical business issues and their contemporary impact. Topics covered include impacts in books, films and foreign policy. History of Influencing the market via international conventions and discussion of debates on the value of mainstreaming, political disputes (The human rights and wrongs of boycotts) and the 1990s take off for codes of conduct
B00|Thermodynamic Isolation and the New World Order|The general stream of economic thinking is thoroughly a-physical and a-historic. This direction is becoming increasingly absurd as the nexus between the human biomass and its ecological constraints ripens. Economics will eventually have to absorb apodictically that regardless of scientific-technical development and the intensity of entrepreneurial drive, the aggregate, long-run supply of telluric substance-borne free energy is on a path of declining elasticity. To hasten recognition, it would be helpful to consider the Earth an isolated, rather than a closed thermodynamic system. From the perspective of its evolutionary potential, the world is indeed Under the Dome. This paper argues that (a) the emergence of classical capitalism in the 19th century answered the need for global-scale self-organization; (b) this scheme, interrupted by World War I, was replaced after World War II; (c) the implied transformation has been accompanied by a nonarbitrary, causally determined, irreversible socialization of intranational and international economic relations; (d) contemporary civilization is moving toward a new form of self-organization that would recognize limits to demographic-economic expansion. What will it take to go from the current hostile disgust with the dystopia of tightened modes of multilateral governance to people around the world on their knees begging for a planetary guild? It will take nothing less than a mutation in consciousness, as outlined in the oeuvre of Jean Gebser (1905-1973).
B00|Causality and interdependence in Pasinetti's works and in the modern classical approach|The formal representation of economic theories normally takes the form of a model, that is, a system of equations which connect the endogenous variables with the values of the parameters which are taken as given. Sometimes, it is possible to identify one or more equations which are able to determine a subset of endogenous variables priorly and independently of the other equations and of the value taken by the remaining variables of the system. The first group of equations and variables are thus said to determine causally the remaining variables. In Pasinetti’s works this notion of causality has often been emphasized as a formal property having the burden to convey some deep economic meaning. In this work, we will go through those Pasinetti’s works where this notion of causality plays a central role, with the purpose to contextualize it within the econometric debate of the Sixties, to enucleate its economic meaning and to show its connections with other fields of the modern classical approach.
B00|Learning from the makers of history: Bolshevism, Bolivarianism, and the Legacy of Hugo Chavez|This is a pre-publication version of an article published by the journal ‘America Latina XXI’. It was originally produced as a tribute to Hugo Chavez and a critical reflection on his reception outside Venezuela, on the occasion of his death.
B00|Co-operatives and their place in a global social economy|For most of the world's developing countries, the 1990s were a decade of frustration and disappointment. The economies of sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America did not rebound economically in response to the structural adjustment prescriptions of the World Bank and IMF (Rodrik 2001; 2002). Frustration with the World Bank and IMF led to the development of many cooperatives in Latin America (Miller, 2006). Involuntary unemployment is capitalism’s most costly market failure and the demand for social services like the social-professional reintegration of disadvantaged groups usually cannot be provided solely by national governments (Monzón Campos, 1997). An alternative economy often arises in response to unemployment. This alternative economy is composed of co-operatives and NGOs working on small projects for community economic development and ethical businesses providing services (camps, financing, daycare, media, housing, women’s centres) (Corcoran and Wilson, 2010).
B00|Money, Finance and Growth: A Critical Review - Moneta, finanza e credito: una rassegna critica|A synthesis of the literature on the relations among monetary aggregates, financial development and economic growth is presented. While recent literature has been dominated by neoclassical thinking, the monetary framework that does not limit the channel of effect of policy factors on economic activities has been neglected. Though both approaches have the same goal, they differ in matters of theory and variables of emphasis. The choice of the appropriate framework appears to invite an incisive study of the issue of long-run. - Questo studio presenta una sintesi della letteratura esistente sulle relazioni tra aggregati monetari, sviluppo finanziario e crescita economica. Mentre la letteratura più recente è stata dominata dal pensiero neoclassico, il modello monetario che non delimita l’insieme degli effetti dei fattori politici sull’attività economica è stato trascurato. Benché i due approcci abbiano lo stesso obbiettivo, essi differiscono dal punto di vista teorico e nelle variabili considerate. La scelta del modello appropriato richiede uno studio più approfondito di lungo periodo.
B00|Economic ideas regarding the urban water supply service in The nineteenth century britain<BR>[Ideas económicas en torno al servicio de abastecimiento urbano de agua en la Gran Bretaña del siglo XIX]|By the mid-nineteenth century, along with other network infrastructurestypical of the Second Industrial Revolution, began to take shape the modern system of water supply. The purpose of this paper is to examine the major economic ideas surrounding the beginnings of this new urban service in Britain during the second half of the nineteenth century, which marked a starting point for future analytical developments. First, the socioeconomic importance of improvement of public health through an intensive use of running water. Second, the emergence of the concept of natural monopoly. And finally, the debate about the organization of service management. This interesting case gives us the opportunity to observe the interaction, in both directions, between facts and economic ideas.
B00| The economic image of the seventeenth century Spain: The foreign look versus the viwof the Arbitristas<BR>[La imagen económica de la España del siglo XVII: La mirada extranjera frente a la visión de los arbitristas]|" This paper compares the economic image of the seventeenth century Spain we received from the foreign travelers with that offered by the arbitristas, examining the main similarities and differences. Specifically, it analyses the following issues: the consideration of natural resources base, the vision of national character and its relation to productive activities, and the perception of economic situation and the causes of backwardness. The aim is to contrast the view of those who were thinking ""from the inside"" about the causes of the striking decline of the country, with the free and uncensored look of foreign visitors, which –despite its constraints and limitations– tended to focus on the most striking and different aspects compared to the reality of their own countries."
B00|The Role Of Competition In The Techno-Economic Paradigm On The Market|Two different forms of competition theories can be distinguished: theories that emphasize the equilibrating forces created by competition, and those emphasizing the disequilibrating forces. This difference can be attributed, to the differences regarding the functioning of the market economy: the basic problem here is whether competition should be understood as a static state or a dynamic process. This study aims to analyse the dynamic competition theories by J. A. Schumpeter and neo-Schumpeterians which focus on the dynamic role played by competition through creating disequilibria, endogenous structural change and social transformation as a distinguishing characteristic of the market system. In the first section, after examining the static, neoclassical competition theory, Schumpeter’s theory, which is based on the notion of “creative destruction”, will be discussed. In the second section, the long term fluctuations based on the creative gales of the destruction concept will be examined in the framework of the techno-economic paradigm.
B00|The Hegelian dialectics of global imbalances|Traditional narratives of external imbalances have focused on the analysis of national accounts, trade flows, and financial flows. They have generated two opposing views of the current situation of the world economy: on one side, a prudent, if not pessimistic view considers large imbalances as evidence of problems with the international monetary and financial system, and symptoms of domestic distortions (mainly in the United States and China). On the other side, a relaxed, if not optimistic view suggests that global imbalances are not anomalies but simply the predictable outcome of a world with increasingly globalized financial flows in search of the right mix of risks and returns. This paper offers a critical analysis of these competing explanations of the United States-China imbalances and suggests a way of reconciling them. The paper uses Hegel’s parable of the development of self-consciousness to explain the dynamics between the two countries. Hegel may not have been a great philosopher of history but his study of lordship and bondage provides a good framework for analyzing the dialectics of recognition and acknowledgement that currently characterizes the macroeconomic relationships between the United States and China.
B00|La théorie économique dans la crise|The current crisis has shown how far macroeconomic theory is from the economic phenomena it is supposed to explain. I give some historical explanations for the development of this gap between theory and reality. Then I discuss the solidity of the foundations of the general equilibrium model and of the basic model in financial economics and the reasons for which these do not contain even the possibility of a crisis. I suggest several avenues towards an analysis which do take account of the occurrence of such episodes with simple examples. Once one considers, as I propose, the economy as a complex evolving system the nature of the problem of its analysis and of its regulation changes. Policy makers are aware of the need for such new approaches and it is up to economists to provide them. Classification JEL : E00, E6, B00, G00, D5
B00|Una interpretación metodológica sobre la incorporación de los bienes y servicios culturales al análisis económico|Resumen: Los bienes y servicios culturales son insumos para `producir´ el bien básico de ocio denominado experiencia cultural, en el marco de las `funciones de producción´ de los hogares. El origen de esta modelación se puede rastrear desde el pensamiento económico, en el papel otorgado a los bienes y servicios culturales en su contribución a vivir agradablemente, y la dificultad inherente en dos procesos: la medición del valor y la formación del gusto, por lo que a prestigiosos economistas estos les parecieron bienes de escaso interés. Y, desde el análisis económico, en la discusión que incorpora al ocio como objeto de análisis. El artículo contribuye a la literatura de la economía de la cultura integrando en forma coherente y comprensiva el pensamiento económico con el análisis económico a partir del caso concreto de los bienes culturales.Abstract: Cultural goods and services are inputs to `produce´ the leisure commodity, which is called cultural experience in the household `production function´ framework. In economic thought, the origin of such modeling can be traced back to the role assigned to cultural goods and services in their contribution to a pleasant life, and to the inherent difficulty in two processes: the measurement of value and taste formation. Therefore, prestigious economists considered cultural goods to be of little interest. Also, such modeling is traced back in economic analysis to the discussion that incorporates leisure as object of analysis. This article contributes to the literature on cultural economics by integrating coherently and comprehensively economic thought with economic analysis in the particular case of cultural goods.
B00|Costos de enfermedades: Una revisión crítica de las metodologías de estimación|"Resumen: Para avanzar en el conocimiento y estimación de la carga económica de una enfermedad surgen los estudios de costos de enfermedades. Estos identifican, cuantifican y valoran todos los recursos económicos asociados a una enfermedad, clasificándolos en costos directos, indirectos e intangibles. El presente trabajo tiene como objetivo describir críticamente los diferentes métodos de estimación de cada uno de ellos. La valoración de los costos de una enfermedad generalmente involucra un vector de precios y cantidades. Las cantidades surgen de los recursos consumidos o perdidos. Los precios se estiman a partir del valor de mercado del bien o servicio, o bien, cuando no existe mercado, a partir de variables proxy o métodos específicos de estimación de preferencias individuales. Entre las principales debilidades metodológicas y teóricas encontradas se destacan problemas en la estimación del recurso tiempo"", presencia de externalidades e imperfecciones de mercado y violación algunos postulados de teoría económica.Abstract: Studies on the cost of illness arise to advance knowledge and estimation of the economic burden of disease. These identify, quantify and value all the economic resources linked to a disease, and classify them as direct, indirect and intangible costs. The aim of this paper is to critically describe the different methods for estimating each of these costs. The valuation of the costs of an illness involves a vector of prices and quantities. The quantities arise from the resources used or lost. Prices are estimated from the market value of the good or service or, if it is a non-market good or service, then prices are estimated from proxy variables or specific methods of estimation of individual preferences. The main methodological and theoretical weaknesses found deal with the estimation of the `time´ resource, the presence of externalities and market imperfections and the violation of some assumptions of economic theory."""
B00|Inclusive and Exclusive Social Preferences: A Deweyan Framework to Explain Governance Heterogeneity|This paper wishes to problematize the foundations of production governance and offer an analytical perspective on the interrelation between agents’ preferences, strategic choice, and the public sphere (defined by impacts of choices on ‘publics’ who do not have an input in strategic choice, and by contextual conditions). The value is in the idea of preferences being social in nature and in the application both to the internal stakeholders of the organisation and its impacts on people outside. Using the concept of ‘strategic failure’ we suggest that social preferences reflected in deliberative social praxis can reduce false beliefs and increase individual wellbeing. From this approach, the paper offers a taxonomy of production organisations, based on social preferences about two variables: (i) the governance form (i.e. ownership and control rights) (ii) other strategic decisions that characterize the management of a company at a more operational level, once its fundamental legal form has been chosen. Each dimension (governance and strategic decisions processes) is then categorised alongside two basic preferences: towards inclusion or exclusion of ‘publics’ that have no substantial access to decision power about these variables. Our framework explains governance heterogeneity by contrasting exclusive and inclusive social preferences in cooperatives, social enterprises, as well as traditional corporations. A discussion of the evolution of social preferences and organizational forms is addressed through examples and regional experiences. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
B00|Metaeconomic Theory Of Capitalist System And Civilization: From 'Value' To Measure|The structure of the present global capitalist world, which is composed of various sets of capitalist systems, can be clearly explained and described with the mathematical concept of 'measure' instead of the conventional term of 'value'. The history of the commodity world is that of the irreversible order of three measures: use-measure, exchange-measure and temporal exchange-measure. According to that order, sets of capitalist systems have 'grown' up to the present day. This process of capitalist 'growth' is a transformation process from the realeconomic world or space-time of use-measure to the rational space of null sets dominated by money. It may foretell the destiny of mankind's economic activities and the vicissitudes of human civilization.
B00|Inversión Y Crecimiento En Un Contexto De Regiones En Desarrollo|El objetivo de este trabajo es discutir el papel que juega la inversión como condicionante en el proceso de crecimiento de las regiones menos desarrolladas. Las teorías del crecimiento hablan de distintos motores e se basan en modelos que permiten diferentes interpretaciones sobre la importancia de la inversión en el crecimiento. Se sigue con un análisis empírico de algunos estudios llevados a cabo en diferentes países y regiones, que demostrarán no solo la importancia, como pondrán de relieve las diferencias, en la forma de impacto, de la inversión según sea su naturaleza pública o privada.
B00|Inversión Y Crecimiento En Un Contexto De Regiones En Desarrollo|El objetivo de este trabajo es discutir el papel que juega la inversión como condicionante en el proceso de crecimiento de las regiones menos desarrolladas. Las teorías del crecimiento hablan de distintos motores e se basan en modelos que permiten diferentes interpretaciones sobre la importancia de la inversión en el crecimiento. Se sigue con un análisis empírico de algunos studios llevados a cabo en diferentes países y regiones, que demostrarán no sólo la importancia, como pondrán de relieve las diferencias, en la forma de impacto, de la inversión según sea su naturaleza pública o privada.
B00|Alesina and the Keynesians: Austerity and Say’s Law|Alberto Alesina’s empirical work has led to re-examination of Keynesian theory and policy. His demonstration that reductions in public spending are often followed by improvements in economic conditions is a direct contradiction of modern macroeconomic theory, where increases in aggregate demand are seen as the most important precondition for recovery even where such increases in demand are unproductive in themselves and largely wasteful. The present paper suggests that the theoretical framework necessary to understand Alesina’s empirical results is embedded within the classical theory of the cycle which argues that only value adding production could lead to recovery. Most importantly, the paper argues that only through a correct understanding of Say’s Law of markets can Alesina’s empirical results be properly understood. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2012
B00|The inclusion of cultural goods and services into economic analysis: A methodological interpretation|Cultural goods and services are inputs to ‘produce’ the leisure commodity, which is called cultural experience in the household ‘production function’ framework. In economic thought, the origin of such modeling can be traced back to the role assigned to cultural goods and services in their contribution to a pleasant life, and to the inherent difficulty in two processes: the measurement of value and taste formation. Therefore, prestigious economists considered cultural goods to be of little interest. Also, such modeling is traced back in economic analysis to the discussion that incorporates leisure as object of analysis. This article contributes to the literature on cultural economics by integrating coherently and comprehensively economic thought with economic analysis in the particular case of cultural goods.
B00|Different Notions of Scarcity|A marginalist notion of scarcity is opposed to a Classical-Keynesian-Sraffian notion. The two notions are analyzed; the limits of the first notion are discussed. The second notion points to the limits to what the economy can attain at a given moment in time; within this framework, scarcity depends not only on technology but also on the possibility of (persistent) underutilization of resources. Thus, while within the marginalist framework scarcity is an original datum for analysis, within the Classical-Keynesian-Sraffian framework it is an endogenous variable, jointly determined by a partly endogenous technology (via dynamic increasing returns to scale) and by the social, political and economic factors which determine the degree of utilization of available resources.
B00|Heterodox Economics – A Dynamic Phenomenon|All that has been proven to be thorough from the previous strains of thought has been continuously polished and integrated in what we call the dominant economic theory. Yet, there have been countless debates and contradictions regarding the economic ideas in mainstream (which includes classical and neoclassical economics and Keynesianism), the majority of the opponents arguing that these do not offer sufficient explanations for the understanding or anticipating macroeconomic phenomena and also, do not solve the problem of major differences between social classes. The most impetuous objections regarding the above have led to the appearance of different strains of economic thought, philosophies and theories that have merged under the umbrella of heterodox economics, a reactive movement, which denies the validity and viability of the ideas within the dominant economic theory.
B00|A Historical Perspective on Luxury|The word luxury recurs and recurs in contemporary advertising as an attempt by retailers to imply exclusiveness, associated with expensiveness and rarity. It is an inducement to consumption. Yet, the concept is frequently used in a loose or clichéd manner in both everyday language and promotional discourse. Luxury goods have two formal features: they are refined and positively pleasing. Luxury goods fall under several categories: sustenance (food and drink), shelter, clothing (apparel and accessories like jewelry and perfume) and leisure (entertainment and sporting goods). The standard definition of basic needs will include food, dwelling, and clothing. Needs, unlike wants, are objective or universal. Wants, unlike needs, are intentional. Unbalanced desires are insatiable.
B00|Economics and the General Scientific Criteria - a Critical Analysis|"Our endeavour represents a critical approach that takes into account the analysis, from a critical perspective, of the sphere of economics as it was stated by the scholastic economic literature. We also discuss how the concept of ""economics"" meets the general scientific criteria. Redefining economics will be the natural outcome when we will find that its sphere generates some of the issues raised by its scientific character critics. Because we will reach the conclusion that it is not only the sphere of economics that makes it difficult to meet the scientific criteria, we will identify the rest of the causes that leave their mark on the scientific character of economics."
B00|The entrepreneur in economic theory: from an invisible man toward a new research field|Mainstream economics had great difficulty in fitting entrepreneurship into its theory and for long time the theoretical firm remained “entrepreneurless”. However, from the early 20th century onwards, we identify strong attempts of key economists to recognize the role of the entrepreneur as an explanatory force of several economic phenomena. This paper analyzes the evolution of economic thought on entrepreneurship, and in particular the path through which the entrepreneur (re)entered into economic theory over the 20th century, leading to the new and increasingly independent research field Economics of Entrepreneurship. The analysis goes through the main Economics fields where the (re)discover of the entrepreneur figure was most remarkable - namely Labor Economics, Microeconomics and Industrial Organization, and Economic Growth and Development - searching for the rationality to include the entrepreneur figure into the analyses of particular economic phenomena. The study is enriched by a brief bibliometric analysis, which helps to set forth a chronological trace of the entrepreneurship research within Economics literature.
B00|Beneficio positivo, teorema de Euler y el problema de la distribución en la economía neoclásica<BR>[Positive benefit, Euler's theorem and the problem of distribution in neoclassical economics]|This document tries to show the requirements for the process of profit maximization in the microeconomic analysis and show their relation to those with Euler's theorem. The aim is to recognize the importance of decreasing returns to scale and give a possible explanation for the positive profits they entail. The result is that the distribution problem has not been resolved in the neoclassical theory because the positive profits involves value judgments about the product distribution
B00|Libertad y desempeño económico<BR>[Freedom and economic performance]|"From a broad philosophical framework, this paper addresses the relation between freedom and economic performance. It argues for the thesis that, although a liberal system does not guarantee absolute harmony, is the only ""convenient"" and morally valid for a modern society. The core of this argument is the acceptance of the permanent uncertainty about the great results of the world and the inability of a central entity to control them."
B00|Human behaviour and adequacy of satisfiers in the light of sustainable development|The paper discusses the possibility of behavioural change in accordance with the objectives of sustainable development considering the human behaviour through the needs. Using the concepts of fundamental human needs and satisfiers of Manfred Max-Neef, the attempt was made to determine the adequacy test of a satisfier as a key point of this approach when researching the human behaviour. The paper offers the definition of an adequate satisfier and as an illustration the analysis of a case of a family in Moldova. Finally, the attention is drawn to the necessity to intensify the joint efforts to form the sustainable behaviour and to the inadmissibility of the substitution or mix up of the key concepts at the application of this approach by the researchers.
B00|Value and utility in a historical perspective|Since value and utility are the highest profile abstractions that underlie an epoch’s intellectual climate and ethical principles, their evolution reflects the transformation of socioeconomic conditions and institutions. The “Classical Phase” flourished during the first global system, laissez-faire/metal money/zero multilateralism (GS1); the second, “Subjective/Utilitarian” phase marked the long transition to the current epoch of “Modern Subjectivism/General Equilibrium,” tied to the second and extant global system, mixed economy/minimum reserve banking/weak multilateralism (GS2). History has witnessed the material de-essentialization of value and substantialization of utility. But now the two concepts face a thorough transvaluation as the world’s combined demographic and economic expansion encounters ecological/physical limitations. An extended macrohistoric implosion may lead to a third form of global self-organization: two-level economy/maximum bank reserve money/strong multilateralism (GS3). If history unfolds along the suggested path, not only economics, but also thinking about economics would change. It would be considered an evolving hermeneutic of the human condition expressed through global-system-specific texts. The implied critical alteration, with the recognition of the entropy law’s importance as its focal point, matches the prediction of Swiss thinker Jean Gebser (1905-1973) about the impending mutation of human consciousness into its integral/arational structure. Such extrapolations form the context in which the fourth historical phase of value and utility is hypothesized, leading to the material re-essentialization of value and de-substantialization of utility.
B00|The long diverfence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
B00|Economic Ideas of Rifa`ah al-Tahtawi|The present paper studies economic ideas of an Azharite graduate of the nineteenth century Egypt - Rifā‘ah Rāfi‘ al-Tahtāwī who was influenced by the French Scholars and Philosophers, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Mantesquieu. He wrote on significance of industry, productive and unproductive labor, importance of foreign trade, competition, and equal opportunity for all. According to him justice, freedom and human brotherhood are the foundations of economic welfare. He strived for women's economic empowerment. He was not simply a follower of Western economic ideas. He added to them human norms and Islamic values. Although born in an age of laissez faire, he advocated for a role of Government in economic matters.
B00|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
B00|Book review: The long divergence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
B00|İktisat doga bilimlerinin Mekke’si mi oluyor?: Toplumsal ve doga bilimleri iliskisi uzerine bir atıf analizi<BR>[Is economics becoming the Mecca of Biology?: A citation analysis of the relationship between natural and social sciences]|This essay argues that articles in economics, especially in the fields of evolutionary and institutional economics, are as much cited in biology as in economics. The citation analysis conducted in the essay suggests that economics is now becoming the Mecca of biology.
