B15|Note sur quelques limites de la méthodologie de Pareto et ses interprétations|: L'article évalue les limites de la méthodologie que Pareto applique à l'économie et à la sociologie. La première partie revisite les fondements sur lesquels repose la méthode logico-expérimentale et des approximations successives que Pareto propose pour les deux disciplines. La deuxième partie explicite les étapes qui définissent l'expérimentalisme de Pareto en sociologie. La troisième montre que les résultats que Pareto met en évidence impliquent qu'il n'applique pas la même méthodologie à l'économie et à la sociologie. La quatrième partie explique pourquoi les formes méthodologiques auxquelles Pareto recourt ne permettent pas la synthèse des résultats qu'il prêtant réaliser.
B15|Politica de coeziune si dezvoltare regionala în noua perioada de programare 2021-2027|As for the next programming period, the cohesion policy – designed ‘to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion among regions and member states’ – is one of the most significant areas of European Union policies, accounting for around a third of its budget. Each Member State is entitled to spend a fixed amount, channelled through different funding mechanisms, pursuing cohesion objectives. The allocation method for the funds is still largely based on GDP per capita, but new criteria are added in 2021-2027 period (youth unemployment, low education level, climate change, and reception and integration of migrants) to better reflect the new challenges and reality. This paper contains the main aspects and elements to the next programming period and future regional policy of the European Union. Also, it compares these proposals with previous periods, presents the main principles guiding and an overview of the future allocation process.
B15|The Dress Rehearsal: the creation of a Central Bank in Brazil in 1923|This paper aims to analyze an experiment in the history of the Brazilian economy: the transformation of Banco do Brasil into a Central Bank in 1923, and the debate surrounding this experiment. More strictly, the article proposes to answer the following question: what was the role of a Central Bank for Brazilian policymakers in the mid-1920s? I point out that the Central Banks abroad were associated at the time with the maintenance of the gold standard, while in Brazil, although the discussion echoed the discourse between papelistas and metalistas, the defense of the creation of the Central Bank was appropriated by the agenda of the first group. Therefore, a generational change of policymakers probably was necessary to undo the association between a Central Bank and the excess of paper currency, in the economic thought of the political environment. The work is based on the idea of communities of interpretation, and editions of the Retrospecto Comercial, the Correio Paulistano, and annals of the Federal Senate were analyzed.
B15|CasP's 'Differential Accumulation' versus Veblen's 'Differential Advantage' (Revised and Expanded)|This paper clarifies a common misrepresentation of our theory of capital as power, or CasP. Many observers tend to box CasP as an ‘institutionalist’ theory, tracing its central process of ‘differential accumulation’ to Thorstein Veblen’s notion of ‘differential advantage’. This view, we argue, betrays a misunderstanding of CasP, Veblen or both. First, we are not Veblenians and certainly not institutionalists: Veblen’s theory was evolutionary, while CasP is deeply dialectical, and institutionalism, particularly its ‘new’ varieties, emphasizes and often promotes what holds capitalism together, whereas CasP critically examines both the underpinnings of capitalized power as well as the forces that threaten and undermine it. Second, CasP’s notion of differential accumulation is not only different from, but also diametrically opposed to Veblen’s differential advantage. Veblen, who wrote at the turn of the twentieth century, before the appearance of business indices and financial benchmarks, emphasized the absolute drive for ‘maximum profit’ and saw strategic sabotage merely as a power means to an economic end. By contrast, CasP, which was developed at the end of the twentieth century, sees power not only as a means of accumulation, but also – and perhaps more importantly – as its ultimate purpose. Accumulators, it argues, are conditioned and driven to augment not their profits and assets as such, but their relative power, and this means that, as symbolic bearers of power, these profits and assets should be measured not absolutely, but relatively to those of others – hence the imperative of differential accumulation.
B15|'Wage', 'Salary' & 'Remuneration': A Genealogical Exploration of Juridical Terms & Their Significance for the Employer's Power to Make Deductions from Wages|The Supreme Court in Hartley v King Edwards VI College (2017) has confirmed that an employee who refuses to work in accordance with his contract forfeits his right to be paid for the duration of the breach. The decision extends to professional employees paid a periodic salary the principle established in Miles v Wakefield MDC (1987). The present article sheds new light on these decisions by situating them within a broader debate concerning the function of the wage and the proper relationship between work and payment. Drawing on insights from economic theory, and engaging in a genealogical analysis of legal concepts, the article shows how this debate has, over time, conditioned the use of concepts such as the 'wage', 'the salary' and 'remuneration' in legislation and case law concerning deductions. It shows that the legal concept of the 'wage' is closely related to the economic idea of the wage as the price of a commodity, while the legal concepts of 'salary' and 'remuneration' are more closely analogous to the economic idea of the wage as the cost of subsistence. The courts' tendency to confuse these concepts, and to analyse the employer's power to deduct as a right to withhold wages for non-performance of the contract, tells us much about the implicit assumptions underpinning cases such as Miles and Hartley, and how they have shaped the path of the law.
B15|Colonial Banks, Credit, and Circulation: the example of martinique 1848-1871|In this paper, we analyze the conditions of the establishment and functioning of the French colonial Bank of Martinique during the transition period following the decree to abolish slavery in 1848. It is particularly intended to show how the Bank was able to respond to the financial constraints posed by this transition and to deal with the circulation problems that punctuated the period. This study will be conducted in three stages. In the first section, we focus on the establishment and principal operations of the colonial banks in the old French colonies, with particular emphasis on the Bank of Martinique. The second section presents an initial assessment of the operation of the Bank. Finally, the last section is devoted to the circulation problems encountered by the Bank, highlighting the conflicts of interest that underlie the different debates around this issue.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B15|From Karl Menger to Charles Menger? How Austrian economics (hardly) spread in France|The father of the “Austrian” Marginalist revolution and founder of the so-called “Austrian School of economics”, Carl Menger, had a mixed reception during different periods of development of French economics. Somewhat welcomed in the early days, he was rather forgotten later on. Even his major works were not published in translation until recently. What is the reason for such a situation? Criticisms of classical political economy have to be understood in their French context. In comparison to other countries, this paper details the case of France, besides showing how later Austrians, such as Friedrich Hayek, found a limited audience. This comparative study of economic ideas in France must start with the reception of the views of the founder and the role and impact of adopting/adapting or rejecting his views by French scholars. What place did they find in French academia? From Carl Menger to a “Frenchified” Charles Menger, how was Austrian economic thought disseminated in France? This essay starts by recalling the Belle-Époque and an astonishing letter by Charles Rist for the Jubiläum of Menger, in which he deplored the lack of translation of the latter’s works. The Austrian School in France is then discussed as pure economics replaces political economy in the Interwar period, with the 1938 Paris Congress of “liberal thinkers,” as the Vienna Circle became known, also comparing issues in philosophy. The paper considers how Austrian theories of “pure science” were received in Paris from the Vienna of the 1900s, at a time of ”Crossroads,” to the present day, through the Postwar and Cold War, until a revival since the 1990s and a rethinking of economic ideas after 2008.
B15|Colonial Banks, Credit, and Circulation: The Example of Martinique 1848-1871|In this paper, we analyze the conditions of the establishment and functioning of the French colonial Bank of Martinique during the transition period following the decree to abolish slavery in 1848. It is particularly intended to show how the Bank was able to respond to the financial constraints posed by this transition and to deal with the circulation problems that punctuated the period. This study will be conducted in three stages. In the first section, we focus on the establishment and principal operations of the colonial banks in the old French colonies, with particular emphasis on the Bank of Martinique. The second section presents an initial assessment of the operation of the Bank. Finally, the last section is devoted to the circulation problems encountered by the Bank, highlighting the conflicts of interest that underlie the different debates around this issue.
B15|Functional Finance: A Comparison of the Evolution of the Positions of Hyman Minsky and Abba Lerner|"This paper examines the views of Hyman Minsky and Abba Lerner on the functional finance approach to fiscal policy. It argues that the main principles of functional finance were relatively widely held in the immediate postwar period. However, with the rise of the Phillips curve, the return of the Quantity Theory, the development of the notion of a government budget constraint, and accelerating inflation at the end of the 1960s, functional finance fell out of favor. The paper compares and contrasts the evolution of the views of Minsky and Lerner over the postwar period, arguing that Lerner's transition went further, as he embraced a version of Monetarism that emphasized the use of monetary policy over fiscal policy. Minsky's views of functional finance became more nuanced, in line with his Institutionalist approach to the economy. However, Minsky never rejected his early beliefs that countercyclical government budgets must play a significant role in stabilizing the economy. Thus, in spite of some claims that Minsky should not be counted as one of the ""forefathers"" of Modern Money Theory (MMT), this paper argues that it is Minsky, not Lerner, whose work remains essential for the further development of MMT."
B15|Marcel Mauss und ökonomische Theorien: Die Institution Geld<BR>[Marcel Mauss and Economic Theories: The Institution of Money]|This paper puts Marcel Mauss’s concept on money in the context of economic theories. Mauss articulated his thoughts on money in the first decades of the 20th century. They are considerably less known and discussed than his famous essay on ‘the gift’. Nevertheless, his contributions on the origin and function of money are worth being examined in economics as well as in economic-anthropological discourse. This essay relates Mauss’s ideas to microeconomic theories. The argument pursued is that his concepts on money are both compatible with neoclassical, and with New Institutional Economic theories. For this purpose, the text addresses three parallels.
B15|Studiu retrospectiv privind organizarea administrativ-teritorială a României, în ultimii 100 de ani<BR>[A retrospective study on Romania’s administrative-territorial organisation, in the past 100 years]|After long periods of historical turmoil, in-depth and repeated changes, accompanied by territorial and human sacrifice Romania feels in 1918 the fulfilling sentiment of the Great Union. The Romanian Kingdom achieved thus the highest of the ideals of the time: a single country, a single name, one people and such a sweet Romanian language. In the year 2018, on the occasion of celebrating the Centenary of the Great Union a series of academic initiatives will be launched to bring homage to this important historical event and which will provide for a full image of what meant these past 100 years of spiritual evolution, economic, social, institutional and cultural development of Romania nowadays. A particular significance have in this historical context the territorial-administrative reforms which left their fingerprint on the decisions of economic and social nature, and have influenced directly the national and regional evolution and development directions. If we were to regard them from an historical point of view, these reforms were neither easy nor few but, nevertheless, the language unity and historical aspirations thrived on leadig on the path to the current territorial configuration of the country. Taking into account all these aspects, the research paper intends to analyse the historical evolution of the main administrative-territorial reforms, of the institutions and specific mechanisms, as of 1918 up to date. De facto situations will be analysed along with changes of territorial nature that occurred in certain historical moments along with the conditions and factors that imposed them, and the institutional and legislative aspects that accompanied them, etc. At the same time, a series of statistical information of the time will be presented that will add harmoniously to the description of the territorial reforms, and bring to light new elements about the way in which these reforms were conducted and implemented on the ways and circumstances in which various administrative-territorial entities were created or abolished taking into account the whole historical, national and international context.
B15|Evolu?ia cercetarii economice din România în ultimul secol|The paper focuses on the economic research organization and development in Romania during the last century, in three distinct periods: 1918-1947, 1948-1989 and 1990-2018. Each period is analyzed taking into account its features, by presenting the economic research interest areas and topics under the circumstances of institutional research network changes, highlighting the contribution of the main promoters and scientists, and the most representative works and publications in economics. As regards the post-communist period, the paper focuses on the academic research developed by the “Costin C. Kiri?escu” National Institute of Economic Research of the Romanian Academy, as well as the institutes and research centres included in its network, presenting their outstanding scientific achievements, including those related to the complex theoretical and practical issues of Romania’s transition to the market economy.
B15|Evolu?ia reformelor administrativ-teritoriale din România în ultimul secol|The paper focuses on the historical evolution of the main administrative-territorial reforms in Romania, in three distinct periods: 1918-1947, 1948-1989 and 1990-2018. De facto situations will be analysed along with changes in territorial nature that occurred in certain historical moments, and with the conditions and factors that imposed them. At the same time, a series of statistical information will add harmoniously to the description of the territorial reforms and bring to light new elements about the way in which these reforms were implemented.
B15|A Co-Evolutionary, Long-Term, MacroEconomic Forecast for the UK Using Demographic Projections|This paper is based around outlining and illustrating the use of a co-evolutionary method for long-term macro-economic forecasting. The paper includes economic forecasts for the UK to 2060 using a novel approach based on Multichannel Singular Spectral Analysis (MSSA). The forecasts are based on projections of the working-age population and their educational attainment, as well as building on the historic trends of these variables. The variables forecasted are Gross Domestic Product (GDP), investment and productivity, based on historic time-series dating back to 1856, and their interactions with the projected variables. Other longterm forecasts for the UK are examined and the important impact of demographic change and plateauing educational attainment is assessed. Additionally, the power of the new MSSA forecasting technique proposed here is illustrated.
B15|Which comes first: good governance or prosperity? A historical experiment from the South African Republic and the Orange Free State|Two neighbouring republics, with a common history and culture, followed very different paths of development in the second half of the nineteenth century. Extraordinary mineral wealth was discovered during this period in the South African Republic (ZAR), the neighbour where political and economic stability was fragile compared with the Republic of the Orange Free State (OFS). We connect these divergent development paths to the literature on the resource curse, especially the recent literature on the conditional resource curse where the quality of the institutional structure plays a crucial role in the outcomes of a large resource discovery. By introducing a new objective measure for the quality of institutions, namely the accuracy of boundaries on maps, we provide evidence of the institutional quality in the ZAR prior to the discovery of gold on the Witwatersrand. The statistical technique that we use, Procrustes analysis, is an innovation in economic analysis. The evidence supports Acemoglu and Robinson's account of the development path in the ZAR, and the later Union of South Africa, as compromised by the conditional resource curse.
B15|Wesley Clair Mitchell and the “Illiberal Reformers”: A Documentary Note|The aim of this note is to assess whether Wesley Clair Mitchell as a reformer ever expressed concern over the biological quality of individuals and whether he did somehow share the Progressive Era faith in eugenics as an instrument for improving American society’s health, welfare, and morals. Using both published and unpublished evidence, we argue that, as an institutionalist, Mitchell was free from the paternalistic and antidemocratic bent of the progressives described by Leonard and was ready to accept the new faith in the plasticity of human nature that sustained interwar reformism. At the same time, as someone who had been exposed to the Progressive Era cultural milieu, he could not completely divorce himself from the earlier decades preoccupations over the biological quality of individuals.
B15|Votes at Work in Britain: Shareholder Monopolisation and the 'Single Channel'|Why do shareholders monopolise voting rights in UK companies, and are trade unions the only way to get meaningful workplace representation? In 1967 a Labour Party policy document first coined the phrase that collective bargaining was – and should be – the 'single channel' of representation. Since then, it has been said the labour movement embraced an 'adversarial' rather than a 'constitutional' conception of corporations, neglecting legal rights to worker voice in enterprise governance. This article shows that matters were not so simple. It explains the substantial history of legal rights to vote in British workplaces, and the competition from the rival constitutional conception: employee share schemes. The UK has the oldest corporations – namely universities – which have consistently embedded worker participation rights in law. Britain has among the world's most sophisticated 'second channel' participation rights in pension board governance. Developing with collective bargaining, it had the world's first private corporations with legal participation rights. Although major plans in the 1920s for codetermination in rail and coal fell through, it maintained a 'third channel' of worker representatives on boards during the 20th century in numerous sectors, including ports, gas, post, steel, and buses. At different points every major political party had general proposals for votes at work. The narrative of the 'single channel' of workplace representation, and an 'adversarial' conception of the company contains some truth, but there has never been one size of regulation for all forms of enterprise.
B15|The spatial evolution of the Italian motorcycle industry (1893–1993): Klepper’s heritage theory revisited|This article investigates the spatial evolution of the Italian motorcycle industry during the period 1893–1993. We find strong support for the heritage theory of Klepper, even after controlling for agglomeration economies. However, we find also a positive effect of being located in the Motor Valley cluster in Emilia Romagna on the survival rate of motorcycle firms. Interestingly, this beneficial effect is stronger in the Emilia Romagna cluster than elsewhere. This might indicate the importance of a favorable local institutional environment, as propagated by the Emilian district literature.
B15|The Role of Agents’ Propensity toward Conformity and Independence in the Process of Institutional Change|This paper analyses institutional change and Veblen’s work (1907, 1914, 1919) under the perspective of cognitive economics. Particularly it focuses on two interesting issues of Veblen’s theory of economic change: 1. in Veblen’s view habits are both mental habits and behavioral habits and they play a twofold role in economic change because they are particularly relevant both as elements of propensity, and as forces resisting to change. 2 Veblen gives an exhaustive definition of instincts and habits but he does not completely explain the cognitive processes that bring changes and evolution in social habits. He develops an economic theory at the base of which there is an evolutionary view of reality and a deep awareness of the role of the human mind within the decision-making processes of choice. This paper is aimed at analyzing both issues using the interpretive tools offered by psychology and discussing the role of agents psychological propensity toward conformity and independence in explaining institutional change. The central idea is that if we better encompass the theory of conformity and independence developed in psychology (starting from Asch, 1952) in the analysis of economic institutions, we can better explain institutional change. Conformity is the effect of the pressure of social group on agents’ behavior. That concept contributes to explain resistance to change. On the other hand, psychology shows that agents are also subject to mechanisms of independence. These are key elements in explaining behavioral change. The analysis of Veblen’s instinct-habit concept under conformity-independence perspective shows interesting connections between Veblen and Hayek’s ideas of economic change. Hayek’s concept of evolution based on psychological and neurobiological aspect, in fact, is a contribution of great significance both in explaining the dual role of habits in institutional change and in understanding individual mechanisms that bring changes in social habits.
B15|The middle income plateau: Trap or springboard?|"The mixed growth performance of emerging market economies has revived angst about a ""middle-income trap"". However, a forensic review of statistical evidence shows that middle-income countries “escape” to higher income levels more often than both poorer and richer countries. At the same time, growth slowdowns are also more frequent in this group. Recent econometric research confirms that the impact of economic policies on GDP growth is greater at middle than at lower and higher income levels. Middle-income countries harvest higher returns from structural reforms, but also meet special political economy obstacles in implementing them. The resulting policy divergences imply differences in performance, reflecting notably the uneven expansion of their high-productivity entrepreneurial firms. The paper highlights the channels through which performance improves when obstacles to policy innovations are overcome and reforms are implemented."
B15|Commitment to norms and the formation of institutions|The paper discusses Searle's description of institutions in terms of deontological constitutive rules and collective recognition. It aims at integrating Searlian conception of commitment with an epistemology of rule-following capable to illustrate processes of formation of institutions. Social ontology per se cannot account for the formation of constitutive rules. Actually, it requires taking as given the object of collective recognition, i.e. the specific content of status functions. The hypothesis of interactive intentionality is introduced to account for the commitment to status functions as the result of an interactive decision-making process concerning alternative constitutive definitions. This interactive process, by acting on the normative interpretation of decision contexts, frames relevance and salience criteria and grounds the formation of institutions. Interactive intentionality hypothesis offers the opportunity to make social-ontological approach based on commitment theoretically commensurable with social-scientific approach based on equilibria and self-enforcement.
B15|XV. ve XIX. Yüzyıllar Arasında Osmanlı Para Vakıfları ve Modern Finans Kurumlarının Karşılaştırılması<BR>[A Comparison between Ottoman Cash Waqfs and Modern Financial Institutions between 15th and 19th Centuries]|Most of the services provided by modern states to their citizens today were provided by the waqfs during the Ottoman period. The fact that the influence of Islamic religion on the social life was high was one of the most important factors driving people to establish the waqfs. The waqfs founded by philanthropists financed such social needs as religious services, education and infrastructure. The cash waqfs (CWs) were one of the waqf types that financed the needs of the society. The CWs whose capital was cash money provided financial sources to entrepreneurs who were in need of cash according to Islamic methods. The CWs continued to function until the last period of the Ottomans. That the Ottomans used CWs to carry out the functions of the modern financial institutions of Europe is important to understand the Ottoman economic and financial mentality. By using the primary sources, this study aims to analyze the Ottoman economic mentality through studying CWs. In addition, the financial institutions operating in Europe in the same Günümüzde modern devletler tarafından vatandaşlara sağlanan çoğu hizmetler, Osmanlı döneminde vakıflar tarafından sağlanıyordu. İslâm dininin toplumsal hayat üzerindeki etkisinin yüksek olması insanları vakıf kurmaya iten önemli etkenlerin başında geliyordu. Hayırseverler tarafından kurulan vakıflar, dini hizmetler, eğitim, altyapı vb. toplumsal ihtiyaçları finanse etmekteydi. Para vakıfları, toplumun ihtiyaçlarını finanse eden vakıf türlerinden birisidir. Sermayesi nakit paradan oluşan bu vakıflar ihtiyacı olan girişimcilere İslâmî usullere göre finansman sağlamıştır. Para vakıfları Osmanlıların son dönemlerine kadar işleyişini devam ettiren kurumlar olmuştur. Osmanlıların, aynı dönemde Avrupa’daki modern finansal kurumların gelişmesine karşı para vakıfları ile bu kurumların işlevlerini yerine getirmesi, Osmanlı iktisadi ve finansal zihniyetini anlamak açısından önemlidir. Bu çalışmanın amacı birincil kaynaklarından incelenen para vakıfları ile Osmanlı iktisadi zihniyetini analiz etmektir. Ayrıca aynı dönemde faaliyet gösteren ve para vakıfları ile çağdaş olarak Avrupa’da faaliyet gösteren finansal kurumlar da incelenecek ve iktisadi zihniyetler arasında karşılaştırma yapılmaya çalışılacaktır.
B15|Gross Domestic Product – National Income of Romania 1862 – 2010. Secular statistical series and methodological foundations|Starting from the importance and need to investigate one of the most relevant issues regarding the structure and dynamics of the economic and social development of all countries in the world, the book focuses on Romania, from the perspective of certain synthetic indicators, aggregated at macroeconomic level, i.e. the Gross Domestic Product and the National Income, on long data series over the past 150 years, also taking into account the comparative international context, in terms of purchasing power parity. The Part One contains a synthesis, developed and completed, of GDP data for each year of the period 1862 – 2010 and also indicators resulting from the GDP, as Net Domestic Product, Net National Product and National Income. The historical research has adopted and applied, with maximum attention, criteria that substantiated the calculations, through rigorous techniques and methods of data aggregation, in order to remove certain errors that would lead to distorted results, focusing on the accuracy of evaluations, so that they would express, in the most genuine manner, the real dimension of the statistical indicators, allowing for a correct interpretation of the economic phenomena. The operations for compiling the indicators are accompanied by comments regarding the criteria and calculation methods, as well as by methodological explanations, so that the data would be able to be rebuilt in a better format, by the interested authors, should they have a more reliable and relevant statistical information about Romania. The Part Two of the book focuses on the international literature, dedicated to criticisms theoretical and methodological opinions regarding the GDP, as well as a comparative analysis of the GDP evolution in Romania, in various hypotheses, compared to other countries.
B15|The Impact of the Reformation on the Economic Development of Western Europe|The Protestant Reformation is a vivid example of how religious transformation could set in motion institutional changes, leading to profound consequences for economic and political development. Although economists and other social scientists agree that there is a strong relation between the Reformation and economic growth, there is an active discussion as to what are the causal pathways connecting Protestantism to long-run economic success. We discuss the causal pathways that received substantial empirical support in academic literature. Some of them, such as “work ethic” and entrepreneurial spirit of Protestants, were originally suggested by Max Weber, while others, such as religious freedom and education, are deeply grounded in economic theory. More recently, other causal pathways have been suggested, such as social ethic, civil society, and institutional changes. We bring our view of these pathways.
B15|The Methodological Debates in Engalnd in the 1870's and 1880's: The Historicist Challege to Political Economy|A central This paper analysis a debate that occurred in the 1870's and 1880's as a consequence of the challenge that two historicist economists - Thomas Cliffe Leslie and John Ingram - posed to the deductive, abstract and universal nature of Political Economy. The aim of these economists was to replace the deductive science of Political Economy for an inductive and historical science. Walter Bagehot and William Stanley Jevons - representing respectively the prevailing orthodoxy and the emergent marginalism - reacted directly to these critics. Bagehot's answer was to reaffirm the deductive method of Political Economy, and to restrict its validity to advanced commercial societies as England. Jevons's reaction was to emphasize the deductive and universal character of economic science, but at the same time defend the necessity of developing historical and applied branches of economic investigation. It is argued that the historicist challenge placed methodological questions in the 'order of the day' of economic discussions, and led Bagehot and Jevons to ascribe a 'place' for history - although not the one aspired by Leslie and Ingram. The analysis of this debate helps us to understand better the alternatives that existed for Economics in the late nineteenth-century, and might shed light on the direction that our science followed in the first decades of the twentieth-century.
B15|Heterogeneity of habits as a foundation for Schumpeterian economic policy|Abstract In this paper, we highlight the heterogeneity of agents in Schumpeter’s theory. Because of its centrality in Schumpeter’s theory, we argue that agent heterogeneity should also be a key element for economic policy informed by Schumpeter’s theory. Schumpeter considered agents’ habits as a particularly important source of heterogeneity. We show how Schumpeter’s notion of habits is closely related to modern work on habits, and draw on recent research to elaborate theory that can provide the foundation for Schumpeterian economic policy. We argue that heterogeneity of habits can be a crucial building block and foundation of Schumpeterian economic policy: it offers a target for policy interventions that is different from incentives or information. This target is potentially as powerful as incentives or information, which only influence intentions rather than influencing behavior directly.
B15|The Origins of Private Property|This paper focuses on the legitimacy of private property and analyses the process of first appropriation. In particular, we examine and comment the different views on the origin of private property rights that have emerged through the history of economic and legal thinking, from Democritus to de Jasay. These views have been grouped in two broad categories: consequentialism and fundamental principles. Although consequentialism is now dominant among economists and inchoate in the legal profession, we observe that it is in fact an alibi for discretionary policymaking by the authority. By definition, fundamentalist approaches generate rules that limit discretion. However, we show that some fundamental views rest on questionable a-priori statements. De Jasay’s argument based on the presumption of liberty is perhaps the only perspective that escapes this criticism.
B15|Positional goods and social welfare: a note on George Pendleton Watkins’ neglected contribution| Watkins's analysis of adventitious utility contains many aspects that are connected to the contemporary debate on positional goods. First, Watkins adventitious utility emerges from a process of social exclusion and can create negative externalities, in the sense that positive consumption of one individual implies negative consumption by another individual. Not only it creates negative externalities on other individuals, but it can initiate a race-to-the-bottom, where individuals waste an increasing amount of money on goods which do not possess any real utility.
B15|The Changing Basis of Economic Responsibility: Zur Bedeutung und Rezeption von John Maurice Clarks Artikel zur ökonomischen Verantwortung|"2016 jährte sich das Erscheinen des Artikels von John Maurice Clark mit dem in der Überschrift genannten Titel im Journal of Political Economy zum hundertsten Mal. Clark legt in diesem Artikel seine Vorstellungen zur Entwicklung einer ""economics of responsibility"" und zur Wahrnehmung von ""responsibility in the economy"" dar. Diese Ideen werden hier vorgestellt und die Rezeptionsgeschichte des Artikels in ausgewählten Forschungsgebieten skizziert. Clarks Artikel ist ein wichtiger Beitrag zur Diskussion der ökonomischen Verantwortung und damit eines Themas, das in der Wirtschaftswissenschaft und in der Wirtschafts- und Unternehmensethik Beachtung finden sollte."
B15|Conspicuous Consumption and Darwin's Critical Sexual Selection Dynamic That Thorstein Veblen Missed|" Thorstein Veblen's theory of conspicuous consumption is one of his most powerful contributions to social science. Conspicuous consumption is undertaken in an attempt to maintain or increase social standing. But why do humans seek to acquire status through their consumption practices? Or more fundamentally, why do they seek status? Veblen does not present it as grounded in an instinct such as his instincts of parental bent, workmanship or idle curiosity, although he claims that ""the propensity for emulation is probably the strongest and most alert and persistent of the economic motives properâ€¦ a pervading trait of human nature."" But why? Had he read Darwin, or read him more carefully, he would have picked up on Darwin's concept of sexual selection and recognized it as the driving force behind conspicuous consumption as well as much other behavior intended to favorably impress others, if not the driving force behind all of his instincts. Sexual selection is a form of natural selection that works through mate selection as opposed to physical survival. How much an individual can consume signals an ability to command resources essential for successfully raising children. This article adds the Darwinian depth that Veblen missed to his important concept of conspicuous consumption, and in doing so adds clarity to humanity's prospects."
B15|Proudhon et la question coloniale algérienne|This article deals with Proudhon?s economic analysis of colonisation.?Proudhon proposes an institutionalist analysis where the right of force is crucial to think the colonial process in a racist framework.?This framework provides the foundations of a colonial economic theory.?The article also examines the coherence between Proudhon?s system and his colonial view.?The main result is that the colonial question intervenes as a special case that does not appeal to the principles central in Proudhon?s writings, especially the principles of justice, equality, liberty and property. Classification JEL?: B15, 010, K00.
B15|Economia Pluralista para Enfrentar Crisis Contemporanea<BR>[Pluralist Economics to Confront Recent Crisis]|Despite the deep impact of the 2008s Great Recession, Department of Economics around the world keep teaching the neoclassical paradigm as it nothing happened. Economics´ teaching, especially at the undergraduate level, does not leave room for a pluralist background, although somewhat similar process happens at the graduate level. Global dominance of approaches market oriented, based on an individualistic ontology, a methodological deductivism and the massive use of mathematical models since the last three decades, have been closing the possibilities of different approaches. In this essay, possible causes behind this phenomenon are explored, and several proposals are presented about how a more integral and plural Microeconomics could be taught, and a more grounded Macroeconomics involved with today´s problems, and a development theory that does not give up with the theoretical richness of the Latin American traditions, could be also presented to students. The main criteria would be to endow our graduates with a more versatile vision about economic thought and economic theory, aiming toward the opening of new and creative approaches about public policies that would be able to solve our structural problems. Several concrete suggestions are offered regarding curriculums and books, and mechanism to overcome the Procrustean bed that incorporates the teaching of the dominant approach only. At the end, we would have creative professionals and conscious about the myriad of possibilities that a pluralist approach of economics science brings about, and new avenues of creative ideas will be opened to implement such policies. This proposal implies a more audacious curriculum and less timid toward the critique of the dominant cathedral of the main current of thought in Economics.
B15|[Ensayo] Liberalismo e instituciones: Douglass North y la economía neoclásica|Este ensayo es un intento de comprender los aportes y debilidades de la economía institucional de Douglass North y la forma como esta se relaciona con los postulados básicos del liberalismo y la economía neoclásica. Se examina la teoría de la sociedad propuesta por el liberalismo y, de una parte, la forma como resuelve los problemas de coordinación y cohesión social en una economía de mercado donde se preservan las libertades individuales y, de otra, su relación con los postulados del paradigma neoclásico. Se concluye que, en la teoría de North, se encuentran los elementos para construir una teoría general de las instituciones pero que su análisis se encuentra limitado porque lo incorpora a un marco neoclásico. La razón es que North no desarrolla una teoría del valor alterna. No obstante, su propuesta teórica lleva a reconsiderar los postulados liberales, al tiempo que enriquece el debate económico pues permite tener una visión más amplia de los fenómenos sociales, políticos y económicos.
B15|Wieser As A Theorist Of Institutional Change|In this contribution, we provide an interpretation of Friedrich von Wieser’s contribution to economics, which that pays tribute to the originality of his work, and particularly to his view of how institutions interfere with individual behavior. This interaction takes place within a disequilibrium framework where social influences such as power or social class, and psychological factors such as force of habit or herd behavior, are the product of human action but also constitute constraints on further action. The sectionSection 1 II stresses the institutionalist background of Wieser’s economics. We concentrate on Wieser’s general method— – which we assimilate to an example of Joseph Agassi’s (1975) institutional individualism— – and his analysis of the emergence and evolution of institutions via the dynamics of leaders and masses. In the section 2III, we reinforce and illustrate the ‘institutionalist’ stamp of Wieser’s economics by focusing on his work on monetary economics (Wieser 1904, 1909a, 1909b, 1927b) and his analysis of the emergence of money, based on our reading of Wieser’s Social Economics (Wieser [1927a] 1967) and The Law of Power (Wieser [1926] 1983). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2767438<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B15|The Converging and Diverging Views of Wilhelm von Humboldt and John Stuart Mill on the Subjects of Self-development and the Role of the State|This article shows that a number of the key points expressed by Mill in On Liberty (1859) were very similar to many ideas that Humboldt presented in The Limits of State Action (1792). In fact, it was by Humboldt that Mill gained an appreciation for the concept of self-development. The primary goal of his paper, however, is to find significant differences in their respective ideas on the role of the state as a way to facilitate the development of individuality. It also claims that these differences can be mainly attributed to Mill having had the opportunity to directly observe the negative impacts of industrial capitalism, which led him to defend a positive state role in counteracting them.
B15|Montchrétien Founder of Political Economy|Montchrétien is still appreciated as a literate and author of tragedies, but is gravely neglected as an economist. His book - Traité de l’économie politique (1615) - is one of the most important expression of mercantilism. Like for the other mercantilists, Montchrétien’s main concern was development through the expansion on manufactures, the organisation of the poor for labour, the increase of exportations and a keen economic competition with the other states. Montchrétien enriches his arguments by drawing from his immense erudition about far and recent history, mythology and also a detailed and deep knowledge of the social and economic problems of his time. But his most important achievement was the foundation of modern political economy as different from ancient household economy. Contrary to the common conviction that the title of his book was just an unintentional chance, we are set to show that Montchrétien was perfectly aware of the main features of the new economic science: management of social wealth in the public interest, growth of social wealth and a general welfare as the main aim, balance between private and public interest. Private interest is the spring of enrichment; its protection is the source of individual rights and of liberty. Public interest must ensure equal rights, welfare and protection of the poor.
B15|Decision Making And Saint Petersburg Paradox: Focusing On Heuristic Parameters, Considering The Non-Ergodic Context And The Gambling Risks|The Saint Petersburg Paradox is still a contemporary issue because of the great impact on the probabilistic theory and decision-making. This article proposes some hints on avoiding the trap of the infinite expected value (EV). The highly stochastic mechanism and its EV have always to be contextualized in the limited period where we take our choices taking into account all possible limitations deriving from the theory (including the non-ergodic features and some inappropriate consequences we may attribute to the EV). This contextualisation is one of the most important factors to consider especially when we deal with infinite quantity coming from models that may misrepresent our field of application and therefore generate paradoxes.
B15|PENGELOLAAN KEUANGAN PUBLIK DI INDONESIA: Tinjauan Keuangan Publik Islam<BR>[MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCE IN INDONESIA: Review of Islamic Public Finance]|Public financial management by the government is very important in view of the level of welfare in Indonesia is still low, as there are still many poverty with the level of fulfillment of the needs of low, corruption that occurs in every area of government, income distribution is uneven, low economic growth, and various irregularities other budget. With a qualitative approach that emphasizes the phenomenon of the social reality and the country's financial management practices in Indonesia, the approach to history and historical analysis is able to provide solutions to the existing problems. Reviewing public financial revenues and government spending become instruments in creating public welfare.
B15|The Institutional Fundamentals of Turkey's Economic Performance: A New Institutional Perspective|In this thesis, the effect of Turkey's institutional structure on economic performance is analyzed by using transaction cost and credible commitment which are contributed by New Institutional Economics. According to this school, neoclassical economics ignores transaction cost, bounded rationality, incomplete contracts and property rights. So these models will not represent the real world. But it's known that the transaction cost is always positive in the real world. According to this reality, to begin with the institutions containing the New Institutional Economics are investigated and the relationship between institutions and economic performance is explained. Afterwards defining, measuring and effects of transaction cost topics are mentioned. Soon after we handled the political transaction cost. In the next chapter, the policymaking process and credible commitment are explained. The role of institutions on formation of institutional policies and the 3 determiner legislative-executive-judiciary and the seperation of powers are discussed and credible commitment is clarified in this context. By giving the theoretical framework of this issues, Turkey's progress is reviewed. The important contribution of this thesis is by following New Institutional Economics perspective, first defining the political transaction cost and credible commitment and after showing the effects Turkey's institutional structure to economic performance by using time series analysis with structral breaks. Findings indicate that the transaction cost and credible commitment determined by institutional structure are highly important on investment decisions and national income. Anahtar Kelimeler: New Institutional Economics, Transaction Cost, Credible Commitment, Institutional Structure, Structral Breaks, Co-integration.
B15|Revisiting Free Market Utopia: A Hayek-Polanyi Reminder|As pundits discuss the causes and results of the 2008 financial crisis and ensuing Great Recession, economists of various strands—led mainly by Keynesians—are slowly beginning to question the supposed wisdom of unfettered markets. Since Keynesian-liberal disputes revolve around the symptoms of the crisis rather than the historical and structural features of market economies, we thought that a Hayek-Polanyi comparison would be a timely intervention in order to understand the real nature of the subject. This comparison may also pave the way for the creation of an alternative to the vagaries of unfettered markets.
B15|Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Economic Growth with a Search for Takeoffs from Stagnation to Growth|Data describing historical economic growth are analysed. Included in the analysis is the world and regional economic growth. The analysis demonstrates that historical economic growth had a natural tendency to follow hyperbolic distributions. Parameters describing hyperbolic distributions have been determined. A search for takeoffs from stagnation to growth produced negative results. This analysis throws a new light on the interpretation of the mechanism of the historical economic growth and suggests new lines of research.
B15|Foundations of the parametric strategic management: An institutional economics perspective|"The article suggests the idea of parametric strategic management based on using institutions, or ""rules of the game"", as control parameters ensuring targeting of sustainable states, functioning modes and development trajectories (attractors) of the managed economic system, in particular, economic organization. The rules themselves do not contain directions of changes towards target attractors. The Coase theorem appears to be the economic foundation of the proposed approach."
B15|Society and brain: A complementary approach to Thorstein Veblen’s conspicuous consumer based on Tibor Scitovsky’s neuropsychology [Society and brain: A complementary approach to Thorstein Veblen’s conspicuous consumer based on Tibor Scitovsky’s neuropsychology]|The goal of this study is to complement Thorstein Veblen's conspicuous consumer approach to economics with Tibor Scitovsky's neuropsychological analysis. This is undertaken by exploring the psychological basis of both theories. Veblen's conspicuous consumer emulates the leisure class, which consumes what can be understood as the best goods of a society. These goods are associated with the concept of social satisfaction rather than physical satisfaction. Veblen's conspicuous consumer decision making is introduced here according to insights from the American pragmatic school of philosophy. On the other hand, Scitovsky introduced elements of neuropsychology to economics using an interdisciplinary approach that was understandable to economists as he sought a better comprehension of consumers' decision making. Scitovsky's psychological-economics approach was inspired by studies from Daniel Berlyne and Donald Hebb. In considering Scitovsky's approach, this study contributes to understanding the decision making of Veblen's conspicuous consumer.
B15|What Concept îf Political Economy is Adequate for Strategy of Regional Growth in Russia?|"This paper discusses the theoretical premises of a strategy of regional economic growth. It recommends that attention should be paid to the various types of capitalism, including peripheral ones, for which developmental laws differ from the ones effective in developed economies. A brief overview of the history of the types of ""national political economy"" allows for establishing alternative options of economic reforms. The conclusion is arrived at whereby the projection of the ""mainstream"" type will not be in line with the desirable changes of the Russian economy."
B15|“Fettered” And “Unfettered” Capitalism In J.A. Schumpeter’S Concept Of Tax State And Economic Development – Issues In Banking Perspective|Economic development and transformation processes have become much more intense in economic reality in the last years than they have ever been before. At this time a lot of questions were raised about the causes of the actual Global Crisis, future crises, the factors affecting the modern economy, about the essence of contemporary capitalism, demographic problems and overgrown bureaucracy. The most spectacular threat to capitalism, (based on private entrepreneurship) according to Schumpeter, stems from the high, growing and progressive taxation. Schumpeter saw clearly that the financing of public goods and services (requiring taxes, maybe even relatively high) is something other than a clerical control of the economic system that violates the natural economic mechanism. Moreover, Schumpeter says explicitly that an entrepreneur does not have to be one person, he even states that the country (state) itself, or its agenda, can act as an entrepreneur. Therefore, it can be concluded that we may have to deal with “Tax State”, which is typical for “fettered capitalism”, and with “entrepreneurial state”, which is typical for “unfettered capitalism”. The main goal of this paper is to present two different approaches to the economic development concept: Schumpeter’s “fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in the context of “Tax State” and interventionism. The Author analyzes presented concept in contemporary issues from the banking perspective. In the paper, the Author used critical analysis as a research method. This allowed to identify gaps in the current state of knowledge and the scientific discussion focused on J.A. Schumpeter’s theoretical concept. Analysis was performed in 2015.
B15|The Fiscal Council in the Hungarian Fundamental Law|In the first decade of the 2000s it became evident that in order to prevent the overspending of Hungarian budget management – which was quite detached from actual performance – executing the current budgets in a more disciplined manner was not enough. Regaining and maintaining financial stability became a strategic issue that required constitutional rules and high level legal norms relying on these rules to consistently regulate public finances. The initiatives directed at changing the situation became more and more valuable as indebtedness continued to intensify, and consolidation programmes failed. The consequences of the financial crisis that erupted in 2008 – leading to a situation bordering on sovereign default – also contributed to the making of a law on the rules of fiscal responsibility and its institutional guardian. Eventually public finances were given a worthy place in 2011 in the Fundamental Law, then the regulation was supported by the Stability Act enacted later at the year-end. The consistent enforcement of the Fundamental Law – enacted five years ago – has become a key guarantee of Hungarian financial stability. This study briefly summarises the antecedents of the regulation of public finances in the Fundamental Law, and describes the major considerations of Hungarian constitutional regulation and the related Stability Act, and the main characteristics of the work of the Fiscal Council. It briefly compares the conditions prevailing in Hungary with the similar regulations of other EU countries and the ways that tasks and institutions are interpreted by their independent fiscal institutions.
B15|Thorstein Veblen on the nature of the firm and income distribution|The aim of this paper is to provide a theoretical model inspired by Veblen’s theory of the firm, and to derive some implications of firms’ behaviour for the process of income distribution. It will be shown that the firm is a locus of conflict, involving technicians – interested in expanding production – and “businessmen” – interested in gaining money profits via the management of the “pecuniary side” of the firm. The outcome of the bargaining within the firm defines the ‘workmanship-type’ or ‘non-workmanship-type’ nature of the firm, and affects the level of real wages and employment, insofar as the greater the power of technicians, the higher the real wages are. Moreover, since the expansion of production is associated with the minimum degree of underutilization of capital, technical improvements have a positive effect on the level of employment. Finally, it is argued that a wage increase can have a positive effect on the degree of capital utilization and the level of employment, via the increase in total demand and in the degree of capital utilization.
B15|Migration as Subtle Catalyst: Institution Building in India|This research paper captures role of immigrants in building political, social, religious and economic institutes in India. Their role is in all spheres of building institutes ranging from intellectual, social, political, educational, financial and physical contribution. The institutes in which they played a role are of wide range; Indian National Congress and Constitution of India, Indian Independence Movement and many political institutes are few of them.
B15|Produsul intern brut. Istorie, relevanţă şi limitări în interpretare<BR>[The Gross Domestic Product. History, relevance and limitations in its interpretation]|Despite theoretical and methodological improvements by national accounts framework revisions, not without disputes and confrontations of views, the growing complexity of economic and social phenomena under globalization circumstances has led to increasing difficulties in the design, monitoring and implementation of specific policies depending on GDP indicator. The paper focuses on the analysis of the GDP relevance and limitations in its interpretation, including a retrospective view. Some inconsistencies as regards the metrics of GDP (illegal activities, unobserved economy, self-consumption in rural households, owner’s imputed rents) are highlighted. Because the GDP does not take into account the impact of important factors of progress (depletion of natural resources, environmental factors, urban concentration and rural depopulation etc.) and does not reflects neither the citizens wellbeing (starting from Easterlin Paradox), efforts to develop new statistical standards in order to complement/substitute GDP with other indicators and/or building composite indicators that integrates various aspects of quality of life have been made, but without meeting a general consensus at the global level.
B15|The Gross Domestic Product. History, relevance and limitations in its interpretation|Despite theoretical and methodological improvements by national accounts framework revisions, not without disputes and confrontations of views, the growing complexity of economic and social phenomena under globalization circumstances has led to increasing difficulties in the design, monitoring and implementation of specific policies depending on GDP indicator. The paper focuses on the analysis of the GDP relevance and limitations in its interpretation, including a retrospective view. Some inconsistencies as regards the metrics of GDP (illegal activities, unobserved economy, self-consumption in rural households, owner’s imputed rents) are highlighted. Because the GDP does not take into account the impact of important factors of progress (depletion of natural resources, environmental factors, urban concentration and rural depopulation etc.) and does not reflects neither the citizens wellbeing (starting from Easterlin Paradox), efforts to develop new statistical standards in order to complement/substitute GDP with other indicators and/or building composite indicators that integrates various aspects of quality of life have been made, but without meeting a general consensus at the global level. In the end of the paper other derived indicators (GNP, GNI, AIC) are discussed and some considerations regarding the time horizon of Romania’s real convergence with the EU, including the accession to Eurozone are added.
B15|Schumpeter, Veblen and Bourdieu on Institutions and the Formation of Habits|As we know, Joseph Alois Schumpeter is one of the greatest economists of all times, while Thorstein Veblen is an economist and sociologist who made seminal contributions to the social sciences. Pierre Bourdieu, meanwhile, is one of the most famous structural sociologists, who has consistently worked on economic dynamics. These three scholars have laid the foundations of a socioeconomic perspective. However, several important aspects of their works remain less widely discussed, or even inadequately explored in a comparative manner. Of course, investigating the origins of their ideas in evolutionary and institutional economics and re-evaluating comparatively the influences that shaped their works is quite useful for promoting dialogue between Economics and Sociology. Within this framework, this essay focuses on the conceptual relationship between Schumpeter, Veblen and Bourdieu. Evolution and Change shape the economic life in their respective works and, in such a framework a central point of their analyses is the interdependence between the cultural, social and economic spheres. Furthermore, an economic sociology is built around the concept of habit formation. The three great authors’ systemic views focus on the various institutions and other aspects of cultural, social and economic life, where habits are formed and cover diverse fields and notions such as Consumption, Preferences, Art, Knowledge, Banking and even Capitalism. For instance, all three social scientists acknowledged the fact that the internal dynamics of capitalism introduce structural instabilities into the economic system. Also, they recognized that research and knowledge development is a collective social process. However, from a methodological perspective, their main emphasis is on the emerging dynamic evolution of habits, which is perceived as the interruption of already existing social norms and the conflict between routine and change. Several differences between Schumpeter, Veblen and Bourdieu are observed and analysed and ideas for future research are presented.
B15|Complementary Health Insurance in France, the “Mutuelle” Institute and Its Terminology|The aim of the paper is to characterise the system of social insurance in France and to show the role of combined social and health care insurance companies called “mutuelles” in the framework of compulsory complementary health insurance in France. Historical roots of this non-profit organisation based on a system of solidarity, participation in expenses and management are mentioned, a wide range of coverage of health care as well as the way of reimbursement of expenses for care provided for their members are described, and its future prospects are outlined. The paper tries to point out the differences in terminology and content as there are analogical institutions with a different role or only partial content equivalence besides specific legal institutions. This relates to different social traditions in the given communities during their development. The goal is to bring operation of French institutions closer to the Czech legal system.
B15|Financial and Corporate Structure in South Africa|Concentration in the South African financial sector has its origins in three main influences that are all historical (i) the legacy of domination by a small number of large imperial banks, (ii) the struggle between English and Afrikaner capital and (iii) the statutory legislation that framed the operation of banks. In this paper we describe the part played by these three historical influences in the formation and development of the corporate sector in South Africa. One recurrent theme throughout the history is the relative position of the foreign bank and domestic bank in the local market place. We take up this theme and argue that the scale and extent of foreign bank operations in South Africa is far greater than estimates provided by the local authorities. We have found that the main vehicle in deepening the concentration of the sector has been the merger. In later sections of the paper we lay out how the amalgamation by absorption approach to expansion that has been a constant feature of the country’s business life comes together with a merger frenzy in the late 1980’s and 1990s that succeeds in further deepening concentration within banking, finance and industry. Last, we end with an analysis of industry structure by Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) capitalisation between 1994 and 2011.
B15|Risking Capitalism|The growing centrality of risk management in pro-market governance raises important questions regarding how risks are produced, and why? Who and what is included in, and excluded from, risk management, and why? And, what is the relationship between the rise of risk management and neoliberalism? Charting the relationship between risk, contemporary capitalism and its neoliberal modes of governance, Risking Capitalism, addresses these questions by examining - both analytically and empirically - diverse meanings and practices of risk management across a range of scales and themes, ranging from austerity to climate change to housing and debt. The authors investigate the relationship between shifts in contemporary capitalism and the ways in which neoliberal forms of risk management have emerged, been reproduced and normalized, and, transformed historically.
B15|O poszukiwaniu przyczyn bogactwa i nędzy narodów w teorii Darona Acemoglu i Jamesa A. Robinsona|Celem artykułu jest analiza głównych koncepcji, jakie wysuwano w ciągu dwu stuleci rozwoju nauk ekonomicznych, próbując odpowiedzieć na fundamentalne dla ekonomii pytanie badawcze, a mianowicie: jakie czynniki warunkują rozwój gospodarczy poszczególnych krajów i społeczeństw? Przegląd i uporządkowanie istniejących stanowisk umożliwia uzyskanie niezbędnego punktu odniesienia dla oceny jednej z najnowszych koncepcji autorstwa Darona Acemoglu i Jamesa A. Robinsona spopularyzowanej w bestsellerowej monografii Why Nations Fail? The Origins of Power, Prosperity and Poverty [2012; wyd. polskie 2014]. Metodę badawczą pozwalającą na realizację powyższego celu stanowią pogłębione studia literaturowe. Najistotniejsze wnioski z przeprowadzonej analizy można sprowadzić do stwierdzenia, że: (1) gros autorów wskazuje wiele elementów istotnych dla rozwoju gospodarczego (teorie jednoczynnikowe zdarzają się sporadycznie), (2) ogół istniejących teorii można umieścić w ramach spektrum rozciągającego się od koncepcji, w których nadrzędna rola jest przypisana różnorakim komponentom środowiska naturalnego (co prowadzi do wysuwania różnych odmian hipotezy geograficznej), po wyjaśnienia, w których na pierwszym planie postawione są czynniki zależne od aktywności człowieka (co owocuje wariantami hipotezy instytucjonalnej). Koncepcja Acemoglu i Robinsona plasuje się zdecydowanie bliżej instytucjonalnego krańca wskazanego spektrum, choć wprowadzenie przez tych badaczy trudnego do akceptacji i obrony na gruncie ich własnych rozważań rozgraniczenia pomiędzy hipotezami: instytucjonalną i kulturową niesłusznie sugeruje, że instytucje można rozpatrywać niezależnie od ich kontekstu kulturowego oraz prowadzi do osłabienia wymowy ich skądinąd wartościowej teorii.
B15|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
B15|Behavior and cognition of economic actors in evolutionary economics|Abstract An evolutionary perspective on the nature of economic activity requires a theory of human behavior and cognition that highlights human creativity and innovativeness, while at the same time recognizing that in many arenas of economic life change is slow and more routine aspects of behavior obtain. It is proposed that Herbert Simon’s conception of human behavior as largely “bounded rational” is capable of suiting both aspects. However, to be able to encompass the enormous advances humans have achieved over the years in their ability to meet a variety of wants, a theory of behavior and cognition suitable for evolutionary economics needs to recognize the evolving cultural context of economic behavior and cognition.
B15|Why German historicists were wrong to put John Stuart through the Mill|Many German historical economists have denounced classical political economy’s pretension to establish abstract universal laws. This paper seeks to defend John Stuart Mill against this criticism. It argues that, contrary to what these authors alleged, they have a great deal more in common with Mill on this topic than they were willing to realise. In fact, from a methodological as well as a political perspective, their views on relativity regarding both economic laws and the laissez-faire principle are very similar to those of Mill’s..
B15|Chicago Economics in the Making, 1926-1940. A Further Look at US Interwar Pluralism|The aim of this paper is to unfold a rich body of archival material that can shed new light on the nature and evolution of interwar Chicago economics. Specifically, this paper is based on a scrutiny of the PhD qualifying exams on Economic Theory at Chicago from 1926 to 1940. The qualifying tests (supplemented by the courses’ programs) show the existence of two important turning points in the shaping of Chicago economic training. The first one is in 1927, when John M. Clark, the undisputed leader of the Chicago Department of Economics during the heyday of institutionalism, moved to Columbia, leaving open ground to the restructuring of the courses according to a different and more analytical approach already represented in the Department by Viner and, in a narrower field, by Paul Douglas. The arrival at Chicago of figures such as Knight, Schultz and Simons definitely shifted the balance toward neoclassical theory. A second turning point occurred in 1933 when the qualifying test in Economic Theory was divided into two major fields: price and distribution theory on the one side; money and business cycle on the other. This innovation reveals the importance acquired by monetary theory in economic training at a time that is commonly associated with the nurturing of what was later named as the “Chicago monetary tradition.”
B15|Progressive Era Racism and its (Jewish) Discontents|This work analyzes the contribution to the debates on labor and immigration of a group of Jewish academicians and reformers who, during the second half of the Progressive Era, explicitly took a stance against the racialist and eugenic rhetoric of the period. This group includes first-rank economists like Edwin R. A. Seligman, Jacob H. Hollander, and Emanuel A. Goldenweiser; influential field specialists such as Isaac A. Hourwich and Isaac M. Rubinow; and relatively less known figures like Max J. Kohler and Samuel K. Joseph. By focusing on the voices of these dissenters, the work enriches the emerging picture of Progressive Era eugenic and racial thought
B15|Property, Possession and Knowledge|As Hodgson has nicely pointed out, capitalism can be only understood if we accept that, unlike possession, property is a social construction and a relation among individuals. Unlike possession, property does not require a material thing on which it should be applied. Property rights can create fictitious commodities on intangible assets symbolizing the relationships among persons. The commoditization of knowledge and the emergence of contemporary intellectual monopoly capitalism must be understood in this framework. Knowledge is a non-rival good and its possession by others is not incompatible. Since we can all possess the same piece of knowledge, the so-called knowledge economy is often seen as place where capitalist relations should weaken. However this view confuses property with possession. In modern societies, intellectual property is becoming the most important part of capital. In spite of the non-rival possession of knowledge, intellectual property rights can be defined as the exclusive right to a piece of knowledge involving the corresponding restriction of others' liberties to use it. Modern intellectual monopoly capitalism is built on sophisticated property rights that should be not confused with any sort of primitive possession
B15|Etyczne i ekonomiczne uwarunkowania wielkosci produkcji spolecznej w ujeciu Stanislawa Glabinskiego/Ethical and Economic Conditions of Social Production According to Stanislaw Glabinski Approach to the Issue of Social Elites|Stanis³aw G³¹biñski (1862–1941), economist and politician, and one of the main representatives of the historical trend, sought to develop the national school in the Polish economy. The nation and national idea were to become its starting point. By ‘people’ he meant the population in the political sense, i.e. the whole of society within the state, including the factions and national minorities. The subject of national economics is the national or social economy. It is the total unit of a higher order, including all the households in the country linked by ties of mutual dependence, both material and spiritual. Its purpose and subject is the society, the nation. Therefore, national economics is a social science. Production is characterized by a social dimension, its size determined by both economic and non-economic factors as well as moral and ethical ones. These two aspects are characteristic of the two categories associated with it, i.e. the social resources and factors of production. The category of social resources is similar to Frederick List’s concept of productive forces, meaning the production capacity of the nation, the power of producing wealth. G³¹biñski divides them into moral and material resources, attaching more importance to the moral resources. They are the fullest expression of the nation’s culture condition, the nation’s moral level and they also provide stable social bonds. The concept of moral resources involves two production factors: entrepreneurship as well as knowledge and work. The material resources represent the earth (nature) and capital.
B15|The psychology of early institutional economics: The instinctive approach of Thorstein Veblen's conspicuous consumer theory|Thorstein Veblen, a founder of original or old institutional economics, combined social and evolutionary thought in his institutionalist approach to dealing with psychological, social, and economic issues. The psychological content of Veblen's writings takes instinct and habits into consideration. The economic literature on the psychological content of Veblen's writings has focused on habits, despite the importance of instincts in Veblen's works. This paper attempts to discuss Veblen's notion of instincts in order to make its role clearer in his approach to conspicuous consumer decision making. It discusses the role of instincts, the instinct of workmanship, the relationship between habits and instincts, and their influence on the conspicuous consumer. Consequently, this paper contributes to a better understanding of how inner forces and socialization culminate in behavior in Veblen's conspicuous consumer approach
B15|Economics Of Integration. A Debate Outline|Integration is geographically larger than the EU or European region and did start as one of new specific economic processes of the postwar era. There are at least two types of integration, of which the EU one proves qualitatively distinguished as currently. Such a new movement equally reaches its specific economic thinking which’s development proves as complex as producing increasing dilemmas for management and political decision. The paradox is that one century time ago paces to be taken were better viewed than the immediate future here and now appears to the current generation.
B15|Péril chinois et déclin de l’Europe. Analyses économiques en France au tournant du xx e siècle|At the end of the 19th century, in the context of a general concern about the alleged « decay of white races », the Treaty of Shimonoseki (1895) opens the perspective of an industrial revolution in China. The paper studies how economic concepts and theories are used to evaluate the possibility of a « Chinese Peril » for Europe, but also how the debate, while progressing both from conceptual and a methodological viewpoints, relies on racialist representations to estimate the relative value of key economic indicators (wage, productivity, initiative, speeds of capital accumulation and technological transfers, institutional efficiency). Classification JEL : A13, B13, B14, B15
B15|Modelo de desarrollo y paz: confianza, instituciones y políticas de desarrollo|El documento presenta una perspectiva de la cuestión del posconflicto en Colombia. Inicia enfatizando la necesidad de afirmar la dimensión humana e institucional de la economía, a partir de reconocer el tiempo de la economía como tiempo histórico. La perspectiva que plantea, identifica la urgencia de renovar las bases institucionales de la sociedad mediante el fortalecimiento y desarrollo efectivo de la sociedad civil, junto con la configuración de arreglos institucionales que fortalezcan la confianza y la cohesión social mediante políticas activas del Estado. Estas políticas dirigidas a buscar la estabilización económica y social de las zonas rurales y a mejorar las dotaciones de recursos modernos de la población que, tanto en el campo como en la ciudad, ha estado al margen de los procesos de modernización y transformación del crecimiento moderno. ****** The document presents an overview of the post-conflict issue in Colombia. It starts by emphasizing the need to affirm human and institutional dimensions of the economy, from acknowledging time economics as a historical time. It raises the prospect that identifies the urgency to renew the institutional foundations of society through effective development and strengthening of civil society, together with the configuration of institutional arrangements that strengthen confidence and social cohesion through active state policies. These policies address economic and social stability in rural areas and improve the population’s modern resource endowments, both in the countryside and in the city; have been on the sidelines of the modernization and transformation of modern growth.
B15|Theories of finance and financial crisis: Lessons for the Great Recession|This paper presents an overview of different models which explain financial crises, with the aim of understanding economic developments during and possibly after the Great Recession. In the first part approaches based on efficient markets and rational expectations hypotheses are analyzed, which however do not give any explanation for the occurrence of financial crises and thus cannot suggest any remedies for the present situation. A broad range of theoretical approaches analyzing financial crises from a medium term perspective is then discussed. Within this group we focused on the insights of Marx, Schumpeter, Wicksell, Hayek, Fisher, Keynes, Minsky, and Kindleberger. Subsequently the contributions of the Regulation School, the approach of Social Structures of Accumulation and Post-Keynesian approach, which focus on long-term developments and regime shifts in capitalist development, are presented. International approaches to finance and financial crises are integrated into the analyses. We address the issue of relevance of all these theories for the present crisis and draw some policy implications. The paper has the aim to find out to which extent the different approaches are able to explain the Great Recession, what visions they develop about future development of capitalism and to which extent these different approaches can be synthesized.
B15|Théorie des élites parétienne et moment machiavélien comme principes explicatifs de la dynamique sociale : les limites de la méthode des approximations successives|Cet article explique comment la dynamique de l’équilibre social chez Pareto repose sur le principe de rupture du moment machiavélien. Il resitue ce principe en termes d’équilibre entre virtù et fortuna puis en apprécie la transposition à l’étude de la dynamique de l’équilibre social parétien. Après avoir réévalué la méthode des approximations successives et de synthèse à laquelle Pareto recourt, nous montrons que le principe de rupture du moment machiavélien implique que l’explication de la dynamique sociale repose sur des lois tendancielles qui supposent de remettre en cause la synthèse des résultats de Pareto.
B15|Do spinoff dynamics or agglomeration externalities drive industry clustering? A reappraisal of Steven Klepper’s work|"Steven Klepper’s theory of industry clustering based on organizational reproduction and inheritance through spinoffs challenged the Marshallian view on industry clustering. This article provides an assessment of Klepper’s theoretical and empirical work on industry clustering. We explore how ""new"" his spinoff theory on industry clustering was, and we investigate the impact of Klepper’s theory on the economic geography community. Klepper’s work has inspired especially recent literature on regional branching that argues that new industries grow out of and recombine capabilities from local related industries. Finally, the article discusses what questions on industry location are still left open or in need of more evidence in the context of Klepper’s theory."
B15|Innovation Bureaucracy: Does the organization of government matter when promoting innovation?|Current research on how to organize the role of government in innovation – both how governments support innovation in markets and how governments achieve innovations within public organizations for improving its market supporting activities – converges around a rather simplified single-organization explanations: innovations are driven by either (Weberian) elite expert organizations or (Schumpeterian) fluid peripheral organizations. We show that looking at history of innovation bureaucracy, a more complex picture emerges: historically we find a rich organizational variety for implementing diverse innovation policy goals. We show that historically the organizational variety is, first, driven by highly diverse public-private relationships; and second, the variety itself is an important factor in success and failure of innovation policies. Combining analytical lenses created by Weber and Mintzberg we build analytical framework based on routines and capacities to analyze organizational variety in innovation bureaucracy. We show how different kinds of public organizations are successful at delivering different kinds of innovation policy goals and impacts. Particularly important is the distinction between organizations capable of innovations in policies (instrumental performance) vs organizations supporting innovations in private sector (substantive performance). We finish with discussing the importance of organizational variety for the concept of entrepreneurial state.
B15|Socialist Legacies of Personnel and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies: An Analytical Review|Socialist legacies of personnel / human resource management are examined, reviewing 83 studies based on the context of transition from the socialist management to the modern management in European transition economies. The results show that the studies tend to exhibit a relatively strong preference to explain transitions accompanied by institutional legacies of socialist personnel management as associated with the traditional industrial sectors inherited from the socialist period. Cultural legacies are relatively focused widely throughout all European transition economies, but EU accession of these countries gives negative impact on maintaining studies on Socialist-specific cultural legacies. Socialist legacies in personnel and human resource management remain strong contextual characteristics in European transition economies.
B15|One Long Argument in Economics: Explaining Intellectual Inertia in terms of Evolutionary Ontology|In this article, we explain in terms of evolutionary ontology whether (and to what extent) economics has become an evolutionary science since Veblen published his seminal paper in 1898, “Why is Economics Not an Evolutionary Science?” We argue that researchers’ habitual and ceremonial behavior as well as ideologies and non-intellectual beliefs cause inertia in the research environment. Inertia caused by the research environment is so significant that economics does not “progress” towards a state advocated by Veblen, where economists revisit their thoughts and change their minds by following the (evolutionary) “drift.” In essence, we stress the evolutionary ontological reasons why economists do not abandon theories when the dominant paradigm in economics is disputed. The “drift” which Veblen thought would turn economics into an evolutionary science has now become an evolutionary process itself, in which economists are unable to displace non-evolutionary preconceptions in economics.
B15|Ancestral kinship patterns substantially reduce the negative effect of increasing group size on incentives for public goods provision|Phenomena like meat sharing in hunter-gatherers, self-sacrifice in intergroup conflicts, and voluntary contribution to public goods provision in laboratory experiments have led to the development of numerous theories on the evolution of altruistic in-group beneficial behavior in humans. Many of these theories abstract away from the effects of kinship on the incentives for public goods provision, though. Here, it is investigated analytically how genetic relatedness changes the incentive structure of that paradigmatic game which is conventionally used to model and experimentally investigate collective action problems: the linear public goods game. Using recent anthropological data sets on relatedness in 61 contemporary hunter-gatherer and horticulturalist societies the relevant parameters of this model are then estimated. It turns out that the kinship patterns observed in these societies substantially reduce the negative effect of increasing group size on incentives for public goods provision. It is suggested, therefore, that renewed attention should be given to inclusive fitness theory in the context of public goods provision also in sizable groups, because its explanatory power with respect to this central problem in the evolution of human cooperativeness and altruism might have been substantially underrated.
B15|Disproportionality and Business Cycle from Tugan-Baranovskij to Spiethoff|In the second half of the 19th century, German-speaking countries developed a very intense economic debate about crises. Mikhail Ivanovich Tugan-Baranovskij’s analysis may be considered as the point of transition between different crisis theories and the development of organic thinking about the business cycle. It was an integral part of the German debate and had a decisive influence on Arthur Spiethoff’s elaboration – perhaps the most organic analysis of the cycle developed within the German historical school. Arthurs Spiethoff’s influence was recognized by important authors such as Friedrich A. von Hayek and Joseph A. Schumpeter. Both the Austrian economists admitted their debt toward the German scholar in elaborating their business cycle theories. The present paper aims to illustrate one of the important roots in Spiethoff’s approach, an approach that in turn became a crucial reference for other important economists.
B15|G. Knapp’s State Theory of Money: History and Current Perspectives|The paper considers the historical contexts of Georg Knapp’s nominalistic theory of money, and reconstructs its basic arguments. The contemporaneous critical reactions to Knapp are analyzed, as well as some more recent versions of chartalism, and the strengths and weaknesses of the chartalist insights in monetary theory and policy.
B15|Thorstein Veblen entre seus pares economistas: um estudo sobre a audiência e a estrutura argumentativa de sua crítica sistemática ao pensamento econômico [Thorstein Veblen among his peer economists: a study on the audience and the argumentative structure of his systematic critique of economic thought]|This paper aims to contribute to the revisionist tendency regarding Thorstein Veblen’s intellectual biography. Specifically, it aimed to study Veblen’s position among the economists of his time in the United States. For this purpose, the audience, the context and the structure of the argument used by the founder of institutionalism were analyzed in a series of texts published between 1898 and 1909. This series was named “systematic critique of economic thought”. It was concluded that Veblen framed his argument with the explicit intention of reaching an agreement with his audience of economists, through the rhetorical device of the “reinvention of the tradition”.
B15|Institutional Determinants Of Regional Diversity Of Labor Market In Poland|The article focuses on regional diversity of the Polish Labor Market from institutional perspective. The Polish Labor Market is geographically diverse in terms of unemployment and employment rates, and also in terms of economic development. At the end of 2013 the difference between the lowest and the highest unemployment rate in the Polish regions was 12.1% (Wielkopolska located in the West Poland has unemployment rate of 9.6% and Warmia - Mazury in the East has unemployment of 21.7%). The question arises whether this difference comes from the structural or institutional sources. The paper describe the character of Polish Labor Market, whereas in the second part, it traces the impact of institutional variables such as real wage, Kaitz index and Gender gap on the regional unemployment rate in 2002–2012 in Poland.
B15|Impact Of Institutional Factors On Economic Growth In The United States In The Years 1979–2007|The purpose of this article is to isolate and determine the importance of institutional arrangements in shaping the dynamics of the U.S. GDP in the years 1979–2007. The research hypothesis which has been verified here can be summarized as follows: institutions in the U.S. economy have a positive influence on economic growth through a significant impact on improving the business environment. Having regard to the division of the economy into institutional areas: economic system, labor market, financial market, education and R&D, the author selected these institutional factors which indicated that the operation could be important for the process of economic growth in the United States, and then measured the impact in the years 1979–2007. To verify the thesis about the impact of institutions on economic growth the author used one of the most popular tools in this kind of econometric research – the multiple regression analysis. The analysis revealed that during the period of all the analyzed institutional factors it was the proportion of the working population and the degree of unionization that most strongly influenced the economic growth of the United States – an increase in one of these factors was associated with a much more than proportional increase in the rate of the economic growth.
B15|“Fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in J.A. Schumpeter’s concept of Tax State and economic development|Economic development and transformation processes, have become much more intense in economic reality in the last years than they have ever been before. At this time has raised a lot of questions about the causes of the actual Global Crisis, future crises, the factors affecting the modern economy, about the essence of contemporary capitalism, demographic problems and overgrown bureaucracy. The most spectacular threat to capitalism, (based on private entrepreneurship) according to Schumpeter, stems from the high, growing and progressive taxation. Schumpeter saw clearly that the financing of public goods and services (requiring taxes, maybe even relatively high) is something other than a clerical control of the economic system that violates the natural economic mechanism. Moreover Schumpeter says explicitly, that entrepreneur does not have to be one person, he even states that the country (state) itself, or its agenda, can act as an entrepreneur. Therefore can be concluded that we may have to deal with “Tax State” which is typical for “fettered capitalism” and with “entrepreneurial state” which is typical for “unfettered capitalism”. The main goal of this paper is to present two different approaches to economic development concept: Schumpeter’s “fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in the context of “Tax State” and interventionism.
B15|Helping Cost, Assortative Matching and Production Cycles in the Dynamic Humean Farmer Game|We reformulate the Humean farmer game on the basis of random assignment of advantage and the cost e of helping in another’s harvest. The result is a game that is a coordination game if e ½ which allows a joint treatment of the two interpretations of the Humean farmer game. We employ two behavioral types initially: the conditionally cooperative (H-type) and the free riding (NH-type). We employ replication dynamics with assortative matching and multiple production cycles to investigate which evolutionarily stable (EE) monomorphic population it engenders. We show that the ceiling for effort cost e to support an EE monomorphic H-type population in the Stag-Hunt game rises to (1 + b)/2 from 1/2 in pure random matching case. As the assortative index b rises, the basin of attraction of the EE H-type solution rises. When the assortative matching is perfect (b = 1), in the Stag-Hunt game version (0 ½), s* = 0 is EE iff e > (3/4) while s** = 1 is EE.
B15|A Veblenian articulation of the monetary theory of production|The article presents a further articulation of the monetary theory of production inspired by the writings of Thorstein Veblen. Particularly I offer a formulation of the monetary theory of production as part of broader theorizing about social provisioning and the life process. This includes an analytical focus on non-commodities; an extension of the Veblenian dichotomy to non-market activities; discussion of Veblen’s theory of social valuation in connection to monetary theory of production and class; delineation of as social processes that constitute social provisioning and their commodity and non-commodity aspects. The goal is bridging the gap between monetary theory of production and analysis of “the social”.
B15|Behavioural rules: Veblen, Nelson-Winter, Oström and beyond|Rules as devices for the analysis of economic behaviour have earned increasing recognition since Elinor Ostrom’s work was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 2009. This contribution illustrates the use of such analytical device in three foundational pioneering areas of application: The sociology of Thorstein Veblen, the organisational studies of Nelson and Winter, and Elinor Ostrom’s analysis of resource governance systems. A comparison of their respective uses of the analytical concept of behavioural rules reveals their major objective: the systematic interpretation of empirical observations. While their works provide convincing evidence on the analytical power of rules, neither has realised the full potential for generalisation toward a theory of rule-based economics. Such generalisation has recently been achieved by Dopfer and Potts. Adhering to ‘instrumental realism’ their theoretical framework integrates key elements of the reasoning about rules presented here, and achieves general applicability to the analysis of the origination and diffusion of rules, and of their use for economic operations.
B15|Economía y ciencias sociales: reporte de investigación<BR>[Economics and social sciences: Technical report]|The theoretical economy is diverse and contains frameworks and models of different research. This article proposes a body of recognized theories and methods, not only for the so-called mainstream, but more heterodox approaches. In addition to paying attention to currents and authors who have analyzed the economy from an epistemological point of view. A selective picture that also corresponds to the research conducted by the author and his exploration of methods of integrated social science analysis is offered. In short, frameworks and contents of the article are mainly the nature of a research report.
B15|O Custo da Incerteza: Uma Análise do Pensamento Novo Institucional de Douglass North<BR>[The Cost of Uncertainty: A New Institutional Thought Analysis of Douglass North]|The theme of economic development has always had an important role at the center of macroeconomic research, meanwhile microeconomic environment; uncertainty has its due prominence. However, few authors develop these issues jointly, although the uncertainty holds an important role in decision making of agents, and therefore the array of choices that determine the development of a country. This paper aims to examine how to establish the relationship between uncertainty and economic development, from the perspective proposed by Nobel 1993, Douglass North (05Nov1920 – 23Nov2015). Based on an analysis of the notion of uncertainty proposed by Knight in 1927, this paper advances to the contemporary notion developed by North. Then, through a breakdown of development theory proposed by North, will be discussed how the uncertainty is associated with each factor of development, aiming to demonstrate the critical role played by the control of Uncertainty in development or decline a country.
B15|Kontribusi Sarjana Muslim bagi Peradaban Eropa: Melacak Akar Sejarah dan Perkembangan Ekonomi<BR>[Muslim Scholars Contribution for European Civilization: The Roots of History and Economic Development Tracing]|"The development of economic thought in the Islamic tradition started since the beginning of the first century of the Hijrah. This period is a time when the scientific works about how to achieve economic progress and strengthen the country through foreign trade intangibles movements in the West, known as mercantilism in the economic literature. At this stage of history, after the transmission of Greek ideas, the Muslim scholars to innovate and enrich life interpretations of thought in the world at large, then gradually those ideas into decline and forgotten in history. However, these ideas are not recognized by Western scholars, resulting in a missing link that led to the ""great gap"" in the history of the world economy."
B15|Public financial management in Indonesia: Review of Islamic public finance|Public financial management by the government is very important in view of the level of welfare in Indonesia is still low, as there are still much poverty with the level of fulfillment of the needs of low, corruption that occurs in every area of government, income distribution is uneven, low economic growth, and various irregularities other budget. With a qualitative approach that emphasises the phenomenon of the social reality and the country's financial management practices in Indonesia, the approach to history and historical analysis is able to provide solutions to the existing problems. Reviewing public financial revenues and government spending become instruments in creating public welfare
B15|150 let od narození Maxe Webera<BR>[150 years since the birth of Max Weber]|Abstract The purpose of the paper is to examine the methodology of Max Weber and outline its relation to the economic science. The fi rst part analyses Weber’s article “Objectivity in Social Science and Social Policy” (1904). The second part examines the paper titled “Meaning of Ethical Neutrality in Sociology and Economics” (1917). The third part discusses the Weber’s lecture “Science as a Vocation” (1918/19). The fourth part deals with the question in what respects Max Weber can be close to modern economists.
B15|La ortodoxia económica desalienta el estudio del comportamiento colectivo|El pensamiento económico se centró en el comportamiento individual como base de toda actividad económica. Algunos economistas heterodoxos muestran la importancia del comportamiento del grupo y la influencia de las organizaciones en la actividad económica, pero el paradigma neoclásico es la corriente dominante. Este artículo presenta una “sociología de la economía” para explicar por qué la cultura imperante impide ver y estudiar el comportamiento de grupo. Recurriendo a la obra de Pierre Bourdieu, examina el habitus, el sistema de creencias y la violencia simbólica contra quienes los cuestionan. Y resalta el apoyo de los intereses comerciales y financieros a esta cultura dominante.
B15|Engaging Geopolitical Economy|Two-volumes: This work advances geopolitical economy as a new approach to understanding the evolution of the capitalist world order and its twenty-first century form of multipolarity. It revives and redeploys the idea of uneven and combined development (UCD) as a way of uniting the understanding of domestic and international developments, and the struggles of classes and nations, into a single perspective as critical to this task. Geopolitical economy, as developed in VOLUME 30A, sheds light on the nature of contemporary international tensions as never before. VOLUME 30B then advances geopolitical economy as a new approach to the study of international relations and international political economy. Following upon the theoretical limitations exposed in Volume A, the analytical limitations are explored in this volume.
B15|Embracing European Social Sciences in Early Modern Asia|This paper analyzes why and how European social sciences were introduced in East Asian countries, especially China, Japan and Korea, during the early modern period. In the second half of the nineteenth century, East Asian intellectuals were eager to introduce Western social sciences to help overcome a national crisis they faced. To the extent that the crisis originated from internal deteriorations and external threats, they needed to find ways to transform their traditional political, economic and social systems into modern ones. Based on a perspective of evolutionism quite prevalent among East Asian intellectuals at that time, they believed that the competition among the nation-states could be determined by the consequences of modernization efforts. Although the slogans they adopted were heterogeneous, like zhongtixiyong in China, wakonyousai in Japan, and tongdosoki in Korea, they commonly implemented various measures to modernize their systems with the belief that the success of European states could be attributed to the modern institutions and techniques. One very effective way of modernizing the traditional systems in East Asia was to learn from the historical experiences of European countries and to introduce Western social sciences. East Asian intellectuals regarded European social sciences as the black box in which they could find the key secrete of European success. In this sense, they tried to make their nations strong and wealthy by studying European politics and economics as presented in various social science textbooks. Modern state formations and capitalist economy were the two key concepts they maintained in the attempts to modernize their countries. For instance, just as Japanese economics were dominated by liberalist economics and neo-historicism, respectively imported from Britain and Germany, these two trends ended up strongly influencing Chinese and Korean intellectuals. European economics taught East Asian intellectuals various ways to transform their economic structure: the implementation of national census, the construction of social infrastructures, the establishment of business firms, and the promotion of foreign trades. All these measures encouraged the introduction of modern capitalist economy in this area.
B15|Role of Political Intitutions on Social Conflicts and Economic Accumulation: A Case Study of Turkey|There is widespread agreement among economist that society has became an organization through the institutions. However, there is not a consensus about definition of institutions and in which way institutions affect countries economic performance. With pioneering paper Acemo?lu, Johnson and Robinson (2001) , defends a new perpective about role of institutions in development process. By using Schumpeterian creative destruction point of view, they have mentioned the importance of power relations and redustribution in order to explain development process. Aim of this paper is to explain social conflict and political institutions role on economic development from the the period nineteenth century to today for Turkey where founded as a secular, nationalist Rebuplic that inheritor of multinetional theocratic Ottoman Empire. Founder philolosphy of Rebuplic was inhereted from collapsing period of Ottomans accompanied with political power relations formed by political institutions. Military- bureaucratic elites whose point of view is positivist, nationalist and Westernism created political institutions supporting their ideas. Political institutions as a main determinant of economic institutions supported their follower. New Republic foundation periods raised their own bourgeois and put constraints other groups. Therefore, social conflicts did not solved by political elites who do not want to lose their political power. This historical period have effected todays society because of cumulative causation too.
B15|The Schumpeter–Hilferding Nexus|The paper interprets certain parts of Joseph Schumpeter’s oeuvre in association with the writings of Rudolf Hilferding. For instance, we show that Hilferding’s conception of economic development has striking similarities with Schumpeter’s respective thesis. Also, Hilferding expressed the thesis that ‘the size and technical equipment of the monopolistic combination ensure its superiority’ which has striking similarities with the so-called Schumpeterian Hypothesis. Furthermore, Hilferding made a distinction between the entrepreneur who is in charge of the use of capital in production and the capitalist who advances his capital and bears the risk. There, Hilferding identified another personality who has similar tasks to those of an innovative manager. It is exactly this separation of roles which is at the core of Schumpeter’s famous analysis. Moreover, regarding credit, for both theoreticians, it is determined by its demand side i.e. creation of credit money resulting from the demand for investment funds and is indispensable for the functioning of capitalism. In this context, their views on economic instability have further similarities, since for both theorists, development presupposes an innovation, which enables the firm to earn an extra profit and stimulates the demand for credit in order to finance new investments through credit creation. As for socialism, Hilferding regarded it as the organization of production not by and for the benefit of capitalist magnates but by and for society as a whole, whereas for Schumpeter socialism is an institutional arrangement that vests the management of the productive forces with some public authority. Finally, regarding imperialism, Schumpeter differentiated himself from Hilferding and considered it to be an ‘old’ inheritance from pre-modern capitalist eras, which was bound to disappear contrarily to Hilferding, who regarded imperialism as a ‘new’, characteristic of capitalism in its ‘latest’ stage. In brief, some of Schumpeter’s ideas are probably not quite as unique as they appeared to be, since many of them could be described as a reworking of Hilferding’s views. Apparently, Schumpeter’s originality is, at least partly, based on the approaches on which he built his oeuvre. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
B15|The beat of the economic heart|The paper discusses the silimar, but in some respects different explanations of business cycles by Schumpeter and Arthur Spiethoff, his elderly friend and colleague. Spiethoff brought Schumpeter back into academics after the latter’s not very successful careers as a politician and a banker. Both insisted that cycles are endogenous and cannot possibly be eliminated without eliminating the dynamismof the capitalist economy. They thought that theoretical and historical studies were not mutually exclusive, but complementary. The gulf separating pure theory and historical studies since the so-called Methodenstreit was detrimental to the development of economics. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
B15|İktisat Eğitimi Üzerine Bir Kaç Not|Bu yazı, iktisat eğitimini, iktisadın kapsamı bağlamında “iktisatta törebilim” ve/veya “iktisatta amaç-araç” çerçevelerinden değerlendirmektedir. Törebilim ile ilişkili kapsam, “amaç-araç” yaklaşımından ayrı tutulmuştur. Yazı ayrıca, öz-çıkar merkezli rasyonalitenin kapsamı daraltan rolünü de tartışmaktadır.
B15|Economic-Financial Operating Mechanism Of Compossessorates From Transylvania|This paper presents a succinct levers, instruments, means, methods that worked compossessorates in Transylvania. Based on detailed studies of specific legislation, archival materials, statistical and literature, trying to provide a more complete picture of the mechanism by which compossessorates as a form of property specifies contributed to socio-economic development. This mechanism of operation, although it relates to the economic history of Transylvania is topical, and the paper tries to offer some solutions for integrating the organizational forms in the current financial and economic mechanism in Romania.
B15|Approach To The Structural Institutionalism|The reality today highlights the need for state intervention in the economy agent, but supported and in collaboration with academia and private economic environments in order to prevent and mitigate structural imbalances, and the flattening effects of a fluctuating economic cyclicality. This complies with the spirit logic of economic organization, to reduce the vulnerability of the entire business environment and finding answers point for maintaining and enhancing the performance of the national economy and, consequently, the business environment under current conditions they pervades humanity.
B15|Free economy! On 3628800 alternatives of and to capitalism|Even the sharpest problem focus cannot help but sharpen the problem. Thus, the key to our understanding of alternatives to capitalism and alternative forms of capitalism is not in the on-going problematization of the dominance of the economic principle. Rather, the question addressed in the present form-theoretical argument is as to which distinctions we need to draw in order to be at all able to observe capitalism. Answering this question, we show that capitalism is a form that can only be unfolded in the medium of functional differentiation. In resituating the economy as only one out of ten function systems, we demonstrate that both pro- and anti-capitalist concepts of society imply an economy-bias and, consequently, a neglect of the remaining function systems. We therefore suggest that the observation of both alternatives to capitalism and alternative capitalisms calls for a stronger focus on the non-economic function systems. Finally, we present an outlook on a way to more than three million alternatives of and to capitalism.
B15|Theories of finance and financial crisis – Lessons for the Great Recession|This paper presents an overview of different models which explain financial crises, with the aim of understanding economic developments during and possibly after the Great Recession. In the first part approaches based on efficient markets and rational expectations hypotheses are analyzed, which however do not give any explanation for the occurrence of financial crises and thus cannot suggest any remedies for the present situation. A broad range of theoretical approaches analyzing financial crises from a medium term perspective is then discussed. Within this group we focused on the insights of Marx, Schumpeter, Wicksell, Hayek, Fisher, Keynes, Minsky, and Kindleberger. Subsequently the contributions of the Regulation School, the approach of Social Structures of Accumulation and Post-Keynesian approach, which focus on long-term developments and regime shifts in capitalist development, are presented. International approaches to finance and financial crises are integrated into the analyses. We address the issue of relevance of all these theories for the present crisis and draw some policy implications. The paper has the aim to find out to which extent the different approaches are able to explain the Great Recession, what visions they develop about future development of capitalism and to which extent these different approaches can be synthesized.
B15|Transnational Business and Relational Contracting 2.0|First, this article proposes that the rise of the Internet and further information- and communication technologies (ICT) has facilitated the evolution of a new, virtual form of relational contracts. This hypothesis is developed inductively by drawing on the results of an explorative empirical study about cross-border software development contracts. Although virtual social ties and networks do not promote the type of high-trust relations that are central to traditional relational contract theory, they reduce information asymmetries between transaction partners and facilitate the evolution of almost unrestricted virtual reputational networks. Relational contracts 2.0 emerge on the basis of ICT enabled transparency, controls and sanctioning tools. Second, the article discusses these results in the light of the wider theoretical debate about the institutional foundations of modern markets. Most importantly, it will be argued that modern ICT has significantly improved the economic performance of relational contracts. Relational contracts 2.0 are no longer restricted to small communities and long-term relationships, but are also able to allow exchange between unknown actors within competitive markets. Relational contracts 2.0 therefore do not oppose market expansions, but become mechanisms that actively promote such economic modernisation processes. The virtual society promotes the evolution of virtual relational contracts.
B15|Lex mercatoria|Lex mercatoria or Law Merchant (‘LM’) is said to be the self-made law of international commerce. According to its proponents, LM is an autonomous legal order that not only supplements state commercial law, but works as a substitute for it. The ‘ancient’ LM, which accompanied the commercial revolution in late medieval Europe, is taken as a blueprint for ‘new’ LM, a transnational law that develops in international commercial arbitration to govern modern global commerce. According to its opponents, ancient LM as a uniform customary law of Europe never existed. Rather it was dreamed-up in order to support the neo-liberal agenda of new LM. This paper investigates the historical and empirical foundations of these claims in the three dimensions of transnational dispute resolution, norm making, and enforcement. It is concluded that truly autonomous transnational legal regimes are industry-specific exceptions, where socio-economic sanctions are formally organized. Transnational commercial law in general is characterised by a hybrid mode of governance, which combines institutions of private (norms, arbitration, and social sanctions) and public (laws, courts, and enforcement) origin. However, the latter are disembedded from their domestic context to a considerable extent.
B15|Economia Clássica entre o Laissez-Faire e o Socialismo|O artigo examina as posições dos economistas clássicos no tocante à concorrência e às propostas socialistas da época. Após breve relato da evolução do ideário socialista na Inglaterra e França, apresentam-se as observações de Smith, Bentham, James Mill e Ricardo sobre a condição dos trabalhadores e a propriedade privada. A seguir, reconstitui-se o debate entre o jovem Stuart Mill e William Thompson na sociedade owenita. Por fim, cobrem-se outras influências sobre o pensamento social de Stuart Mill em sua fase adulta. Ao final, sintetiza-se a postura dos autores clássicos sobre a viabilidade de uma reforma radical do capitalismo.
B15|What If Marx And Veblen Met…|The aim of this study is to analyse both the differences and the similarities between Marx and Veblen regarding historical specificity, evolution, and alienation. Starting with their discussions on these subjects, this article builds on the analyses of capitalism. The goal of this study is not to collapse Marx and Veblen into one another but rather to understand capitalism by presenting the complementary relationship of the two economists’ analyses and to introduce an appropriate analytical framework for understanding capitalism. This study consists of three parts. The first part examines how Veblen regarded Marx’s analysis, and how Marx especially viewed Darwin’s theory of evolution. Marx’s approach to evolution and Veblen’s criticism of Marx on this topic will constitute the general framework of this part. The second part of the study evaluates the level of agreement or disagreement between Veblen and Marx on the idea of historicism from the perspective of dialectical materialism. The last part a alyses Marx and Veblen’s different ideas of the concept of alienation. The two economists’ views on the capitalist system will be determined based on these three concepts, introducing the similarities between them as well as the differences.
B15|L'institution de la famille. Un nouveau motif de séparation entre Commons et Veblen|This paper deals with Commons’s and Veblen’s position on the specific institution of family. Commons adheres to the conventional pattern in which men are in charge of the livelihood and woman of the affective side. He admits the inequality between men and women. The historical evolution let simply expect the development of relationships based more on persuasion than on coercion. Veblen, for his part, backs feminism. According to him, women must become emancipated and work outside the home. Keeping them within the household enables men to establish a domination mainly expressed through “conspicuous” consumption and “vicarious” leisure. Classification JEL : B15, B25, J16, J70
B15|La question de l'interdiction de l'intérêt dans l'histoire européenne. Un essai d'analyse institutionnelle|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the reasons why interest loan was prohibited or strictly regulated in European History, by all three monotheisms as well as by the Aristotelian tradition, and the Roman, Canonical and Civil medieval laws. The hypothesis, which is the basis of this argument, is that any market economy developed to a certain degree necessarily involves money lending and therefore a price for money. Those who attempted to prohibit it could not have ignored such an obvious fact. Consequently it is believed that prohibiting interest loan is an issue, which goes well beyond the concern with interest itself. And we assume that the understanding of such a phenomenon requires some institutional analysis. Classification JEL : B11, B15, K12, Z12
B15|De la question coloniale chez les anciens et néo-institutionnalistes|This article examines how the colonial issue is considered in old and new institutionalism. In contrast with new institutionalism, old institutionalism examines colonialism in a racial framework. This article nevertheless reveals a conceptual convergence between both traditions around a culturalist explanation of institutional dynamics. Old and new institutionalism insists on the religious culture as an filter which led to the emergence of pro-growth institutions. This convergence illustrates the ambig?ous relationship between race and culture in the institutionalist tradition.
B15|An Overview On The Banking System From Oltenia (1944-1948)|This article intends to be a short incursion into the history of the banking system from Oltenia, during 1944-1948. For establishing the place of the financial institutions in the entire national banking and credit system, it was necessary the consulting of a great number of archive documents that kept the most numerous and significant documents, useful for our theme. The materials we have studied (reports, correspondence, minutes, statistic data etc.) have offered us a more ample image on the financial institutions, from the studied area, institutions that contributed, according to their possibilities, to the support of the population with credits, necessary for the productive activities, and the supplying with convenience products.
B15|The Gifts At Holidays In The Romanian Countries|The Medieval Society was conformed to hierarchy, symbol, faith, rituals in which each gesture, word, object or phenomenon had to have an significance. During this epoch dominated by etiquette and rules, ceremonies played an important part. They were organized at the big holidays (Chrismas, The New Year, Twelfth Day, Easter) or when a new ruler was appointed. These celebrations were meant to enhance the communication between ruler and his vassals and this bond between the sovereign and his court was made by the exchange of gifts. According to the context they were offered, the gifts signified different aspects: the generosity of the ruler, his wish to get closer to his subjects, even interest or friendship. Although the circumstances were not the same, the gifts were individualized, depending on the social status of the recipient.Our paper analyses the diversity of the forms which are covered by this practice and also the social and symbolical values it is associated with.
B15|The National Bank Of Romania From State Body To Autonomus Authority|This article presents the evolution of the National Bank of Romania from the status of a central government body to the one of autonomous public institution, through laws that have governed it from its setting up (1880) to the present. As an autonomous administrative authority, central bank finds its first foundation, in legal terms, in the provisions of Romanian Constitution of 1991, revised in 2003, and, secondly, in the normative acts that make up the legislative framework necessary for carrying out banking activity, especially Law no. 312/2004 on the Status of the National Bank of Romania. The originality of this article lies in the fact that the analysis of the legal texts was done in correlation with the historical context in which they were adopted and with the evolution of the political regime and of the Romanian economy, from the capitalist economy, to the centralized economy and, finally, to the market economy.
B15|Cycles «versus» growth in schumpeter A graphical interpretation of some core theoretical remarks|Schumpeter’s business cycle and growth theory encompasses two distinct types of superposition. The first one is well known from its graphical representation provided in Schumpeter’s Business Cycles [1939], namely the superposition of different waves or cycles of varying magnitude. There already is an element of combination of growth (Kondratiev) and cyclical movements such as “ordinary” business cycles (Juglar) here, although the connection between these waves of different order is not elaborated. Another point which is much more rarely discussed in the literature is Schumpeter’s strict technical separation between a growth trend and cyclical waves in real-world economies. It appears as if the general interpretation of Schumpeter’s statement here has also been influenced by the aforementioned graphical representation. The argument for the distinction between underlying growth on the one hand, and cyclical elements on the other, is put forward strongly in two papers [1927; 1935] especially, but lacks a graphical sketch of the core ideas by Schumpeter himself. The present paper aims at proposing just this by interpreting Schumpeter’s logic, thereby illustrating the model in more detail and hinting at a possible inaccuracy in the Business Cycles graph.
B15|Kuznets versus kondratieff An essay in historical macroeconometrics|Spectral analysis has had limited applications in cliometrics to date. In this paper, it is used to determine, through international comparisons, the frequency of GDP series in the long run. A reminder of the spectral methodology (I) is followed by successive examinations of the series chosen, the treatment of these series and the results of the cliometric analysis (II). We show then the macroeconomic perspectives of this type of approach and we synthesise a new major result, i.e. the existence of a single intermediate Kuznets type cycle, in contradiction with the discourse around the dating of the famous cycles of Kondratieff type.
B15|Evolutionary economics and household behavior|This paper provides an introduction to the field of evolutionary economics with emphasis on the evolutionary theory of household behavior. It shows that the goal of evolutionary economics is to improve upon neoclassical economics by incorporating more realistic and empirically grounded behavioral assumptions and technological innovation and that the goal of the evolutionary theory of household behavior is to improve upon the neoclassical theory of household behavior by replacing the neoclassical assumption of selfish utility maximization with bounded rationality and satisficing and by incorporating the reaction of households to the introduction of new goods and services. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of loss aversion and self-interest versus altruism.
B15|El desarrollo ayer y hoy: idea y utopía|La crisis de la globalización ha actualizado la reivindicación por el desarrollo como un complejo proceso que involucra cambios sociales e institucionales, así como formas diversas de aprendizaje democrático. Puesta en los márgenes de la discusión académica y política internacional, la economía política del desarrollo puede volver por sus fueros en la medida que la academia y los propios comandos políticos de la economía se vean impelidos a reflexionar sobre el largo plazo. La economía política del desarrollo debe hermanarse con la política para reconfigurar el significado del interés general, alineándolos tras objetivos de libertad, justicia y democracia. Tales pueden ser las coordenadas cuyo fin consista en hacer de la globalización, que es apertura e interdependencia, un vector activo en el cultivo de la densidad nacional como elemento indispensable para pensar críticamente la realidad y, como lo enseñó y practicó Prebisch, darle a la historia un curso creador de futuro.
B15|Development then and now: Idea and utopia|The crisis of globalization has given renewed topicality to the idea of development as a complex process involving social and institutional changes as well as a variety of democratic learning processes. Placed at the margin of the international academic and political debate, the political economy of development can come back into its own if academics and politicians responsible for the economy are forced to think for the long term. The political economy of development needs to be twinned with politics so that what we understand by the general interest can be reconfigured in pursuit of freedom, justice and democracy. These can be the keys to turning globalization, whose essence is openness and interdependence, into an active agent in the development of national density, something that is indispensable if we are to think critically about reality and, as Prebisch taught and practised, set history on a future-creating course.
B15|There are several ways to incorporate evolutionary concepts into economic thinking|This article reviews the most important transfers of this kind into evolutionary economics. It broadly differentiates between approaches that draw on an analogy construction to the biological sphere, those that make metaphorical use of Darwinian ideas, and avenues that are based on the fact that other forms of â€“ cultural â€“ evolution rest upon foundations laid before by natural selection. It is shown that an evolutionary approach within economics informed by insights from cognitive science, evolutionary biology, and anthropology contributes to more realistic models of human behavior in economic contexts.
B15|On the Theoretical Background of Cosciani’s Tax Reform|"The aim of this paper is to underline the theoretical foundations of the Report ""Stato dei lavori della Commissione per lo studio della riforma tributaria"" (hereafter CSRT, 1964) with reference to the second objective of the reform itself, i.e. to realize an ""equalizing, efficient and transparent progressivity of the Italian tax system"". CSRT (1964), as a White Paper directed to the Treasury, could not dwell on designing the theoretical foundations of the proposals, but, at the end, these ones stand out. In looking at them, the author finds a sort of ideal theoretical ""bridge"" between the main scholars of Italian tradition of public finance, Haig and Simons, Richard Musgrave and James Mirrlees. In any case, the CSRT (1964) fiscal proposals are characterized by a great pragmatism and concreteness within the specific Italian institutional setting."
B15|Capital-Labour Taxation and Progressivity in Cosciani’s Thought|Cosciani’s ideas on the subject of direct taxation have remained constant over time, from the earliest formulations. The tax preference for income from work is based on theoretical arguments based on the value theory; regarding progressivity, Cosciani shared the view that in theory there were no objective reasons for or against, but that progressivity was an historical process (also enshrined in the Constitution). Moreover, preferences for a property tax rather than a capital income tax, and for a tax on personal income are expressed by the author since the first studies.
B15|Money Creation: The Role of Trust for Public Happiness and Sustainable Growth|The principal topic of this article is the creation of money in primitive populations at the beginning of economic activity. This phenomenon was determined thanks to a particular social environment where interpersonal trust together with reciprocity and moral principles were prevalent. No other explanation obtained by historical studies and neoclassical equilibrium models is sufficient. Principally because they are based on the rationality of self interested individuals. Our analysis can be considered as a historical and theoretical example, which testifies to the necessity to create a social environment based on the above mentioned values for obtaining public happiness and sustainable development.
B15|Trust as a Key Variable of Sustainable Development and Public Happiness: A Historical and Theoretical Example Regarding the Creation of Money|This article purports to trace the origin of money on the basis of factors in interpersonal relationships, affecting a sustainable development and public happiness, namely trust, reciprocity and the concept of we-rationality. Both the historical approach and the one based on traditional economic theory have been found inadequate mainly because they did not take into account these factors. The hypothesis expounded in the paper is that these values underlaid the beginning of economic activity. Initially economic activity was carried out within small human groups. In such groups interpersonal relations were not based on individual self-interest. As a matter of fact, there is historical evidence supporting the notion that the first exchanges were gift-giving and were made possible by trust and reciprocity as expounded by Polanyi (1957) and Sudgen (2000) among others. When the exchanges strengthened between elements of various groups all with the same values and moral characteristics the process toward the creation of money started, without any intrinsic value and the presence of any superior authority. In the paper it is also hypothesized that the creation of money is one of the basic factors in the progress of economic and social activity, together with ancient phenomena as language ad writing. Finally, the paper advocates that in future the economic activity be permeated by those moral values on which a sustainable development can be based. This will, in turn, increase the rate of economic and social growth.
B15|Finance and crisis: Marxian, institutionalist and circuitist approaches|Most mainstream neoclassical economists completely failed to anticipate the crisis which broke in 2007 and 2008. There is however a long tradition of economic analysis which emphasises how growth in a capitalist economy leads to an accumulation of tensions and results in periodic crises. This paper first reviews the work of Karl Marx who was one of the first writers to incorporate an analysis of periodic crisis in his analysis of capitalist accumulation. The paper then considers the approach of various subsequent Marxian writers, most of whom locate periodic cyclical crises within the framework of longer-term phases of capitalist development, the most recent of which is generally seen as having begun in the 1980s. The paper also looks at the analyses of Thorstein Veblen and Wesley Claire Mitchell, two US institutionalist economists who stressed the role of finance and its contribution to generating periodic crises, and the Italian Circuitist writers who stress the problematic challenge of ensuring that bank advances to productive enterprises can successfully be repaid.
B15|Some Origins of Welfare Economics-Marshall, Ruskin and Tokuzo Fukuda-|This paper investigates the origins of welfare economics starting from its formative age. Pigou's Economics of Welfare started a history of 'old' and 'new' welfare economics based on economic welfarism. But at that time there were multiple economic ideas on welfare. While the main stream was the Cambridge school using a neo-classical approach, there was also the Oxford approach. 'Another economics of welfare', developed by people like Hobson, and emanating from Ruskin's 'no wealth but life', was quite influential. This paper, considering the origin of non-welfaristic economics of welfare, re-examines Marshall's welfare and his organic growth theory. The paper points out some commonality between Marshall's ideas and Ruskin's, and make clearer the existence of the non-welfaristic economic ideas by referring to Fukuda's welfare economic studies.
B15|Luigi Bodio: promoter of the political and high scientific mission of statistics and pioneer of the international statistical cooperation|Luigi Bodio (1840-1920) was an Italian economist and statistician, considered one of the founders of the Italian Statistics. He was one of the 21 founding members of the International Statistical Institute (ISI) in 1885, ISI Director-General during the first 20 years (1885-1905) and ISI President for 11 years (1909-1920). This article gives a short insight into Luigi Bodio’s life and may be useful to the Italian and the International Communities interested in the history of statistics and in the origins of international statistical cooperation.
B15|Evolutionary Political Economy in Crisis Mode|This paper sets out to discuss recent economic developments from a twofold perspective. Both spotlights focus on the special role played by the current deep global crisis. The first line of argument centers on the history of economic ideas and shows how evolutionary economics has emerged as a promising alternative to mainstream neoclassical thought as well as to traditional Keynesian macroeconomics. The failure of standard macroeconomics to inform economic policy in the current situation shows that arguments of evolutionary political economists - from Malthus via Schumpeter to contemporary scholars - can and should substitute these inadequate models. The second part of the paper takes the argument for evolutionary political economy to a methodological level: The deep crisis of economic theory is necessarily also a crisis of the methodological apparatus used. Though evolutionary economics does not provide a welldefined alternative set of methods yet, it nevertheless seems to be the best foundation to build such a new combination, a methodological innovation, out of some of the most recent advances in formalization. These latter elements are briefly sketched.
B15|Schumpeter’s Idea of a Universal Social Science|This paper deals with methodological principles of Schumpeter’s academic writings. Those principles led Schumpeter to create diverse works and were reflected systematically in some of his writings, where Schumpeter emerged as a theorist of science. Besides working on specific topics, Schumpeter dealt systematically with methodological issues in different works. Schumpeter’s History of Economic Analysis, in particular, must be regarded as the one study among his diverse works which is considered not only his latest but also his most relevant analysis concerning social sciences and the role of economics in relation to sociology, history, and other academic branches. The substantial preface of the History of Economic Analysis can be regarded as a manual on how to refer to different academic branches and integrate them into a coherent universal social science, which is far removed from being an autistic, narrow economic science of some modern representation. Although Schumpeter’s History of Economic Analysis has been extensively printed in several editions, the idea is that the preface especially reveals somewhat neglected thoughts in Schumpeterian discourse. While Schumpeter is mostly regarded as a pioneer of evolutionary economics, this paper argues that Schumpeter could also, perhaps primarily, be interpreted as a well-reasoning institutionalist aiming at a universal social science. From today’s point of view, Schumpeter is a truly interdisciplinary theorist. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
B15|The Process of Creating Economic Value Added: Causes, Factors and Implications|The economic value added is formed under the influence of two major factors: the difference between the economic profitability and the weighted average cost of capital, called the rate of economic value generation and the value of the economic asset exploited by the company. To stimulate the process of creation of economic value added, the company must act in the sense of increasing the rate of economic value generation and development of the volume of the economic asset.
B15|Intangible Assets and Strategic Positioning of Company|Company’s profitability is the result of the use of all available assets, although in many cases, the intangible assets are those that give the company the largest part of the strategic substance, contributing decisively to the increase of its overall value over the value of the tangible assets they possess. Intangible assets represent a support for the tangible ones and are at the origin of profitability surplus (super profit) obtained by the enterprise above normal profitability of the sector.
B15|A láthatatlan kéz - szemelvények egy metafora történetéből<BR>[The invisible hand - extracts from the history of a metaphor]|A láthatatlan kéz Adam Smith nyomán a közgazdaságtan legismertebb metaforája lett, de jelentősége és értelmezése máig megosztja a közgazdászokat és eszmetörténészeket. Az interpretációk skálája rendkívül széles: mértékadó közgazdászok szerint ez a közgazdaságtan alapeszméje, míg mások Smith ironikus tréfájának vélik. A tanulmány áttekinti a láthatatlan kéz Smith előtti használatát teológiai, politikai és irodalmi szövegekben és a hozzájuk kapcsolódó interpretációkat. Ezt követően bemutatja, hogyan alkalmazta Smith a nevezetes kifejezést a merkantilista politika ironikus és paradox kritikájaként, és miként került a 19. század végétől e metafora a Smith-olvasatokban központi helyre, majd miként vált kérdésessé ez a felfogás a 2008-as válság nyomán. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B10, B11, B12, B15, B19, B20, B31.
B15|From the State Theory of Money to Modern Money Theory: An Alternative to Economic Orthodoxy|This paper explores the intellectual history of the state, or chartalist, approach to money, from the early developers (Georg Friedrich Knapp and A. Mitchell Innes) through Joseph Schumpeter, John Maynard Keynes, and Abba Lerner, and on to modern exponents Hyman Minsky, Charles Goodhart, and Geoffrey Ingham. This literature became the foundation for Modern Money Theory (MMT). In the MMT approach, the state (or any other authority able to impose an obligation) imposes a liability in the form of a generalized, social, legal unit of account--a money--used for measuring the obligation. This approach does not require the preexistence of markets; indeed, it almost certainly predates them. Once the authorities can levy such obligations, they can name what fulfills any obligation by denominating those things that can be delivered; in other words, by pricing them. MMT thus links obligatory payments like taxes to the money of account as well as the currency. This leads to a revised view of money and sovereign finance. The paper concludes with an analysis of the policy options available to a modern government that issues its own currency.
B15|A threshold for biological altruism in public goods games played in groups including kin|Phenomena like meat sharing in hunter-gatherers, altruistic self-sacrifice in intergroup conflicts, and contribution to the production of public goods in laboratory experiments have led to the development of numerous theories trying to explain human prosocial preferences and behavior. Many of these focus on direct and indirect reciprocity, assortment, or (cultural) group selection. Here, I investigate analytically how genetic relatedness changes the incentive structure of that paradigmatic game which is conventionally used to model and experimentally investigate collective action problems: the public goods game. Using data on contemporary hunter-gatherer societies I then estimate a threshold value determining when biological altruism turns into maximizing inclusive fitness in this game. I find that, on average, contributing no less than about 40% of individual fitness to public goods production still is an optimal strategy from an inclusive fitness perspective under plausible socio-ecological conditions.
B15|The Birth of Economic Thought and Specialized Economic Press among the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire in the XIX Century (A Mediterranean Perspective)|The study presents and analyses the major features of the Bulgarian economic thought at its inception in the 1850s through to Bulgaria’s Liberation from Ottoman rule in 1878. The authors examine the main intellectual figures and the publication endeavours of specialised economic periodicals in the same period and discuss their specific features highlighting the fact that articles on theoretical issues make their way through slowly and with difficulties even when popularisation is their aim. The authors’ main thesis is that the Bulgarian economic thought, at the point of its formation, was characterized by three basic features: liberalism, nationalism and ethical approach to economic problems. Finally, we should note two other basic features of economic thinking from that period in Mediterranean Europe and the Ottoman Empire which also had a Bulgarian dimension, i.e. the vivid and explicit presence of eclecticism in both the theoretical and the methodological aspect and the primary role of the French economists and the French economic thought. The last part of the paper makes an attempt to sum up and put the early Bulgarian economic thought and specialised economic periodicals into comparative Mediterranean and Balkan perspective. This allows an adequate analysis and adds to the knowledge about the spread and influence of economic ideas.
B15|La bibliografia primaria di Giuseppe Toniolo: 'Un cantiere ancora aperto' (The primary bibliography of Giuseppe Toniolo: a 'work in progress')|The essay aims to meditate on the bibliographic reconstruction of Giuseppe Toniolo and the actual content of the Opera omnia (Tipografia Poliglotta Vaticana, 1947-1953) trying to contextualize it. The research proved that the economist Giuseppe Toniolo does not have, as of yet, a systematic bibliography. Indeed the monumental Opera omnia, dedicated to him, does not have a bibliography of the author as well as incomplete and partly unreliable, with falsifications and alterations. Despite the above, the Opera omnia has played a very important role, being the main source through which Toniolo’s thought has been known. However, this has lead scholars to identify the whole production with the Opera, discouraging the reading of the authentic sources and the research for more works not included in the Opera. It also supported the strumentalization of Toniolo’s thought in a liberal-democratic and party-oriented way.
B15|Modernità del pensiero di Giuseppe Toniolo: l'economia sociale fondata sul principio di sussidiarietà (The Modernity of Giuseppe Toniolo's thought: the social economy founded on the principle of subsidiarity)|This paper wants to demonstrate the contribution of Giuseppe Toniolo to the formalization and implementation of the principle of subsidiarity. After a quick overview on the historical, political, economic and social background between the unification of Italy and the First World War, this work examines the thought of Giuseppe Toniolo about the open issues of his time, under the light of the principle of subsidiarity. At the end, the legacy and relevance of the cultural and scientific contribution of the Pisan economist are briefly outlined.
B15|GIUSEPPE TONIOLO. ECONOMIA SOCIALE, DIRITTI, COOPERAZIONE A cura di Marco Bianchini e Fiorenza Manzalini. Introduzione. L'economia sostanziale di Giuseppe Toniolo (Introduction. The substantial economics of Giuseppe Toniolo)|Reading Giuseppe Toniolo means reading a page of Italian history and national identity post 1861 unification. His views still live in some passages of the Republican Constitution and in the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church. With an institutionalistic framework his economic thought has its roots in the aristotelian-thomistic tradition.
B15|Institutions: Uncertainty In Definition Of The Term. A Brief Look At The History: 1890-1930|Despite the fact that the significance of institutional economics is commonly recognized, the uncertainty of basic concepts of institutional economics – institutions – and its investigation sphere is widely mentioned today. The paper aims to trace the process of evolution in the understanding of the notion of institution, from its spontaneous mentions and pragmatic use of the so-called pre-institutional era to the desire to understand and to define the essence of the institution in the period of early institutionalism. Based on the analyses of appropriate literature, the paper tries to study how the term “institution” was understood at the three initial historical period of its usage. For this purpose, the first part of the paper analyses how the term “institution” was used at the start by religious figures in VII and XIII centuries and then by thinkers in XVII-XVIII centuries which are considered as a pre-history of the term “institution” wide usage. The second part of the study is focused on the investigation how the term was understood by immediate predecessors of institutional economics – German Historical School, and the third part of the paper investigates scholars-institutionalists’ efforts in the intellectual context on the period 1890-1930.
B15|Institutional determinants of regional diversity of labor market in Poland|The article will focus on regional diversity of the Polish Labor Market from institutional perspective. The Polish Labor Market is geographically diverse in terms of unemployment and employment rates, and also in terms of economic development. At the end of 2013 the difference between the lowest and the highest unemployment rate in the Polish regions was 12.1% (Wielkopolska located in the West Poland has unemployment rate of 9.6% and Warmia - Mazury in the East has unemployment of 21.7%). The question arises whether this difference comes from the structural or institutional sources? The paper will describe the character of Polish Labor Market whereas in the second part, it will trace the impact of institutional variables such as real wage, Kaitz index and Gender gap on the regional unemployment rate in 2002-2012 in Poland.
B15|Fiscal Councils in the Countries of Eastern-Central Europe|Improving the efficiency of budgetary management and preventing overspending that with an adverse effect on performance are fundamental conditions of budget stability and issues of strategic importance. Rule-based budget means more than merely a stipulation that public finance managements shall observe the rules of budget planning and execution and that the real and budgetary sectors of the economy are characterised by the rule of law. Rule-based budget requires the employment of numerical and procedural regulations by institutionally ensuring their respective observance. Regarding the latter we can declare that in Eastern and Central Europe interest has grown recently in fiscal councils that have been shooting up like mushrooms and are believed to be virtually “the ultimate weapon” in fighting budgetary overspending. The demand for creating such new institutions at the same time undeniably represents criticism concerning the former processes of the planning mechanisms and their respective institutionalised solutions. This paper aspires to provide a picture as regards to what extent fiscal councils can be regarded as a new type of organisation within the family of independent fiscal institutions (IFIs) that reflect institutional development and, in the public law of the new democracies having accessed the EU following 2004, represent the best solution to be recommended, i.e. the best practice. This non-exhaustive overview deals with the course of the independent budgetary institutions of those Eastern-Central European countries that accessed the European Union in 2004, respectively their mission and concept of an institution, while it also refers to the role of these organisations in crisis management.
B15|The Classical-Keynesian Paradigm: Policy Debate in Contemporary Era|For almost a century, the famous C-K paradigm (formally known as Classics – Keynesian Paradigm) has been the apex of economic debate and research. The paradigm represents two schools of thoughts which, somehow, have prevailed till now. Economists who believe in either of the two schools have been at loggerheads, and they still are, to prove one theory better than the other. Numerous economic scholars of present era believe that with the changes that have occurred in the economic system, the world is turning back to classical model. But, there are others who believe that Keynes theory is still alive and valid. In this paper, we have tried to draw a brief comparison that highlights the major differences between the two theories with specific reference to the economic, political and social environment prevailing at time when these theories were generated. Paper also discusses the relevance of unending policy debate about these theories in the current era with special emphasis on policy implications with a view to draw pertinent lessons for the present and future.
B15|Economía política de la modernidad<BR>[Political economics of modernity]|This article consists of three parts. The first response to the idea of ​​keeping TOCQUEVILLE own arguments in Old Regime and the Revolution, without reproducing copiously text line by line. This component is the main concerns and conflicting judgments about the revolution, the decisive role that the author gives to religion and how Europe was in ruins. Tocqueville is particularly interested in showing the exacting nature of feudal rights especially in France. Administrative centralization is an institution par excellence of the Old Regime and the same process. In the second part devoted several sessions to understand the reasons TOCQUEVILLE claims to show the history of property rights and land tenure. In the third session we show the influence of the Revolution and encyclopedic deviations could have brought the author. The reformist spirit of the French during the period from the fourteenth to the nineteenth centuries. Tocqueville scholars encounter numerous observations annotations that can supplement your readings.
B15|Retórica en la historia y la economía política<BR>[Rhetoric in the history and political economy]|This article is a tribute to the economist Albert O. Hirschman and their contributions to historical thinking in Colombia, in particular, having a broad impact analysis on the role of rhetoric in political economy. Hirschman distinguished clearly enough the official discourse of power and reaction components in the public debate. Since independence, the revolutionary demonstrations were accompanied by a jealous care of the spoken language, grammar and power. So the recent celebration of two hundred years of independence is really like Hirschman says Two hundred years of reactionary rhetoric. What implications does the model proposed by Hirschman in terms of historiography, political economy and social science analysis today? Our goal is to propose a re-reading this question and others-in terms of the hypotheses proposed by Hirschman.
B15|Schumpeter y la Historia del Pensamiento Económico<BR>[Schumpeter and the History of Economic Thought]|The History Schumpeter´s of Economic Analysis, is a tour de forcé of scholarship. The display of erudition is 'truly unbelievable. How could one man have acquired and then digested so much knowledge? Not only does the History offer two thousand years of economics, from Aristotle to Paul Samuelson, but also it ranges most expertly over all the other social sciences, history and belles lettres as well. For more than 1,100 pages the prose flows on in a way that one has come to expect from Schumpeterthe fluent style, the vivid analogy, the striking metaphor, the arresting aside. Our goal is to present the central ideas of Schumpeter on the complex relationships between Economic History and Epistemology of Science. This design has three aspects that interest us: (a) its amplitude to conceive the economy as part of the overall development of scientific knowledge; (b) its relevance applied and the examples used by the author; (c) its currently facing tremendous methodological problems facing the economy with the other sciences.
B15|Schumpeter and the History of Economic Thought|Schumpeter's The History of Economic Analysis, is a tour de force of scholarship. The display of erudition is truly unbelievable. How may one man and then digested have acquired much knowledge? Not only does the History offer two thousand years of economics, from Aristotle to Paul Samuelson, But also, it expertly almost ranges over all the other social sciences, history and belles letters as well. For more that 1,100 pages on the prose flows in a way That one has come to expect from Schumpeter the fluent style, the vivid analogy, the striking metaphor, the arresting aside. Our goal is to present the main thoughts of Schumpeter on the complex relationships between Economic History and Epistemology of Science. This design has three aspects that interest us: (a) its amplitude to conceive the economy as part of the overall development of scientific knowledge; (B) its relevance and the Applied examples used by the author; (C) its methodological facing tremendous problems facing the economy with the other sciences.
B15|Tax Power and Economics|The article is divided into two parts. The first describes Hayek's critique of the progressive tax system since its conception of social order and fiscal rationality. Hayek thinks about a key principle in liberal democracies: majority rule. And stretching comments to the influence of morality in taxation decisions. The second is aimed at analyzing the reception of Hayek in constitutional economics Brennan and Buchanan. However, in the interpretation of tax policy has decisively if governments reflect a tyrant or benevolent Leviathan State. The Fiscal Constitution must be accompanied by a monetary constitution. Both constitutional forms are related and prevent leviathánico power of governments, especially when they are short stay. Although, for the authors, the Fiscal Constitution has important implications for monetary constitution.
B15|El capital en el siglo XXI de Thomas Piketty<BR>[Thomas Piketty’s Capital in the 21st century]|This review of the book by Thomas Piketty, the capital in the XXI century, presents the central themes of the work and exposes its scope on the relationship between inequality and wealth. In particular a positive reflections on the progressive tax is added.
B15|Thomas Piketty's Capital in the 21st Century|"Thomas Piketty's ""Capital in the 21st century"" has been the most important book economy in recent times. Its aim integrates the debate theories of growth, income distribution, inequality and differences between the extremes income and income of the majority. The work predicts a slow increase in the share of capital income and inequality. His proposal for a global tax on capital is a way to evaluate such tendencies."
B15|The concept and terminology of strike in French in comparison with Czech|The strike is one of the clichés associated with France. Compared with other European countries, the strikes there are more numerous, more violent and more spectacular. We can evoke as such the existence of a real culture of strike in France. This situation explains the existence of a very rich vocabulary which we suggest studying in this article. The term “grève” itself came into use relatively late, at the beginning of the 19th century, replacing other expressions such as “tric” or “coalition”.
B15|Thorstein Veblen, Iconoclastic Economist|This article offers a presentation of the works by Thorstein Veblen, as well as some biographical elements. After a brief presentation of Veblen’s main intellectual influences and after presenting the author’s context of an America dominated by robber-barons at the turn of the XXth Century, this article presents his theory of socio-economic evolution based on a Darwinian perspective, his theory of the elite and of the leisure class, his theory of capital as means of predation and, finally, discusses the heritage Thorstein Veblen left in social sciences.
B15|Thorstein Veblen on value, market and socioeconomic progress|The article aims at identifying and linking together the main insights of Thorstein Veblen regarding the theory of economic value. First of all, Veblen develops powerful arguments against the two main traditions of thought, which have attempted to justify the ability of the market to provide an objective measure of economic value, since the midnineteenth century, namely the marginalist or « neoclassical » paradigm and the liberal evolutionary thinking inspired by Herbert Spencer. Having put forward the autonomous and irreducible nature of the market values, Veblen lays the foundations of a theory of social value and socioeconomic progress, which is mainly focused on institutional issues. In this regard, Veblen’s approach prefigures some theses of another major institutionalist economist, Karl Polanyi. Taken together, both critical and positive Veblen’s insights remain thoughtprovoking, in order to readdress the issues of socioeconomic value and progress.
B15|Veblen, Economic Policy and the Present Crisis|The aim of the paper is to discuss Veblen’s views of how and why business requirements intrinsically contrast the livelihood of the community. It contends that, unfortunately, Veblen’s notion of pecuniary gain is either too restrictive or too broad to conceive of an economy that overcomes the profitability-serviceability dichotomy. A proper understanding of the dichotomy and of possible policies to contrast it has to situate it within capitalist market relations, where important social categories are turned into commodities despite their incompatibility with such a role. This typically Polanyian approach aims to conceive of a policy that acts on the degree of commodification of the economy and, in particular, of its fictitious commodities, thereby avoiding waverings between the forced acquiescence to the status quo and the millenarian expectation of an all-encompassing change.
B15|Thorstein Veblen on Consumption and Unemployment|The aim of this paper is to analyse the effects of an increase of consumption on the part of the “leisure class” on the level of employment in a Veblenian theoretical perspective. It will be shown that an exogenous increase in the income of the leisure class determines an increase in the demand for luxury goods and hence an increase in the demand for labour in that sector. Consequently employment in the sector producing wage goods declines, as does the production of wage goods. Firms as a whole have fewer wage goods for the payment of workers and, since the unitary wage is fixed at the subsistence level, this produces a reduction in the demand for labour in both sectors. Therefore, the higher the rent/wage ratio, the higher the unemployment. It is called here “‘social waste related unemployment rate”.
B15|Исторические судьбы исторической школыHistorical stories of the historical school |Обсуждается научная программа, парадигма и место в экономической науке исторической школы. Показано, что в экономической литературе существуют диаметрально противоположные точки зрения на значение исследований в рамках этого направления для развития экономической мысли как в прошлом, так и в настоящем. Описаны принципиальные расхождения между представителями исторической школы и классической политической экономии. Проанализированы и обобщены взгляды разных авторов на содержание исследовательской программы и парадигмы исторической школы. Выявлены отличительные черты исследований в рамках данного направления и показано, что их нельзя смешивать с эмпирическими или историко-экономическими исследованиями, которые могут проводиться и рамках альтернативных подходов. Описаны некоторые достижения исторической школы, которые широко используются в других направлениях науки и/или ставшие общепризнанными. Предложены дополнительные аргументы для обоснования преемственности и взаимовлияния между исторической школой, марксизмом и старым американским институционализмом. The paper discusses a scientific program and paradigm of the historical school as well as the role it plays in economics and shows that there are diametrically opposite viewpoints on how studies of this research area has impacted on the development of economic thoughts in the past and what impacts can be observed today. It also describes the principle differences between historical school’s representatives and those of classical economics; analyzes how different authors understand the notions of the scientific program and paradigm of the historical school; the specifics of the studies of this research area and concludes that it is not worth confusing such studies with historical or economical ones as they could be done within the framework of the alternative approaches. The paper presents the achievements of historical school, which are universally recognized or/and widely applied by the different branches of science and new arguments in favor of the continuity and mutual influence of historical school, Marxism, and old American institutionalism .
B15|The legacy of R. Coase (1910–2013): toward a theory of institutional 'moving equilibrium'?|Over almost a century, Ronald Coase’s works have largely differed in their contents. Under the general umbrella of the “law and economics” field, Coase’s scientific production has indeed covered a large variety of topics and policy issues. However, Coase’s analyses reveal a common framework, if not a structured methodology. We highlight five key ingredients of the “Coasean methodology” and apply them to revisit Coase’s main contributions. The resulting picture reveals a comprehensive theory of institutional “moving equilibrium”, where the institutional design of socioeconomic transactions is affected by the dimension of transaction costs. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
B15|Schumpeter and the end of Western Capitalism|Schumpeter’s forecast in his Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy ( 1942 ) that ‘a socialist form of society will inevitably emerge from an equally inevitable decomposition of capitalist society’ did great damage to his reputation. This was especially so after the fall of the Berlin wall, when the spectre of Communism seemed to have been finally exorcised. The current financial crisis, however, has vindicated him. For Schumpeter, capitalism rightly meant, not just individual property rights, but the ability to ‘create money from nothing.’ This is such an enormous and dangerous power that it obviously has to be subject to the strictest constraint, which was traditionally provided, however imperfectly, by denial of incorporation with limited liability to those who dealt in money. The decline of capitalism began when financiers were released from this discipline, and it ended with the catastrophe caused by belief that bureaucratic control could replace it. The cause of the change was the progressive capture of democratically elected politicians by interests. On this, Schumpeter’s The Crisis of the Tax State ( 1918 ) was almost as insightful as his later book. When Governments could not allow banks to fail, they signalled the definitive arrival of centralized financing, which is a fundamental characteristic of a socialist economy. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
B15|Hacia una nueva comprensión de un viejo problema: una propuesta metodológica para la medición del desempeño institucional de largo plazo|The measurement of the institutions has been, over decades, a subject refused by a part of the literature which studies the role of institutions in development. Particularly, the New Institutional Economics has focused more on discussing the theoretical channels through which institutions determine growth, than to find ways of measuring them. Most exceptions to this are works that use as a measurement, indicators designed to assess the governance of countries, or the liability of the investment environments, but the reconstruction of them for the long term is almost impossible. This paper presents an alternative way of measuring institutions conceived theoretically from the main tenets of the New Institutional Economic, and with a set of indicators traceable in the long term. Therefore, the Synthetic Indicator of Institutional Performance (SIIP), unlike other indicators, has been constructed taking into account the interaction between political and economic dimensions and emphasizing the importance of analyzing the institutional combinations which best explain each institutional development process.
B15|Institutionalism as a determining factor in the governance process|This paper aims at analyzing the relationship between institutional evaluation and the theory of governance, taking into account the existence of a knowledge movement, institutional development, and the assurance of government sustainability; namely, institutionalism as a discussion center of governance will affect the long-term economic development of States. For this, contributions of economic institutionalism and its connection with the theory of governance, through a historical inquiry with the most outstanding contributions of this movement, are presented.
B15|Carl Menger on the Theory of Economic History. Reflections from Bulgaria|Carl Menger founded the Austrian School of economics at the end of the 19th century. He rejected some of the main ideas of the German Historical School in his work Investigations into the Method of the Social Sciences with Special Reference to Economics (1881). The submitted paper presents the main implications of the investigations on the theory of economic history with a special reference to the economic history and history of economic thought of the Balkans. The emphasis is on the methodological subjectivism, spontaneous order, rejection of the teleological understanding of the process of economic development, and the application of mathematical models. These principles could be used as a theoretical base of the historical research, though they are widely underestimated in modern economic history
B15|Freie Bildung und ihre Ermöglichung: Das Beispiel der Cusanus Hochschule|Das Paper skizziert Überlegungen, die zur Gründung der Cusanus Hochschule geführt haben. Kritisch wurde insbesondere der Verlust des Humboldtschen Bildungsideals durch die Universitätsreformen im Zuge des 1999 ausgerufenen Bologna-Prozesses gesehen. Die Gründung der Cusanus Hochschule basiert auf dem Vorhaben, eine akademische Bildungsstelle zu errichten, die versucht gegen der in Verbindung mit dem Bologna-Prozess stehende Ökonomisierung der Bildung zu wirken und ihre Finanzierung in einer Kultur des freilassenden Schenkung zu sichern.
B15|Finance and Crisis; Marxian, Institutionalist and Circuitist approaches|Most mainstream neoclassical economists completely failed to anticipate the crisis which broke in 2007 and 2008. There is however a long tradition of economic analysis which emphasises how growth in a capitalist economy leads to an accumulation of tensions and results in periodic crises. This paper first reviews the work of Karl Marx who was one of the first writers to incorporate an analysis of periodic crisis in his analysis of capitalist accumulation. The paper then considers the approach of various subsequent Marxian writers, most of whom locate periodic cyclical crises within the framework of longer-term phases of capitalist development, the most recent of which is generally seen as having begun in the 1980s. The paper also looks at the analyses of Thorstein Veblen and Wesley Claire Mitchell, two US institutionalist economists who stressed the role of finance and its contribution to generating periodic crises, and the Italian Circuitist writers who stress the problematic challenge of ensuring that bank advances to productive enterprises can successfully be repaid.
B15|An unexpected discovery: Johann Heinrich von Thuenen and the tragedy of the commons|William Forster Lloyd's 1833 sketch about poor cattle on the commons and the well-fed animals on the adjacent enclosures published in his 'Two lectures on the checks to population' has hitherto been assessed as one starting point of the economics of renewable resources. In the 20th century the question of the use of common property resources has initially been treated by fisheries economists, at first in unknown publications of Jens Warming in 1911 and 1931, and after a disruption of more than 40 years starting again with the contributions of Gordon and Scott in the 1950s. Important results have been the derivation and presentation of the economic criteria for the open access equilibrium case on the one hand and the private property equilibrium case on the other hand. Garrett Hardin's well known 1968 Sciences article brought a new title and increased awareness to the 'tragedy of the commons' and Elenor Ostrom's 2009 nobel prize in economics finally underlined the importance as well as the diversity of institutional rules to achieve an efficient use of the natural resources - challenging the favored liberal concept of a privatization of scarce resources. Johann Heinrich von Thuenen's contributions on the commons - hidden in an 1831 article about urban agriculture in the journal 'Neue Annalen der Mecklenburgischen Landwirtschaftsgesellschaft' and in an unpublished manuscript - have been totally neglected until now, although he published his article about the core problem of the commons two years earlier than William Forster Lloyd and almost in the clarity of the fisheries economists 80 resp. 120 years later. He not only presented the correct allocation criteria for both property rights scenarios but additionally developed a framework a) how to gain the maximal rent of a resource through an auction system - drafting the first demand table b) how to redistribute the gains to the communal property owners - developing an adequate compensation mechanism c) and finally how to establish this institutional innovation democratically - thereby applying important elements of Elenor Ostrom's Common Property Rights Framework. Due to these contributions Johann Heinrich von Thuenen deserves the title of the founder of the economics of renewable resources. Moreover, in combination with his publications on forestry, land use, soil improvement and agricultural processing industries he should also be seen as the creator of a discipline which got its name but now, the creator of bioeconomics.
B15|Transnational Access to Court for Commercial Claims: The Shortcomings of International Commercial Arbitration and Litigation|No abstract is available for this item.
B15|Southeast asian regionalism: theoretical systemic obligingness in disarray|The Association of Southeast Asian Nations - ASEAN was born in 1967, in the breastplate of the strategic comotions of the Cold War. Originally, there were five founding members: Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand and Philippines.Vietnam joined the ranks in 1995, after the ultimate reverberations of the Last Indochin War. In 1997, Laos nd Myanmar followed Vietnam. In 1999, Cambodia decided to make its partaking in ASEAN a fact, especially after its political domestic situation received much needed handling. As important as these guidebooks are, they are involved in the scope of this article only secondarily. Thi article reports the fact that the meekness of three important theoretical anchors – the security complex theory, the security regime theory, the collective security theory, the community security theory and ASEANology– instaurations utilized to explain ASEAN`s birth and predict its development, are tailored in half-abidince. Ever since its derivation, ASEAN became able-bodied to furnish one of the most successful forms of regionalism, after the global high-ranking position of European Regionalism. Southeast Asian New Security Regionalism has plenty of theoretical orthodoxies to apply or to commence applying. The aftermath of their empirical workings can sometimes be unconfident of the very ideas it implemented. The approach of this article is to review some of the major theoretical conceptual contributions utilized to describe findings about Southeast Asian New Security Regionalism’s connotations. While supporting the idea that neither one of the research programs mentioned is grounded enough in Southeast Asian security dynamics, the last part of the article claims that a rediscovery of Southeast Asian Regionalism, under the New Regionalism framework, is very likely to underplay its distinctiveness.
B15|Indonesia now. Between Pancasila and crisis of democracy in Indonesia|Normally in politics will be colored by political activities such as lobbying, transactional politics, money politics, and the most risky trend is likely more rampant corruption because the party trying to increase purse from a variety of sources. The political year 2013 called for Indonesia to meet the 2014 election in which all political parties who passed the verification will prepare themselves for the competition and contestation for legislative elections that will be held April 2014. The year 2013 was marked by increasing political climate warming caused by not building trust or mutual trust among the parties. Moreover, the pattern of relations between civil society and political parties are also less communicative. Political flare-up in 2013 was also driven by competition parties in preparing to compete in a presidential candidate. Unlike the presidential election 2009, election 2014 not only brings parties and vice presidential candidates, civil society leaders will also deliver an alternative candidate for the party. Civil society demands increasingly shrill make political climate gets hotter. The battle between political parties in convincing the public is not about easy. Meanwhile, fears of losing the election not rule parties would justify all the all the way to win. As an open ideology, Pancasila should provide orientation to the future which requires the Indonesian people to always be aware of the lives that are being and will face, especially the era of globalization and democracy. Pancasila ideology calls for the Indonesian people still survive in the soul and culture of Indonesia and within the bounds of the State unitary Republic of Indonesia. And now, the values of Pancasila must constantly be revitalized, to prevent them from becoming obsolete, and at all times be relevant and able to solve issues concerning the nation and State, toward the attainment of a better future, which is a common future. This common future is the future of all ethnic groups, of all ethnic classes and religions, the future of all of us that have determined to be united in an Archipelagic State which is multiethnic, multiracial, and although possessing a large number of disintegrating factors, are strongly bonded in unity, with, by and because of Pancasila. Indonesia’s own version of a secular-oriented ideology is “Pancasila” (designed by the nation’s first president, Soekarno) since independence, Pancasila has been a sore point for the diversity, who seek at the very least some form of constitutional requirement for the state to enforce democracy
B15|A Gênese do Indivíduo e o Indivíduo da Gênese: Uma Abordagem Multidisciplinar Acerca do Papel da Ideologia Cristã nas Origens do Homem (Econômico)|O presente artigo procura contribuir à discussão acerca das origens da concepção de homem econômico. A partir de uma abordagem antropológica, que não deixa de ser histórica e filosófica, o trabalho recua temporalmente aos primórdios do cristianismo para verificar a emergência da ideia de indivíduo, definido como um ser substancialmente a-histórico, a-social, autônomo e independente. O artigo demonstra que ocorreu, durante a emergência e hegemonia da doutrina cristã, um processo de terrenização de uma idéia específica de indivíduo, que em tempos pretéritos somente estava associado a Deus e que, a partir de certo momento da história ocidental, passou a imperar, também, nas relações entre os homens, servindo de alicerce à concepção de homem econômico.
B15|A Foucauldian view of Veblen's institutionalism: Non-teleology and the interdiscursivity between economics and biology|This paper explores some ontological and epistemological conditions of the emergence of the Veblenian system of political economy. For that, we refer to Foucault's archaeology of political economy, since it offers insights into some of the relations that help us to understand the underlying structure of thought in Veblen's historical intellectual context. Considering Foucault's archaeology as a reference, it is possible to understand how Veblen, inspired by the epistemological conditions that political economy shared with biology, constructed a unique method in economic thought, thus overcoming what was at that time one of its main characteristics: teleology.
B15|Professor Ivan Kinkel – theoretician in economic theory (critical analysis)|The theoretical views of Prof. Ivan Kinkel on the economic history are presented and analyzed. He established an original concept on the systematic presentation of the periods of the global economic development, dividing it in three cultural civilization cycles, each having four consecutive forms. The so called Malthusian Law is also considered in an original way. He intends to use it as a theoretical framework to analyse the past. The scientific weight of the theoretical views of Prof. Kinkel is somewhat discredited by his proximity to left and right totalitarian ideologies and by the scientific propaganda of the ideas of race hygiene and Eugenics.
B15|"Two Ways To Interpret The World - Th. R. Malthus And ""L Abbe Pierre"""|No abstract is available for this item.
B15|Evolución histórica del Banco de la República en Colombia: una aproximación|Este documento hace un breve recorrido histórico de la evolución de la Banca Central en el país, empezando por el periodo de la historia de Colombia conocido como la Regeneración, pasando a la misión Kemmerer, el fin de patrón oro, la creación de la Junta Monetaria, hasta llegar a la independencia del Banco de la República en 1991.******This document is a brief history of the evolution of Central Banking in Colombia, beginning with the period of history known as the Regeneration Colombia, passing Kemmerer mission, the end of the gold standard, the creation of the Monetary Board, up to the independence of the Bank of the Republic in 1991.
B15|Credit cycle and monetary policy: John Rogers Commons as a ‘monetarist’|Commons sketches an institutionalist theory of property based on debt, that is a potential of expected income, and the vector of which is the monetary system. His monetary theory of the credit cycle inspires from Wicksell and Fisher’s debt-deflation theory, rather than from Fisher’s quantity theory. According to Commons, the Central Bank is the key institution, whose role is to lead an active policy controlling the quantity of money based on the management of interest rates. Commons may be considered as a “monetarist,” who rejects both the gold standard rule and the real bills doctrine.
B15|The Capital Account Cannot be Freed in China|No abstract is available for this item.
B15|Monetary theory and policy from a Chinese historical perspective|In this paper, we discuss monetary thought in ancient China from the perspective of Western monetary theory. We set out the structure of economic activity in the various dynasties of ancient China and emphasize the differences in monetary structure from those of Europe and later North America. Imperial China was a politically integrated structure with regional segmentation of economic activities and hence with regional money. Monetary policy was conducted at the regional level but overseen politically. In various regions, different forms of money circulated, with gold, silver, copper, and paper money all presented at various times. Monetary policy was guided by monetary thought, as it was also guided later in Europe. Basic concepts, such as monetary functions, the velocity of circulation, inflation, interest rate parity and the quantity theory, were all present. The economics of Imperial China witnessed boom and bust, inflation and deflation and monetary control, similar to what was later seen in Europe. Chinese monetary thought thus seems to have preceded Western monetary thought and the two had remarkable similarities. Whether much of this thought traveled down the Silk Road remains unknown, but the possibility is intriguing.
B15|Economic cosmology and the evolutionary challenge|The intellectual histories of economics and evolutionary biology are closely intertwined because both subjects deal with living, complex, evolving systems. Because the subject matter is similar, contemporary evolutionary thought has much to offer to economics. In recent decades theoretical biology has progressed faster than economics in understanding phenomena like hierarchical processes, cooperative behavior, and selection processes in evolutionary change. This paper discusses three very old “cosmologies” in Western thought, how these play out in economic theory, and how evolutionary biology can help evaluate their validity and policy relevance. These cosmologies are: (1) “natural man” as a rational, self-sufficient, egotistical individual, (2) competition among individuals can lead to a well-functioning society, and (3) there exists an ideal optimal state of nature. These correspond to Colander et al. (2004) “holy trinity of orthodox economics”, rationality, greed, and equilibrium. It is argued below that current breakthroughs in evolutionary biology and neuroscience can help economics go beyond these simple cosmologies.
B15|Regulation, trust, and cronyism in Middle Eastern societies: The simple economics of “wasta”|Despite being a fixture of everyday life in the Arab world, wasta, which may be thought of as special influence by members of the same group or tribe, has received little attention from social scientists. Our casual empiricism suggests that wasta is an important determinant of how economic activities are organized and resources are allocated in Middle Eastern societies, yet economists, even those who specialize in work related to the Middle East, have not addressed the issue of wasta. With this paper we provide a modest beginning to filling that void. Specifically, we use the history of wasta, Hayek's concept of extended order and Coase's work on the nature of the firm to draw inferences regarding the existence of wasta and its persistence in Arab societies.
B15|Veblenian and Minskian financial markets|The purpose of this paper is to provide an exposition of Veblen's and Minsky's views on the financial markets and to explore the possibility of any common denominators. I stress that they both bring forward the importance of leverage as a path-breaking insight, as well as of liquidity and solvency in the real-world financial markets characterized by uncertainty, innovations and evolving institutions. I remark that Veblenian and Minskian financial markets are naturally and endogenously unstable, nonneutral and influence â€˜realâ€™ economic performance. I argue that if Veblen's institutional logic in his business enterprise system became integrated with Minsky's financial processes of creation and destruction, it could set up a realistic framework to analyse the evolution of financial markets in capitalism.
B15|Institution and decomposition of natural disaster impact on growth|Purpose - – This paper aims to investigate whether natural disasters enhance efficiency improvement, capital accumulation and technological progress. Further, this paper examines whether the influence of naturals disasters depends on the legal origin. Design/methodology/approach - – For this purpose, by using long-term panel data, this paper decomposes productivity growth measured by the growth of output per labor unit into three components of efficiency improvement, capital accumulation and technological progress. Findings - – After controlling for countries' specific unobservable characteristics and year-specific effects, the paper found that impacts of natural disasters vary according to specification. However, the natural disasters enhance capital accumulation and technological progress for non-French legal origin countries, while the disasters have no effect on them for French legal origin countries. Originality/value - – The role played by natural disasters on capital accumulation and Schumpeterian creative destruction depends on historical institutional conditions. Hence, it is important to consider the interaction between exogenous shock and institutions when examining economic growth.
B15|Re-Reading the New Institutional Economics in Market-State Dilemma|After Old Institutional economics lost its dominance after the 2nd World War, it entered a new revival period; the beginning of this period was marked with Oliver Williamson’s (1975) use of “New Institutional Economics” (NIE) as a new term in his studies. New Institutional Economics analyzes institutions that influence and determine human life deeply such as government, law, markets and family, by combining different disciplines such as legal science, economics, political sciences, sociology etc. But despite these inter-disciplinary attempts, New Institutional Economics has never been a mainstream that follows Old Institutional Economics in terms of epistemology or politics. On the other hand, the only common feature between New Institutional Economics and Old Institutional Economics is the complete opposition to the established economics which is also named neo-classical economics. Besides all of these, discussions on the market mechanism and role of state have been the topics of dispute in almost all of different economics schools of thought. This is the same in New Institutional Economics. In this study, based on the basic features that distinguish New Institutional Economics from Old Institutional Economics, we will firstly attempt to discuss ideological structure of New Institutional Economics; while doing this, we will analyze which ideological logic of basic assumptions, suggested by New Institutional Economics from the procedural individualism and limited rationalism assumptions to the process of market mechanism, distinguish it from Old Institutional Economics and we will analyze the assumptions that are claimed to be close to the assumptions of established economics. In this way, we will analyze New Institutional Economics on the basis of the question of “will it be able to present a different point of view to market mechanism-state relation?” by presenting market mechanism-state relation in New Institutional Economics, which exists similarly in all school of thought. So, we will attempt to analyze if New Institutional Economics, which reflects a different thought system, can present a new perspective to the market-state dilemma. As a result, by presenting the features of general economic structure of New Institutional Economics, which is sometimes claimed to come close to neo-classical economics, existence of solutions that can shed light on current basic economic problems will be analyzed.
B15|De l’usage social aux pratiques marchandes de l’argent. Une brève histoire des origines du microcrédit social|Le Mont-de-Piété est à l’origine du microcrédit social. Il s’oppose au dogme économique de l’Eglise, qui refuse et combat le commerce de l’argent. En prêtant à intérêt des petites sommes aux populations pauvres, le Mont-de-Piété participe à un double phénomène. Il met au centre des préoccupations le rôle social de l’argent ; il introduit une forme d’aide financière considérée comme plus efficace que la charité. La modernisation économique et sociale des sociétés européennes entre en contradiction avec les structures traditionnelles et pré-capitalistes. Notre objectif est de montrer dans quelle mesure le Mont-de-Piété est véritablement une innovation sociale majeure.
B15|The Evolution of German Historical School in Bulgaria (1878-1944)|In this paper we present one possible historical reconstruction of the German historical school in Bulgaria for the period 1878 – 1944. The main postulates of the historical school which claimed to be a general theoretical model for newly emerging and backward economies suited well the interests of the basic social groups and the intellectual views of the newly formed Bulgarian elites. In Bulgaria the main dominating components of the historical school followed its own evolution (old, young and youngest historical school) while also intermingling with other major components of other theoretical schools. Thus, for instance, right after the Liberation, in the theoretical views of the Bulgarian economic scholars a specific synthesis emerged with the ideas of the classical liberal thought (G. Nachovich, Ivan Evstatiev Geshov), after WWI with the postulates of monetarism and conservative public finances (?. Lyapchev, G. Danailov), and during the 1930s with the ideas of organic and directed economy (?. Tsankov, ?. Bobchev). This eclectic interaction, within which the influence of the historical school increased, brought about evolution of the character of the “Bulgarian economic nationalism” (liberal, monetary-conservative and integral, corporate). Especially significant for the Bulgarian economic thought was the warm receipt of the Russian economic historical school even if only for the fact that this school came from a Slavic and Orthodox country.
B15|O Estado Liberal, O Desenvolvimento Económico e a Crise dos Anos 90 do Século XIX: João Crisóstomo de Abreu e Sousa e José Frederico Laranjo|João Crisóstomo de Abreu e Sousa and José Frederico Laranjo were important figures of the Portuguese political panorama of the second half of the 19th century. Both of them having belonged to the Partido Progressista (Progressive Party), they still keep very relevant differences from each other in terms of doctrinaire leaning. The attitudes concerning tariff-protection are emblematic of those differences, thereby serving also as an illustration of the character of mere “party of notables” that was a defining trait of that political formation. Such differences coexist, however, with deeper cleavages separating these authors, partly attributable to differences of generation, but certainly not just to that aspect. Laranjo was an author with a general strong leaning to state intervention in the economy and to socialism, whereas Crisóstomo was mostly a liberal that chose to keep faithful to a free-market orientation, even facing the economic hardships that Portugal had to endure in the 19th/20th turning of the century, or especially facing them.
B15|Natural and Economic Selection - Lessons from the Evo-Devo and Multilevel Selection Debate|This paper sheds new light on the concept of selection in evolutionary economics. The interpretation of natural evolution has experienced significant changes in the last decades, while these developments have been often ignored by economists. This is especially true for the concept of selection, a key concept in many evolutionary approaches. In economics as well as in biology, selection is seen as a central mechanism, which mediates for example the spread of information and innovation, the coordination of groups of agents and the optimization of their behavior. In this article we are aiming to explore the actual significance of selection as a major explanatory principle in economics. Starting with an analysis of a modern and modified understanding of the selection mechanism in nature we will draw some conclusions for its use in economics.
B15|The Institutional Revelation: A comment on Douglas W. Allen’s The Institutional Revolution|Institutions are a central topic in economic history. Allen’s work differs in that he is interested in institutions per se, not as a means to economic performance and prosperity. The purpose of this book is to explain the institutions of the premodern world and to show why they changed. His argument is that in a Principal-Agent situation, before the Industrial Revolution, it was harder for the Principal to attribute whether the failure of the project was due to acts of nature or some acts of the agent, hence the “strange” institutions. In a modern world, with a much improved monitoring technology, we can use more “efficient” institutions, hence the Institutional Revolution. Although innovative and interesting, the author over-stresses his argument. Much more than monitoring in a principal-agent relationship is needed to explain the Industrial Revolution and the changes in institutions associated with it. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
B15|European Experiences Relating to National Intellectual Capital Metrics|At present, the intellectual capital has a prominent place in the strategy, planning and development of the territories. This role is owed to the fact that national economies are intensely prepared in a process of rapid transition towards a knowledge-based society where the intellectual capital is considered the main source of wealth, prosperity and growth. This capital can be understood from the macroeconomic point of view as representing a country or region’s ability to convert knowledge and intangible assets into wealth (economic value). Thus, the intellectual capital is closely related to the economic and human development. In terms of the components of the intellectual capital, there is not yet a common agreement on its number and scope, but all the models and methodologies developed so far indicate the presence of at least three dimensions: human capital, structural capital and relational capital.
B15|Conceptual Limitations Concerning the National Intellectual Capital|In the context of the knowledge-based economy, creating wealth is directly related to building some competitive advantages based on intangible elements. Therefore, the elaboration of some models of the intellectual capital to facilitate the decisions and the developmental public policies presents a particular interest. The mastery of some solid conceptual and methodological foundations in terms of identification, assessment and management of the intangible resources in territorial profile is, thus, an obligatory condition of regional and national competitiveness.
B15|Quels sont les enseignements de l'histoire du fédéralisme américain pour la zone euro actuelle ?|Cet article aux enseignements issus de l'Histoire américaine de la crise des dettes publiques gérée par Alexander Hamilton à la guerre de sécession. afin d'en tirer les éventuels enseignements pour une zone euro fédérale qui disposerait d'un budget commun. On montrera, ensuite, que la fragmentation monétaire américaine des années Roosevelt est plus proche de la situation de la crise actuelle de la zone euro que ne l'était celle de la guerre de sécession. Sur le plan monétaire, les travaux de König (2012), Carlson et Weelock (2013) permettent d'établir une grande similitude entre la situation non coopérative qui prévalait alors entre les banques fédérales de district et les dissensions qui prévalent actuellement entre banques centrales nationales européennes au sein du système de paiements transfrontaliers Target 2. Appel (2003) montre que l'un des buts des Banking Act de 1933 et 1935 était de mettre fin aux rivalités entre les banques de district fédérale et la Réserve Fédérale de New York, en leur interdisant d'agir pour leur compte propre et en les soumettant aux injonctions de cette dernière. Pour la zone euro, cela permet d'envisager des mesures politiques susceptibles de limiter les conflits entre Banques centrales créancières du Nord et banques centrales débitrices du Sud au sein de Target 2.
B15|Abstraction as a Mother of Order? (Historical-Methodological Reflections on the Relation of Economic Science and Economic Policy)|The article deals with the relation between assumptions of economic theories and their political implications. Two canons of economic science are being analyzed according to the degree of abstraction. A hypothesis is that the more abstract formal canon is connected with a liberal kind of economic policy whereas the more concrete canon presupposes an active state intervention in economic affairs. Several attempts at integrating both canons are studied separately (Marshall, Schumpeter, Eucken). Historic evidence is more or less consistent with the hypothesis stated above, but there happens to be one important exclusion: the general equilibrium theory is so abstract that it can imply opposite policies.
B15|Parallel Money in the Russian Economic Literature of the XIX—XX centuries|The paper shows the role played by the concept of parallel money in understanding the evolution of the monetary circulation in Russia in the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century. As evidenced by historical investigations, the experience of parallel money circulation is both theoretically relevant and useful for the contemporary monetary practice.
B15|Transformation in the Nature of American Economics and Establishing Neoclassical Economic Technology|The study briefly focuses on the processes of gradual, though not linear, establishment of the dominance of Neoclassical view after interwar period, following the history of American economics. It is shown that by that (interwar) period there have already been present historically developed components, needed for the turn in the character of the economic theory and its application. This change is associated with converting effects of external determinants in the development of economics – and general aspects, or instruments, of the method of economics as a whole, into intrinsic features and specific tools of the advancing Neoclassical economics. Basically exploited is Mary Morgan’s (2001) conception of the natural interdependences in the processes of functioning of both sides of economics – the theoretical and the applied one – in the form of Economic technology. In this direction It is suggested, development of American, - and world, - economics from around 1930s-1940s through 2000s to be interpr ted through the prism of the formation and functioning (applying) of grand neoclassical economic technology, component (dominated) part of which appears to be the Keynesian economic technology.
B15|The emergence of democracy: a behavioural perspective|In the present essay we introduce in a model the concept of macroculture and the formation of new values within the particular macroculture that arose during the 8th to 4th century BC in Ancient Greece. We analyse the conditions and the context for the emergence of the heavy infantryman, the hoplite, and the new tactical formation, the phalanx, and the trireme warship. We apply the coordination and cooperation as behavioural mechanisms to the phalanx and the triremes to show how a specific set of new values emerged. Then, taking into account bounded rationality, as a second behavioural mechanism we analyse how these values were taken over from the military into the political field and thus were crucial for the emergence and development of democracy.
B15|Philosophie et science économiques : leur contribution respective aux discours politiques<BR>[Economic philosophy and economic science: their respective contributions to political discourse]|The paper is the second message (the first was called “Toward another economic science (and thus toward another institution of this science)”) of the author to the French heterodox economists (post-Keynesians, Marxists, regulationists, conventionalists, socio-economists) which has the aim to convince them to adopt the constructivist institutionalist methodology in their research and the philosophies of social constructivism and communitarianism in their social, moral and political philosophical developments. The first part of the paper discusses four faces of economics: science, philosophy, ideology, and utopia. The second part of the paper considers two world views and two versions of economics. In the third part of the paper a project for the economics profession is presented, which I call discursive troika. Economics, as Discursive Troika, is an inquiry, a policy development activity and a social philosophy. All of them must be based on discursive ontology, so economics, as an investigative activity, represents discourse/text analysis, and this is the first element of the discursive troika. The second element of the discursive troika is policy development activity in the framework of discursive or deliberative democracy. The necessary condition of the efficiency of this type of policy development is argumentational integrity of participants, which is linked with the third element of the discursive troika called discourse ethics. Without deliberative democracy there is no demand by the public for non-deviated inquiry and no large-scale supply of research by economists, as they will not be given the opportunity to conduct their research-investigation. Neither discursive inquiry nor deliberative democracy is possible without discourse ethics.
B15|Historie a vývoj vědního oboru podniková ekonomika<BR>[The History and Development of Business Economics Science]|The paper aims to show a comprehensive insight into the history of business economics science in the Czech Republic, marginally also on the European continent and worldwide. It depicts business economics in its beginning as a doctrine that was largely underestimated. This science was, for a very long time, a part of economics (national/public); only slowly has it gradually become an autonomous branch of science. This article shows historical attitudes to the theory of business in Bohemia as well as abroad since the end of the nineteenth century up to this day. It describes the period of statism in Bohemia within the context of business economics, it focuses on fundamentals of this science and depicts consecutively aspects from which the theory of business economics as a science arises in the transition period to free market economy. The paper discusses the future of business economics as a science that, considering current economic conditions worldwide, has a huge potential to grow. The article contributes to the worldwide discussion about its further development.
B15|"La ""scuola"" italiana di scienza delle finanze"|The article summarises the evolution of the Italian school of public finance, highlighting those themes that most attracted James Buchanan's interest. It considers such topics as the operations of the fiscal authorities, the Leviatan monopolist, financial delusion, public debt theory, and the theory of taxation.
B15|La teoría del consumo y de los ciclos en Thorstein Veblen|Thorstein Veblen (1857-1929) fue uno de los fundadores de la economía institucional norteamericana. Este artículo presenta su teoría del consumo basada en los hábitos expuesta en la Teoría de la clase ociosa, y su teoría de los ciclos económicos y las crisis expuesta en la Teoría de la empresa de negocios. Para situarlas en contexto se esboza una síntesis de su pensamiento y de sus críticas a la economía ortodoxa.
B15|Elinor Ostrom et les faisceaux de droits : l’ouverture d’un nouvel espace pour penser la propriété commune|En mobilisant une certaine manière de concevoir la propriété, en termes de faisceau de droits, les travaux d’Ostrom sur la propriété ouvrent un véritable espace pour penser la propriété commune aujourd’hui. Cet article propose d’éclairer la portée des travaux d’Ostrom en les situant dans l’histoire du concept de faisceau de droits et des enjeux politiques et intellectuels associés à ce concept. Initiée par John Commons et les juristes critiques américains du début du xxe siècle, cette conception de la propriété est ensuite récupérée par les penseurs libéraux. En mobilisant l’approche par les faisceaux de droits dans la lignée revendiquée de Commons, Ostrom opère alors un renversement des positions de « l’école des droits de propriété » pour proposer une conceptualisation inédite de la propriété commune.
B15|Об Одном Способе Решения Систем Логических Уравнений|Рассматривается способ определения количества решений системы логических уравнений. Способ основан на построении дерева решений и определении рекуррентных соотношений для уровня N. Применение разработанного способа обеспечивает конструктивный подход к решению задачи В15 ЕГЭ.
B15|F.A. Hayek and Ordoliberalism: A Comparative Study|This paper is a comparative study of two lines of thought in political economy which can be related to the German city of Freiburg. The Freiburg School which is also known as Ordoliberalism, constituted one of the foundations of the economic order in postwar West Germany. On the other hand, Nobel Prize holder Austrian economist Friedrich August von Hayek, who spent a considerable part of his life in Freiburg, in University of Freiburg, strongly inspired the neo-liberal policies in the western world in the 80’s. In this work, we analyse the main differences and similarities of these two liberal lines of economic thought.
B15|A Generic Framework for Trust in the Innovation Process|Trust among agents (or persons) involved in the process of innovation is intrinsic to successful innovation. An examination of the firm’s trust in its agents at various stages of the innovation process will therefore contribute practical insights into best business practices, as well as policy implications for competitive and strategic advancement. This paper focuses on the development of a framework for the evolution of trust in the firm’s innovation process. The trust a firm has in its employees at the micro level, and in the agents who are part of a sectoral, regional and national innovation system consisting of firms (including multi-national corporations or MNCs at both the national and transnational/global levels), academic institutions, and government and non-government bodies with which the firm interacts, is crucial to the firm’s successful innovation. Trust in the process of innovation is viewed as consisting of two components – concerns regarding how firms feel about being trusted and about having to trust others. Three types of trust are identified in the paper, namely, competence, predictability and goodwill trust. These are described in terms of their evolution at different stages of the firm’s innovation process as the firm interacts with its micro, meso and macro level agents. By examining the role of the firm’s trust at these different stages, the paper seeks to contribute to a better understanding of the role of trust in the innovation process
B15|Economic Thinking about Transnational Governance: Blind Spots and Historical Perspectives|The notion of 'transnational governance' refers to systems in which private actors and other non- state institutions participate in setting and enforcing norms for cross-border transactions in trade, finance and other business. While the term is modern, the co-evolution of world markets and hybrid regulation has been discussed since the times of pre-classical and classical political economy. Yet, while transnational governance is a hot issue in other disciplines, it is almost a non-theme in current economics. This paper explores the development of economic thinking about transnational governance in three steps. It starts with a description of transnationalization and a typology of transnational governance. Thereafter it relates the historical causes and analytical choices that make it difficult to deal with transnational governance in terms of modern economics. The blind spots in current frameworks of economic thinking raise the question whether more substantial reflections about transnational governance can be found in the history of economic thought, in the periods when economics as an academic discipline developed along with the emergence of nation states and the global system of markets. In the third step relevant ideas of Adam Smith, Friedrich List, Max Weber, John Hicks and many others are discussed and evaluated in the contexts of city states, trading companies, cross-border finance and self-regulation.
B15|Keynes Post Mercantilista|El pensamiento keynesiano puede entenderse como una suerte de derivación de las ideas mercantilistas. El sistema mercantilista no solamente se debe ver como un conjunto de comerciantes cuya pretensión más importante era la de hacer más rico al Estado y a ellos mismos, sino que también se debe analizar desde la perspectiva de la teoría económica, ya que para ellos era igualmente importante pensar en el empleo, por ejemplo. Las ideas de Keynes por su parte, no pueden verse en el vacío, sino que deben tratarse desde el contexto de la historia de las ideas y por lo tanto como producto del mismo devenir. El documento termina reconociendo los aportes que la teorías mercantilistas, en especial en la discusión sobre el empleo tiene el pensamiento keynesiano.
B15|Los impuestos en la época de la Independencia, su impacto social, evolución e implicaciones en el sistema tributario actual|resumenla evolución histórica de los tributos en colombia se encuentra inmersaen una serie de acontecimientos que hacen parte de la historia patria. elsistema impositivo colombiano fue implementado por españa durante lacolonización a semejanza del aplicado en dicho país; el incremento de losimpuestos para financiar sus actividades y las guerras que sostenía por lalucha de territorios hizo que los habitantes de las colonias se sublevaranen contra del régimen opresor; un claro ejemplo de ello es la rebelión delos comuneros, la cual se genero debido al incremento del impuesto de laarmada de barlovento. los constantes abusos y la discriminación a la queestaban sometidos por parte de los españoles desencadenaron una seriede hechos que posteriormente llevaron a la independencia; al instalarse elnuevo gobierno una de las primeras reformas realizadas en esta materia fueabolir algunos impuestos, como el Tributo de indios.conocer el origen y evolución del sistema impositivo actual en colombia esde gran utilidad para realizar un estudio más profundo del tema y mejorarla comprensión del mismo, desde un contexto no sólo político y económicosino también social y cultural.desde épocas antiguas los tributos han constituido la principal fuente deingresos del estado, incluso en la prehistoria estos hacían parte de la religióny sus creencias, lo cual permite evidenciar que han hecho parte de losprocesos evolutivos del hombre.abstractThe historic evolution of taxation in colombia is immersed in a series of eventsthat make part of national history. The domineering colombian system wasimplemented by spain during the colonization following its own model. Theincrease of taxes to finance its activities and wars held for territories resultedin the uprising of the colonies inhabitants against the oppressive regime. aclear example is the rebellion of the communards, which originated due tothe tax increase of the armada de barlovento.The constant abuse and discrimination by the spaniards unleashed the eventsthat lead to the independence. after the installation of the new government,one of the first reforms made was the abolishment some taxed like the indianTribute (Tributo de indios).Knowing the origin and evolution of the current imposing system incolombia is of great help to make a deeper study of the topic and improveits understanding not only from its political context but also the social andcultural one.from ancient times, taxes have been the main source of the states income.even in prehistory, taxes were part of religion and beliefs, which is the evidenceto prove that taxes have been part of the evolution process of mankindresumoa evolução histórica dos tributos na colômbia se encontra imersa em uma sériede acontecimentos que fazem parte da história pátria. o sistema impositivocolombiano foi implementado pela espanha durante a colonização asemelhança do aplicado em tal país; o incremento dos impostos para financiarsuas atividades e as guerras que sustentava pela luta de territórios fez queos habitantes das colônias se insurgiram contra o regime opressor; um claroexemplo disso é a rebelião dos comuneros, a qual se gerou devido ao aumentodo imposto da armada de barlovento. os constantes abusos e a discriminaçãoà que estavan submetidos por parte dos espanhóis desencadearam uma sériede feitos que posteriormente levaram à indepêndencia; ao instalar-se o novogoverno uma das primeiras reformas realizadas nesta matéria foiu aboliralguno impostos, como o Tributo de indios.conhecer a origem e evolução do sistema impositivo atual na colômbiaé de grande utilidade para realizar um estudo mais profundo do tema emelhorar a compreensão do mesmo, desde um contexto não só político eeconômico senão também social e cultural.desde épocas antigas os tributos tem constituído a principal fonte deingressos do estado, inclusive na pré-história estes faziam parte da religiãoe suas crenças, o qual permite evidenciar que tem feito parte dos processosevolutivos do homem.résumél´évolution historique des impôts en colombie est plongée dans une séried´événements qui font partie de notre histoire nationale. le système fiscalcolombien a été mis en oeuvre par l´espagne pendant la colonisation.l´augmentation d´impôts pour financer les activités espagnoles et les guerresqu´ils avaient par la lutte des territoires ont fait que les habitants des coloniesse révoltent contre le régime oppressif. un exemple clair, c´est la révolte descommunards, qui a été généré en raison de l´augmentation d´impôt du ventmarine. l´abus et la discrimination constante à laquelle ils ont été soumis parles espagnols ont déclenché une série d´événements qui ont ensuite conduità l´indépendance, quand le nouveau gouvernement des premières réformesdans ce domaine a été d´abolir certaines taxes, comme le Tribute des indiens.connaitre l´origine et l´évolution du régime fiscal actuel en colombie esttrès utile pour réaliser une étude plus approfondie du sujet et améliorer lacompréhension de celui-ci, à partir d´un contexte politique non seulementéconomique mais aussi social et culturel.depuis les temps anciens, les impôts ont été la principale source de revenus,même dans les temps préhistoriques elles faisaient partie de la religion etles croyances, ce qui permet de montrer qu´ils on fait partie intégrante desprocessus évolutifs de l´homme.
B15|Una mirada a las instituciones de San Basilio de Palenque (Colombia) a través de los postulados de Douglass C. North y Thorstein Veblen|El presente ensayo establece un examen de las instituciones de la población de San Basilio de Palenque ubicada en el departamento de Bolívar al norte de Colombia, desde los postulados de Douglass C. North y Thorstein Veblen. El objetivo consiste en poder entregar a comunidades en proceso de desarrollo y cambio, y a las diferentes entidades que ejecutan proyectos con objetivos diseñados a partir de las ciencias sociales una aproximación al tema mediante el discurso de la economía institucional, lo cual implica examinar las diversas interacciones sociales, económicas, culturales, políticas, entre otras, de los sujetos de esta población. El análisis sugiere la posibilidad de establecer una aproximación, desde una mirada de la economía institucional, a las dinámicas sociales, reflexiones que a su vez podrían contribuir con el fin de mejorar la calidad de los proyectos comunitarios, la optimización del entorno y la construcción de procesos de ciudadanía participativa-comunicativa. El artículo asume la idea transversal de la complejidad de la red de relaciones sociales, probablemente divergentes y probablemente convergentes, entre los agentes.
B15|The Rise and Fall of Enforcement Institutions: An Example of Religion and Secularism|Societies in Western civilisation enforce their rules through formal secular institutions (SES), whereas less developed civilisations often rely on informal, often religious, institutions (RES). The present paper attempts to explain the determinants of societies’ choice between different enforcement systems, and their implications for society development using an example of two different enforcement models: one informal (RES) and one formal (SES). We find that, because the RES is based on beliefs, its efficiency depends heavily on its credibility, making it hardly flexible and highly susceptible to conflicts in dynamic environments. In contrast, because under the SES societal rules are enforced through a formal legal enforcement sector, the SES is more flexible, although also more costly than the RES. The empirical evidence strongly supports our findings that wealthy, dynamic and fast growing economies typically choose the SES for enforcing societal norms and rules.
