B17|Discipline or external balance? The choice of international monetary systems in Europe|While there is a huge literature on exchange rate systems since the classical gold standard, less research has been devoted to comparisons of the different arguments that guided the choices. While the origin of the international gold standard in the 1870s was a result of silver coins disappearing from circulation due to rising silver prices, the gold standard has later been interpreted as a quest for monetary discipline. This discipline argument was introduced by the end of WWI as a support for a restoration of the gold standard. Its failure led to an emphasis on the need to avoid external imbalances, which came to the fore in the preparations of the Bretton Woods system. The balance argument was also central in the early discussions of a monetary union in Europe, but with the critique of Keynesianism it was superseded by the disciplinary argument which became determinant for the design of EMU.
B17|The potential economic impact of Brexit on Denmark|This paper provides estimates of the potential trade effects on exports and production at the sectoral level as well as GDP in Denmark of the exit of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU). Owing to the high uncertainty regarding the final Brexit deal between the EU and the UK, this paper assumes a worst case outcome where trade relations are governed by World Trade Organization (WTO) most favoured nation (MFN) rules. In doing so, it provides something close to an upper bound estimate of the potential negative economic impact. Any trade agreement that would result in a closer relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU than WTO rules reduces the negative impact.Under the worst case illustrative scenario assumed in this paper, Danish exports to the UK fall by 17%, total exports and GDP decline by 1.3% in the medium term. This effect is from the trade channel absent any change in foreign direct investment (FDI) or productivity. The fall in exports is concentrated in the Danish agri-food and machinery and equipment sectors, which account for half of the export reduction. Exports to the UK of agri-food and machinery and equipment fall by 24% and 17% respectively. Smaller manufacturing sectors such as wood and leather products, metals and textiles see falls of over 20% in their exports to the UK. The chemicals sector, which includes pharmaceuticals, comprises 9.5% of Danish exports to the UK and would experience an 18% reduction in its exports to the UK.Seven Danish sectors experience production declines of over 2.5% in the scenario. The largest decline is in the meat products sectors (7%), metals (3%), material manufacturing (2.3%) and other agri-food sectors (2.2%). These sectors would also see the largest declines in labour demand.
B17|The Dress Rehearsal: the creation of a Central Bank in Brazil in 1923|This paper aims to analyze an experiment in the history of the Brazilian economy: the transformation of Banco do Brasil into a Central Bank in 1923, and the debate surrounding this experiment. More strictly, the article proposes to answer the following question: what was the role of a Central Bank for Brazilian policymakers in the mid-1920s? I point out that the Central Banks abroad were associated at the time with the maintenance of the gold standard, while in Brazil, although the discussion echoed the discourse between papelistas and metalistas, the defense of the creation of the Central Bank was appropriated by the agenda of the first group. Therefore, a generational change of policymakers probably was necessary to undo the association between a Central Bank and the excess of paper currency, in the economic thought of the political environment. The work is based on the idea of communities of interpretation, and editions of the Retrospecto Comercial, the Correio Paulistano, and annals of the Federal Senate were analyzed.
B17|Lessons from the money mania for money creation|The first attempt in the human history to consciously create money ended in a collapse in 1720, well-known as the money mania. This unfortunate start raises doubt on money creation as a whole such that today there are still voices questioning created money even though it is now indispensible for the world economy. But this misfortune also has the bright side in that it delivers an extensive example of risks which created money has to consider. In this paper, I review the central facts from the money mania and highlight lessons we can still learn from it.
B17|The U.S.-China Trade Balance and the Theory of Free Trade: Debunking the Currency Manipulation Argument|The U.S.-China trade imbalance is commonly attributed to a Chinese policy of currency manipulation. However, empirical studies failed to reach consensus on the degree and kind of RMB misalignment. We argue that this is not a consequence of poor measurement but of theory. The conventional principle of comparative advantage suggests real exchange rates will adjust so as to balance trade. Therefore, the persistence of trade imbalances tend to be interpreted as arising from currency manipulation. In contrast, the Smithian-Harrodian theory explains trade imbalances as the outcome of free trade and sees unequal real competitiveness as the root cause of the U.S.-China trade imbalance.
B17|The Potential Macroeconomic and Sectoral Consequences of Brexit on Ireland|This paper provides estimates of the potential effects on exports, imports, production, factor demand and GDP in Ireland of an exit of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU), focusing on trade and FDI channels. Owing to the high uncertainty regarding the final trade agreement between the negotiating parties, the choice has been made to assume a worst-case outcome where trade relations between the United Kingdom and EU are governed by World Trade Organization (WTO) most favoured nation (MFN) rules. In doing so, it provides something close to an upper bound estimate of the negative economic impact taking into account the potential for some firms to relocate to Ireland. Any final trade agreement that would result in closer relationships between the United Kingdom and the EU could reduce this negative impact. The simulations use two large-scale models: a global macroeconomic model (NiGEM) and a general equilibrium trade model (METRO). These models are used to quantify, both at the macroeconomic and the sectoral level, two key channels through which Ireland would be affected: trade and foreign direct investment. The simulation results highlight that the negative effect on trade could result in Ireland's GDP falling by 1½ per cent in the medium-term and around 2½ per cent in the long-term. The impacts are highly heterogeneous across sectors. Agriculture, food, and some smaller manufacturing sectors experience the largest declines in total gross exports at over 15%. By contrast, financial services exports increase slightly. The modelling suggests that any positive offsetting impact to the trade shock from increased inward FDI to Ireland is likely to be modest.
B17|The potential economic impact of Brexit on the Netherlands|This paper provides estimates of the potential trade effects of an exit of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU) on exports and production at the sectoral level as well as GDP in the Netherlands. Owing to the high uncertainty regarding the final trade agreement between the negotiating parties, the choice has been made to assume a worst case outcome where trade relations between the United Kingdom and EU are governed by World Trade Organization (WTO) most favoured nation (MFN) rules. In doing so, it provides an upper bound estimate of the potential negative economic impact stemming from disruptions in trade. Any final trade agreement that would result in closer relationships between the United Kingdom and the EU could reduce this negative impact. Simulations using the METRO model suggest that from an increase in tariff and non-tariff measures (NTM’s) Dutch exports to the UK would fall by 17% and GDP declines by 0.7% in the medium term compared to baseline. This effect is from the trade channel absent any change in foreign direct investment (FDI) or productivity. The Dutch agri-food sector would experience a 22% fall in its UK exports. There are some sectors that gain from the export opportunities provided by Brexit, notably financial services and transport.
B17|Introduction|Sustainable development within the investigated context includes the ability of African countries to meet the present economic, social and environmental needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. A challenging contemporary policy syndrome is the lack of funding for adequate capacities and structures essential for the realisation of the post-2015 development agenda. This introductory chapter provides highlights on all chapters covered by the book in the direction of addressing the underlying policy syndrome.
B17|Introduction|Sustainable development within the investigated context includes the ability of African countries to meet the present economic, social and environmental needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. A challenging contemporary policy syndrome is the lack of funding for adequate capacities and structures essential for the realisation of the post-2015 development agenda. This introductory chapter provides highlights on all chapters covered by the book in the direction of addressing the underlying policy syndrome.
B17|Introduction|Sustainable development within the investigated context includes the ability of African countries to meet the present economic, social and environmental needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. A challenging contemporary policy syndrome is the lack of funding for adequate capacities and structures essential for the realisation of the post-2015 development agenda. This introductory chapter provides highlights on all chapters covered by the book in the direction of addressing the underlying policy syndrome.
B17|Geldtheorie und -politik in Preußen Mitte des 18. Jahrhunderts|No abstract is available for this item.
B17|On Using Exchange Rate for Promoting Exports|In recent years, Pakistani exports suffered large setback and especially textile exports decreased significantly. Some economists are suggesting devaluation1 of Pakistani Rupee to improve the exports [Javed, et al. (2016)]. Many countries including Pakistan have experimented devaluation in the past to boost exports, but most of these experiment did not bring desired results and a significant change in the balance of trade could not be observed. For example, value of Pakistani rupee declined by 20 percent during 1981-82 and by 34 percent during 2007-09. No improvement in trade could be observed after each episode of depreciation, on contrary, the gap between exports and imports widened. There are well known explanations in contemporary economic literature which explain this counterproductive impact of depreciation. However, analysing the impacts of depreciation and/or devaluation in context of trade only is never justifiable. The depreciation of local currency has serious implications for many other important economic indicators including external debt, tax revenue, budget deficit, current account deficit and domestic inflation. For H[DPSOHDRQHSHUFHQWUHGXFWLRQLQYDOXHRIORFDOFXUUHQF\µFDXVHV¶DQLQFUHDVH in external debt by the same percentage, measured in local currency. Due to this increase in the external debt, the amount needed for debt servicing shall also increase which increases the budget deficit and the current account deficits. The suggestion of depreciation could be supported only if the sum of expected gains from all kinds of its impacts are positive. Given the complexity of all this estimation, one can focus on external debt and balance of trade. The effect of depreciation on external debt can be easily counted, and the improvement in trade must be more than the increase in external debt to justify depreciation. Taking into account all these factors, particularly the debt factor, it could be easily seen that net impacts of devaluation are negative and extremely harmful for the Pakistan Economy.
B17|On Using Exchange Rate for Promoting Exports|The report says that there are well known explanations in contemporary economic literature which explain this counterproductive impact of depreciation.
B17|Montchrétien Founder of Political Economy|Montchrétien is still appreciated as a literate and author of tragedies, but is gravely neglected as an economist. His book - Traité de l’économie politique (1615) - is one of the most important expression of mercantilism. Like for the other mercantilists, Montchrétien’s main concern was development through the expansion on manufactures, the organisation of the poor for labour, the increase of exportations and a keen economic competition with the other states. Montchrétien enriches his arguments by drawing from his immense erudition about far and recent history, mythology and also a detailed and deep knowledge of the social and economic problems of his time. But his most important achievement was the foundation of modern political economy as different from ancient household economy. Contrary to the common conviction that the title of his book was just an unintentional chance, we are set to show that Montchrétien was perfectly aware of the main features of the new economic science: management of social wealth in the public interest, growth of social wealth and a general welfare as the main aim, balance between private and public interest. Private interest is the spring of enrichment; its protection is the source of individual rights and of liberty. Public interest must ensure equal rights, welfare and protection of the poor.
B17|Impact of reform of collective forest use rights on farmers’ production activities and incomes in Heishui village, West Yunnan province, People’s Republic of China|Inconsistent and poorly enforced property rights led many not only environmental problems, but economical development restriction as well. A forest tenure reform called “Reform of Collective Forest Use Rights” (RCFUR) has been implemented in rural areas of China to deal with problems of property right. The study aims to assess the impact of RCFUR on farmers’ land use and income generating activities at the household level in order to better inform future policy decisions. After surveys and fieldwork in Heishui village at Yunnan province, linear programming models were built to simulate farmers’ productive activities. The model results illustrate that household economic well-being can be explicitly enhanced in the study village after implementing RCFUR, but contribution is currently limited. Only giving use right of collective forest is not enough; government still needs to implement other assorted supported policies.
B17|Is socio-economic development of areas associate with hypertension prevalence, awareness and treatment? A multilevel approach|Hypertension, which has been well recognized as a major independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease and stroke, is one of the most significant health problems now facing China. This study addresses how socio-economic development of areas affects hypertension prevalence, awareness and treatment by simultaneously examining individual-level socioeconomic status and community-level characteristics using a multi-level approach. The data are from China Nutrition and Health Survey: a representative sample of 7381 adults over 216 neighborhoods. A two-level Generalized Hierarchical Logit Model (GHLM) is used to combine community-level (level-2) characteristics (i.e., Comprehensive development index, CDI), and individual-level SES position and lifestyle habits (level-1) to examine the factors associated with hypertension in China. The results show the prevalence and awareness of hypertension is significantly higher in spatially clustered neighborhoods of low CDI after adjusting for individual-level characteristics. However, the treatment of hypertension is relatively lower in areas with low CDI. This suggests an association between neighborhood CDI level and blood pressure, regardless of well-known individual-level hypertension risk factors.
B17|International Finance (NBER-TCER-CEPR-University of Tokyo)|No abstract is available for this item.
