B19|"The ""eternal character"" of austerity measures in European crisis policies: Evidences from the Fiscal Compact discourse in Austria"|"The European Fiscal Compact (FC) entered into force by 1 January, 2013 in 25 EU Member States. With the ratification the signatory countries commit significant parts of their budget to the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, which indicates a shift of power from legislative to executive authorities and the judiciary. In the aftermath of the economic crisis there can be observed a strong tendency to interpret the financial and economic crisis mainly as a sovereign debt crisis without any connection to the preceding crisis. This is reflected in several recommendations, which limit the scope of political decision-making in order to ""calm financial markets"". Applying an analysis of the public discourse about FC in three leading Austrian newspapers from December 2011 (the initial debate at an EU Summit) to July 2012 (the ratification in the Austrian parliament), the dominant rationale as well as legitimization and argumentation patterns will be examined. The methodology adopted in the article is based on a combination of critical discourse analysis and conceptual metaphor theory in order to illustrate the effectiveness of marketradical thinking of specific economic elites in public discourse. It can be shown that the public discourse about economic policies yet in a time of a potential ""crisis of economics"" is still dominated by economic ideas or ""economic imaginaries"" (implicitly) preferring austerity measures to active fiscal policies."
B19|The Rise and Fall of Unproductive Activities in the US Economy 1964-2015: Facts, Theory and Empirical Evidence|The general idea about unproductive labour and the associated with it activities is that they tend to expand and by expanding reduce the investible product and the growth potential of the economy, however little is known about the determinants of their movement. In this study, we take a closer look at the US unproductive labour and activities in general during the long enough 1964-2015 period. As possible determinants of the movement of unproductive activities we consider the economy-wide average rate of profit, the real interest rate and the degree of capacity utilization. The Toda Yamamoto causality tests, as well as the ARDL econometric model, lend support to the view that the unproductive expenditures and activities are determined rather than determine the above variables. Furthermore, the error correction term indicates that a long-run equilibrium relationship exists and it is attainable after the passage of not too long time.
B19|Studiu retrospectiv privind organizarea administrativ-teritorială a României, în ultimii 100 de ani<BR>[A retrospective study on Romania’s administrative-territorial organisation, in the past 100 years]|After long periods of historical turmoil, in-depth and repeated changes, accompanied by territorial and human sacrifice Romania feels in 1918 the fulfilling sentiment of the Great Union. The Romanian Kingdom achieved thus the highest of the ideals of the time: a single country, a single name, one people and such a sweet Romanian language. In the year 2018, on the occasion of celebrating the Centenary of the Great Union a series of academic initiatives will be launched to bring homage to this important historical event and which will provide for a full image of what meant these past 100 years of spiritual evolution, economic, social, institutional and cultural development of Romania nowadays. A particular significance have in this historical context the territorial-administrative reforms which left their fingerprint on the decisions of economic and social nature, and have influenced directly the national and regional evolution and development directions. If we were to regard them from an historical point of view, these reforms were neither easy nor few but, nevertheless, the language unity and historical aspirations thrived on leadig on the path to the current territorial configuration of the country. Taking into account all these aspects, the research paper intends to analyse the historical evolution of the main administrative-territorial reforms, of the institutions and specific mechanisms, as of 1918 up to date. De facto situations will be analysed along with changes of territorial nature that occurred in certain historical moments along with the conditions and factors that imposed them, and the institutional and legislative aspects that accompanied them, etc. At the same time, a series of statistical information of the time will be presented that will add harmoniously to the description of the territorial reforms, and bring to light new elements about the way in which these reforms were conducted and implemented on the ways and circumstances in which various administrative-territorial entities were created or abolished taking into account the whole historical, national and international context.
B19|Lessons from the money mania for money creation|The first attempt in the human history to consciously create money ended in a collapse in 1720, well-known as the money mania. This unfortunate start raises doubt on money creation as a whole such that today there are still voices questioning created money even though it is now indispensible for the world economy. But this misfortune also has the bright side in that it delivers an extensive example of risks which created money has to consider. In this paper, I review the central facts from the money mania and highlight lessons we can still learn from it.
B19|"The ""Modern Monetary Theory"": An extension of Radical Political Economy"|The rupture of the nexus between monetary and fiscal policies, which derives from the supranational transfer of the monetary sovereignty by the states, is the origin of the great macroeconomic imbalances that shake today some nations inserted in the European integration process. In this paper we try to show the so-called Modern Monetary Theory, from which underlies the urgency of recovering the monetary-fiscal bond, and consequently, the need of conceiving public finances in a functional way. In contrast to the orthodox recommendations, which suggest fiscal balance and austerity as macroeconomic stabilization measures, the MMT contemplates the government and nongovernmental sectors balances as one, being desirable, therefore, fiscal expansion in recession periods to achieve full employment, without neglecting the one related to price stability. Thus, the implementation of job guaranteed programs would act as a powerful corrector of the supply-side imbalance in the labor market, meanwhile stimulating social and/or environmental improvements in the countries concerned, favoring higher levels of well-being in them ultimately.
B19|Jevons’s Ideal Role for Labor Unions as a Form of Co-operation|This research examines the ideas about labor unions found in William Stanley Jevons's works. I focus on the collaborative role Jevons envisioned for these organizations as part of a broader cooperative vision between workers and capitalists. Even though Jevons was not a supporter of labor unions and regarded them as monopolies with limited power to increase wages, on the one hand, and with great potential for generating dead losses of wages due strikes, on the other, he did not consider indispensable their elimination as long as they were guided to co-operate with business. This study concludes that there is more than one form of co-operation in Jevons’s thought. One explicit, from capitalist to workers, via profit sharing, and a second one, implicit, through the collaboration of workers to capitalists via their participation in labor organizations different than traditional labor unions. A major implication of this scheme is that both forms of co-operation have to be present for it to be beneficial for both classes. The latter, however, would not ensure that they are equally beneficiated.
B19|Inequality as Lack of Co-operation in Economic Thought|This study is about the notion of co-operation by economic thinkers of the 19th century in the United Kingdom. It presents a comparison and contrast of their ideas as well as an analysis of the relationship between co-operation and economic and social inequality. Two approaches of such relationship are identified. First, an economic-centered view, found in Charles Babbage and William Stanley Jevons, where the benefits of co-operation are linked to profit sharing, the increase of productivity and the expansion of the economic system. Second, Robert Owen’s and John Stuart Mill’s ideas on co-operation, even though with different implications, are mainly socially-oriented. Here, it is possible to see a broader social concern that led them to suggest reforms that could have implications in terms of social (e.g., education and gender), and not only economic inequality. Marx’s analysis of co-operation does not belong to any of these approaches. In his view, under capitalism, the effect of some forms of co-operation may generate or reinforce inequality.
B19|"A ""gung-ho"" Approach Towards Sophic Economy"|"The object of this study has been the Sophic Economy of Sergei Bulgakov ï¿½ an alternative and valuable philosophical-economic doctrine. At the beginning, facts-examples have been identified in a contemporary, social and purposely localized context (contemporary Italian society), demonstrating a certain potential sensibility towards the idea of Sophic Economy. Then, Bulgakovï¿½s thought has been expounded with a purposeful tone instead of the critical-purposeful frame originally used by Bulgakov himself in the volume Philosophy of Economy: the world as household. The quality of the examined content has raised the simple question, What about the dynamics of the diffusion of ideas like these? Employing what I call the ""gung-ho"" approach ï¿½ the researcherï¿½s imagination as a historical technique method that does not integrate the facts of the past but places them in a sort of laboratory-simulative environment model ï¿½ the idea of Sophic Economy has been inserted in NetLogoï¿½s Spreading Utopian Ideas Model. The popularization of an alternative philosophical doctrine and the proposal-experiment of an original method of historical research in Economics have been the main results of the present study."
B19|Neoliberalism and Right-wing Populism: Conceptual Analogies| The paper compares neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism on the basis of its core patterns of thinking and reasoning. Hence we offer an analysis of the work of important founders of market-fundamental economic thinking (particularly von Mises) and an established definition of populism (demonstrated by the example of arguments brought forward by leading populists, like Trump). In doing so, we highlight conceptual resemblances of these two approaches: Both assume a dually divided world that is split into only two countervailing parts. Right-wing populism shows a society split into two groups, fighting against each other. In a similar vein, neoliberal market-fundamentalists argue that there are only two possible countervailing economic and societal orders. We argue that the categorical analogies between neoliberal market-fundamentalism and right-wing populism could provide the basis for a new form of authoritarian neoliberalism.
B19|Aspects of Bulgarian Åconomic Policy and Development During and After the First World War (1914-1929)|The wars for national unity of Bulgaria at the beginning of the 20th century had severe consequences for its economy. Just in the course of seven years, the country had participated in three devastating wars and the peace treaties had damaging impact on its economy. The present paper analyzes the changes that had occurred in the Bulgarian economy during and after the First World War and the imposition of economic policy of protectionism by the state for the economic recovery after the war.
B19|Trevor Swan and Indian planning: The lessons of 1958/59|Trevor Swan is commonly considered to be Australia’s most distinguished economist. As part of a visiting professorship at MIT during 1958-59 he spent nine months in India to assist in the formulation of India’s third five year plan and to contribute to the development of India’s premier research institutions. This paper provides an account of his work in New Delhi. Swan’s closest associates were Pitambar Pant from the Indian Planning Commission and Ian Little who was visiting from Oxford. Swan was of the view that India’s economic problems should be clearly understood and the best policy measures to address these should be devised. This varied considerably from the practice of central planning and state control being practiced in India at that time. Swan was unable to influence the direction of economic policy in India but the economy’s subsequent performance would vindicate Swan’s views on how economic development policy should have been conducted.
B19|Czech Economist Karel Engliš and his Relation to The Austrian School in the First Half of the 20th Century|This article analyses opinions and teleological approach of Czech economist Karel Engliš (1880-1961) and his relation to the Austrian Economics during the first three decades of the 20th century. He grew out from the Austrian subjective psychological school although he later refused its methodological psychological subjectivism and value theory. Engliš formed an original teleological economic school upon Kant´s noetics. This paper describes Engliš´s relation to the Austrian school: the polemic approach of Karel Engliš to Austrian Economics, followed by Engliš´s agreement with certain postulates of the Austrian School. Engliš supported the conclusions of the Austrian School regarding irreplaceability of economic individualism as the basis for a modern economic market system.
B19|La doctrina del Justo Precio, desde Aristóteles hasta la escuela moderna subjetiva del valor|Este artículo se centra en dos importantes focos de conflictividad social en la provincia de Mendoza (Argentina), ligadas al ambiente y el territorio, poniendo énfasis en las dimensiones institucionales y las prácticas políticas desarrolladas por los actores. En primer lugar, se aborda la problemática de la concentración de la tierra irrigada, en el marco de la nueva vitivinicultura, y las propuestas formuladas por determinadas instituciones para el sector de pequeños productores. En segundo lugar, se analizan algunos aspectos del rechazo social y político al proyecto minero “San Jorge”, ocurrido en 2011. Finalmente se abordan reflexiones de conjunto.
B19|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
B19|Economic forms, state socio-economic policy and socioeconomic ideas of Bulgarian society in the context of the orthodox Christianity (9th - first half of the 19th century)|The paper outlines some of the main characteristic features of Bulgarian social andeconomic thought during the period, dominated by the norms of OrthodoxChristianity. In the context of this thinking of the period before the appearance ofspecialized economic knowledge, several key elements can be identified, such asfirst, the strong role of the state, relied upon to help solving economic and socialproblems, which is praised and receives advice from intellectuals, and second, theethical approach, expressed in the desire to help the poor and to reject profits,considered as immoral (theft, usury, etc. in.), to negate the extremes of poverty, butalso of wealth.
B19|International Regulatory Documents With Special Regime Used By Romanian Principalities In Relations With The Ottoman And The Russian Empire|Although the existence of some regulating documents, called capitulations, concerning the relations on various plans, between the Romanian Country, Moldavia and the Ottoman Empire was known, the first one of these diplomatic documents, that have been operational over time, was discovered only in 1974. It was an act that had been granted to Mihnea Turkished, in the year 1585. This important discovery has been completed, with others that had the same purpose. In fact, they were some diplomatic documents, with the role of Treaty, which has regulated quite explicitly, the status of the two Romanian principalities, in relations with the suzerain power. The most important fact of their contents was the recognition of the internal autonomy of principalities and a certain degree of freedom, in relations outside the borders. The price was that Romanian countries paid was ,however, to never become hostile to Ottoman interests, integrating in the Ottoman foreign policy and paying an annual tribute.
B19|The Technostructure In John Kenneth Galbraith’S Vision|Large corporations are still an important part of today’s economic scene. Although written more than fifty years ago, The New Industrial State is still a valid perspective on corporation management, on the relation between entrepreneurs and the so called technostrucure, a term introduced by Galbraith by which he defines all the persons who participate in a group decision making. In Galbraith’s view, the power of the modern corporation has passed from the hands of the owners into the hands of the technostructure, a group which basically run the business and have different interests than that of profit making, belonging to the entrepreneurs.
B19| Entre liberalismo y nacionalismo en México. El pensamiento económico de José Yves Limantour (1892-1911)| El objetivo del presente ensayo es conocer los principios del pensamiento económico de José Yves Limantour así como sus modificaciones para dar cuenta del proceso de transformación del liberalismo económico que como se verá, tendió más hacia el intervencionismo estatal, el cual dicho sea de paso puede ser considerado como la base del nacionalismo económico desplegado por los gobiernos posrevolucionarios. De ahí pues que el estudio de Limantour y su pensamiento económico pretenda dar cuenta del proceso de transformación del Estado liberal mexicano en la última década del siglo XIX y primera del XX. El trabajo se encuentra dividido en dos apartados, en el primero se estudiarán las características generales del Estado liberal y sus transformaciones desde los años cincuenta del siglo XIX hasta la primera década del siglo XX. En el segundo se analizarán los principales ámbitos de la economía mexicana donde Limantour incurrió en una mayor regulación e intervención.
B19|The Evolution of Management Theories, Philosophies and Thoughts in Nigeria|This paper examines the evolution of management theories, philosophies and thoughts in Nigeria. It views management as a philosophy and practice that have existed in Nigeria even prior to the industrial revolution era in Europe. The study discusses management thought evolution in the pre-colonial, colonial and post-colonial history of Nigeria. By relying on secondary data gathered from related literatures, the paper identifies factors influencing the evolutionary development of Management thoughts in Nigeria which include colonialism, culture, socio-economic thoughts, technological development and organizational size. After drawing comparisons between Western management practice and Nigerian management culture, the study concludes that colonialism and culture are the major forces driving the development of managerial thoughts and practice in Nigeria.
B19|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - Silvio Gesell|Silvio Gesell was a German tradesman, self-educated economist, globetrotter and social reformer with a nonconformist worldview. He is known for his proposals for monetary reform. He is famous for his experiments with interest-free currency. Gesell’s thought inspired a plenty of political and civil movements, and has a few followers even to this day.
B19|The Impact Of Managerial Competencies On The Managerial Performance In The Educational System|The concept of competence in science education is in the midst of individual and collective performance. The complexity of the activity of running school has found a certain specific of its management that is materialized in two dimensions of the school activity: the variety of categories of staff and the interpersonal relationship, culture and work climate. All these result in the formation and development of a set of skills specific to the managerial field and necessary to the director of school in performing different roles sprung from this activity.
B19|Das Ende der Kapitalknappheit und sein Verhältnis zur Keynesschen Theorie|Abstract: Im Rahmen eines Mehrsektoren-Modells der österreichischen Kapitaltheorie entwickle ich für die Parameter des 21. Jahrhunderts die Hypothese des negativen natürlichen Zinses, d.h. des Gleichgewichtszinses in einem Zustand ohne Staatsschulden. Ich nenne dies das NNIM-Modell (negative natural interest model). Ich zeige, wie mithilfe eines geeigneten Ausmaßes von Staatsschulden der Zinssatz auf das Niveau der Wachstumsrate der Volkswirtschaft angehoben werden kann, was Wohlstandsgewinne mit sich bringt. Ich analysiere die mikro-ökonomische Voraussetzung für das Keynessche Unterbeschäftigungsgleichgewicht: Marktasymmetrie, d.h. Transaktionshunger auf der Anbieterseite und Transaktionssättigung auf der Nachfrageseite. Hieraus leite ich das bekannte Phänomen der Preisträgheit ab. Diese macht, wie auch Keynes argumentiert, deflatorische Anpassungsprozesse sehr langwierig und schmerzhaft. In der Quintessenz ist der Keynessche Ansatz der Effektive Demand das dynamische Korrelat zum Steady State NNIM-Modell. Keynes bleibt daher höchst aktuell für das 21. Jahrhundert.
B19|The Art of Memory and the Growth of the Scientific Method|I argue that European schools of thought on memory and memorization were critical in enabling growth of the scientific method. After giving a historical overview of the development of the memory arts from ancient Greece through 17th century Europe, I describe how the Baconian viewpoint on the scientific method was fundamentally part of a culture and a broader dialogue that conceived of memorization as a foundational methodology for structuring knowledge and for developing symbolic means for representing scientific concepts. The principal figures of this intense and rapidly evolving intellectual milieu included some of the leading thinkers traditionally associated with the scientific revolution; among others, Francis Bacon, Renes Descartes, and Gottfried Leibniz. I close by examining the acceleration of mathematical thought in light of the art of memory and its role in 17th century philosophy, and in particular, Leibniz's project to develop a universal calculus.
B19|Reconsidering Written Language|"A number of elite thinkers in Europe during the 16th and 17th centuries pursued an agenda which historian Paolo Rossi calls the ""quest for a universal language,"" a quest which was deeply interwoven with the emergence of the scientific method. From a modern perspective, one of the many surprising aspects of these efforts is that they relied on a diverse array of memorization techniques as foundational elements. In the case of Leibniz's universal calculus, the ultimate vision was to create a pictorial language that could be learned by anyone in a matter of weeks and which would contain within it a symbolic representation of all domains of contemporary thought, ranging from the natural sciences, to theology, to law. In this brief article, I explore why this agenda might have been appealing to thinkers of this era by examining ancient and modern memory feats. As a thought experiment, I suggest that a society built entirely upon memorization might be less limited than we might otherwise imagine, and furthermore, that cultural norms discouraging the use of written language might have had implications for the development of scientific methodology. Viewed in this light, the efforts of Leibniz and others seem significantly less surprising. I close with some general observations about cross-cultural origins of scientific thought."
B19|Ruskin's Triangle-Neither Wealth nor Beauty but Life-|Most studies of Ruskin deal with his art theory and economic theory separately. This article intends to interpret his both discourses in a unified way from the viewpoint of Romanticism. While his economic theory is famously summarized in the thesis 'No Wealth but Life', the theory of art he worked on can be formalized as a thesis 'No Beauty but Life'. Thus we have a unified thesis 'Neither Wealth nor Beauty but Life', which may be called 'Ruskin's Triangle'. I argue that the concept of Life is vital for unified knowledge of Ruskin; it is identified with its three aspects (Capability, Composition, and Labour) and linked with its six symbolic determinants (Admiration, Hope, and Love; Air, Water and Earth).
B19|A láthatatlan kéz - szemelvények egy metafora történetéből<BR>[The invisible hand - extracts from the history of a metaphor]|A láthatatlan kéz Adam Smith nyomán a közgazdaságtan legismertebb metaforája lett, de jelentősége és értelmezése máig megosztja a közgazdászokat és eszmetörténészeket. Az interpretációk skálája rendkívül széles: mértékadó közgazdászok szerint ez a közgazdaságtan alapeszméje, míg mások Smith ironikus tréfájának vélik. A tanulmány áttekinti a láthatatlan kéz Smith előtti használatát teológiai, politikai és irodalmi szövegekben és a hozzájuk kapcsolódó interpretációkat. Ezt követően bemutatja, hogyan alkalmazta Smith a nevezetes kifejezést a merkantilista politika ironikus és paradox kritikájaként, és miként került a 19. század végétől e metafora a Smith-olvasatokban központi helyre, majd miként vált kérdésessé ez a felfogás a 2008-as válság nyomán. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B10, B11, B12, B15, B19, B20, B31.
B19|Enemigos del comercio: Un análisis de las ideas económicas en la novela decadente/Enemies of Commerce: Economic Ideas in the Decadent Novel|En las dos décadas finales del siglo XIX surgió la novela decadente como una oposición al realismo y al naturalismo, las corrientes dominantes hasta aquel momento. Los decadentes eran críticos de la industrialización, del mundo financiero y de la economía de mercado en general. Los novelistas cuya obra se analiza en este artículo -Huysmans, D?Annunzio y Wilde- añoraban un pasado imaginario en el que la nobleza y el arte eran las fuerzas que guiaban la sociedad, idea que se puede encontrar expuesta de forma más sistemática en la obra de autores como Carlyle o Ruskin. El desprecio por el comercio y las actividades económicas que sentían los escritores decadentes desempeña un papel importante en la mayoría de sus novelas. In the final two decades of nineteenth century decadent novel was born as an alternative to realist and natu-ralist novels, the mainstream in those years. Decadent writers criticized industrialization, finances and the market economy at large. The novelists whose work is discussed in this paper -Husysmans, D?Annunzio and Wilde- longed for an imaginary past in which nobility and art were the main forces in society, an idea that was developed more systematically in the works of Carlyle or Ruskin. Contempt for trade and economic activities is an important element in most decadent novels.
B19|Gesuits and the Italian unification: the form and the economic role of the State in the writings of Taparelli|Luigi Taparelli d’Azeglio and the other Jesuits of «Civiltà Cattolica» framed their theory of State-economy relationship during the Italian unification. Such theory had important consequences on Italian politics, although not immediately. This socio-economic view was based on a distinctive Thomistic view of freedom and agency where priority was given to ‘social law’. The State was seen as an ‘ethical State’ because it has to assure a ‘civilising’ role. The idea of the common good and the notion of jurisdiction as subsidium to lower communities gave birth to the idea of subsidiarity. Also tax theory was shaped by this notion.
B19|When did we begin to spell Òheteros*edasticityÓ correctly?|Using digitized texts scanned by Google and subjected to opticalÊcharacter recognition, I show that heteroskedasticity overtookÊheteroscedasticity as the preferred spelling in 2001 and hasÊcontinued to dominate, except for 2005, up to 2008. The latestÊtrends indicate that writers are moving toward the k variant.ÊHowever, for words such as homoskedasticity, heteroskedastic,Êand homoskedastic, the corresponding spellings using c are stillÊoverwhelmingly dominant, albeit slowly shifting.
B19|The theory of money supply: a case study|The theory of money supply is less developed than that of money demand, largely because 19th-century economists believed that money was unimportant and because they viewed the central bank as either an appendage to the economy or as a welfare-maximizing black box. The paper reviews each of these beliefs in turn.
B19|Creativity as a travelling concept: from Alexander Gerard to Richard Florida (Kreatywnosc jako wedrujace pojecie: od Alexandra Gerarda do Richarda Floridy)|The article describes creativity as a travelling concept. It is written from an interdisciplinary and historical perspective. The point of departure is the 18th century, when Alexander Gerard and William Duff, two Scottish thinkers, laid the foundation for modern understanding of creativity. The next destination is the second part of the 19th century, when Francis Galton published a seminal book about genius which strongly influenced the early 20th century theory of intelligence. After that Joy P. Guilford’s proposal of 1950 is discussed to study creativity as a separate problem. In the last part of the article recently developed approaches to creativity are summarized, inter alia everyday creativity and creative industries. Additionally, the article presents the evolution of the terms related to creativity and highlights the continuity between the Scottish thinkers’ writings and modern concepts.
B19|Southeast asian regionalism: theoretical systemic obligingness in disarray|The Association of Southeast Asian Nations - ASEAN was born in 1967, in the breastplate of the strategic comotions of the Cold War. Originally, there were five founding members: Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand and Philippines.Vietnam joined the ranks in 1995, after the ultimate reverberations of the Last Indochin War. In 1997, Laos nd Myanmar followed Vietnam. In 1999, Cambodia decided to make its partaking in ASEAN a fact, especially after its political domestic situation received much needed handling. As important as these guidebooks are, they are involved in the scope of this article only secondarily. Thi article reports the fact that the meekness of three important theoretical anchors – the security complex theory, the security regime theory, the collective security theory, the community security theory and ASEANology– instaurations utilized to explain ASEAN`s birth and predict its development, are tailored in half-abidince. Ever since its derivation, ASEAN became able-bodied to furnish one of the most successful forms of regionalism, after the global high-ranking position of European Regionalism. Southeast Asian New Security Regionalism has plenty of theoretical orthodoxies to apply or to commence applying. The aftermath of their empirical workings can sometimes be unconfident of the very ideas it implemented. The approach of this article is to review some of the major theoretical conceptual contributions utilized to describe findings about Southeast Asian New Security Regionalism’s connotations. While supporting the idea that neither one of the research programs mentioned is grounded enough in Southeast Asian security dynamics, the last part of the article claims that a rediscovery of Southeast Asian Regionalism, under the New Regionalism framework, is very likely to underplay its distinctiveness.
B19|Indonesia now. Between Pancasila and crisis of democracy in Indonesia|Normally in politics will be colored by political activities such as lobbying, transactional politics, money politics, and the most risky trend is likely more rampant corruption because the party trying to increase purse from a variety of sources. The political year 2013 called for Indonesia to meet the 2014 election in which all political parties who passed the verification will prepare themselves for the competition and contestation for legislative elections that will be held April 2014. The year 2013 was marked by increasing political climate warming caused by not building trust or mutual trust among the parties. Moreover, the pattern of relations between civil society and political parties are also less communicative. Political flare-up in 2013 was also driven by competition parties in preparing to compete in a presidential candidate. Unlike the presidential election 2009, election 2014 not only brings parties and vice presidential candidates, civil society leaders will also deliver an alternative candidate for the party. Civil society demands increasingly shrill make political climate gets hotter. The battle between political parties in convincing the public is not about easy. Meanwhile, fears of losing the election not rule parties would justify all the all the way to win. As an open ideology, Pancasila should provide orientation to the future which requires the Indonesian people to always be aware of the lives that are being and will face, especially the era of globalization and democracy. Pancasila ideology calls for the Indonesian people still survive in the soul and culture of Indonesia and within the bounds of the State unitary Republic of Indonesia. And now, the values of Pancasila must constantly be revitalized, to prevent them from becoming obsolete, and at all times be relevant and able to solve issues concerning the nation and State, toward the attainment of a better future, which is a common future. This common future is the future of all ethnic groups, of all ethnic classes and religions, the future of all of us that have determined to be united in an Archipelagic State which is multiethnic, multiracial, and although possessing a large number of disintegrating factors, are strongly bonded in unity, with, by and because of Pancasila. Indonesia’s own version of a secular-oriented ideology is “Pancasila” (designed by the nation’s first president, Soekarno) since independence, Pancasila has been a sore point for the diversity, who seek at the very least some form of constitutional requirement for the state to enforce democracy
B19|Regionalism and its shelters. The probes of the cold war era and the post cold war era|Nowadays, the world`s stares of wonderment revolve around how successful regional actors have become in channeling the regional organizations they created in envisioning a set of prescriptions for a law-abiding regional conduct. Many of the regional products of today`s were blueprinted by the socialization of normative convergence of former periods. Our article is not intended to disseminate on-look perspectives upon the state of the regional security environment in different parts of the world, nor to disseminate the anemoscope of how wide the regional organizations have shot in furnishing the appropriate results for the regional security environment. Our purposeful aim is to deliver an extradite of how regionalism has been bestowed upon an attendant position in global arena, by juxtaposing the Cold War Era and the post-Cold War Era. We jibed the agreement that transitive acquiescing has been performed between the two types of regionalism during these two time-frames. Also, we account for the consideration that regionalism enlarges on the expatiations of compounded interestingness between the actors, geographically encroached into a regional area, which entertain topics of engagement, based on a considerable amount of concern with each other and on an equivalency of interest in a plurality of security situations.
B19|O teoretických východiskách skúmania európskej integrácie v 40. až 70. rokoch 20. storočia|Teoretické koncepty európskej integrácie vychádzajú primárne z tradičných teórií medzinárodných vzťahov, no od 40.rokov 20. storočia sa do popredia dostávajú východiská, ktoré boli odvodené priamo od integračného vývoja na európskom kontinente. Cieľom tohto príspevku je prispieť k diskurzu o východiskách európskej integrácie so zameraním na tzv. vlastné teórie európskej integrácie. Zameriavame sa na federalistické, funkcionalistické a neofunkcionalistické východiská a venujeme sa i transakcionalizmu, ktorý patrí do jednej „myšlienkovej“ skupiny spolu s uvedenými konceptmi.
B19|I discovered the peso problem: Irving Fisher and the UIP puzzle|Irving Fisher was the first economist to posit what has come to be known as uncovered interest parity relation. He was also the first to offer a peso-problem type explanation for important episodes in which it was violated. After reviewing his theoretical and empirical work on this subject, we go on to reexamine both his data and several other bodies – two consisting of multi-country panel data and a third consisting of a two-century long time series for the United States and the United Kingdom. We find evidence in these data of the important role played by episodic phenomena in disturbing the UIP relation. Like Fisher, we find that the influence of such phenomena dissipates over time. Over the long term these errors prove to be less important and UIP receives empirical support.
B19|Interdisciplinarity in the Work of Nicholas Georgescu – Roegen|Georgescu-Roegen’s works, characterized by an interdisciplinarity less common in scientific literature, is a permanent source of ideas not only for economists but also for ecologists, biologists, philosophers, physicists, energy specialists, statisticians. Some of these professions consider him to belong to those communities and use these ideas as arguments in various debates. For example, economists consider, with good reason, that Georgescu-Roegen caused a real scientific revolution in economics, laying the foundation of a new discipline–bioeconomics. Ecologists, the strongest supporters of Georgescu-Roegen’s ideas, believe that ecology, as a new discipline, is based on his works published since 1966.
B19|El debate moderno sobre los escritos económicos Aristotélicos|Este artículo hace una lectura crítica de las principales interpretaciones modernas de los escritos económicos de Aristóteles. Primero revisa el debate entre las corrientes “primitivista” y “modernista”, encabezado por Rodbertus, Bücher y Meyer. Luego presenta y comenta los puntos de vista de Karl Marx, Joseph Schumpeter, Karl Polanyi y Moses Finley, los comentaristas más célebres de legado económico aristotélico.
B19|From The General Managerial Skills To The School Manager’S Skills|Training and skill development represents a process in progress during the whole career and involves specialized training both within the organization and throughout the professional and social environment. Notion of skill/ com-petence has been the object of investigation for many sciences. Clarification of notion of competence/skill is necessary for those who want to deal with compe-tences, no matter is about their competences or of the others. In cognitive psychology and in educational sciences, in ergonomics and in economy or in human resources management, the concept of skill or competence is situated in the middle of the individual and collective performance and all of us want to develop. In education, the art of management is very important because it better highlights the principle’s/ school manager’s personality and his/ her personal example has an essential role in realizing the established objectives for school. The art of running a school is in fact the art of working with people that means a new, modern and distinct dimension of the one who runs the education institution.
B19|On the Theoretical Problematic of Arabic Physical Science or why did Arabic Science Fail to Achieve the Copernican Revolution|A Hegelianized version of Althusser's concept of problematic is used to investigate the underlying theoretical unity and structure of Arabic physical science (physics, astronomy and chemistry). A contradictory triad (associated with Platonism, Aristotelianism and Ptolemaism) is identified at the heart of the Arabic project for physical science. This article focuses on the valiant attempts made by leading Arabic scientists to overcome these contradictions without transcending or tearing apart the prevailing problematic. The following question is then addressed: why was Arabic physical science reformist, rather than revolutionary, unlike Renaissance European physical science? An answer is proposed in terms of the history, nature and decline of Arabic rationalism.
B19|Keynes Post Mercantilista|El pensamiento keynesiano puede entenderse como una suerte de derivación de las ideas mercantilistas. El sistema mercantilista no solamente se debe ver como un conjunto de comerciantes cuya pretensión más importante era la de hacer más rico al Estado y a ellos mismos, sino que también se debe analizar desde la perspectiva de la teoría económica, ya que para ellos era igualmente importante pensar en el empleo, por ejemplo. Las ideas de Keynes por su parte, no pueden verse en el vacío, sino que deben tratarse desde el contexto de la historia de las ideas y por lo tanto como producto del mismo devenir. El documento termina reconociendo los aportes que la teorías mercantilistas, en especial en la discusión sobre el empleo tiene el pensamiento keynesiano.
B19|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
B19|The Economic History of the American Economic Review : A Century's Explosion of Economics Research| Written in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the American Economic Review , this paper recounts the history of the journal. The recounting has an analytic core that sees the American Economic Association as an organization supplying goods and services to its members, one of which is the Review . Early in its history the Review was a multipurpose publication with highly disparate content. Over time the economics profession expanded and more economics research was produced, primarily in the form of journal articles. Editors accommodated this shift by allocating more resources to the refereeing and editing process and more space to research papers. (JEL A14, B19, B29)
B19|Tocqueville on Poverty in Industrial Democracies|In this paper I explore Tocqueville´s views on poverty and pauperism in democratictimes. Tocqueville´s explanation of economic and social phenomena linked to the raiseof equality, show the difficult dilemmas he foresaw with the consolidation of democracy and increasing industrialization. New social classes and the unequal access to wealth would generate a social problem which could, eventually, threaten freedom.
B19|Historia del crédito hipotecario en Colombia|En la historia de la política económica, el fomento de la construcción de vivienda ha sido un tema recurrente. En este artículo se hace un recuento de las diferentes maneras como se ha intentado hacer esto en Colombia a través de la historia moderna. La cuantificación se puede hacer a partir de 1923, una vez creados el Banco de la República y la Superintendencia Bancaria a raíz de las recomendaciones de la Misión Kemmerer. En los años treinta y cuarenta, la principal fuente de crédito para vivienda fue un banco estatal: el Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH). En los años cincuenta y sesenta, esta fuente fue complementada por el Instituto de Crédito Territorial (ICT), y el crédito bancario para vivienda diferente al BCH era mínimo. Solo a partir de los años setenta, en la era del UPAC (unidad de poder adquisitivo constante), el sector bancario formal financió el crédito de largo plazo para vivienda. A partir de los años noventa, el Estado otorga subsidios a familias de bajos ingresos para que estas puedan acceder al crédito para compra de vivienda de interés social. Finalmente, se ensaya promover la construcción durante la crisis económica del 2008, creando un subsidio de tasa de interés para la compra de vivienda popular. Además, la política tributaria se ha usado con el mismo propósito.
B19|Tocqueville sobre la pobreza en las democracias industrializadas|En este texto exploro la visión de Tocqueville sobre la pobreza y el pauperismo en los tiempos democráticos. Su explicación de fenómenos económicos y sociales asociados al auge de la igualdad, muestra los difíciles dilemas que preveía con la consolidación de la democracia y la creciente industrialización. Nuevas clases sociales y un acceso desigual a la riqueza podrían generar un problema social que tarde o temprano amenazaría la libertad.
B19|A Political Approach of the Popular Credit: Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and the mutual credit|Pierre-Joseph Proudhon’s ideas on credit and money have been considered to be not very relevant and above all unrealistic. However, they have known an uncommon posterity. They influenced Silvio Gesell who is John Maynard Keynes’s reference. This article analyses Pierre-Joseph Proudhon’s exchange bank plan. We show that Pierre- Joseph Proudhon’s ideas on credit and money are opened to criticism but require a reexamination because we can draw many lessons from them.
B19|Buborékok és legendák. Válságok és válságmagyarázatok - II/1. rész. A Déltengeri Társaság<BR>[Bubbles and myths, crises and explanations II/1: the South Sea bubble]|A cikk a tulipánmániával foglalkozó tanulmány folytatása (Madarász [2009]). A Déltengeri Társaság 1720-as fellendülése és kipukkadása mindmáig egyike a pénzügyi történelem leghíresebb és leggyakrabban emlegetett buborékainak. A közgazdaságtanban a buborék sokáig nem volt fontos téma, de az utóbbi időben ismét divatba jött. A tanulmány először a buborékmetafora néhány irodalmi példáját mutatja be, majd összefoglalja az angol államadósság kialakulását, a korai modern fiskális-militarista állam létrejöttét és a pénzügyi forradalom különböző interpretációit. A Déltengeri Társaság történetének, az adósság-részvény csere lebonyolításának és a korabeli vélemények spektrumának ismertetése után áttekintést ad arról, milyen módon és céllal használták fel az 1720-as eseményeket közgazdászok és történészek saját magyarázataikban. Ezek skálája a tudatos csalástól a befektetők irracionális mániáján át a racionális buborék kialakulásáig terjed. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B19, B29, E65, G01, N01, N13, N23.
B19|Buborékok és legendák. Válságok és válságmagyarázatok - II/2. rész. A Déltengeri Társaság<BR>[Bubbles and myths, crises and explanations II/2: the South Sea bubble]|A cikk a tulipánmániával foglalkozó tanulmány folytatása (Madarász [2009]). A Déltengeri Társaság 1720-as fellendülése és kipukkadása mindmáig egyike a pénzügyi történelem leghíresebb és leggyakrabban emlegetett buborékainak. A közgazdaságtanban a buborék sokáig nem volt fontos téma, de az utóbbi időben ismét divatba jött. A tanulmány először a buborékmetafora néhány irodalmi példáját mutatja be, majd összefoglalja az angol államadósság kialakulását, a korai modern fiskális-militarista állam létrejöttét és a pénzügyi forradalom különböző interpretációit. A Déltengeri Társaság történetének, az adósság-részvény csere lebonyolításának és a korabeli vélemények spektrumának ismertetése után áttekintést ad arról, milyen módon és céllal használták fel az 1720-as eseményeket közgazdászok és történészek saját magyarázataikban. Ezek skálája a tudatos csalástól a befektetők irracionális mániáján át a racionális buborék kialakulásáig terjed. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B19, B29, E65, G01, N01, N13, N23.
B19|Efficiency and Equity in Anarchy and Other Historical Social Systems: A Simple Exploratory Model|We propose a model where a two-person society is considered. We study the allocations generated by a system where life is organised on the basis of economic principles consistent with the ideas of the anarchist philosophers of the 19th and 20th centuries. The «anarchic model» turns out to be, in general, inefficient in terms of allocations, as opposed to the system generated by the capitalistic firms and by a «communist» organisation; on the other hand, in anarchy the equity principle, interpreted as symmetry in allocations, always obtains.
B19|Ресурсная Теория Системной Организации Экономики<BR>[The Resource-Based View and the System Organization of Economy]|In this article the substantive provisions of the resource-based theory are generalized, modified and transferred from population of firms on population of any economic systems (firm, corporation, clusters, business groups, economic projects, processes, environments, etc.). The concept of competitive advantages of economic system is generalized. In appropriate way, that gives the chance to speak about advantages of the given system not only in case of competitive, but also in case of cooperation or other kinds of mutual relations between systems. It is shown that the space and time can be considered as base (primary) kinds of resources of economic system and system potential on their effective utilization — as its base capabilities. This approach allows to reveal and investigate base structures of steady groupings of the economic systems arising in connection with an exchange by base resources and capabilities and providing steady functioning of these groups and economy as a whole.
B19|Relaţii Diplomatice Româno-Portugheze (1919-1933). Martinho De Brederode - Ambasador La Bucureşti<BR>[Romanian-Portuguese Diplomatic Relations (1919-1933). Martinho De Brederode - Ambassador in Bucharest]|"Romanian Abstract: Problematica relaţiilor internaţionale este una de actualitate şi de interes pentru istoriografia europeană, având la bază cunoaşterea legăturilor dintre state, fie ele politice, economice, culturale, militare, religioase etc. În România, în ultimii ani, s-a înregistrat o dezvoltare prodigioasă a cercetărilor ştiinţifice privind relaţiile diplomatice ale statului român cu statele Europei sau ale lumii. Au apărut numeroase lucrări de specialitate, rezultate ale cercetătorilor consacraţi sau ale tinerilor doctoranzi, aflaţi în căutarea ineditului, interesaţi să privească dincolo de graniţele României. Schimbarea regimului politic din România, după 1989, a permis studenţilor şi intelectualilor români să se alăture şi ei efortului de a se rupe din îmbrăţişarea sovietică şi de a se reuni cu cealaltă Europă, cea occidentală. Programele europene, prin bursele oferite, au creat cadrul favorabil studierii în Europa şi pentru studenţii cu mai puţine posibilităţi materiale. În 2003 am beneficiat şi noi de o asemenea oportunitate şi am ales ca destinaţie Universitatea din Coimbra, Portugalia. Aici am cunoscut oameni deosebiţi, colegi extraordinari, profesori dispuşi dialogului şi înclinaţi spre ideea sprijinirii tinerilor cercetători. Sistemul universitar exigent în egală măsură cu toţi studenţii, indiferent de naţionalitatea acestora, a ridicat pretenţia prezentării unor proiecte bazate pe materiale de arhivă, inedite. A fost primul nostru contact cu Arhivele Diplomatice din Ministerul Afacerilor Externe, de la Lisabona. Astfel, a apărut ideea prezentei lucrări, în fapt teza noastră de doctorat: Din istoria relaţiilor diplomatice româno-portugheze. Martinho de Brederode – diplomat (1919-1933). Aria cercetării noastre s-a extins, pe de o parte, asupra relaţiilor bilaterale în contextul relaţiilor internaţionale şi al politicii generale portugheze faţă de Balcani, iar pe de altă parte am insistat asupra raporturilor directe dintre România şi Portugalia, având drept reper în demersul nostru corespondenţa şi activitatea diplomatică a Ministrului portughez Martinho de Brederode. English Abstract: The book analyzes the Portugal bilateral relations with countries in Europe, Africa and Asia, in the international context of the late nineteenth century and beginning of the twentieth century, through the diplomatic activity carried by Martinho de Brederode. His correspondence, along with other published and unpublished sources consulted, gives the researcher the opportunity to outline the general Portuguese policy towards the Balkan nations and highlight the direct relationship stablished between Romania and Portugal, highlighting the ""difficulties in the international promotion of Romanian interests of the time, but the manner in which diplomats in Bucharest understood or wanted to understand the reality de facto"". Martinho de Brederode begins his career as official of the Lusitanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 20 April 1889, with a mission to attach to the Portuguese Legation in Brussels. His career continued with the appointment in Tanger (Marocco), Peking (Macao), Paris, Rome, and finally in the Balkans (Romania, Serbia and Greece)."
B19|Entrepreneurs Historiques De L’Industrie Du Luxe Gabriel Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Helena Rubinstein Et Nicole-Barbe Clicquot-Ponsardin Historical Entrepreneurs In Luxury Industry Gabriel Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Helena Rubinstein And Nicole-Barbe Clicquot-Ponsardin|Si l’histoire du luxe, comme activité artisanale, est très longue, d’un autre côté, l’industrie du luxe est très récente. A la fin du 19ème siècle, quelques entrepreneurs ont créé une nouvelle logique économique. Nicole-barbe Ponsardin-Clicquot (Champagne), Louis Vuitton (bagages), Helena Rubinstein (cosmétiques) et Gabrielle Chanel (haute couture) ont créé des entreprises dynamiques, même elles font à l’heure actuelle de groupes multinationaux, comme LVMH par exemple. Dans ce papier, notre objectif est de décrire les grandes étapes de leur réussite. Pour réaliser cet objectif, nous nous basons sur le concept du potentiel de ressources de l’entrepreneur qui combine trois éléments : connaissances, ressources financières et capital social. Nous voulons montrer que l’activité entrepreneuriale – en tant qu’activité économique spécifique – est encastrée dans un contexte social. If the history of luxury as craft activity is very long, on the other hand, the luxury industry is very young. At the end of 19th century, some entrepreneurs created a new economic logic. Nicole-Barbe Ponsardin-Clicquot (Champagne), Louis Vuitton (luggage), Helena Rubinstein (cosmetics) and Gabrielle Chanel (haute couture) have developed dynamic enterprises which always exist, even if today they are a part of multinational groups, as LVMH for example. In this paper, we aim to describe the main steps of their success. For this reason, we have based this paper on the concept potential of resources of the entrepreneur which combines three elements: knowledge, financial resources and social capital. We want to show that the entrepreneurial activity – as a specific economic activity - is embodied in a social context.
B19|Les entreprises de l’économie sociale et solidaire : des entreprises comme les autres ? L’exemple de Mondragon et de Eurasa. Analyse à partir des outils de la théories de la firme ARE NON PROFIT ENTREPRISES LIKE THE OTHERS ? THE EXAMPLES OF MONDRAGON AND EURESA ANALYSIS BASED ON THE TOOLS OF THE THEORY OF THE FIRM|L'objectif des entreprises de l'économie sociale et solidaire est théoriquement de contribuer à l'amélioration du bien-être social. Dans les faits, nous constatons cependant que leur comportement réside dans la recherche du profit et la conquête de nouveaux marchés. Dans une économie basée sur la concurrence, le comportement des firmes a des points communs : faire des profits, stratégies de croissance et innovation. L'étude de Montragon et d'Euresa est riche d'enseignements. La théorie de la firme apporte des outils d'analyse. Si certains économistes ont fortement critiqué la théorie néo-classique de la firme en montrant que les firmes n'avaient pas un seul objectif (maximiser leur profit), ils n'ont pas cependant affirmé que l'entreprise ne pouvait pas ne pas faire de profit. Theoretically, the objective of non-profit (or social) enterprises is to contribute to the social welfare. Nevertheless, in the facts, we observe that they have to achieve profit and to conquest new markets. In an economy based on competition, the behaviours of the enterprises have common traits: making profit, strategies of growth and of innovation. We can draw several lessons from the study of Mondragon and Euresa cases. The theory of the firm gives analyzing tools. If some economists have criticized the neo-classical theory of the firm, to show that firms not only have one goal (to maximize their profit), they also explain that firms can't exist without making profits.
B19|The Stabilising Role Of The Fiscal And Budgetary Policies Within The Simplified Keynesian Model|The purpose of the paper is to investigate the fiscal and budgetary policies using the simplified Keynesian model. It focuses on the imbalance in the fiscal and budgetary policies trying to justify the rationality of the deficits: the political strategic aspect to leave a hardto- administrate legacy, and the inter-party conflict, which may influence the budgetary decisions of the government. The purpose of the presentation is to show the stabilizing role of the public budget in relation with the full employment goal.
B19|Silvio Gesell: 'a strange, unduly neglected' monetary theorist|Given the renewed interest in negative interest rates as method for removing the floor to nominal interest rates, this article offers a concise review of Gesell's life, work and its place in the history of economic thought. It provides a brief biographical sketch of Gesell, demonstrating both his relative prominence as a social reformer during the interwar years as well as his close affiliation with anarchism. The article then gives a concise summary of Gesell's theory of effective demand and interest as expounded in the Natural Economic Order, the former being neglected by most scholars working on the subject. Finally, it is demonstrated that Keynes endorsement of Gesell as a strange, unduly neglected prophet is another piece of evidence for rejecting Hick's classic interpretation of the General Theory. If one takes Keynes extensive discussion of Gesell's theory of interest as a key for understanding the General Theory, Keynes main innovation of General Theory becomes a monetary theory of interest based on uncertainty that results in liquidity preference. The limited literature on Keynes' link to Gesell, published mainly in the 1940s, has however been widely ignored in the debate about the General Theory.
B19|Catholic perspectives on poverty and misery : from nineteenth century French catholic social economists to the contribution of jesuits|The first generation of Catholic social economists, which also included some moral philosophers, put forward a coherent view of economic problems, according to natural law and to the Gospel of the Catholic Church. They studied the causes of the increasingly unequal distribution of income in the processes of industrialisation and identified the need for regulatory institutions to limit the misery of the working class. They considered charity and personal relationships as the main remedy to the problem of misery, but they became progressively open to state intervention to insure a more coherent regulation of the bodies responsible for organising redistribution.
B19|L’inégalité au temps de l’égalité : démocratie, industrialisation et paupérisme chez Alexis de Tocqueville|Tocqueville has been described as nostalgic of former times and aristocracy. According to this view, his criticisms of democracy show his preference for aristocratic societies. Here I try to show that it is not nostalgia, but his acute perception of the advantages and shortcomings of democracy that underlies Tocqueville’s reasoning. His analysis of pauperism illustrates the realism that characterizes his writings and that prevents him not only from being a nostalgic but also from being blinded by the advances of history. This text explores the sources of conflict between the rich and the poor which Tocqueville presents in order to show the risk in the increase in the number of poor workers and the possible emergence of a new aristocracy separated from the political community.
B19|Tengri on Mars|What would happen if every individual knew what to do, and did, without prompting or expecting a reward? Is that not what the authors of Republic and Utopia had in mind? Is that not the primary justification of theocracies? The immediate objection to that postulate is that human nature is not suitable for team activities at all times. There is such a conception as individualism and that is the quality abetting creativity that marks humanism. Besides, the definition of human rights guarantees freedom of choice not to cooperate if one chooses against it.
B19|La Rerum Novarum dalla fine del XIX all'inizio del XXI secolo|To the contemporary historian, Rerum Novarum is a socio-political event. I will take it at its word and study it for its content rather than its impact. If the Church failed to return to the centre of European affairs, this must be due to its failure to suggest a constructive approach to socialism and industrialisation. The anthropology espoused by RN is a caricature version of Thomism: man is moved by impulses that are self-justfying - inasmuch as they are natural - and provide the foundations for individual rights, especially, property rights. Together with the fact of men’s inequality, deemed both ineluctable and socially providential, this would make for a harmonious hierarchical society, which is indeed the ideal RN extols. But it cannot explain the industrial revolution, nor the creation of wealth, nor the much feared unfolding of social conflict. This is why the RN policy proposals are so weak and anachronistic.
B19|Is H.A. Simon a theoretician of decentralized planning? A comparison with F.A. Hayek on planning, market, and organizations|No abstract is available for this item.
B19|Financial Problems In A.D. Xenopol’S Work|Many of Xenopol’s studies, articles and economic papers fully prove his permanent interest in this area, so important for the life of a country.. This fact urged him to look into the economic state of his people, to search for its causes and formulate solutions, some of them among the most realistic ones, for its improvement, for the reduction of the gap that separated us from the most economically developed countries
B19|Banking Problems In A.D. Xenopol'S Work|Many of Xenopol's studies, articles and economic papers fully prove his permanent interest in this area, so important for the life of a country. By means of the measures suggested, he intended to give a new orientation to the economic development of agriculture, industry and commerce in the financial-banking field as a premise for the growth of the people's living standard, but also as a necessary condition for the political and cultural progress. In their essence, all these measures were intended to change the structure of Romania's economy.
B19|Banks' Reserves' Restrictions and Economic Performance in Sudan (2007-2009)|The paper analyzes the impacts of Islamic and conventional Banks reserves' restrictions in Sudan. Comprehensively, those restrictions are necessary for health banks, performance and the viability of the macroeconomic performance in any country. The selected period of the analysis (2007-2009) is vital to study impacts of the Global Financial Crisis on the Sudanese economy. The paper introduces available data on banks institutions, macroeconomic policies and the central Bank of Sudan considering its part on controlling money supply and demand besides drawing policies for banks behaviors. It is conceivable from my conclusions here that there are conflicts between conventional and Islamic banks in reserves restrictions that impede normalized bank rules and the Central Sudan Bank's limitations during feasible financial and economic crisis. Thus, the slow and ineffective responses to the Global Financial crisis, in fact the failure can be due to those conflicts between the two banking regimes. Compared with other Islamic banking institutions that complied to recommended responses to the crisis that Sudanese case reveals differently. The Islamic banks could not respond effectively due to the so imposed interest rates on the required monetary subsidy from the Sudan Central Bank. Moreover, the deprivation of the oil revenues to the latter limited its abilities to support both the conventional and Islamic banks of the country. The results were manifested in their limited ability to cater for the required financing to the real productive economic sectors of Sudan. The consequent crisis of the year 2011 is a direct result of that lamed ability to finance the production sectors and their collapse in contributing to the stricken Sudanese economy.
B19|Empresarios Y Empresas Del Ayer En Michoacán. Contexto Y Aspectos Generales Sobre Las Cadenas Productivas Del Aceite Y Harina, 1930-1960|Este trabajo problematiza algunos factores insertos en las cadenas productivas del aceite y la harina en Michoacán (particularmente lo transformado en Morelia) durante el modelo de sustitución de importaciones en México (1930-1960). El texto plantea dos preguntas: ¿cuál fue la política económica y las condiciones estatales y federales para el desempeño de dichas cadenas productivas? ¿En qué consistió la estrategia empresarial para el desarrollo de las mismas? El documento se divide en dos partes, en la primera se bosqueja el modelo de sustitución de importaciones que guió a la industrialización mexicana, proceso del cual se destaca el escenario prevaleciente en Michoacán para el despunte de los encadenamientos agroindustriales; en la segunda parte se aborda la estrategia de un pequeño grupo de empresarios michoacanos que invirtieron su capital en las diferentes actividades derivadas de la producción de aceites comestibles y harinas elaboradas en la entidad.
B19|The Sociological School of Italian Science of Finance: A Retrospective View|A recent book by McLure analyses Italian economic thought in the early 20th century with breference to the school of fiscal sociology, consisting of a number of Italian economists who shared the views of Vilfredo Pareto on public finance. These Italian economists sought ways to explain choices of public finance utilizing 12. Sull’evoluzione recente delle metodologie dell’analisi economica delle scelte collettive rimando a Di Majo e De Chiara (2009) e alla letteratura ivi richiamata. a paradigm other than the neoclassical approach. This phase ended in the 1930s, and mainstream public finance adopted a neoclassical approach. However the heritage of Italian unorthodox thinkers, associated with both the Paretian approach, can be found in the issues considered in more recent developments.
B19|Globalisation of Stone Tools and Beginnings of Mechanical Processing of Polymers|Based on research on influence of rubber and plastics on globalization, an interesting question arose: can we define the first globalization way of material culture? Manufacturing of first stone tools can be seen at the site of Gona, Ethiopia (dated to 2,6 million years ago), followed by several sites including the evidence from West Turkana in Kenya (2,74 - 1.94 million years ago), Olduvai in Tanzania and Sterkfontain in South Africa (2 - 1,6 million years ago). The products found at the sites were simple stone choppers, chopping tools and flakes. We used synthesiological approach and combined the knowledge from archaeology, production technology and the field of polymers in order to approach the interesting question relating to the aforementioned finds: for which purpose these tools were used? Firstly, the manufactured stone tools were used for procedures such as breaking of the natural polymers: e.g. crushing of the larger bones in order to obtain the marrow, and for butchering of animals.
B19|Retrospectives: Trouble in the Inaugural Issue of the American Economic Review: The Cross/Eaves Controversy|"The papers from the first year of the American Economic Review are included in the Archives of the American Economic Association. While researching the early years of the AEA, Ann Mari May came across a folder marked ""Controversies, Criticisms, etc.""-which stood out in the midst of a review of AEA minutes and reports. This folder included a bulky file on what AER Editor Davis Rich Dewey would come to refer to as the ""Cross/Eaves Controversy""-a controversy that, according to a letter he wrote, would give him ""no end of trouble."" The trouble erupted with a book review that appeared in the first issue of the American Economic Review. The review, written by Ira Cross, addressed a book by Lucile Eaves entitled A History of California Labor Legislation. The controversy that ensued illustrates the eternally fascinating interaction of the reviewer and the reviewed and casts a revealing light on the era's standards and rituals of scholarly conduct, on the drawing of disciplinary boundaries as economics became a more distinct academic discipline, and on the differing treatment of men and women in the academic life of the time."
B19|Dois Momentos para a Teoria Cartalista da Moeda De Knapp a Goodhart|O objetivo deste artigo é fazer um estudo da teoria cartalista da moeda em dois momentos da história do pensamento econômico. O primeiro se inicia em 1905 com a publicação de The State Theory of Money de Knapp, abrangendo também trabalhos de Keynes,Weber e Lerner. O segundo momento refere-se a retomada da teoria por Goodhart em 1998 e posteriormente por autores pós-keynesianos. A consideração do hiato de tempo que separa os dois momentos permite fazer um estudo em separado para os dois momentos, observando os principais pontos e as hipóteses adotadas, assim como permite categorizar as críticas recebidas pela teoria. Consequentemente pode-se verificar se a teoria no segundo momento responde aos pontos críticos observados no primeiro. Além de uma Introdução, compõem este artigo duas subseções para o estudo em cada um dos momentos seguidas de uma breve Conclusão.
B19|A comparison of the processes of institutionalisation of political economy in Spain and Italy (1860-1900)|The institutionalisation of political economy, this is, the processes through which political economy turned into a scholarly discipline, has become a field of increasing interest in the realm of the history of economic thought. The analysis of the evolution of these processes has been made through the study of the presence and significance of political economy in some key institutions, considered the pillars of the diffusion of economics in Western societies in the second half of the 19th century and first decades of the 20th: universities, economic associations, economic periodical publications and the national parliaments. This paper presents a comparison between the development of the process of institutionalisation of political economy in Spain and Italy, through the study of the presence of political economy in the aforementioned set of institutions in both countries in the period 1860-1900. Its aim is to assess the existence of a common path in the development of this process in both countries. This would be a starting point in order to test the existence of a model of institutionalisation of economics in this period.
B19|Fran ois Perroux, a precursor of the current analyses of power|Despite its important contributions to economic thought, namely in the field of spatial economics and economics of development, FranÃ§ois Perroux, one of the most important French economists of the 20st century, remains today poorly appreciated and frequently unrecognized. This paper tends to show how unfair is this deficit of recognition. We underline PerrouxÃ­s illuminating views on asymmetry, domination and power which can be considered as a prefiguration and Ã± to some extent Ã± as a generalization of works made in this field half a century later, for example the American realist and neo-realist approaches of power (namely the concepts of hard and soft power) or by Susan Strange (with his concept of structural power).
B19|Buborékok és legendák. Válságok és válságmagyarázatok - a tulipánmánia és a Déltengeri Társaság, I. rész<BR>[Bubbles and myths, crises and explanations: tulip mania and the South Sea bubble. I]|"A 2007 óta kibontakozó válság újból divatba hozta a korai buborékok és válságok témáját. A jelenlegi válság nyomán újraéledtek a makroökónómiai viták, kétségessé vált a ""nagy mérséklődés"" és az újklasszikus szintézis érvényessége. Az 1634-1637 közötti holland tulipánmánia - mint az első buborék - sokféle értelmezése ismeretes: a tömeghisztéria kitörésétől a hatékony pénzügyi piacok korai példáján át a kulturális sokkig. Áttekintve ezeket, a cikk visszavezeti a tulipánmánia közismert anekdotikus leírásait az eredeti forrásokig, és megmutatja, milyen módon és céllal használták fel ezeket a közgazdászok és történészek saját elemzéseikben. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B19, E65, E66, N01, N23."
B19|Ekonomie a štěstí<BR>[Economics and happiness - an overview]|In this paper I am trying to provide the reader with a brief overview of contemporary discussion about recently frequently mentioned topic of economics and happiness. In the last few years the number of publications related to happiness from the economic perspective growth exponentially. As the importance of this topic seems to grow significantly, I modestly intend to provide Czech public with a very starting reference point for further research in this field. In the first part I sum up the basic terms of subjective well-being and Easterlin paradox and give an overview of the most striking empirical observations. The second part shortly describes approach to the happiness problem of selected key historical personalities, namely Aristotle, Smith and Genovesi. In the third part I outline present key challenge for the economic theory - tackling with the reciprocity phenomenon.
B19|Après l’Est, l’Ouest. L’effondrement des puissants vu du Sud (After the East, the West. The collapse of the great powers, from the southern perspective)|Pour beaucoup, le Tiers monde victime de la puissance économique des pays industriels et de leurs théories économiques. Vu du Sud, l’intégrisme planificateur et le fondamentalisme de marché sont obsolètes. Quel modèle pour le Tiers monde ? Retrouver les solidarités perdues, revoir le politique « par le bas ». For many economists, the Third World is the victim of the economic power of industrial countries and of their economic theories. Seen from the South, the Planification “integrism” and the market “fundamentalism” are obsolete. What is the best model for the Third World? Recovering the lost solidarity, reviewing the policy “from the bottom”.
B19|The Laspeyres-Paradox: tax overshifting in nineteenth century Prussia|Following the seminal work of the late nineteenth century economist Etienne Laspeyres I analyse the incidence of the Prussian milling and slaughter tax shortly before its repeal in 1875. A comparison of flour prices in cities which levied this tax with those that did not reveals unusually strong tax overshifting. Modern theories explain overshifting of a specific tax with quality improvements or imperfect competition. In pursuing these ideas I find that it was rather large surplus costs induced by tax collection and monitoring that caused unusually large excess burdens. The reason why the tax remained basically unchanged for more than half a century is that the urban bourgeoisie successfully prevented its repeal, as the alternative would have been the introduction of municipal direct taxes (rent-seeking behaviour).
B19|El lugar de la nueva economía política en la ciencia económica|El presente artículo pretende ubicar a la Nueva Economía Política como una corriente de pensamiento económico alimentada de trabajos y corrientes anteriores, identifica sus fuentes originarias, sus campos de estudio, y metodologías para el entendimiento del desarrollo de las sociedades y de las reglas que las mismas conciben como resultado de la toma de decisiones. El artículo muestra las causas que inducen mayor relacionamiento de la ciencia con otras de carácter social, y el momento actual de la corriente junto a su separación de otras a través de la definición de sus aspectos teóricos. La parte final identifica la forma en que la NEP examina la realidad económica de una forma transversal diferente a la corriente principal, a través del estudio de diversas formas de abordar el entendimiento del desarrollo económico y social de las naciones.
B19|Poverty Measurement: The Development of Different Approaches and Its Techniques|This work concentrates in the fundamental ideas that constitute the existing theoretical framework of the poverty measurement from the 1960’s to the state-of-the-art, with an extended comment on the more relevant issues, the presentation of more influencing approaches and the probable path of future research in Poverty Economics
B19|Ibn Abd al-Wahhab and his economic ideas|In an attempt to investigate Muslim economic thinking in the 12th century Hijrah, corresponding 18th century AD, the present paper explores economic ideas of one of the greatest Muslim personalities of the period, Muhammad b. Abd al-Wahhab (1115-1206/1703-1792), who is commonly known as revivalist and renovator of religious beliefs and practices. The paper discovers that he had deep insights in financial matters who managed the public finance of the first Saudi State.1 At the outset, to provide a background knowledge of the personality of Ibn Abd al-Wahhab, the paper sheds light on time and environment in which he lived, his life and work, and his impact. The paper is an initiative that aims to fillip research into unexplored areas. There is need to carry out thorough research into economic ideas of Ibn Abd al-Wahhab and his contemporaries.
B19|Theoretical Framework Of Competition As Applied To Banking Industry|Concepts evolve through time and over time they assume different meanings. The concept of competition is no exception. This paper discusses the evolution of the concept of competition in general with a view to derive a theoretical framework for analyzing competition in banking industry. Starting from the classical notions of competition it proceeds to some of the latest approaches (Northcott (2004), Neuberger (1998), Toolsema (2003), Bolt and Tieman (2001)). The ordinary Structure-Conduct-Performance approach does not involve any analysis of market dynamics. Our approach introduces various aspects of industry dynamics and growth. It provides a methodology to arrive at the market form in banking industry through an analysis of all the aspects of basic conditions, structure, conduct and performance. It is argued that sustained growth and dynamics of the industry is not price led. Growth arises out of changing basic conditions and dynamics arises out of sharing the new market created by basic conditions. Hence the prime mover of competition is rivalry among firms to control market share and to internalize externalities rather than adjustments brought about by the price mechanism.
B19|Ciclo económico de Colombia|La teoría austriaca del ciclo económico se fundamenta en mecanismosde transmisión monetaria para explicar los auges y las recesiones. Deacuerdo a los postulados austriacos, los mercados son procesos dinámicosde interacción entre los agentes económicos, en los cuales no se identificauna situación de coordinación general entre los planes de consumo o deproducción en el tiempo. La razón de esta imposibilidad es la asimetríade información. Así, el sistema económico se moviliza en dos tendencias:el desequilibrio, fruto de la ausencia de información completa, y otra deequilibrio, que se basa en la lógica del agente en generar oportunidadesde beneficio económico. A partir de esta postura se analiza la relaciónexistente entre las variables reales y monetarias de la economía colombianaen el período 1990-2005, a través de un análisis gráfico y de un modelode cointegración.
B19|Ciclo económico de Colombia: una mirada desde la teoría austriaca (1994-2004)|ResumenLa teoría austriaca del ciclo económico se fundamenta en mecanismos de transmisión monetaria para explicar los auges y las recesiones. De acuerdo a los postulados austriacos, los mercados son procesos dinámicos de interacción entre los agentes económicos, en los cuales no se identifica una situación de coordinación general entre los planes de consumo o de producción en el tiempo. La razón de esta imposibilidad es la simetría de información. Así, el sistema económico se moviliza en dos tendencias: el desequilibrio, fruto de la ausencia de información completa, y otra de equilibrio, que se basa en la lógica del agente en generar oportunidades de beneficio económico. A partir de esta postura se analiza la relación existente entre las variables reales y monetarias de la economía colombiana en el período 1990-2005, a través de un análisis gráfico y de un modelo de concentración.Abstract: The Austrian Business Cycle Theory is founded on monetary transmission mechanisms in order to explain peaks and troughs in the business cycle. According to Austrian postulates, markets are dynamic interaction processes among economic agents, in which a general situation of coordination between consumption and production plans through time is not identified. Asymmetric information is deemed to be the cause of such impossibility. Thus, the economic system fluctuates according to two tendencies: disequilibrium, caused by the absence of complete information, and equilibrium, based on the agent´s innate sense of generating opportunities for economic benefits. Based on these ideas, the existing relationship between real and monetary variables in the Colombian economy between 1990 and 2005 is analyzed. This is done though a graphical analysis and a through a model of co-integration
B19|El costo de uso del capital y la inversión en Colombia 1990 - 2007|ResumenEste documento presenta un cálculo del Costo de uso del capital para Colombia en el periodo 1990-2007. Seguidamente, contrasta este cálculo con la dinámica de la inversión en el mismo periodo. Se encuentra que la relación entre inversión y costo de uso es muy estrecha, y se comprueba que el enorme crecimiento de la inversión en los últimos periodos está asociado a niveles bajos y estables del costo de uso del capital.AbstractThis paper presents the construction of the use cost of capital for the Colombian economy in 1990-2007. Then, this calculation is contrasted with the dynamic of investment in the same period. It is found that the relation between investment and use cost of capital is very narrow, and it is proved that the large growth of investment in the last periods is associated with low and stable levels of the use cost of capital
B19|Perception of market and pricing among the sixteenth century Muslim scholars|The present paper investigates the perception of market and mechanism of pricing among the sixteenth century Muslim scholars, a period hitherto unexplored. In the commencement it briefly states the insufficient attention that the subject of market – the most fundamental element of Economics – has received in the conventional economics. To set a proper perspective it examines the situation in the Islamic tradition in earlier centuries before it studies the understanding of market and pricing among the Muslim scholars of the study period. It also deals with their stand regarding the price regulation. For comparison purpose, it examines the treatment of market and pricing in the work of their contemporary Western scholars. The paper ends with a note on 'just price', one of the most important economic concepts in the medieval period.
B19|Exit, voice, and loyalty in international organizations: US involvement in the League of Nations|No abstract is available for this item.
B19|El Sistema De La Simpatía De Adam Smith: Una Alternativa Liberal Olvidada Por John Rawls|John Rawls, uno de los más influyentes filósofos contemporáneos, nos hizo volver a pensar en términos de justicia. Desde el comienzo del desarrollo de su teoría, Rawls intentó establecer un diálogo con los economistas porque creía que tenían un enorme ascendiente sobre nuestros proyectos de sociedad. Así, Rawls identifica la historia de la teoría económica, desde sus inicios, con la del utilitarismo. La economía, para Rawls, como resultado de desarrollos utilitaristas podía ejercer una influencia negativa sobre la construcción de una sociedad liberal. Rawls presenta entonces su Teoría de la Justicia como Equidad o como Imparcialidad como una alternativa frente al utilitarismo, haciendo reflexionar a los economistas no sólo sobre su historia si no también sobre la justicia de los arreglos institucionales que presentan. Según Rawls, el utilitarismo es una base pobre para la construcción de una sociedad pluralista y democrática. El utilitarismo falla por su incapacidad de reconocer la diferencia entre individuos. Rawls considera que esta falla proviene de una figura que fusiona los deseos individuales: el espectador imparcial. Este texto muestra que la crítica de Rawls parte de una equivalencia infundada. El espectador imparcial, figura central de la teoría de Adam Smith, no corresponde al legislador utilitarista de Jeremy Bentham. Sólo homologando estas figuras, puede Rawls extender su crítica del utilitarismo a Adam Smith. Analizar el sistema de la simpatía de Smith muestra que esta homologación lleva a la pérdida de una teoría verdaderamente liberal, respetuosa de la autonomía individual y del contexto histórico.
B19|Mill on Slavery, Property Rights and Paternalism|"J. S. Mill's statement that ""an engagement by which a person should sell himself, or allow himself to be sold, as a slave would be null and void; neither enforced by law nor by opinion"" has sparked a lively debate on his supposed paternalism and on its consistency with his views on individual liberty. Mill consistently opposed slavery as an iniquity. However, his critique was also founded on the principle that certain property rights should neither be recognized nor protected. The example he chose was very unusual (people in his day did not sell themselves as slaves); its importance lies in the analogy with marriage and the practical impossibility of a divorce being obtained by the vast majority of women at that time. The essence of Mill's argument would thus be antipaternalistic: society ought not to enforce a kind of contract (indissoluble marriage) that limits the individual liberty of women in order to further the family as an institution that is supposedly good for them. This is not to say that in other matters (such as colonialism) Mill might not be charged with inconsistent paternalism."
B19|Efectos Ambientales y Socieconómicos de los Procesos Productivos del Café y del Banano: Una Mirada Multifactorial|Resumen:Durante el siglo XX y hasta la actualidad la produccion del sector agricola y en particular de los subsectores de cafe y banano han jugado un importante papel en la economia antioquena, tanto en la generacion de empleo y divisas, como en la construccion de una cultura asociada a ambos sectores. Las investigaciones realizadas por diversas instituciones en ambos subsectores si bien han orientado la introduccion de mejoras en la produccion, han dejado de lado un analisis comparativo de ambos subsectores con miras a la identificacion politicas propendan por el mejoramiento conjunto de ambos procesos productivos en aspectos de indole socioeconomico, y ambiental. El articulo presenta los resultados y conclusiones de un analisis comparativo de los procesos productivos del cafe y el banano en el departamento de Antioquia, desde los aspectos socioeconomico y ambiental, haciendo uso de una metodologia de analisis factorial (cuantitativo).Abstract: During the XX century and until the present time coffee and banana agricultural sectors have had an important roll in the economy of Antioquia, no only in the employment generation and foreign currencies but also in the construction of a culture associated to both of them. In socioeconomic and environmental aspects, this paper presents the results and conclusions of a comparative analysis of coffee and banana productive processes in the Antioquia department, using the factorial analysis methodology.
B19|"The history of the economic thought in the test of the ""universalism"" of Othmar Spann"|"The Austrian economist Othmar Spann (1878-1950) proposes term ""universalism"" to qualify, in opposition to the ""individualism"", the doctrine and the method consisting in putting in first totality, society, in the logical order of ""functional"" analysis of economic facts. Spann applies then this universalist approach to his reading of the history of the economic thought. He sets so a lineage of universalist economists (Müller, Fichte, Baader, Stein, List, Thünen, Roscher, Hildebrand, Knies, Bernhardi, Schmoller) against the lineage of the individualistic economists (Smith, Ricardo, Rau, Say, Menger, Jevons)."
B19|Combating Poverty Through Self Reliance: The Islamic Approach|Poverty comes at the head of man’s present plight hence, the need to combat it. Self-reliance as a mean of eradicating poverty has become a concept central to Nigeria’s policy in recent years. The major problem of the policy however, is that its approach lacks ethics, juridical elements, divine regulations, and ability to shape and direct the attitude and behaviour of the people toward it, which make it difficult for them to embrace it with deserved seriousness. Many Nigerians do not recognise their religious and moral obligation to become self-reliant and economically independent. The objective of this paper is to examine the Islamic approach to self-reliance as a means of combating poverty. The paper is a literature survey and data is presented based on direct deductions from the Qur’an and Sunnah (the sayings, deeds and approvals of the Prophet) and on the writings of prominent scholars. The paper confirms that self-reliance, as a means of combating poverty is embedded in the Islamic economic system. It also posits that dependence of any able effortless person on somebody else for a livelihood is a religious sin, social stigma and disgraceful humility. The paper further identifies work and strives as the first weapon for alleviating poverty. The paper finally recommends that the Islamic approach to self-reliance as a means of eradicating poverty be implemented as an alternative to the secular approach as that will go a long way in eradicating poverty in Nigeria.
B19|A Visão De Keynes Do Sistema Econômico Como Um Todo Orgânico Complexo|This paper is intended to underline the proximity between Keynes´s approach and the so-called complexity approach, which has been recently incorporated into economics. One of the central ideas of the complexity approach is that individual actions have unintended overall consequences as a result of a self-organization process, which in turn allows the functioning of the system. Keynes, in turn, played around with the idea of unintended consequences of individual actions, as his analysis of the paradox of parcimony testifies. However, it is argued that the complexity of the economy, from Keynes´s perspective, is firstly related to the complexity of human behavior. Besides, it is suggested that Keynes´s view of the economy as a complex organism was also born under the influence of the philosopher G. E. Moore.
B19|Movilidad social en el asentamiento subnormal de Ranchos del Inat 2004|En este documento se cuantificó la movilidad social educativa en el asentamiento subnormal de Ranchos del Inat, entre padres e hijos, por dos métodos. Primero se determinaron las probabilidades que tienen los hijos de superar la educación de sus padres, a partir del nivel educativo alcanzado por ellos. Segundo se construyeron matrices de transición por medio de un modelo probit ordenado con un nivel de confianza del 95%. Una vez establecida esta matriz se empleó la metodología de Shorrocks para calcular el índice de movilidad social intergeneracional educativa. Finalmente, para correlacionar los niveles educacionales con la ocupación tanto de padres como de hijos, se utilizó la metodología de análisis multivariado con graficas de asociación. Los resultados muestran que en esta comunidad existe una alta movilidad social educativa (0,7675), como la movilidad se presenta en los niveles más bajos de educación, esto no significa que las posibilidades de los hijos de salir de la pobreza sean altas. Se encontró que existe una correlación entre los niveles educativos más bajos con ocupaciones poco productivas, lo que permite concluir que la comunidad de Ranchos del Inat se encuentra inmersa en la trampa de la pobreza.
B19|Una visión poskeynesiana del gasto público|La teoría económica contemporánea ofrece en términos generales, tres grandes líneas de pensamientopara estudiar los fenómenos y el comportamiento de las variables macroeconómicas. Los intentosde explicar y predecir se han polarizado alrededor de tres «modelos» diferentes , escuelas antagónicasy corrientes alternas, la mayoría de ellos, enmarcados dentro de la escuela neoclásica, los«poskeynesianos» y la síntesis neoclásica con sus tradicionales corrientes monetaristas y fiscalistas.Este trabajo intenta indagar la posición de la escuela poskeynesiana en cuanto a las variables fiscales,sin dejar de lado la esencia del model o y las implicaciones respecto del resto de variablesmacroeconómicas y sus posibles bondades en la aplicación de una visión distinta a la ortodoxa.
B19|Economic Agent in the Hegelian Philosophy of Right|In this paper our concern is to analyse the historical and logical conditions of possibility of economic agent as a modern figure of the individual. In his Philosophy of Right Hegel shows that if modern individual is able to act as an economic agent, as a Bürger, in the civil society the reason is that he is concurrently determined as citizen in his relation to the state. Individual receives these two identities, at the same time, when social space is divided into civil society and state. And this division is rigorously a modern phenomenon.
B19|I fondamenti di principio di un’economia islamica|The Quran is the primary source for the teachings and beliefs of Islam. While the community may change the social and economic policies inspired by Islamic values ??in order to meet the changing socio-economic needs of society, the basic principles of Islamic economics and the social system, however, must be preserved. It is expected that freely elected representatives to work together with the society to develop policies in support of economic and social stability, economic prosperity, public education, health care, economic fairness, of a fair distribution of income and a network social security. All Muslims physically and mentally skilled are required to work for their living, and those who have a sufficient level of wealth have an obligation to pay taxes that contribute to the financing of state welfare programs and other social benefits. Our illustration of the Islamic economic system is supported by many modern scholars of Islam and Islamic economics, however, does not agree completely with those offered by religious leaders and equipment related to a state authority.
B19|Claude-Henri de Saint-Simon, Industrialism and Bankers|"Saint-Simon's political scheme is structured by the following problematic: banking organises society. But banking functions are different in the former ""metaphysical and feudal system"" and in the new ""scientific and industrial system"". This change is a clue which enables to redefme Saint-Simon's ""industrialism"": a centralised corporatism describes a non monetary economy which differs from traditional institutions."
B19|Alexis de Tocqueville's idea of association|"A. de Tocqueville's writings deal largely with the idea of association. This idea is important in the two volumes of the Democracy in America, published respectively in 1835 and 1840, and it is also the same for the texts (of the period) that A. de Tocqueville dedicates to the pauperism. The association is defmed as an economic process which is able to bring an answer to the social question. This paper studies this thought of the association. We'll distinguish, on one hand, the solutions proposed for the problem of pauperism, and on the other hand, the doctrine of the ""interet bien entendu"" which underlies it."
B19|Braudel et Schumpeter : deux manières de voir le capitalisme ? (Braudel and Schumpeter : two different ways to consider capitalism ? )|Etudier le capitalisme peut se réaliser de façon fructueuse par la comparaison/confrontation d'auteurs comme Fernand Braudel et Joseph Schumpeter. Certes, le marché et le capitalisme sont imbriqués chez l'économiste, alors que chez l'historien les activités capitalistes ne constituent qu'une des modalités de l'échange au sein d'une tripartition. Néanmoins, dans les deux approches, les institutions, comme la monnaie et la concurrence, jouent un rôle fondamental. Le capitalisme connaît également un mouvement prenant la forme de cycles. Mais le moteur principal du système diffère : fondé sur l'entrepreneur chez Schumpeter, fruit d'un mouvement d'ensemble chez Braudel. Finalement, le rôle de l'individu constitue un des points de clivage entre ces deux analyses ouvertes sur les autres sciences sociales. Study of the capitalism can be made according to a profitable way by the comparison/opposition of authors like Fernand Braudel and Joseph Schumpeter. Indeed, the market and the capitalism are overlapped in the economist model, when in the historical model the capitalist activities are only one of the modalities of exchange in a tripartition. However, in the two models, institutions like money and concurrence play a fundamental role. Capitalism has also a motion with a cycle shape. But the main engine of the system defer : based on the entrepreneur in the Schumpeter model, resulted of a global motion in the Braudel model. Finally, the individual's role is one of the split between these two analyses open on the other social sciences.
B19|L'actuariat au siècle des Lumières. Risque et décision économiques et statistiques|During the 1780’s, some mathematicians addressed economic and statistical decision problems in the same way. Condorcet and Laplace in France, Tetens in Denmark applied a unique mathematical tool to compute both the bankruptcy probability of an insurance company and the estimation risk. Such analogy is clearly of mathematical nature. Tetens’ result eventually appear modest in comparison of Laplace’s accomplishment, nevertheless it shall be recalled that Laplace spent twenty years polishing the instrument which enabled him to give his masterwork. Laplace and Tetens were probably not aware of their respective work, and the concomitance of their research is all the more exceptional when one think of Richard Price. The Englishman, although he contributed to insurance theory and statistical estimation, did not perceive the formal similarity between these two subjects. Classification JEL : A12, B19, C11, D81.
B19|The Great Gatsby: Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Harvard, Oxford|Where did Fitzgerald get the idea of having Clay's Economics reside in Nick Carraway's library?
B19|Entre la modernidad y la represión: una aproximación a la sociedad inglesa antes de la primera guerra mundial|Based on literary sources and following Marshall Berman and Benedict Anderson’s theory, this article outlines some key tendencies of English society prior to World War I. Economic modernization and political imperialism emerged while the cultural avant garde (i.e. modernism) was pushed into the background. Religious, sexual and political repression completed the picture and supported the fear of inner ruptures and discontinuities related to the experience of modernity; in contrast, conventions and other mechanisms were used to create the illusion of continuity in their place.
B19|Conséquences anticipées et comportements face au risque dans la pensée économique de Jeremy Bentham|In this article, we study the motives which drive an entrepreneur to innovate according to Jeremy Bentham [1748-1832]. We show that the innovator, called at this time the projector, can be considered through the prism of the theory of expected utility, but not as a risk-lover: it is not the game and the risk that is attached to the innovation which attracts the projector, but, besides the pleasure associated to the profit, we shall note the importance of the pleasure to realize a project. Classification JEL : B190, B310, D810, M130
B19|Classical Political Economy through the Sieve of Dialectic Reason: the Hegelian Rereading|This article examines Hegel's analysis of the economic system in his mature philosophical work, the Philosophy of Right. It argues that this analysis is not grounded on the adoption and development of classic economic theses but on their dialectic reinterpretation. This particular logic of comprehension found the singularity of Hegel's view of the economic sphere and it's irreducibility to classical theses. The article explains how this logic leads the philosopher to underscore the inadequacies of market coordination and its necessary transcendence in the rational state. Then the article displays the originality of Hegel's articulation of civil society and state, like a mid line between planning and liberalism.
B19|The Tao of Laissez-Faire|The existence of the doctrine of laissez faire in Taoist philosophy is mentioned only briefly in the economics literature, and no attempt has been made in it to explain why the Taoists advocate laissez faire. This paper examines Taoist philosophy in order to answer this question, and shows that the vision of a spontaneous and harmonious natural order that lies at the heart of Taoist thought is conceptually very close to the natural order envisioned by classical economics. The doctrine of laissez faire thus has an Eastern as well as a Western philosophical foundation.
B19|An Ontology Of Economic Objects|Economic reality is constituted by economic objects such as goods, commodities, money, value, price, and exchange that, together, give rise to the complex entity known as the market. Each of these categories is governed by exact laws that provide the conditions for settling objectively whether individuals' views about an instance of any category indeed correspond to that category. This paper describes such laws for each category. The aim of this paper is to lay the groundwork for an ontological description of economic reality.
B19|La genealogía del liberalismo: una lectura económica del “Segundo Tratado sobre el Gobierno Civil” de John Locke|This paper presents an interpretation of John Locke’s theory of political society. After reviewing the differences between Locke‘s and Hobbes‘ ideas of individual, government and the importance of a rational discussion about the construction of political society, the article shows the role of individual freedom and consent as basis for explaining the situation of men in political society. The analysis of Locke´s social contract shows how the creation of government is the outcome of the search for economic efficiency, because it permits the reduction of transaction costs or what Locke calls “the inconveniences of the state of nature”.
B19|The schumpeterian paradox|"The schumpeterian paradox is an interpretation of the néo-schumpeterians which consider that the thought of J.A. Schumpeter is made conspicuous by a contradiction on the question of the relation between the size of the companies and their innovatives capacities. We reject this interpretation by showing a true theoretical unit. Only a ""slip"" from point of view appears on the methodological level, but nuances must also be brought."
B19|The Wage Curve: A Review|In The Wage Qurve, David G. Blancflower and Andrew J. Oswald argue that there is a fundamental negative relation between wages and the unemployment rate in a worker's local labor market. Blancflower and Oswald use large-scale micro data sets to estimate this relation for the United States, Britain, and 10 other countries. I review their empirical methods and findings, and provide some further evidence on the nature of the wage curve relationship in the United States. I conclude that there is a strong statistical correlation between rates of pay and local unemployment, although the interpretation of this correlation remains unresolved.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B19|XIX and XX Centuries Transport History , Current Trends and New Problems|No abstract is available for this item.
B19|Retrospectives: Fixed Capital, Railroad Economics and the Critique of the Market|Where average fixed costs are large compared to marginal costs, competition will drive industry into bankruptcy. During the last century, the chaos that competition created within the railroad industry caused many prominent U.S. economists to reject the market in favor of trusts, cartels, and monopolies. They created the American Economic Association to counter the prevailing laissez faire theory. Nonetheless, some, such as J. B. Clark, still wrote in favor of abstract laissez to counter socialist and populist agitation.
B19|Il corporativismo nel pensiero economico italiano: una rilettura critica<BR>[Corporatism in Italian Economic Thought: A Reinterpretation]|"The paper deals with the problem of the critical appraisal of the economic theory of fascist corporatism and of the place such doctrine should be allowed in the history of Italian economic thought. The ideological, political and economic beliefs of the various tendencies of corporatism are discussed and compared, in the light of both the historical conditions of the country and the theoretical knowledge of the Thirties. The direct link of continuity fascists claimed on ethical grounds between corporatism and an important part of the Italian tradition of economic thought is questioned and denied. But no attempt is made to represent corporatism as a purely extemporary and inconsistent historical project. One of the conclusions of the paper is that corporatism was neither a ""historical error"" (a simple parenthesis in the intellectual history of modern Italy) nor a ""mystification"" aiming at the unconfessed protection of vested interests. It was, rather, an attempt to reconcile an obsolete theoretical framework with the emergence of new social and political instances, made und"
B19|Sull'economia politica del risorgimento italiano<BR>[On the political economy of Italian 'Risorgimento']|This is a review-article of a book by Roberto Romani on the economic thought of Italian Risorgimento. The article deals with methodological and historical aspects concerning the economic literature of the period.
B19|The Gold Standard, Monetary Policy, and the Banking School--Currency School Debate|This paper develops a model of the impact of monetary policy on the price level under a gold standard. The model is more consistent with the historical record than are previous models developed by Barro (1979) and McCallum (1989). In particular, it will be demonstrated that under a gold standard, monetary policy can have a permanent effect on the price level. The model is then used to evaluate the nineteenth century debate between proponents of the Banking School and the Currency School.
B19|The When, the How and the Why of Mathematical Expression in the History of Economic Analysis|In writings about the history of the use of mathematical expression in economics, there seems to be a conviction that the movement towards its current flowering was cumulative, inevitable, and indeed, natural. While, such notions are widely held among practicing economists, I want to argue that they are not historically valid. The deployment of mathematical expression in economic discourse enjoyed neither an inexorable nor unhindered progress, but rather was characterized by two primary ruptures in the history of economic thought, episodes marking the inflection points in the rise of mathematical discourse. The main reason for such a disjointed narrative is that, in the evolution of economic thought, most of the participants were not convinced that the subject matter intrinsically demanded mathematical expression, while those so enamored experienced great difficulty in creating a community which could agree upon a formalism which was thought to be well-suited to economic issues.
B19|The reception of Austrian economics in Italy|Nowadays the Austrian School enjoys high reputation in Italy: books by Mises, Hayek and other Austrian economists are constantly republished and reviewed with great interest, both inside and outside academic circles. The situation was very different decades ago, when just a few Italian economists devoted attention to the Austrian School. This work studies the reception of Austrian Economics in Italy, from the beginning to our days, so as to bring out, by way of comparison, relevant features of Italian economic culture. We will try to offer just an overview of the entire story, in an attempt to provide useful elements for a deeper analysis of further topics and periods.
