B29|"Les années noires de la ""Science de l'Homme"": François Perroux, la Fondation Carrel et l'appropriation de la sociologie"|"le présent article étudie l'inscription du régime de Vichy dans l'histoire de la mise en forme et de l'institutionnalisation des sciences sociales autour d'une ""science de l'Homme"". Le modèle d'une science sociale unifiée est en particulier porté par la Fondation française pour l'étude des problèmes humains et son secrétaire générale, François Perroux. Cette institution, financée directement et de manière substantielle par le Régime, s'inscrit non seulement dans l'histoire longue de l'émergence des sciences sociales en France , mais constitue également une rupture importante dans ce processus. L'article montrera qu'un point de vue particulier relatif à l'organisation et au contenu des sciences sociales va s'y imposer par effet d'homogénéisation du champ scientifique."
B29|Prendre la parole sous l'État français: Le cas de François Perroux|"L’activité de l'économiste François Perroux au moment de l’occupation a été analysée sous différents angles. Dans le travail qui va suivre, nous tâcherons d’éclairer l'activité de Perroux sous l'État français non pas à partir des nombreux ouvrages et articles académiques qu'il publie entre 1940 et 1944, mais plutôt en se consacrant à ses prises de paroles en tant qu’intellectuel public. Pour se faire, nous utiliserons la notion bourdieusienne de ""représentation"""
B29|The ideological use and abuse of Freiburg's ordoliberalism|"In the aftermath of the Eurozone crisis, a ""battle of ideas"" emerged over whether ordoliberalism is part of the cause or the solution of economic problems in Europe. While German ordoliberals argued that their policy proposals were largely ignored before and during the crisis, implying a too small role of ordoliberalism in European economic policy, critics saw too much ordoliberal influence, especially in form of austerity policies. We argue that neither view is entirely correct. Instead, both camps followed their ideological predispositions and argued strongly in favor of their preconceived Weltanschauung. The ordoliberal Freiburg School ceased being an active research program and instead grew to resemble a ""tradition"" whose proponents shared a certain mindset of convenience. As a result, ordoliberal thinking was both used and abused by its proponents and critics to emphasize their ideologically framed policy recommendations. The present paper analyzes this ongoing debate and reflects on how the different ideological camps refer to the Freiburg School to push their own agendas. Building on this discussion, we end our paper with some constructive thoughts on how a contemporary ordoliberalism might want to react to some of the challenges of the ongoing Eurozone crisis."
B29|The Europe of the five parts of the world: François Perroux on European Integration|"Although seldom remembered in this respect, François Perroux exerted direct and indirect influence on the debate on European integration in the immediate post-war period in France. The theme of European integration serves in Perroux’s work as a concrete case study on which a series of his recurrent themes could be explored, such as his theory of domination, his reflection on economic spaces, development and the costs of man (""coûts de l’homme""), or even as an extension of topics from his work in the 1930s related to corporatism and communitarianism. Perroux deals with the theme of European integration fundamentally in an extensive book from 1954, L’Europe sans rivages, but also in several others of his books and articles from the period, forming a complex and multifaceted analysis of the problematic that, nevertheless, insists in a central message: the importance of the global aspect of the European integration, thinking in a Europe of the “five parts of the world”. This paper offers an analysis of this set of writings, connecting it to the institutional and political context of the debate on European integration in France. The goal is to situate the effective influence Perroux’s ideas and his concrete personal influence on important names of Jean Monnet entourage. Taking these general questions as a reference, and starting with Perroux’s perspectives on topics such as national accounts, planning and liberal interventionism, the article also explores the critical thinking undertaken by Perroux, throughout the 1950s, on the institutional and political paths taken in the first years of the European integration process, approximating his analysis to other voices that critically discussed those paths, such as, for example, Gunnar Myrdal. Doing this, the paper also explores important connections, not frequently visited in the literature of the history of economic ideas, between the European integration and the field of economic development or regarding the debates on regional inequalities that took shape in the midst of the postwar European reconstruction projects."
B29|François Perroux, entre mystique et politique|L'article analyse les écrits de François Perroux de l'entre-deux-guerres jusqu'à la période du régime de Vichy. Ce faisant, l'article montre en particulier qu'à travers sa conceptualisation d'une Communauté de travail, pensée comme la fusion des activités et des consciences, Perroux cherche à tenir ensemble mystique sociale et organisation politique. Un effort de rationalisation de l'irrationnel dont le Chef politique est le principal dépositaire par sa capacité à incarner le Mythe national qui doit orienter par le haut la Communauté de travail. Cette interprétation nous permet de situer intellectuellement Perroux vis-à-vis d'éléments structurants du discours vichyste.
B29|Tentatives de réhabilitation de la théorie de la base : à la recherche des origines|L'objectif de ce papier est double. D'une part, il cherche à établir la cohérence des travaux actuels qui mobilisent les éléments clés de la théorie de la base pour déterminer les ressorts du développement économique local en Europe et outre-Atlantique (Farness, 1989 ; Markusen, 2006 ; Rutland & O'Hagan, 2007, Davezies, 2001, 2009, 2012, ...). D'autre part, il doit permettre de remettre au goût du jour une question qui nous semble aujourd'hui négligée et qui mérite d'être approfondie tant elle cristallise des enjeux importants : à quelle(s) échelle(s) d'organisation territoriale mobiliser la théorie de la base ? Sur le premier point, nous montrons que les deux tentatives actuelles de réhabilitation de la théorie de la base semblent privilégier, sans se concerter, une lecture particulière des ascendants intellectuels de ce paradigme (Blumenfeld, 1955 ; Tiebout, 1962) au détriment d'un autre héritage possible (North, 1955). Sur le second point, nous montrons comment le questionnement sur l'échelle de l'analyse économique débouche sur la prise en compte de fractales territoriaux. Mots clés : Base économique, développement territorial, multiplicateur keynésien, économie résidentielle Codes JEL: B29, O18, R10 2
B29|A Revisit to the Forgotten Debate after Half-Century: Balanced Versus Unbalanced Growth|The debate between balanced and unbalanced growth doctrines has generated much heat since the publication of Rosenstein-Rodan’s seminal work in 1943 but vanished in early 1980s. This paper intends to empirically revisit the forgotten debate by first compiling a harmonized international dataset that contains sectorial value-added data for up to 175 countries over 45 years. This dataset enables us to construct the index of sectorial imbalance for each country, which further allows us to update the key empirical tests for the balanced and unbalance growth hypotheses that appeared in the literature. Moreover, we also conduct cross-country growth regression analysis to systematically examine the effects of sectorial balance (or imbalance) on growth. Overall, we have found empirical support for the balanced growth hypothesis.
B29|Public choice and political science: a view from Europe|Abstract What is the status of rational choice theory in contemporary European political science? Compared with a quarter-century ago, the rational choice approach is still far from being the paradigm of work in the discipline, but looking at both anecdotal evidence and information derived from journal citations and textbook contents, it seems that the number of political scientists working wholly or partly within the approach has grown markedly, and that its contribution to the mainstream of the field is strong.
B29|On the Academic Making of Dr. Narmadeshwar Jha|Narmadeshwar Jha was an economist in India who specialized on the economics of Alfred Marshall. Jha passed his MA from Patna University and did his Ph.D. in the University of Leeds, UK. He wrote his well-known book titled “The Age of Marshall: Aspects of British Economic Thought, 1890-1915”. This paper makes an attempt to investigate the academic influences on Jha making him what he was.
B29|Political Economics and Possibilism: Towards an Open Notion of Development|Hirschman was both a pioneer and a dissenter of development economics. He shares with the high theory the virtues and misfortunes of committing to modernize the underdeveloped world, but his exposure to the politics of development in Latin America gave new life to his early insights. Revealing the political dimensions of his concepts on economic development, Hirschman provides some mini-building blocks for a political economics consistent with an open notion of development. This inquiry, however, should not be seen exclusively through a methodological lens; it is grounded on his possibilism, a claim about modernity and the possibility of change. This article reconsiders the legacy of Hirschman’s thought for current debates on development and calls for recuperating his commitment to open societies.
B29|Paternalism and the public household. On the domestic origins of public economics|The ancient Greek conception of oikonomia is often dismissed as irrelevant for making sense of the contemporary economic world. In this paper, I emphasise a tread that runs through the history of economic thought connecting the oikos to modern public economics. By conceptualising the public economy as a public household, Richard A. Musgrave (1910-2007) set foot in a long tradition of analogy between the practically oriented household and the state. Despite continuous references to the domestic model by major economists throughout the centuries, the analogy has clashed with liberal values associated with the public sphere since the eighteenth century. Musgrave's conceptualization of public expenditures represents one episode of this continuing tension. His defence of merit goods, in particular, was rejected by many American economists in the 1960s because it was perceived as a paternalistic intervention by the state. I suggest that the accusation of paternalism should not come as a surprise once the ‘domestic’ elements in Musgrave's conceptualisation of the public sector are highlighted. I develop three points of the analogy in Musgrave's public household (the communal basis, a central direction, and consumption to satisfy needs) which echo recurring patterns of thought about the state
B29|Paternalism and the public household. On the domestic origins of public economics|The ancient Greek conception of oikonomia is often dismissed as irrelevant for making sense of the contemporary economic world. In this paper, I emphasise a tread that runs through the history of economic thought connecting the oikos to modern public economics. By conceptualising the public economy as a public household, Richard A. Musgrave (1910-2007) set foot in a long tradition of analogy between the practically oriented household and the state. Despite continuous references to the domestic model by major economists throughout the centuries, the analogy has clashed with liberal values associated with the public sphere since the eighteenth century. Musgrave's conceptualization of public expenditures represents one episode of this continuing tension. His defence of merit goods, in particular, was rejected by many American economists in the 1960s because it was perceived as a paternalistic intervention by the state. I suggest that the accusation of paternalism should not come as a surprise once the ‘domestic' elements in Musgrave's conceptualisation of the public sector are highlighted. I develop three points of the analogy in Musgrave's public household (the communal basis, a central direction, and consumption to satisfy needs) which echo recurring patterns of thought about the state.
B29|Coast to Coast: How MIT's students linked the Solow model and optimal growth theory|Textbook narratives usually describe the Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans model of optimal growth as an important development over Solow’s model. The constant saving rate rule of the latter is replaced by an endogenous determination of savings rates based on utility maximization behaviour of the former. However, neither Tjalling Koopmans nor David Cass were trying to upgrade Robert Solow’s modelling of savings with their contributions. Koopmans was pushing for utilitarian analysis to study economic growth within the activity analysis community, with the help of Edmond Malinvaud. Cass and his colleagues at Stanford’s graduate program were exploring the multiple applications of the maximum principle on economic growth models, influenced mostly by Hirofumi Uzawa. When the group of Stanford students graduated and moved to different departments, Karl Shell brought his interest on optimal growth and technical progress to the MIT. There, he organized a conference in 1965-66 that united his Stanford colleagues and MIT young scholars to discuss optimal growth theory. The conference represented the formation of a scientific community that consolidated optimal growth theory in the second half of the 1960 decade. The link between optimal growth theory and Solow’s model was consolidated by this community of young students. Most of them were advised by Solow. This paper plans to shed some light on the importance of the MIT in the history of optimal growth theory and to show how the standard textbook narrative is a MIT-only story.
B29|As Críticas de Amartya Sen à Teoria da Escolha Social de Kenneth Arrow|Este artigo visa a sistematizar as críticas que Amartya Sen dirige à estrutura teórica adotada por Arrow e a mostrar como, para fugir aos resultados devastadores do teorema da Impossibilidade, Sen defende a ampliação do universo de informações a serem utilizadas para embasar a escolha social. Inicialmente é apresentado um breve apanhado da teoria da Escolha Social de Arrow com o objetivo de fornecer o pano de fundo para a compreensão das críticas que Sen dirige a esse sistema teórico. Em seguida são expostas as interpretações de Sen sobre as razões que levaram ao resultado da impossibilidade e as críticas que este autor dirige aos fundamentos da teoria de Arrow. Por fim, são tecidas algumas considerações sobre a natureza desta reflexão crítica e suas consequências para a visão de Bem-Estar posteriormente adotada por Sen.
B29|The Social Market Economy as a Feasible Policy Option for Latin Countries|The growth model of the German economy draws its guiding theoretical principles from the soziale Marktwirtschaft (SMW) and the seminal work of the German economist Alfred Müller-Armack. The first part of this paper discusses the precise characteristics of German neoliberal theories and the SMW in particular. The second part explores the policy history of Argentina and Italy and the exportability of the SMW to such Latin countries. The relation between countries’ economic structure and the reforms needed to achieve such an economic order is analysed.
B29|"Still the queens of social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of ""public economists"" in Germany"|"In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the financial crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the public sphere during the last years. On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this paper shows that the public debate on politicoeconomic issues among economists is dominated by a specific subgroup of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of ""German neoliberalism"". This group of ""public economists"" (i) is dominant in public debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice."
B29|Harry Johnson on the Phillips Curve|It is noted that Harry G. Johnson was widely admired for his broad knowledge of economics, and particularly for the excellence and synthesizing quality of much of his writing. His discussions of the “Phillips curve” and related matters are considered. It is found that they are brief, inaccurate, and inconsistent. It is clear that, despite his reputation, they should not be treated as authoritative. It is further suggested that rather than supposing that Johnson’s knowledge and capabilities have been grossly exaggerated, it may be better to conclude that the Phillips curve was not nearly so important in the literature of the 1960s and 1970s as has been supposed.
B29|Still the queen of the social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of 'public economists' in Germany|As an immediate reaction to the recent financial crisis, it has been criticized that many economists are still acting as economic advisers for Ministries or the bureaucracy, although they have not been able to foresee the crisis . Academic economists still hold central positions in policy making; they influence decisions in economic expert panels or research departments in national and supranational organizations. Beside their role as policy advisors, economists also engage in public debates in a more narrow sense as technical economic experts as well as in a broader sense as 'public intellectuals' in the process of the transmission of economic knowledge in public (economic) policy discourses. In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the pu blic sphere during the last years . On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this pape r shows that the public debate on politico - economic issues among economists is dominated by a specific sub group of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of 'German neoliberalism'. This group of 'public economists' (i) is dominant in pub lic debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice.
B29|El Plan de Estabilización español de 1959: Juan Sardá Dexeus y la economía social de mercado|The Spanish Stabilization Plan of 1959, contained in the Law of July 21, has been widely studied by prominent Spanish economists, although there are few studies that analyze in depth its ideological roots. To explore this question, this article examines the figure of Juan Sardá Dexeus, chief architect of the implementation of the plan, and the influence he received from the Social Market Economy —whose ideas were used to design both the German Economic Plan of 1948 in Europe, as well as that of the French in 1958—, focusing on the role of monetary policy to achieve price stability in the Spanish plan reforms. After comparing both economic reform plans, we conclude by noting the strong similarities between them. KEY Classification-JEL: B29. B31. E65. O21
B29|Cuestionando las ortodoxias: Roberto Simonsen y Wladimir Woytinsky en el ambiente intelectual del período de entreguerras|This paper attempts to present a more thorough understanding of the economic thought of the Brazilian industrialist Roberto Simonsen. Thus, the texts by Simonsen and a contemporary author, the Russian economist Wladimir Woytinsky, are examined, and are focused on the intellectual production of these authors at two specific times, which shows them as opponents to the predominant orthodoxies. In Simonsen's case, we deal with his reaction to the visit of the English financial mission which came to Brazil in 1924 (Montagu mission), and with a lecture given at the Mackenzie College in São Paulo, in 1931. For Woytinsky, we focus on the time when he was the drafting of a plan to solve the 1930-32 crisis in Germany. It is demonstrated that the connection between Simonsen and Woytinsky is to be found in the work of the Rumanian economist Mihail Manoilesco. Finally, we outline the approaches of the two authors regarding the question of European reconstruction after World War I, highlighting that their approaches are in tune. KEY Classification-JEL: B29. B31
B29|Una aproximación al pensamiento económico-normativo de John Rawls|Rawls, desde muy joven, estuvo interesado por los principios normativos del pensamien­to económico moderno, y más específicamente su teoría del bienestar. Esta inquietud no sorprende. En primer lugar, a Rawls siempre le preocuparon la pobreza y la injusticia social, temas ampliamente discutidos en economía. Segundo, el pensamiento económico ha tenido un desarrollo muy cercano a la historia del utilitarismo, el gran oponente de Rawls. Este trabajo expone la apuesta económica de la teoría rawlsiana, la cual, a su vez, se muestra como una alternativa al pensamiento utilitario. Para ello, se hace hincapié en la insistente preocupación de Rawls por los menos aventajados, en la importancia que nuestro autor le da al mercado, y finalmente en su propuesta tributaria y salarial.
B29|La política económica del fascismo italiano desde 1922 hasta 1943: breves consideraciones para su comprensión|El objeto del artículo es examinar algunos aspectos relevantes de las políticas económicas fascistas en Italia durante el periodo 1922-1943. Para tal propósito se analizan las medidas tomadas entre 1922 y 1928 que precedieron a la Gran Crisis del 29, que tuvieron una orientación liberal. A partir de 1929 se comienza a desplegar un conjunto de medidas cuya intención era fascistizar la economía italiana, profundizando la arquitectura institucional corporativista y un conjunto de nuevos entes del Estado orientados al establecimiento de una economía autárquica. Por otra parte, se efectúa un breve análisis de la economía de guerra enfatizando las razones por las cuales la movilización fue limitada.
B29|Il paesaggio, tessera mancante nella nozione di milieu|L’uscita dal connubio tra fordismo e keynesianesimo si e accompagnata alla riscoperta della dimensione mesoeconomica, rappresentativa del sistema di relazioni extra-mercato favorevoli alla ‘produzione’ e alla diffusione di conoscenza e innovazione. Tra altre nozioni contigue che si propongono di spiegare l’apporto specifico della dimensione meso, quella di milieu si caratterizza per la sottolineatura delle componenti strutturali e del connesso potenziale generativo nei processi di apprendimento collettivo. La singolare circostanza che, nelle interpretazioni che ne hanno fornito le scienze regionali non si menzioni l’originaria nozione durkheimiana di milieu, induce ad effettuarne un esame comparativo, dal quale emerge che entrambe convergono verso una comune rappresentazione, arrestandosi tuttavia alla soglia di un concetto-chiave - il paesaggio - con importanti implicazioni sul piano interpretativo e su quello normativo.
B29|Kinds of Scientific Rationalism: The Case for Methodological Liberalism|The present paper considers the implications of the postulate that the activities of scientists constitute complex phenomena in the sense associated with the methodological writings of the Nobel Prize-winning Austrian economist, methodologist, and political philosopher, F.A. Hayek. Although Hayek wrote extensively on the methodology of sciences that investigate systems of complex phenomena, he never addressed the possibility that science itself is such a system. The application of Hayek’s method ology of sciences of complex phenomena to science itself implies some minimal criteria for explanations of scientific rationality. If science is complex in Hayek’s sense, then scientific belief may be rational in more than one way. It is argued that a failure to recognize the possibility of multiple kinds of scientific rationality contributes to an error theory of certain unsuccessful accounts of scientific belief in the history of philosophy of science. It is further argued that, where ecological rationality is operative, rational belief requires an element of methodological liberty. It is shown that acceptance of the possibility of ecologically-rational scientific outcomes–a view here dubbed methodological liberalism–is closely related to Hayek's denial of the possibility of a successful scientism, a denial crucial to his arguments against socialism and Keynesian macroeconomics.
B29|Two approaches to study the value of art and culture, and the emergence of a third|This paper argues that a third approach to study the value of art and culture is emerging: the valuation approach. The paper, first, outlines the two established approaches to study the value of art. The economics of the arts approach in which economic analysis is used to analyze the arts is the first of those established approaches. The other established approach is the art and commerce approach in which the relative position of the arts in society and in particular its relation to the commercial and industrial world is analyzed. The valuation approach takes elements of these two established approaches, but focuses explicitly on processes of valuation of the arts and cultural goods on markets as well as within bureaucracies, organizations, among experts, peers and other communities. Central to the valuation approach is the notion that the study of market prices is not sufficient to establish the value of cultural goods. Contributors to this emerging approach analyze valuation processes in and outside markets, the norms and conventions used to value the arts, and the role of intermediaries who are able to deal with competing notions and justifications of value. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
B29|The Evolution of Management Theories, Philosophies and Thoughts in Nigeria|This paper examines the evolution of management theories, philosophies and thoughts in Nigeria. It views management as a philosophy and practice that have existed in Nigeria even prior to the industrial revolution era in Europe. The study discusses management thought evolution in the pre-colonial, colonial and post-colonial history of Nigeria. By relying on secondary data gathered from related literatures, the paper identifies factors influencing the evolutionary development of Management thoughts in Nigeria which include colonialism, culture, socio-economic thoughts, technological development and organizational size. After drawing comparisons between Western management practice and Nigerian management culture, the study concludes that colonialism and culture are the major forces driving the development of managerial thoughts and practice in Nigeria.
B29|Память О Войне. Источниковедческий Анализ<BR>[The memory of the war. Source analysis]|Literature on stories of the Great Patriotic War is very extensive. But the source study analysis of the documents, which are stored in families of Russians, allows adding additional strokes to military history
B29|Mapeando o pós-keynesianismo: Uma abordagem cienciométrica|O presente artigo tem por objetivo estudar a corrente pós-keynesiana na economia para delinear suas características. A metodologia usada para atingir este objetivo combina concepções filosóficas e linguísticas, com técnicas computacionais e cienciométricas. Primeiro, tal metodologia parte do conceito de finitismo de significados (meaning finitism) para compreender o que significa uma expressão do ponto de vista da sua construção social. A ideia de finitismo consiste em expandir o significado de um termo para permitir que ele seja formado por uma infinidade de conceitos, e não por uma a definição unívoca. Tal ideia é baseada na filosofia da linguagem de Ludwig Wittgenstein. Segundo, o contexto social em que o significado da expressão “Post Keynesian” surge tem que ser escolhido. Neste artigo, o contexto relevante é a comunidade acadêmica dos economistas, representada pelas revistas em que esses pesquisadores publicam seus artigos. Assim, o significado da expressão “Post Keynesian” é estudado a partir de uma base de dados formada por milhares de artigos acadêmicos. Terceiro, o modo especifico de estudar a expressão “Post Keynesian” neste contexto é através um programa computacional para construir um mapa de Co-word. Este mapa representa a co-ocorrência de palavras relevantes que co-ocorrem com a expressão em foco como distâncias em um espaço bidimensional. Quarto, a literatura pós-keynesiana é utilizada para estabelecer conexões entre as palavras que aparecem no mapa, dando origem a um quadro de significados e características da corrente pós-keynesiana. Em paralelo com esta metodologia, o presente artigo apresenta, ainda, um gráfico que mostra as ocorrências da expressão “Post Keynesian” nas revistas de economia, cotejando tal gráfico com a literatura histórica da corrente.
B29|Die Volkswirtschaftslehre an der Hochschule für Welthandel, 1918-1973|This contribution examines the teaching of economics at the Hochschule für Welthandel as a case study in the evolution of Austrian academic economics in the 20th century. The period considered is divided into three periods - before, under and after the NS-regime. The main focus is on the multiparadigmatic character of the discipline before WWII, on economics under the NS rule, and on the restoration and delayed integration of economics into the international mainstream after 1945. On the personal level, the teaching of economics at the Welthandel was dominated for more than three decades by Walter Heinrich and Richard Kerschagl, whose influence is explored with regard to their academic, scientific and political activities. (author's abstract)
B29|Die Volkswirtschaftslehre an der Hochschule für Welthandel, 1918–1973|This contribution examines the teaching of economics at the Hochschule für Welthandel as a case study in the evolution of Austrian academic economics in the 20th century. The period considered is divided into three periods – before, under and after the NS-regime. The main focus is on the multiparadigmatic character of the discipline before WWII, on economics under the NS rule, and on the restoration and delayed integration of economics into the international mainstream after 1945. On the personal level, the teaching of economics at the Welthandel was dominated for more than three decades by Walter Heinrich and Richard Kerschagl, whose influence is explored with regard to their academic, scientific and political activities.
B29|"""Der Markt"" und seine Politische Ökonomie: Ordoliberale und 'Österreichische' Konzepte"|"Obwohl der Begriff ""der Markt"" (in der Einzahl) andauernd - sowohl in der Theorie als auch in Alltagsdiskurse - mit einer großen Selbstverständlichkeit verwendet wird, hat er eine Geschichte, die fast 100 Jahre zurückgeht. Diese Begrifflichkeit wurde erstmals in der Österreichischen Schule der Nationalökonomie, und zwar von Ludwig Mises und Friedrich Hayek, und von Ordoliberalen wie Walter Eucken oder Wilhelm Röpke entwickelt. Ihr gemeinsamer Hintergrund war die Sichtweise eines bedrohten Liberalismus und die Vision einer neuen Gesellschaft. Diesem Ziel hatten ihre ökonomischen Theorien zu dienen. Sie stellen - obwohl dies oft verneint wird - eine genuine Politische Ökonomie dar."
B29|Goethe und das Papiergeld|"Goethes Faust II, genauer das erste Kapitel wurde vielfach als eine Geld- und Inflationstheorie gelesen. Obgleich darin viele Motive anklingen, die in der Erklärung des Geldes eine Rolle spielen, so ist es doch ein Missgriff, Goethe als ökonomische Autorität zu lesen. Allerdings stand er allerdings in regem Austausch mit zeitgenössischen Ökonomen, deren Erkenntnisse weitgehend vergessen wurden. Gerade darin finden sich viele Elemente für eine Theorie und Philosophie des Geldes. Im Text werden zahlreiche dieser Einsichten vorgestellt und im Kontext der Faust-Dichtung vertieft. Die Figur des Mephistopheles als des ""neuen"" Narren erweist sich dabei als wichtige Leitfigur für das Verständnis monetärer Prozesse jenseits der Vorurteile einer traditionellen Quantitätstheorie."
B29|MIT Graduate Networks: the early years|After World War II economists acquired increasing importance in the American society in general. Moreover, the production of economics PhDs in the United States increased substantially and became a less concentrated industry. This period witnessed also the reformulation of the graduate education in economics in the US, informed by the several changes that were occurring in economics: its mathematization, the neoclassicism, the advancement of econometrics, the “Keynesian revolution”, and the ultimate Americanization of economics. The centrality that the MIT graduate program acquired in the postwar period makes it an important case study of the transformation of American economics more generally. Therefore, my aim here is to scrutinize the formative years of the PhD program, mostly the 1940s and 1950s.
B29|Chasing the B: A Bibliographic Account of Economics’ Relation to its Past, 1991-2011|Some historians argue that the history of economic thought (HET) is useful and important to economists and that historians should remain in economics departments. Others believe that historians’ initiatives toward economists are doomed in advance to failure and that they should instead ally themselves with historians and sociologists of science located in humanities departments. Generally, the contributions that are devoted to reviewing the state of HET take a firm side for either one of these two positions and therefore have a prescriptive view on how history should be written. By contrast, our paper proposes a descriptive account of the kind of contributions to HET that have been published in major economics journals over the past two decades. To avoid definitional issues over HET, we use the B category of the JEL classification to retrieve and analyze the relevant literature. We show that, though contributions to HET are still found in top economics journals, the rate of publication of such papers has become increasingly uneven and the methods and narrative styles they adopt are increasingly remote from that advocated in the sub-disciplinary literature. For this reason, historians who are still willing to address the economics’ community should be more interested in expanding the frontiers of their field rather than in trying to anticipate their targeted readers’ preferences..
B29|On the Definition of Public Goods. Assessing Richard A. Musgrave's contribution|This paper provides an explanation of the emergence of the standars textbook definition of public goods in the middle of the 20th century. It focuses on Richard Musgrave's contribution in defining public goods as non-rival and non-excludable – from 1939 to 1969. Although Samuelson's mathematical definition is generally used in models of public goods, the qualitative understanding of the specificity of pure public goods owes more to Musgrave's emphasis on the impossibility of exclusion. This paper also highlights the importance of the size of the group to which benefits of a public good accrue. This analysis allow for a reassessment of the Summary table of goods which first appeared in Musgrave and Musgrave (1973) textbook
B29|Continental Visions: Ann Seidman, Reginald H. Green, and the Economics of African Unity in 1960s Ghana|The paper presents the history of the contribution of two American economists to a radical cause: the establishment of a socialist and politically united Africa. The setting is 1960s Ghana which under Kwame Nkrumah, the man who led the country to independence from British colonial rule, emerged as the epicentre of this Pan-African vision. Ann Seidman and Reginald H. Green became, as members of the research team on ‘The Economics of African Unity’ established at the University of Ghana in 1963, the most sophisticated and systematic advocates of Nkrumah’s economic argument for continental planning and political union. The paper argues that Green and Seidman’s support for Pan- Africanism was rooted in an attempt to question radically the applicability of mainstream economic theory to African conditions, and find an alternative framework to conceptualise African trade, institutions and economic integration. Ultimately the vision associated with Nkrumah and economists like Green and Seidman failed to gain any significant political legitimacy and ended in 1966 with Nkrumah’s overthrow. Yet, it is argued that the story of the ‘economics of African unity’ is a useful departure point to deepen our understanding of the relationship between economics and political imagination in postcolonial Africa.
B29|Pragmatic entrepreneurs and institutionalized scholars? - On the path-dependent nature of entrepreneurship scholarship|Research surveys of the field of entrepreneurship suggest that the maturation and institutionalization of entrepreneurship as a research field brings about both new opportunities and constraints from established thoughts and practices. In this chapter we explore some commonly applied questions and methodological dogmas in the field. In doing so we argue that research in entrepreneurship is becoming increasingly institutionalized with regard to different issues: successively scholarship, research questions, areas/units of analysis, as well as research tools used. When draw upon insights from philosophy of science and research on discovery of research ideas to discuss whether we as researchers pose questions that help us better understand entrepreneurship, its role in society and the way it affects society. We conclude the chapter by using the philosophy of Pragmatism to discuss how Entrepreneurs are pragmatic agents that draw upon a multitude of skills, experiences, repertoires of themselves and of others to reach their goals. Perhaps entrepreneurship research could benefit from learning from such an approach?
B29|Theoretische Fundierung des internen Rechnungswesens der Banken – zugleich ein Beitrag zur Hermeneutik und Historie der Banktheorie|Contrary to the traditions of banking itself, which stretch back many centuries, cost accounting within banks is still in its relative infancy. It was only in the 1920s that any intensive theoretical or practical efforts were made to break down and understand the cost structures of banks. This paper outlines three key steps on the rather arduous path toward developing and realising a foundation for banks’ cost accounting grounded in factor theory. It concludes that these steps are inextricably linked with the approaches conceived by Alfred Isaac (1921), Stefan Kaminsky (1955) and Hans-Dieter Deppe (1963 / 69, 1978).
B29|On the Definition of Public Goods. Assessing Richard A. Musgrave's contribution|This paper provides an explanation of the emergence of the standars textbook definition of public goods in the middle of the 20th century. It focuses on Richard Musgrave's contribution in defining public goods as non-rival and non-excludable - from 1939 to 1969. Although Samuelson's mathematical definition is generally used in models of public goods, the qualitative understanding of the specificity of pure public goods owes more to Musgrave's emphasis on the impossibility of exclusion. This paper also highlights the importance of the size of the group to which benefits of a public good accrue. This analysis allow for a reassessment of the Summary table of goods which first appeared in Musgrave and Musgrave (1973) textbook.
B29|Nine views of the Phillips curve: Eight authentic and one inauthentic|There is a widely believed but entirely mythical story to the effect that the discovery of 'the Phillips curve' was, in the 1960s and perhaps later, an inspiration to inflationist policy. The point that this is a myth is argued in Forder, Macroeconomics and the Phillips curve myth, OUP 2014. One aspect of the explanation of how that myth came to be widely believed is considered in this paper. It is noted that the expression 'Phillips curve' was applied in a number of quite distinct and inconsistent ways, and as a result there was, by about 1980, an enormous confusion as to what that label meant. This confusion, as well as the multiplicity of possible meanings, it is suggested, made the acceptance of the myth much easier, and is therefore part, although only part, of the story of its acceptance.
B29|Toniolo negli scritti di Sturzo (Toniolo in the writings of Sturzo)|This paper analyses what Luigi Sturzo thinks on the personality, the thought and the social action of Giuseppe Toniolo. In this perspective, we try to point out the commonalities and the disagreements between their attempts of applying the Catholic faith to the economic, political and social reality. We try to understand as long as the disagreements are related to a different sensibility and how much to the personal histories and the evolution of the historical context successive to the Toniolo’s death.
B29|Islamic Finance: From Niche To Mainstream In The Academic World|Not very long ago the practicability of Islamic banking and finance was not taken seriously, and writing on such topics was considered simply a mental exercise in vain. Opportunity of teaching and learning Islamic economics, banking and finance was unheard. But the situation at present has completely changed. At present it is the most discussed and practiced area of Islamic economics. It has received global recognition. Now there is a vast variety of degree programmes in the Western universities, with different specializations. The present paper aims to shed light on the rapid development of Islamic finance in the academic circle all over the world. At the concluding note it strongly recommends for keeping close tie between its theoretical development and practical advancement.
B29|Kenneth Langone Professor of Finance, NYU Stern School of Business|Since the great financial crisis of 2008, governments have set new records in market intervention, re-regulation of banking and financial markets, and in prosecution of banks for mismanagement. The new regulations touch just about everything in finance and completely change the financial regulatory system. However, these regulations have been hastily prepared and contain flaws that suggest they may not be effective in addressing systemic risk in the future. They also impose enormous compliance costs on the banking industry, even though no more than about 40 banks worldwide are systemically important. The costs will be passed on to customers of banks and users of financial markets, which may detract significantly from future economic growth prospects. Banks will have to adapt their business models to the new circumstances of their industry, or surely be challenged by shareholders until they do. But the way the regulatory platform is structured now, they will be adapting toward a more conservative, risk-averse form of what they were before. That may mean that too-big-to-fail becomes too-cautious-to-fail. If we have reduced the banks’ capability to finance basic economic growth, a role that is equally important to our societies as systemic risk reduction, the regulatory response to the crisis may prove to be very mistaken. Risk has to be financed somewhere, if we are to return to the growth rates that we need to maintain and improve living standards. Most likely, the regulatory and other measures taken in response to the crisis will have to be modified in the future, but probably not in the near term.
B29|Chasing the B: A Bibliographic Account of Economics’ Relation to its Past, 1991-2011| Some historians argue that the history of economic thought (HET) is useful and important to economists and that historians should remain in economics departments. Others believe that historians’ initiatives toward economists are doomed in advance to failure and that they should instead ally themselves with historians and sociologists of science located in humanities departments. Generally, the contributions that are devoted to reviewing the state of HET take a firm side for either one of these two positions and therefore have a prescriptive view on how history should be written. By contrast, our paper proposes a descriptive account of the kind of contributions to HET that have been published in major economics journals over the past two decades. To avoid definitional issues over HET, we use the B category of the JEL classification to retrieve and analyze the relevant literature. We show that, though contributions to HET are still found in top economics journals, the rate of publication of such papers has become increasingly uneven and the methods and narrative styles they adopt are increasingly remote from that advocated in the sub-disciplinary literature. For this reason, historians who are still willing to address the economics’ community should be more interested in expanding the frontiers of their field rather than in trying to anticipate their targeted readers’ preferences.
B29|Another brick in the wall? A comment on Francesco Boldizzoni's The Poverty of Clio|A book that reflects on the state-of-the-art in Economic History and discusses the different approaches of current and past research is highly welcome. Fortunately, Economics, History and Economic History, are nowadays fluently using multi-dimensional approaches to development, in which belief systems, culture and values play an important role. We must apply the same tools of analysis to our contemporary production. Unfortunately, the study of research methodology and of the History of Economic Thought has been losing ground in the education of economists, as much as the study of Economics is considered useless in the education of historians. In this context, every attempt to bridge the gap, to critically approach and to promote the link between history and economics is a welcome contribution. KEY Classification-JEL: B29, B40
B29|Beyond orthodoxy in economic history: Has Boldizzoni resurrected synthetic-structural history?|Boldizzoni's attempted resurrection of a realist, non-abstract, historical approach to economic history is learned, rhetorically rich, and largely persuasive but lacks some crucial dimensions. The continuing dominance of orthodoxy in ‘official’ economic history after the institutionalist turn (despite a context of methodological and socio-political pluralism among the wide range of practitioners under various labels) lies in its continued abstraction and reductive econometrics. But ad hoc adjustments while maintaining rational choice, methodological individualism, and an uncritical ideological defence of free markets, do not address the basic, underlying weaknesses that Boldizzoni correctly identifies. In proposing his manifesto for revival of the synthetic-structural tradition, however, he should have paid more attention to recent arguments in defence of new philosophical and theoretical foundations for social science history.. KEY Classification-JEL: B29, B40
B29|The Fund-Flow Approach: A Critical Survey|"The fund-flow approach to production theory was first proposed by Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen almost half a century ago. Since then, from time to time it has received attention, but, probably because of its analytical complexity and difficulty to deliver sound ""operational conclusions"", it is now almost abandoned. The approach has been also recently criticized for its instrumental assumption of constant efficiency of funds, by emphasizing its limitations in addressing issues related to fixed capital depreciation. The paper critically surveys Georgescu-Roegen's original model, together with the later developments and modifications. It also discusses the recent criticisms. The conclusion is that, despite its drawbacks, the fund-flow approach has a ""competitive advantage"" in the actual description of production as a process unfolding in time and entailing a temporal coordination between different elements. In this respect, it seems that most of its fruitful applications have yet to come.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
B29|O teoretických východiskách skúmania európskej integrácie v 40. až 70. rokoch 20. storočia|Teoretické koncepty európskej integrácie vychádzajú primárne z tradičných teórií medzinárodných vzťahov, no od 40.rokov 20. storočia sa do popredia dostávajú východiská, ktoré boli odvodené priamo od integračného vývoja na európskom kontinente. Cieľom tohto príspevku je prispieť k diskurzu o východiskách európskej integrácie so zameraním na tzv. vlastné teórie európskej integrácie. Zameriavame sa na federalistické, funkcionalistické a neofunkcionalistické východiská a venujeme sa i transakcionalizmu, ktorý patrí do jednej „myšlienkovej“ skupiny spolu s uvedenými konceptmi.
B29|Currie and ECLAC. An Approaching to Development Theory|The main purpose of this paper is to stress the need for developing theoretical framework which involves the characteristics of the model presented by the Colombian-Canadian economist Lauchlin Currie along with the ECLA’s ideas, particularly those developed by Raul Prebisch. Those elements let to establish a differential analysis that synthesized in a proposal emphasized in: the role of economic structures within the policy recommendations, including leading sectors to enable the economic transformation and defining growth as a selfgenerating process that encourages innovation and institutional renovation. The paper shows a historical characterization of Colombian economy within ECLAC and Currie framework to compare the practical and theoretical view and the possible failures with their applications. Finally, this paper wants to vindicate the role of this brilliant economist whose ideas have been latent in new proposals but are not recognized as part of his theoretical work. It is also an incentive for developing a research project to find a macroeconomic theory for school ECLAC.
B29|Problems of competition theory and policy in the ordoliberal thought|The study is devoted to the ordoliberal concepts of economic order based on competition. Firstly the historical background of ordoliberal economic thought is sketched and the views of the most important authors on mechanism of competition and its institutional foundations are introduced. Next the elements of economic order of the Federal Republic of Germany are depicted. The considerations are based on the assumption that ordoliberalism still offers an interesting proposal for intellectual reflection and for the theory of economic policy, particularly in the area of creating effective institutional framework for market processes.
B29|Germany after World War II: Ordoliberalism, the Social Market Economy and Keynesianism|"The post-1945 development of economics in Germany is characterized by important similarities as well as by some considerable differences compared to other European countries. The strong growth of international trade was accompanied by an increasing internationalization of economics that was simultaneously for a greater part a process of Americanization. The historically unmatched growth from 1950 to the early 1970s was associated by the growth of economics as an academic discipline and an increasing ""economization"" of public life. German economics also ran through the rise and fall of Keynesianism as well as a switch to monetarist ideas and supply-side policies in the mid- 1970s after the first oil price shock. On the other hand, some special factors exist which distinguish the German case from the development of economics elsewhere.The paper illustrates the relationship between the political and the economic sphere in Germany after WWII"
B29|Free Labour, Free Women. Re-appraising Harriet Taylor’s Feminist Economics|Harriet Taylor has been long forgotten as an economist and political philosopher, while merely remembered as John Stuart Mill’s friend and belatedly wife. Never was fate more unjust: we only need to recall that Taylor - whose liberal background soon led her to be fascinated by socialist theories and the evolution of labour movements - wrote chapter VII of the fourth book of the Principles of Political Economy, the well-known On the Probable Futurity of the Labouring Classes. Not to mention, moreover, her reflections on social mobility, women’s rights and female participation to the labour market, delivered in brilliant essays like Enfranchisement of Women. Detaching from mainstream Taylor’s scholarship, this paper tries to confer autonomy to her economic thought (compared to Mill’s) by suggesting that its original feature lies in the correspondence she established amid the liberation of the working classes and women’s enfranchisement, in order to place Taylor’s ideas in a more accurate intellectual perspective.
B29|The Relevance of the Theory of Fiscal Illusion. The Case of the Italian Tax System|This work analyses the phenomenon of fiscal illusion (Puviani, 1903) in the context of the Italian tax system. Financial (or fiscal) illusion refers to mechanisms which cause a cognitive alteration on the part of the taxpayer regarding the evaluation of the costs and benefits of public policies. Puviani (1903) was the first to classify the different types of financial illusions. He highlighted the main strategies used to hide the real costs of financing public goods and services through taxes (illusions on revenue) or to overestimate their usefulness (illusions on expenditure). The main conclusions of the work are that: (i) from a methodological point of view, there is a connection between Puviani’s theory of fiscal illusion and some of the assumptions of the behavioral approach and (ii) from an operational point of view, it is a useful tool to understand the motives that could have inspired several recent taxes and legislative measures within the Italian tax system. These results support the relevance of Puviani’s theory to the contemporary theory and practice of public finance.
B29|Ethical Investment and Consumers in Cultural History|A short cultural history of the impact of Ethical Investment and Consumers over the years. Primarily from a UK based perspective looking at the evoluton of ethical business issues and their contemporary impact. Topics covered include impacts in books, films and foreign policy. History of Influencing the market via international conventions and discussion of debates on the value of mainstreaming, political disputes (The human rights and wrongs of boycotts) and the 1990s take off for codes of conduct
B29|The Demand Driven and the Supply-Sided Input-Output Models. Notes for the debate|The demand-driven version of the open Input-Output model determines production as a function of final demand, given the production technology. On the contrary, in the supply-sided version, value added determines output and producers must induce sales in order to achieve a desired level of income. This latter version of the model has been criticised and even rejected on the bases of its implausibility, its difficult interpretation and its bizarre implications. This paper argues however that the logic of the supply-side model is not mathematically at odds with Leontief’s arguments. Rejection of the model is a matter of theoretical interpretation
B29|First vs. second generation Islamic economists: Deviations and differences in thoughts|The present paper proposes to study differences in thoughts of the first vs. second generation Islamic economists, during the past forty years. It will also investigate deviations that occurred in thought and practice in this period. But first it will try to determine the basis of differentiation between the two generations and their distinguishing features. For our study purpose, we regard as the first generation those scholars who started writing on the subject of Islamic economics between 1950 to 1975, a period highly unfriendly if not hostile to the idea of economics with Islamic perspective. This phase culminated at the organization of the first international conference on Islamic economics by King Abdulaziz University in the Holy city of Islam – Makkah Mukarramah. A new era started after the conference, in terms of the establishment of research and study centers, issue of specialized journals, enrolment to Ph. D. courses, foundation of study departments, set up of financial institutions, organization of conferences and seminars, award of prizes, and creation of employment opportunities. It also attracted attention of some non-Muslim economists. Thus, those who joined the movement of Islamic economics after this conference will be considered as the second generation. In its concluding remarks, the paper would suggest certain steps that could be taken to bridge the gaps, minimize the difference, and train the new generation.
B29|James Buchanan and the Economics of Constitutions|One of the most important debates in today’s economic policy is between Neo-Liberals supporters of free market and Neo-Keynesians supporting the fundamental relevance of public action. In this paper the James M. Buchanan’s role among the masters of neo-liberal politics is underlined. In his approach, market and political process founded on the exchange are considered good in themselves, and at the basis of the rationality of choice not only for the individual behaviour but also for public choices is set the individual, in a contractarian-constitutionalist perspective. Particularly Buchanan’s contributions in the economics of politics, and his role in the debate about justice are analysed and discussed here.
B29|Tradičné teórie medzinárodných vzťahov ako východisko pre rozvoj teórií európskej integrácie|Teoretické východiská sú nevyhnutným základom skúmania každej spoločenskovednej kategórie. Tak je to i v prípade teórií európskej integrácie, ktoré delíme na dva základné smery. Teórie, ktoré majú svoj pôvod v tradičných teóriách európskej integrácie a súčasné teórie európskej integrácie, ktoré v kontexte európskej integrácie dominujú súčasnému teoretickému diskurzu. Cieľom tohto príspevku je zohľadniť vplyv tradičných teórii medzinárodných vzťahov na teórie európske integrácie, i keď v záujme celistvosti nie je možné vyhnúť sa všeobecnej deskripcii vývoja skúmania, a preto uvádzame aspoň jeho propedeutický prehľad. Našou ambíciou je venovať sa základným postulátom tradičných teórií medzinárodných vzťahov a následne ich vzťahu k teórií európskej integrácie.
B29|Pensamiento económico en América Latina (1950-2010). Antecedentes y perspectivas|Esta investigación profundiza sobre los antecedentes y las perspectivas del pensamiento económico en América Latina, entre 1950 y 2010. Se identifican el pensamiento económico, los principales postulados y contextos históricos de la Comisión Económica para América Latina -CEPAL- y el estructuralismo latinoamericano, fundamentados en los trabajos de Prebisch de 1949; el neoestructuralismo de Fanjzilber, y la teoría de la dependencia de Cardoso y Faletto. Se describe la integración económica en América Latina, sus postulados y fuentes de pensamiento económico, y se plantea que la Unión Suramericana de Naciones y la Alternativa Bolivariana para las Américas -Tratado de Comercio de los Pueblos-, incorporan ideas que transforman el pensamiento económico.
B29|Estado y economía: Críticas y propuestas en las miradas de William Beveridge y Walter Eucken (Una perspectiva histórica comparada)|El tema central que aquí se aborda es el desarrollo del pensamiento político-económico, tanto en Alemania como Gran Bretaña, relacionado con la construcción de sociedades en las que el Estado desempeña el papel de asegurar niveles de estabilidad y seguridad económica a sus habitantes, particularmente durante la década de 1940. Este artículo ofrece una perspectiva histórica comparada del pensamiento económico-político de William Beveridge y Walter Eucken. Los aspectos que se comparan son principalmente las críticas hechas al sistema económico y sus propuestas sobre la función que debe cumplir el Estado en la economía. El estudio de las ideas de ambos pensadores, sus críticas y propuestas en los temas económicos y políticos, permite conocer de manera más profunda el conjunto de ideas que influyeron en el desarrollo de los estados de bienestar de posguerra, tanto en Gran Bretaña como en Alemania.
B29|Science and technology studies: Exploring the knowledge base|Science and Technology Studies (STS) is one of a number of new research fields to emerge over the last four or five decades. This paper attempts to identify its core academic contributions from the perspective of the authors of chapters in authoritative ‘handbooks’ and the references they cite. Besides identifying the most prominent publications, institutions and authors, we examine whether the core contributions can be broken down into identifiable clusters. The study also analyses the impact of these contributions by exploring the research fields, journals, and geographical location of the researchers that have cited the STS core contributions in their own work. Together, these analyses reveal a number of phases in the development of STS with periods of convergence and divergence of the field, including the gradual separation of quantitative studies of science and technology from the main body of STS. The paper ends with some conclusions about the evolution of STS, such as the role of ‘institution builders’ in developing new research fields and the structures required to hold them together.
B29|Adósság, pénz és szabadság<BR>[Taxation, money and freedom]|"A tanulmány a Déltengeri Társasággal foglalkozó tanulmány folytatása (Madarász [2011]). A 18. századi brit államadósság szerepéről és kezeléséről szóló modern gazdaságtörténeti értékelések áttekintése után a tanulmány részletesen bemutatja Davenant, Defoe, Bolingbroke, Hume, Wallace, Pinto, Steuart és Smith érvelését a ""közhitel"" lehetséges és szükségszerű gazdasági és politikai hatásairól, a háborús kiadások fedezésének módjairól. Részletesebben tárgyalja Hume és Smith álláspontját a papírpénz és a bankok szerepéről, a pénzmennyiség változásának következményeiről és a skóciai ""szabad"" bankrendszer jellemzőiről. A vita egyik oldalán a közhitelt szükséges, ám veszélyes eszköznek tekintették, amely válságba sodorhatja az országot, és aláássa a politikai szabadságot, a másik vélemény szerint a kereskedő állam adóssága szükséges és előnyös, ösztönzi a gazdaság fejlődését, és kifejezi a polgárok bizalmát a kormányzat iránt. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B12, B29, H63, H74, H81, N23."
B29|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
B29|No institution is a free lunch: a reconstruction of Ronald Coase|The two major contributions of Ronald Coase, written at distant points of his long life, have been often interpreted as different and, somehow, contradicting views of the merits of the market mechanism. We argue that the underlying point of the two articles is the same and it can be summarized by the statement that no institution is a free lunch. When the unity of the Coasian theory is properly understood, it offers a powerful challenge to standard neo-classical production theory and opens new analytical tools to understand and to compare the institutions of production.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B29|Regards Scientifiques Croisés Sur La Hiérarchie Des Systèmes De Peuplement : De L’Empirie Aux Systèmes Complexes|The hierarchical organization of human settlements is a key-subject for various studies from different scientific areas in regional science such as economics, geography, sociology or even archeology. The aim of this paper is to consider contributions from different scientific fields in order to build a theoretical framework for understanding the Zipf law for cities. Firstly, it shows that historical factors should be included when analyzing the evolution of urban systems, which should be seen as complex systems. This goes along when examining the validity or not of a distributional form for cities’ sizes such as the Pareto or the lognormal. Secondly, the paper simulates urban growth patterns that lead, under certain conditions, on city-size distribution that obeys the Zipf’s law for cities. This contribution focuses on urban hierarchies and settlements distributions on different scales, time-periods and environment.
B29|Une Théorie Géographique Pour La Loi De Zipf|An important literature has focused on then rank size rule and the Zipf’s law without delivering significant results. Among the reasons for this low scientific productivity, one can find ommisions and misunderstandings between different scientific fields, the generalization of physical and mathematical models abusively applied to social science fields and the pure quality of data concerning city size and city growth. In this paper, we use empirical studies throughout the world in order to build a geographical theory on urban systems’evolution. We use a comparative method to examine cities dynamics.
B29|Social Rules and Agreements Besides the ‘Invisible Hand’ A note on Carlo Beretta, «Non di solo mercato... Ruolo e ragioni di accordi, regole e istituzioni»|Recently an old debate amongst scholars of economics and of other social sciences has been revived: that between supporters of the free market and supporters of public regulation of economic activity, the aims being specifically that of efficiency according to the former group, and development, stability and social justice for the latter. In this paper we consider Carlo Beretta’s analysis, which by means of a historical and theoretical method, gives evidence of the limits of the neoclassical approach, and emphasizes the importance of social rules and agreements, i.e. the need for the intervention of collective institutions in order to reach the fundamental goals of social and economic policy.
B29|The Economic History of the American Economic Review : A Century's Explosion of Economics Research| Written in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the American Economic Review , this paper recounts the history of the journal. The recounting has an analytic core that sees the American Economic Association as an organization supplying goods and services to its members, one of which is the Review . Early in its history the Review was a multipurpose publication with highly disparate content. Over time the economics profession expanded and more economics research was produced, primarily in the form of journal articles. Editors accommodated this shift by allocating more resources to the refereeing and editing process and more space to research papers. (JEL A14, B19, B29)
B29|The question of “evidence” in the emergence of evidence-based or evidence-aware policies in agriculture|" Evidence-based or evidence-aware policy approaches are used in many different sectors (health, education, etc.). These approaches are less common in agriculture but are gradually emerging. Analysis of debates surrounding this trend sheds light on the particular nature of the difficulties faced by public decision-makers who are willing to use available scientific knowledge. After examining certain misunderstandings which arise in the international debate over evidence-based policy approaches, this paper addresses two specific issues: (i) the problems of competing evidence for using knowledge in the design of public policies and (ii) the potential role of rationalization tools in a possible ""depoliticisation"" of public decision-making."
B29|Implications of the Foucauldian decentralization of economics|This essay aims to explore Foucault’s project of decentralizing economics and to hint on some implications. It also makes a comparative analysis between Foucault’s project and the projects similar to his design and aim. I argue that Foucault’s critique of the idea of economics as a science is stronger than that of the critiques which challenge the status of economics as a science by exposing its deep fictional, literary or narrative content and style. I argue that the strength of Foucault’s decentralization project lies in the fact that he does not refer to the discursive content of economics in order to demonstrate that it is not a science. Instead, he unveils its epistemological conditions the character of which deeply haunts the sketch of economics as a science. Foucault undertakes decentralization both at the formal and historical level. At the formal level he shows that there are underlying epistemological conditions that govern the formation of discourses including economics in the West. At the historical level he demonstrates that there is no trace of economics up to the eighteenth century in the West. This fact, that economics is governed by modern Western epistemological conditions, encourages me to question the aim of teaching economics in societies such as Pakistan which are not part of the Western civilization.
B29|Economic Development from the Eclac- Raul Prebisch Approach: In Search of Welfare and Life Quality in Latin Amercia|This study presents an analysis of the theory of economic development, from the perspective of ECLAC and Raul Prebisch, in their search for a better standard of living for Latin America, in the context of the combination of internal and external forces whose interaction explains the structural boundaries that makes difficult the achievement of having a decent quality of life and a gradual improvement of its quality for developing countries. That is why this paper will study ways of accomplishing key objectives by considering topics such as World Trade, International Cooperation, Technical Progress and the relation between Government - Market, with the aim of achieving higher standards of living among the population and consequently sustainable development in the long term that will provide better conditions of life for the developing countries.
B29|George Katona: A founding father of old behavioral economics|Assuming the division of behavioral economics into old and new, the paper begins to argue that old behavioral economics began with the works of two giants – George Katuna and Herbert Simon during the 1950s and early 1960s. The contributors of Herbert Simon are well established, thanks to the popularity of bounded rationality and satisficing, and his being award Noble Prize in economics. However, economists are much less familiar with the contributions of George Katona that can be viewed as the father of behavioral economics. Furthermore, the author argues that Katona was also misunderstood by various economists when he was attempting to create a psychologically based economics that rejected the mechanistic psychology of neoclassical economics and introducing the survey method to economic research that he had been using in his experimental psychology research previously. He also had influenced various economists during their debates in the 1950s without given the credit for. Many historians of behavioral economics limit Katona's contributions to the start of behavioral economics only to his contributions to macroeconomics. However, the paper demonstrates that Katona's behavioral economics included his contributions to macroeconomics (bringing realism to Keynesian consumption function and consumption behavior), micro-economics (business behavior, the rationality assumption, etc.), public finance and economic policy, and his introduction of the survey method. To demonstrate these contributions, the author argues that Katona attempted to bring realism to economic analysis – through psychological concepts – beginning with his early days of research in Germany which coincided with German hyper inflation- and continued whether working at New school for Social Research, Chicago University's Cowles Commission, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or the University of Michigan's Survey Research Center. The author also argues that Katona's contributions went through stages, depending upon what economic problem persisted at the time, what advertises he was facing, and what institution/organization he was associated with.
B29|O Instututo Superior de Ciências Económicas e Financeiras e o Corporativismo (1934-1974)|O Instituto Superior de Ciências Económicas e Financeiras, de Lisboa, resultou da transformação do antigo Instituto Superior de Comércio, criado pelo governo da República em 1911. Esta mudança de nome esteve associada a uma importante transformação substantiva: não só este Instituto passou a estar integrado na universidade como passou de uma escola de dominante liberal a uma escola alinhada com a visão corporativa dominante após a institucionalização do Estado Novo em 1933. Surgiram assim no decurso daquela década elementos importantes de afirmação e difusão de uma cultura económica e jurídica corporativa. Após um hiato o imediato pós Segunda Guerra, o ISCEF voltou a ser um aparelho importante na renovação da doutrina corporativa. O objectivo da presente comunicação é justamente o de reconstituir e analisar criticamente a contribuição desta escola para esse movimento de ideias.
B29|Buborékok és legendák. Válságok és válságmagyarázatok - II/1. rész. A Déltengeri Társaság<BR>[Bubbles and myths, crises and explanations II/1: the South Sea bubble]|A cikk a tulipánmániával foglalkozó tanulmány folytatása (Madarász [2009]). A Déltengeri Társaság 1720-as fellendülése és kipukkadása mindmáig egyike a pénzügyi történelem leghíresebb és leggyakrabban emlegetett buborékainak. A közgazdaságtanban a buborék sokáig nem volt fontos téma, de az utóbbi időben ismét divatba jött. A tanulmány először a buborékmetafora néhány irodalmi példáját mutatja be, majd összefoglalja az angol államadósság kialakulását, a korai modern fiskális-militarista állam létrejöttét és a pénzügyi forradalom különböző interpretációit. A Déltengeri Társaság történetének, az adósság-részvény csere lebonyolításának és a korabeli vélemények spektrumának ismertetése után áttekintést ad arról, milyen módon és céllal használták fel az 1720-as eseményeket közgazdászok és történészek saját magyarázataikban. Ezek skálája a tudatos csalástól a befektetők irracionális mániáján át a racionális buborék kialakulásáig terjed. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B19, B29, E65, G01, N01, N13, N23.
B29|Buborékok és legendák. Válságok és válságmagyarázatok - II/2. rész. A Déltengeri Társaság<BR>[Bubbles and myths, crises and explanations II/2: the South Sea bubble]|A cikk a tulipánmániával foglalkozó tanulmány folytatása (Madarász [2009]). A Déltengeri Társaság 1720-as fellendülése és kipukkadása mindmáig egyike a pénzügyi történelem leghíresebb és leggyakrabban emlegetett buborékainak. A közgazdaságtanban a buborék sokáig nem volt fontos téma, de az utóbbi időben ismét divatba jött. A tanulmány először a buborékmetafora néhány irodalmi példáját mutatja be, majd összefoglalja az angol államadósság kialakulását, a korai modern fiskális-militarista állam létrejöttét és a pénzügyi forradalom különböző interpretációit. A Déltengeri Társaság történetének, az adósság-részvény csere lebonyolításának és a korabeli vélemények spektrumának ismertetése után áttekintést ad arról, milyen módon és céllal használták fel az 1720-as eseményeket közgazdászok és történészek saját magyarázataikban. Ezek skálája a tudatos csalástól a befektetők irracionális mániáján át a racionális buborék kialakulásáig terjed. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B11, B19, B29, E65, G01, N01, N13, N23.
B29|Alvin Toffler’s Acceptance about the Society on the Millenniums Threshold and Its Determinant Factors|In the present paper we analyse, from an epistemological standpoint, the phases of economic and social development in Alvin Toffler’s perspective. In his works, he analyses economy and society at three distinct levels, which he calls “waves”. In Toffler’s view, humankind passed through two such phases (waves) and presently it is prepared to enter the third one, the knowledge one. The way from the first to the current (third) wave was long and difficult, marked by deep changes in all domains as well as at a mental level. From an agrarian society, whose primary objective was subsistence, characterizing the first wave, we have now reached the stage of a society where knowledge comes to the forefront, the third wave, after having transited the industrial one, which has characterized the second wave. The risks associated to the second wave (the wave of industrialization) are certain causes of the shift of paradigm and of the more and more important emphasis on knowledge. If in the industrial society technology dominated both the economic and the social levels, in the knowledge society man will dominate technology and will have the control of the major directions of progress.
B29|Revisiting the Relationship between Electricity Consumption, Capital and Economic Growth: Cointegration and Causality Analysis in Romania|The paper empirically analyzes, in Romania’s case, the cointegration and causality between electricity consumption, capital and economic growth. The data set covers the period 1980-2011. The results show the existence of bidirectional causality between electricity consumption and economic growth and between economic growth and capital use. At the same time, a unidirectional causal relation is also found from capital use to electricity consumption. The main finding suggests that electricity conservation policies may hinder economic growth by reduction in electricity consumption. Moreover, in the opposite direction, from economic growth to electricity consumption, the fluctuations in economic growth may reduce demand for electricity.
B29|Analiza inițiativelor de promovare a integrării financiare la nivelul Uniunii Economice și Monetare<BR>[Analyzing European Initiatives for Sustaining Financial Integration within EMU]|The scope of the present paper is to point out the general relevant European policy initiatives designed to sustain financial integration within the Economic and Monetary Union((EMU) member states. We structured our research on two chapters, as follows: the first one studies the main barriers affecting this process while the second analyze the major actions aimed at increasing the degree of financial integration of EMU markets. Our concluding remark outline that the reform of financial services is a key pillar of European growth and an essential complement to fiscal consolidation and structural change.
B29|Ekonomie budoucnosti: čtyři možné scénáře<BR>[The Future of Economics: Four Possible Scenarios]|Already during the financial crisis from 2007 through 2009, a growing number of scholars, laymen or media outlets blamed economics as such, at least partially, for the turmoil and subsequent economic malaise. Therefore, the debate concerning future long-term development of economics - or, more precisely, prevailing economic theory - has been intensifying. The following text outlines four possible scenarios - synthetic, evolutionary, reactionary, and revolutionary - of such a development. Each scenario is connected with a methodologist of economics or a methodologist of science, who represent it, for it is right the domain of methodology or/and philosophy of science wherein it is necessary to look for an ideological background belonging to different research traditions in economics as well as for an understanding of determining stances and worldviews of the traditions' proponents.
B29|Colonización interior y democracia: la reforma agraria italiana de 1950|Which was the role of the Italian land reform in the 20th century? Did the land reform carry out a democratic and anti-communist policy or was it an important step toward an anti-capitalist social revolution? None of those hypotheses are very convincing. This paper debates the thinking of the reformer and «meridionalist» intellectual Manlio Rossi-Doria, and the political evolution of the interior colonization policy and the «integral land reclamation» in Southern Italy. The study starts off in the fascist «ventenio» and finishes after the 2WW, in a time of democracy. Land reform was the first step of the European regional policy of cohesion as well as the continuation of the Risorgimento programme, aiming at the construction of contemporary Italy. The agrarian reform did not only force the redistribution of the extensive «latifondo» (large estate), but also the concentration of land plots. Generally speaking the «meridionalist» policy had diverse objectives: agronomic modernization, hydraulic and real estate appreciation, the transformation of human labour, environmental sustainability and the fostering of civic spirit and public morality. This paper deals too with the relationship between civilization and democratization. The aim is to shed some light on the role that interior colonization-land reform policy might have plaid in the Mediterranean area.
B29|A social innovation or a product of its time? The Rehn-Meidner model's relation to contemporary economics and the Stockholm school| A wage and economic-policy programme for full employment, price stability, growth and equity was developed by two Swedish trade-union economists in the early post-war period. A restrictive macroeconomic policy, a wages policy of solidarity and an active labour-market policy are the cornerstones of the Rehn-Meidner model. The model was influenced by Hans Singer's analysis of the fallacies of incomes policy under full employment conditions. However, it is difficult to find equivalences in contemporary economics to the model's combination of policy goals and instruments, its proposed relation between the instruments, or to its emphasis on the role of actual profits in wage formation.
B29|When did we begin to spell Òheteros*edasticityÓ correctly?|Using digitized texts scanned by Google and subjected to opticalÊcharacter recognition, I show that heteroskedasticity overtookÊheteroscedasticity as the preferred spelling in 2001 and hasÊcontinued to dominate, except for 2005, up to 2008. The latestÊtrends indicate that writers are moving toward the k variant.ÊHowever, for words such as homoskedasticity, heteroskedastic,Êand homoskedastic, the corresponding spellings using c are stillÊoverwhelmingly dominant, albeit slowly shifting.
B29|Bench-Marks of the Economy of Moldavia Reflected in the Work of Dimitrie Cantemir|In the second part of the 17-th century and the beginning of the 18-th century, the chance of the Romanian countries was directly and decisively influenced by the Ottoman Empire and Poland; they represented a goal for the feud and dispute among Turkey, Austria and Russia. To Dimitrie Cantemir, the historic Moldavia was not only a spiritual presence in the people’s consciousness along centuries, but also a physical one. Moldavia was looked upon as a place full of trade and citadels, with a fertile land, with fish filling the rivers and lakes, with minerals in the underground and mountains of salt. Dimitrie Cantemir reveals the squires’ and the feudal style abuses. The origin of the squires’ land properties and the bondage relationships between the peasants and the squires are also depicted.
B29|Oferta y demanda y el ciclo económico: una interpretación de la situación económica actual/Supply and Demand Sides and the Economic Cycle: An Interpretation of the Current Situation|Tomando como punto de partida las dificultades económicas actuales, se pretende, siguiendo el modelo cíclico de Ibn Jaldún, una aproximación a las oscilaciones de la actividad económica teniendo en cuenta simultáneamente los lados de la oferta y de la demanda, entendiendo que el protagonismo de uno y otro lado puede modificarse en el tiempo, o que los dos pueden actuar simultáneamente, como sería el caso en la situación económica actual a juzgar por los síntomas observados. Asimismo, se llama la atención sobre la complejidad existente en la práctica, si se tiene en cuenta la riqueza de las motivaciones humanas, frente al carácter unidimensional del homo oeconomicus smithiano, a partir del cual se han elaborado nuestras concepciones económicas. Starting from the current economic difficulties, we will try to increase our knowledge of economic cycle with the help of Ibn Khaldûn Cyclical Model, considering simultaneously the eventual shocks of demand and supply sides. Both of them may influence on the oscillatory movements of economic activity, separately (with different grades of emphasize each one, depending on the moment) or simultaneously. According to the observed symptoms, we think the last option should be the best explanation nowadays. We also have to remark the real complexity of economic functioning, having in mind the variety of human motivations versus the one-dimensional character of Smith’s homo oeconomicus, which is in the basis of our conventional economic conceptions.
B29|Cunoaştere matematică şi comprehensiune economică|The present study presents a general scheme of the categories of human activities, integrating mathematics into the theoretical activities, respectively economics into the hermeneutical activities. Features of the mathematical knowledge (including the mathematical object), and features of the economic comprehension (i.e. economic understanding) are established and argued.
B29|Bioeconomics – the Essence of Nicholas Georgescu–Roegen’s Legacy|The ever augmenting climate debate nowadays sent us back on the field of research to one of the first economists that truly understood the devastating effects of human activity over our planet – no other than the founding father of bioeconomics, Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen. Reflecting upon all the factors that contributed to the tremendous insightfulness and incredible topicality of his convictions, we embark on a synopsis of the great Romanian economist’s lifetime work and on an analysis of his fundamental heritage for the human kind, fitting it in the pattern of the main biographical circumstances which influenced his academic development and interests. We will try to outline the key moments which determined the transition from a purely mathematics-driven formation to an authentic interest for the economic science, its social character and the fitting of the bio-physic setting in this context, only to end up analysing the multiple layers of bioeconomics and to further canvass the different acceptations of what we proudly consider to be the essence of Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen’s message for posterity.
B29|Besicovitch, Sraffa, and the existence of the Standard commodity|The proof of the existence of the Standard commodity contained in Sraffa's book (section 37) has been debated recently. Lippi (2008) has argued that the algorithm in section 37 of Sraffa’s book is not precisely stated and does not need to converge to the desired eigenvalue and eigenvector. In this paper I will show that also the proof provided by Besicovitch to Sraffa on 21 September 1944 is incomplete, but it can easily be completed.
B29|What’s wrong with the world? Rationality! A critique of economic anthropology in the spirit of Jean Gebser|Jean Gebser (1905-1973) was a multidisciplinary thinker whose ideas about human consciousness and the future inspire the following five vantage points for the heterodox critique of contemporary economic anthropology: (1) Characteristic attributes of consciousness and those of the environment surrounding the individual are equivalent, eliminating the possibility of single-minded, seamless, rational control, especially during macrohistoric phase transitions; (2) Diaphaneity as a mode of deep and comprehensive understanding (an approach that excludes latching on to any selectively focused explanation) will be needed to deal effectively with emerging global resource and environmental problems; (3) Costs in the form of irreversibly accumulating inaccessible energy shadows our evolving civilization, which our cultural conditioning portrays as pure progress; (4) Rationality, as the most laudable motivation for individuals, business firms and nations, has led to an unfounded techno-fetish; and, for various reasons, it fuels accelerated movement toward collective self-destruction; (5) Signs of chaos (not the harmless and controllable kind found in standard economic literature) corroborate the notion that we have entered a new period of macrohistoric phase transition as interpreted by the thermodynamic comprehension of universal history.
B29|Kritický realismus: ontologická báze postkeynesovské ekonomie<BR>[Critical Realism as an Ontological Basis of Post-Keynesianism]|In the following text we introduce those approaches to the methodology of economics that are relevant from the perspective of post-Keynesianism. After a partially historical outline of philosophical and methodological stances of John Maynard Keynes and Nicholas Kaldor we attempt to shed some light on a more recent methodological concept, critical realism. This approach is in one way or in other influenced by the two economists´ ideas in the realm, as well as some other post-Keynesians. We argue that this, originally heterodox, concept has had an ambition not only to operate as an alternative to the methodology of mainstream, orthodox economics, but to substitute it and thus, proponents say, make economics as such more relevant.
B29|The Sociological School of Italian Science of Finance: A Retrospective View|A recent book by McLure analyses Italian economic thought in the early 20th century with breference to the school of fiscal sociology, consisting of a number of Italian economists who shared the views of Vilfredo Pareto on public finance. These Italian economists sought ways to explain choices of public finance utilizing 12. Sull’evoluzione recente delle metodologie dell’analisi economica delle scelte collettive rimando a Di Majo e De Chiara (2009) e alla letteratura ivi richiamata. a paradigm other than the neoclassical approach. This phase ended in the 1930s, and mainstream public finance adopted a neoclassical approach. However the heritage of Italian unorthodox thinkers, associated with both the Paretian approach, can be found in the issues considered in more recent developments.
B29|Aide au développement : six décennies de trop dits et de non dits|Depuis six décennies alternent des arguments favorables à et critiques de l’aide au développement. Ils s’inscrivent dans les débats politiques, idéologiques et économiques de chaque période, depuis la diffusion concomitante du terme « développement ». L’article montre comment le terme « aide » a étonnamment résisté à l’usure du temps et des idées. La liste des pays privilégiés par l’aide, son contenu et donc son système de justification ont considérablement évolué, de même que se sont notoirement transformés les rapports au sein de l’aide entre apports publics et apports privés, soutien technique, apports en nature et contributions financières, aide bilatérale liée et aide multilatérale, etc. Toutefois, quelles que soient les logiques de justification de ces soutiens, quelle que soit la nature des critiques qu’on lui a opposées, quel que soit le constat d’une certaine inefficacité à permettre une croissance des pays bénéficiaires, la désignation d’un ensemble de pratiques sous le vocable commun d’« aide au développement » a perduré en relation avec la montée du poids des institutions publiques et privées qui en ont la charge.
B29|In Search of Good Economics. A note on Luigi Lodovico Pasinetti, «Keynes and the Cambridge Keynesians»|This paper analyses Luigi Pasinetti’s evaluation of the meaning, importance and outcomes of the Keynesian revolution and the role played by the most important of the Cambridge Keynesians; it also considers the results of his attempt to complete John Maynard Keynes’ and Piero Sraffa’s elaboration, introducing the idea of a «natural economic system». In particular some of Pasinetti’s theories concerning the role of economics together with the other social sciences in leading to an understanding of production and distribution in industrial and post-industrial society, and in establishing scientific policy guidelines, are discussed.
B29|On the Economics of Regional Powers: Comparing China, India, Brazil, and South Africa|As the conception of and debates on regional powers have been led by political science, this pa-per aims to contribute to the discussion from an economics perspective. Based on the discussion of different concepts of economic power - such as those of Schumpeter, Perroux, Predöhl, or Kindleberger - concepts of technological leadership, and the global value chain approaches, the paper develops a research framework for the economics of regional powers. This framework is then tested using descriptive statistics as well as regressions analysis, with a focus on the four regional powers Brazil, China, India, and South Africa. As economic power is relational, the re-lationship of regional powers to other nations in the region is analyzed. According to the findings, only limited statements on the economics of regional powers are possible: a regional power can be described as an economy with a relatively large population and land area which plays a dominant role in trade within the region and in the regional governance. The regional power develops its technological capacities, and its businesses act regionally and globally with increasing strength.
B29|Verschiebung der globalen Machtverhältnisse durch den Aufstieg von Regionalen Führungsmächten: China, Indien, Brasilien und Südafrika<BR>[The Rise of Regional Powers and Shifting Global Relations:Comparing China, India, Brazil and South Africa]|Eine Reihe von Ländern in Asien, Afrika und Lateinamerika steigen zu wichtigen Akteuren auf und verschieben die Koordinaten in der Weltpolitik und -wirtschaft. Die politischen und wirtschaftlichen Verschiebungen zugunsten dieser Regionalen Führungsmächte gehen mit einem relativen Bedeutungsverlust der USA, Japans und der EU einher. Sie werden durch das wirtschaftliche Wachstum und das politisch-militärische bzw. geostrategische Agieren der Regionalen Führungsmächte zunehmend herausgefordert. Während Konzeption und Debatte über Regionale Führungsmächte maßgeblich von politikwissenschaftlicher Forschung geprägt sind, leistet das Working Paper einen Beitrag zur Theorie der Regionalen Führungsmächte aus wirtschaftswissenschaftlicher Perspektive. Ausgehend von der Diskussion unterschiedlicher Konzepte wirtschaftlicher Macht (beispielsweise von Schumpeter, Perroux, Predöhl und Kindleberger), Konzepten zu technologischer Führerschaft und der Forschung über globale Wertschöpfungsketten wird ein Forschungsrahmen für die wirtschaftswissenschaftliche Analyse der Regionalen Führungsmächte entwickelt, der im Folgenden durch beschreibende Statistik und Regressionsanalyse an den Beispielländern Brasilien, China, Indien und Südafrika gestestet wird. Da wirtschaftliche Macht ein relationales Konzept ist, wird die Beziehung der Regionalen Führungsmächte zu anderen Ländern der jeweiligen Region untersucht. Anhand der Ergebnisse sind begrenzte Aussagen über die Ökonomie der Regionalen Führungsmächte möglich: Eine Regionale Führungsmacht kann demnach als eine Volkswirtschaft mit verhältnismäßig großer Bevölkerung und Landfläche beschrieben werden, die eine dominante Rolle im Handel der Region und der regionalen Governance-Struktur einnimmt. Die Regionale Führungsmacht entwickelt ihre technologischen Fähigkeiten weiter und ihre Unternehmungen agieren mit zunehmender Stärke sowohl auf regionalem als auch globalem Niveau.
B29|Economistas liberales y cuestión femenina. El singular discurso de la domesticidad de la escuela economista española (1861-1909)|The texts by the Spanish Economist School (second half of the 19th century) –so called liberals- valued the role of women in the economy and the society in a way which strongly confronted the prevailing discourse that defended a unique and exclusive role for all women: housewife and mother. Most members of the Spanish liberal economic trend defended female work in the factories, arguing in terms of wages; they even asked for professional training for illiterate women (who in many cases could not even write and read for the fact of being a woman). The texts of those economists provided new ideas about the economic and social role of women in a Spain dominated by a discourse that denied the need for female work even for poor working class families
B29|L'économie du bonheur. Quel intérêt pour les politiques publiques ?|This article questions the increasing use of “happiness” or “subjective well-being” in order to evaluate public policies and social conditions. After reminding the place of the economics of happiness in the history of economic thought, it presents the methodological arguments, as well as the relevant results for the policy recommendations. Finally, happiness is a useful criterion to evaluate society’s state, but should not be the only one: happiness data can allow avoiding paternalism and ethnocentrism, but happiness economics face several and serious challenges that should prevent researchers from transforming satisfaction scores into the only barometer of public action. Classification JEL : B29, B41, D01, D60, H10
B29|Pourquoi s'intéresser à la notion d' « evidence-based policy » ?|From the early 1990s “evidence-based medicine” (EBM) was formalized to promote the most judicious use possible of available knowledge by practitioners, the word “evidence” referring simultaneously to factual evidence, empirical corroboration, and proof. The tenets of EBM spread to other decision-making spheres (poverty-abatement policies, law, education, environment...) resulting in the notion of “evidence-based policy” (EBP). In the French-speaking world, increasing reference to EBP is often dismissed as an insignificant effect of rhetoric or an attempt to depoliticize debate. But an analysis of its origins suggests a more nuanced judgement. It rather shows the will to renew positive approaches to help public decision-making through an arsenal of ad hoc methodologies. In particular, EBP approaches contribute to counterbalance the increasing use of knowledge models based exclusively on opinions or simulations that relieve themselves from empirical validation.
B29|Buchanan’s constitutional political economy: exchange vs. choice in economics and in politics|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Four generations of Islamic economists|The present discussion falls under the broad category of modern history of Islamic Economic Thought. The present classification of generations and sorting the features of their work is important to understand the development of modern Islamic Economics since its inception during the early 20th century. A time span of 25 years has been taken for one generation of Islamic economists. Including the present team of young economists, Islamic economists have been classified into four generations. The date of the first work by a scholar has been considered as a criterion for his place in a generation, not his age.
B29|Onward the Spatial: an Essay on the Nature and Relevance of Regional Economics| Abstract Regional economics appears to be losing its currency in academic discourse, with a clear preference over recent years for the term ‘spatial economics’. This essay examines the nature of the developments in order to explore their implications for regional economics, focusing on four key aspects: empirical methods and the ‘tools’ of regional economics; theory and the appropriate spatial scale; the ‘regional problem’; and regional policy. It finds reasons to suggest that the ‘region’ is of less importance, but argues that the use of the term ‘spatial’ does not reflect dissatisfaction with regional economics, but rather it signals the reinvigoration of the subject from its formal connection to mainstream economics. This is primarily in the form of the new economic geography model, although limitations with this have led to an unsatisfactory form of regional policy that is based on growth theory. Avance de l’économie spatiale: une communication sur la nature et la pertinence de l’économie régionale RÉSUMÉ L’économie régionale semble avoir perdu du terrain dans les discussions académiques, et on lui préfère clairement, depuis quelques années, l'expression ‘économie spatiale’. La présente communication se penche sur la nature des développements, afin d'explorer leurs implications pour l’économie régionale, en examinant les quatre aspects principaux suivants: les méthodes empiriques et les ‘outils’ de l’économie régionale; la théorie et l’échelle spatiale appropriée; le ‘problème régional’; et la politique régionale. Il détermine des raisons pour affirmer que la ‘région’ joue un rôle moins important, mais estime que l'usage du mot ‘spatial’ ne reflète pas le mécontentement avec l’économie régionale, mais indique un renouveau pour ce sujet après ses liens officiels avec l’économie générale. Ce renouveau se présente principalement sous forme du nouveau modèle de géographie économique, bien que certaines de ses limitations risquent de donner lieu à une forme peu satisfaisante de politique régionale, basée sur la théorie de la croissance. Avance de lo espacial: un trabajo sobre la naturaleza y la importancia de la economía regional RÉSUMÉN La economía regional parece estar perdiendo su difusión dentro de la disertación académica, mientras que durante los últimos años se observa una preferencia clara por el término ‘economía espacial’. Este trabajo examina la naturaleza de los desarrollos con objeto de explorar sus implicaciones para la economía regional, centrándose en cuatro aspectos clave: métodos empíricos y las ‘herramientas’ de la economía regional; teoría y la escala espacial apropiada; el ‘problema regional’; y política regional. Encuentra razones que sugieren que la ‘región’ tiene menor importancia, aunque arguye que el uso del término ‘espacial’ no refleja insatisfacción con la economía regional, sino que indica la revitalización del tema con respecto a su conexión formal con la economía dominante. Esto se da principalmente en la forma del nuevo modelo de geografía económica, aunque sus limitaciones pueden resultar en una forma insatisfactoria de política regional basada en teoría de crecimiento.
B29|Evolución de la Teoría Financiera en el Siglo XX|ResumenEn las siguientes líneas se aborda en forma no exhaustiva, la evolución de la teoría financiera en un contexto globalizado, que además de ofrecer al lector un amplio conocimiento en esta materia, se constituye en una guía orientadora para los programas académicos de las instituciones de educación superior que se nutren de ella y en una fuente de consulta para trabajos de investigación en la disciplina financiera, contribuyendo así a la formación integral del profesional interesado en comprender el rol de las finanzas en la economía y en las corporaciones nacionales e internacionales.
B29|Poverty Measurement: The Development of Different Approaches and Its Techniques|This work concentrates in the fundamental ideas that constitute the existing theoretical framework of the poverty measurement from the 1960’s to the state-of-the-art, with an extended comment on the more relevant issues, the presentation of more influencing approaches and the probable path of future research in Poverty Economics
B29|An uncertain dollar: The Wall Street Journal, the New York Times and the monetary crisis of 1971 to 1973|In August 15, 1971, President Nixon announced the unilateral suspension of the convertibility of the dollar into gold, a foundation of the world monetary system since the Second World War. The media and economic experts were caught by surprise, neither could foresee the immediate consequences of the decision or what would be the architecture of the emerging international monetary system. From 1971 to 1973, the money markets and the value of the dollar became a news, an opinion, an editorial item in both the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. I examine this record to question how was anxiety about the dollar resolved in media communication? Media narratives were not uniform between and within the two newspapers. What distinguished the Times and Journal's coverage was their diverse framing of the dollar as political, financial or economic object. I conclude that media uncertainty about the dollar was less an outcome of failing expert knowledge as it was a consequence of the dollar's multiple cultural significations.
B29|On Improving Social Science Education in Pakistan|How do we arrest the decline of the social sciences in Pakistan? Is it a matter of money or one of sending more students to the West who might then return to teaching at the local universities? In this article I argue that the solution lies elsewhere. Borrowing frames, concepts, and analytical techniques based on the concept of universalism runs a serious risk of imposing alien views on local problems. Moreover, attempts to become ‘scientific’ requires side stepping value judgments of good and bad. The current Western domination of the intellectual scene favours a single route for social science development, and kills all diversity. However, whilst we may borrow as much as we choose, we need to build our own frames that would underpin the social sciences, and this is possible only by reconnecting with our own past.
B29|Structural changes in economics during the last fifty years|This essay portrays the major currents in recent economic thinking against the orthodoxy and dogmatism of neoclassical economics. It places behavioral economics, experimental economics, evolutionary economics, ecological economics, new institutional economics, agent-based computational economics and post-autistic economics vis-à-vis the classical and the neoclassical economics. It concludes that we may expect a synthesis of all these strands of economic thinking in the near future that will replace neoclassical economics from the citadel of mainstream. Teaching of these strands of new economics has already begun in many universities, although in an un-integrated manner. However, until the neoclassical microeconomics and macroeconomics are replaced by their alternatives and necessary as well as convincing tools of economic analysis are developed, neoclassicism would not give way to modern economics.
B29|Theoretical Framework Of Competition As Applied To Banking Industry|Concepts evolve through time and over time they assume different meanings. The concept of competition is no exception. This paper discusses the evolution of the concept of competition in general with a view to derive a theoretical framework for analyzing competition in banking industry. Starting from the classical notions of competition it proceeds to some of the latest approaches (Northcott (2004), Neuberger (1998), Toolsema (2003), Bolt and Tieman (2001)). The ordinary Structure-Conduct-Performance approach does not involve any analysis of market dynamics. Our approach introduces various aspects of industry dynamics and growth. It provides a methodology to arrive at the market form in banking industry through an analysis of all the aspects of basic conditions, structure, conduct and performance. It is argued that sustained growth and dynamics of the industry is not price led. Growth arises out of changing basic conditions and dynamics arises out of sharing the new market created by basic conditions. Hence the prime mover of competition is rivalry among firms to control market share and to internalize externalities rather than adjustments brought about by the price mechanism.
B29|Konsequenzen der Strategiedebatte für die Produktion|"The paper shows how traditional organizational structures within the production sector, such as quality circles, learning groups (""Lernstatt"") and project teams reflect the constructivist and postmodern concepts of strategic management with their wide ignorance of purely plan deterministic aspects of strategy."
B29|Inflación: La visión estructural|La inflación ha ocupado, casi desde mediados del siglo pasado, un lugar cada vez más importante en la teoría y discursos económicos. Desde luego se le ha visto por parte de la escuela de pensamiento dominante como el peor de los males y generada por excesiva ingerencia de los gobiernos en la economía y la inconsistencia temporal de las políticas emprendidas por este. Aunque explicaciones alternativas tienen cada vez menos acogida, este artículo pretende revisar el tratamiento dado a la inflación desde una mirada estructural al sistema económico. Se considera un marco alternativo para descifrar los determinantes del alza consistente de los precios como un fenómeno que no es monetario estrictamente basándose para esto en la clásica división sectorial de la economía que caracteriza la escuela escandinava.
B29|La Economía del Desarrollo: una perspectiva histórica|This paper analyses both, the main theoretical body and the evolution of modern economic theories on Economic Development at two different stages. The first stage, covers the period from the end of second World War till the 1970’s, when a complete set of new theories, dealing with the problem of underdevelopment, and declaring themselves independent of the main body of economics, appeared; the second one, covering roughly the period from the middle of the 1970’s to the end of the century, witnesses the comeback of the neoclassical paradigm. Since the results of both approaches in terms of economic development seem to have been very poor, the importance of the role played by different institutional variables in the process of development, and that were neglected in those theoretical attempts, is stressed.
B29|Epistemología de la Economía. Comentarios sobre el Paradigma Neoclásico (y II)|Theories, as logic-deductive bodies, can not be taken isolated from the thinking context where they are developed. Philosophical and ethic basis supporting them make necessarily part of the logical structure, although, they could not be explicitly declared. Te chaining between ethic principles, economic theories, phenomena explanation and the consequences of economic policy adjudge let us understand the reality and man's action on it, with a transparency difficult to reach whether dealing with the isolated theory. From new philosophical and ethic basis This way, new scopes for alternative theoretical searching are open before hegemonic paradigms, in the construction of logic-deductive structures, and their validity remains to be settle by reality checking.
B29|The Rise and Fall of the Oslo School|In 1931 Ragnar Frisch became professor at the University of Oslo. By way of his research, a new study programme and new staff he created the ”Oslo School”, characterised by mathematical modelling, econometrics, economic planning and scepticism towards the market economy. Consequently, detailed state economic planning and governance dominated Norwegian economic policy for three decades after WWII. In the 1970s the School’s dominance came to an end when the belief in competitive markets gained a foothold and the economy had poor performance. As a result a decentralized market economy was reintroduced. However, mathematical modelling and econometrics remain in the core of most economic programmes.
B29|Thirty years of research in the history of Islamic economic thought:Assessment and future directions|The present paper examines and evaluates research experiences in the area of the history of Islamic economic thought during the last 30 years with the objective to see the pace of research and its coverage, both author-wise and idea-wise, and to determine the future research agenda in the light of the past progress and trends of the literature. The paper begins with a brief survey of the early literature on the history of Islamic economic thought, prior to 30-years, to provide a background. Then it studies and evaluates the research during the last thirty years, 1976-2006. It finds that hitherto the research in the history of Islamic economic thought has been language, region and period specific – Arabic, the Middle East and up to 9th/15th century respectively. More attention has been paid to write on economic thought of few personalities than others. The situation is still worse in case of idea-wise research. However, this literature has exerted some effects on scholars of the main stream economic thought and a few of them are trying to rehabilitate it in the main body of economic thought. At the end, the paper emphasizes on need for intensive and extensive research to include more personalities, ideas, periods, languages and regions and to write a systematic history of the subject.
B29|Gli economisti, la distribuzione, la giustizia: Milton Friedman|The main goal of this essay is to outline the fundamental theses of Milton Friedman about the distribution of all goods. The ethical principles supporting and justifying the Friedman’s positions are enucleated, and some theoretical and practical difficulties in terms of justice inherent in his conceptions are set in evidence. I.e. the difficulties in particular inherent to a model of society and economics founded on freedom in the widest sense, of all actors and agents, and substantially of all citizens.
B29|Recensione|Review of R. Leoni, G. Usai (a cura di), Organizations Today, Palgrave Macmillan, New York 2005
B29|"The history of the economic thought in the test of the ""universalism"" of Othmar Spann"|"The Austrian economist Othmar Spann (1878-1950) proposes term ""universalism"" to qualify, in opposition to the ""individualism"", the doctrine and the method consisting in putting in first totality, society, in the logical order of ""functional"" analysis of economic facts. Spann applies then this universalist approach to his reading of the history of the economic thought. He sets so a lineage of universalist economists (Müller, Fichte, Baader, Stein, List, Thünen, Roscher, Hildebrand, Knies, Bernhardi, Schmoller) against the lineage of the individualistic economists (Smith, Ricardo, Rau, Say, Menger, Jevons)."
B29|Environmental and ecological economics: A citation analysis|This study looks at two distinct questions: What have been the most influential journal articles in environmental economics over the ten year period 1994-2003? and, how much overlap is there between the fields of environmental and ecological economics? We examine the references in all articles published in JEEM and Ecological Economics (EE) over this period. For each of these two fields, a list of the top articles and top journals cited by articles published in JEEM and EE is presented. We also present some results based on our study of the ISI Journal Citation Reports. We find that there is a significant overlap between the two fields at the journal level - the two journals cite similar journals. There is a correlation of 0.34 between the number of citations received by the journals that are most cited and the correlation is even higher if journal self-citation is excluded. The main differences are that ecological economics tends to cite (but not be cited by) general natural science journals more often than environmental economics does, environmental economics cites more heavily from journals rather than other publications, and citations in environmental economics are more concentrated on particular journals and individual publications. However, there is much less similarity at the level of individual articles. Non-market valuation articles dominate the most cited articles in JEEM while green accounting, sustainability, and environmental Kuznets curve are all prominent topics in EE.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B29|Do Economists Reach A Conclusion on Road Pricing? The Intellectual History of an Idea|My search of the economic literature did not find a soul who favours traffic jams. Moreover, I find strong consensus among economists on how to reduce traffic jams. Especially in light of modern electronic toll collection, they believe in pricing highway capacity as a scarce resource. Beyond that primary insight, however, there is much disagreement. Economists disagree over how to set tolls, how to cover common costs, what to do with any excess revenues, whether and how â€œlosersâ€ from tolling previously free roads should be compensated, and whether to privatize highways. These disagreements fill a lot of pages, while the main point of agreement is largely taken for granted. Practically all economists who write on the matter agree that where there is significant congestion on highways, the price should not be zero.
B29|Ética y Ciencia en los estudios de Comercio y Pobreza. Impacto en los países en desarrollo|This papers starts from an analysis of the nature of power relations between countries, from a historical view, and their impact on trade. From this, the different research approaches on this subject are examined and most general epistemological positions are detected. Consequently, ethical positions in recent research emerge as related to international trade. Besides, a review is carried out on the empirical evidence about the effects of Trade Treaties between richer and developing countries. The conclusion is that a significant part of the achieved enquiries is not coherent with the human explicit objectives of minimize poverty and inequity around the world.
B29|Epistemología de la Economía. Comentarios sobre el Paradigma Neoclásico (I)|The central aim of this investigation es our own poverty, it is a South side perspective (Africa or Latin-America). However, we do not advocate for an empirical research; we analyze theories intending to explain from the North such an economic reality. Theories, as logic-deductive bodies, can't be taken isolated from the thinking context where they are developed. Philosophical and ethic basis supporting them make necessarily part of the logical structure, although, they could not be explicitly declared. Thus, the chaining between ethic principles, economic theories, phenomena explanation and the consequences of economic policy adjudge let us understand the reality and man's action on it, with a transparency difficult to reach whether dealing with the isolated theory. This way, new scopes for alternative theoretical searching are open before hegemonic paradigms, when different logic-deductive structures are constructed beginning from new philosophical and ethic basis and their validity remains to be settle by reality checking.
B29|As origens e a gênese do Plano Collor [The origins of the Collor Plan]|"The blockage of financial asset liquidity in March 1990, known as the Collor Plan - one of the most drastic state interventions in the Brazilian economy ever -, originated in the debate over the failure of previous stabilization policies, especially the heterodox shocks of the Sarney government. This intervention was an attempt to tackle, at the same time, the three problems identified with the shocks: (i) the tendency for accelerated monetization and for an explosion in demand in moments of abrupt reduction of the inflation; (ii) the implications of high liquidity of financial assets and ""indexed money"" and (iii) the precarious financing of the public debt. The debate pointed to the possibility and even the need for non-conventional measures to be taken in relation to these three problems. The Collor Plan itself began to be formatted by the president-elect's advisors at the end of December 1989, after his victory in the runoff election. The final draft was probably strongly influenced by a document discussed by the advisors of PMDB party candidate Ulysses Guimarães, and later by advisors of PT party candidate Luís Inácio Lula da Silva, during the period between the general election and the runoff. In spite of the differences in their general economic strategies, these competing candidates failed to develop their own stabilization policies at a time of rapid price increases and risk of hyperinflation during the second half of 1989. The proposal to block liquidity originated in academic debate and was imposed upon the main presidential candidacies."
B29|Teorie peněz Josefa Macka a jeho názory na monetární politiku<BR>[Theory of money of Josef Macek and his monetary policy view]|During 1930s and 1940s Josef Macek developed monetary theory leading to monetary policy recommendations which are deeply influenced by macroeconomic theory of John Maynard Keynes. Macek became leading Czech left-wing keynesian. His theory of money was nominalist and similarly to J. M. Keynes and G. Cassel he elaborated the concept of managed fiat money. He critisized and disapproved the quantity theory of money. In his monetary theory and his monetary policy conclusions he was a forerunner of contemporary post-keynesian monetary theories. Money supply is in his monetary theory highely endogenous and he expressed certain doubts about effeciency of monetary policy measures as antirecessionary remedy.
B29|Determinants of Economic Interaction: Behavior or Structure|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Defending The Indefensible? Culture'S Role In The Productive/Unproductive Dichotomy| The purpose of this article is to reveal the justifications for different production boundaries historically. It finds that the boundaries were and are predicated on an untenable productive/unproductive dichotomy that was justified on select and shifting cultural norms. Furthermore, the production boundary informed other categories like labor, capital, income, and wealth. Hence, this article exposes the degree to which economic categories were and are unstable, fragile, contested, and culturally embedded constructs. It then explores feminist-inspired production boundaries based on third-person criterion and finds that these boundaries are likewise culturally contingent. However, these new production boundaries merely do what economics has always attempted to do, which is to theorize production under different cultural circumstances. This article reaffirms the mutually constitutive role of culture and economic categories.
B29|Inadequacy of technology and innovation systems at the periphery: notes on Celso Furtado's contributions for a dialogue between evolutionists and structuralists|"This paper focuses on ""inadequacy of technology"" as formulated by Celso Furtado. The concept of ""inadequacy of technology"" may be, on the one hand, an enlightening assessment of the technological condition of underdevelopment and, on the other hand, a helpful ""focusing device"" for an agenda on innovation systems at the periphery. Furtado's approach on inappropriate technology may uncover the social roots of the well know ""low-growth trap"" of less-developed economies. Celso Furtado explains how inadequacy of technology is related to the polarization ""modernization-marginalization"" that characterizes economies with immature systems of innovation, as the Brazilian economy. This concept also highlights how difficult it is to overcome the complex interplay among unequal income distribution, localized and blocked technical progress and unsustainable economic growth. To overcome the inadequacy of technology a dual institutional building seems to be necessary: the innovation systems might co-evolve with welfare systems."
B29|Roots and features of researches about tourist economy (In French)|Of an economic approach of the tourism, made by applications of the instruments of the economist for this new field of investigation, we are gradually spent in a research on a tourist economy based on the specificities of this last one : Its temporal dimension (saisonnality of the activities, variation of the prices, market’s deformations); its spatial economic dimension (transfer of consumptions, incomes, employments, mobility of capital); its micro economic dimension (creation of a tourism’s product – assembly of ill-assorted services-, marketing by package price, imperfect competition, barriers in the entry). More recently it is its registration in yard of savings services societies and its potential of innovations which were revealed. Research in touristic economy needs rigour, coherence to progress in a world of uncertainties; It must necessarily explain, in other words to answer the question: how? While referring to the economists, for many users, the models can help there. But this research, by its characteristics, cannot be satisfied some, because it must aim also to help to understand, in other words to answer the question: why? Try to answer it, widens the field of the approaches possible and joined multidisciplinarity: It is necessary that tourist economy considers that the tourist is not only a consumer of tourism and the Tour operator a producer of services, but that they are, one and the other, consumer and producer of meaning. The force and the difficulty in interpreting this meaning also lie in culture, history, space and its organization.
B29|Valuing Tullock's Rejects: The Reception of His Work in Rent Seeking|Gordon Tullock's work in economics spans nearly 50 years and is known for the breadth, originality, and quantity of his contributions in public choice, constitutional political economy, law and economics, bioeconomics, and monetary history. Despite his lack of formal training in economics, Tullock published in major economic journals early in his career. A number of his papers, which proved to be seminal to the theory of rent seeking, were rejected by top economic journals. This paper explores possible reasons for the editor's reception to Tullock's work and uses citation counts to value Tullock's rejected papers. My paper shows that Tullock's work continues to be cited, often far more frequently than the papers which journals chose to publish when they rejected Tullock's submissions. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2005
B29|Mundell's International Economics: Adaptations and Debates|Most of the chapters in Mundell's International Economics differ, owing to adaptation, from the original sources. The revisions yield valuable insights into the contributions made by the initial publications. In this paper we look only at the changes that take the form of elisions of material. These outtakes are amusing but demonstrate how Mundell was willing to either irritate or ignore his discussants. Issues raised by them are important enough to warrant our further consideration. In doing so we question both the validity and the interpretation of some of the conclusions in the Nobel-cited capital mobility paper. Copyright 2005, International Monetary Fund
B29|La variazione dei prezzi relativi da Ricardo a Sraffa<BR>[The change in relative prices from Ricardo to Sraffa]|In the 1960, when “Production of commodities by means of commodities” by Piero Sraffa was published, the theoretical debate in economics was dominated by the keynesian and neoclassical economists. The theory of value and distribution of the classical economists had been abandoned. Sraffa recalls this theory in his book, providing a new rigorous formulation of the surplus approach and creating the framework which will serve as a basis for future critiques of the marginalist approach. The crucial issue is the theoretical formulation of the change in relative prices with respect to changes in the distribution of income. The scope of this paper is to shed light on the historical development of this aspect of the theory. At first I will reconsider the work done by D.Ricardo, subsequently the innovations brought by Sraffa will be analyzed, with their implications for the capital controversy debate and the general critique to the neoclassic theory of value.
B29|Rethinking democracy in economics. The importance of political economy founders legacy|How do economists defme democracy? Such is the question this paper tries to deal with. We contrast two economists' views on democracy. First, we show how, within the framework of public choice theory, the use of the tools and methodology of mainstream economic analysis, the focus put upon rational choices impose a purely positivist and technical view on democracy. No room can be made to discussion and deliberation. Public choice theory evacuates deliberation from democracy. However, this should not lead to the conclusion that economists are not able to develop a consistent and useful approach of democratic institutions. It is possible to envisage an alternative economic approach to democracy based on the theory of human nature proposed by the founders of political economy, Hume and Smith. From their perspective, the limited rationality of human beings and their benevolence, the role of sympathy makes room for a theory of democracy different, richer and more subtle than that envisaged by the public choice theory.
B29|Influential publications in ecological economics: a citation analysis|We assessed the degree of influence of selected papers and books in ecological economics using citation analysis. We looked at both the internal influence of publications on the field of ecological economics and the external influence of those same publications on the broader academic community. We used four lists of papers and books for the analysis: (1) 92 papers nominated by the Ecological Economics (EE) Editorial Board; (2) 71 papers that were published in EE and that received 15 or more citations in all journals included in the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Citation Index; (3) 57 papers that had been cited in EE 15 or more times; and (4) 77 monographs and edited books that had been cited in EE 15 or more times. For each publication we counted the total number of ISI citations as well as the total number of citations in EE. We calculated the average number of citations/yr to each paper since its publication in both the ISI database and in EE, along with the percentage of the total ISI citations that were in EE. Ranking the degree of influence of the publications can be done in several ways, including using the number of ISI citations, the number of EE citations or both. We discuss both the internal and external influence of publications and show how these influences might be considered jointly. We display and analyze the results in several ways. By plotting the ISI citations against the EE citations we can identify those papers that are mainly influential in EE with some broader influence, those that are mainly influential in the broader literature but have also had influence on EE, and other patterns of influence. There are both overlaps and interesting lacunae among the four lists that give us a better picture of the real influence of publications in ecological economics versus perceptions of those publications' importance. By plotting the number of citations vs. date of publication, we can identify those publications that are projected to be most<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B29|Indulások és újraindulások. Közgazdasági Szemle, új folyam, 1954<BR>[Beginnings and new beginnings. The new Közgazdasági Szemle series, 1954]|A hazai közgazdaságtan legrégibb orgánuma, a Közgazdasági Szemle éppen 130 éves. Nemzetgazdasági Szemle néven 1874-ben, világviszonylatban is viszonylag korán indult a Magyar Tudományos Akadémia megbízásából. Az amerikai testvérlap, az American Economic Review első száma 37 évvel később, 1911-ben jelent meg. A Szemle története azt példázza, hogy nemcsak a könyveknek, de a folyóiratoknak is megvan a maguk sorsa. A folyóirat háromszor indult, és nemcsak a többszöri indulás ténye, hanem azt alapítók és újraalapítók indítékai is egyértelműen a kort tükrözték, amelyben újra és újra nekivágtak, hogy színvonalas fórumot biztosítsanak a hazai közgazdaságtannak. A cikk a harmadszori indulás eddig jórészt ismeretlen körülményeit tárja az olvasó elé. Bemutatja, hogy 1954-ben paradox módon keményvonalas pártkorifeusok javaslatára váltotta fel ismét a Közgazdasági Szemle a nevével is sokat mondó, 1948 és 1954 között működő Magyar-Szovjet Közgazdasági Szemlét. Mindennek ellenére a régi-új lap már első számától kezdve a gazdasági ráció érvényesítéséért küzdött az igencsak kedvezőtlen külső körülmények közepette. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B29.
B29|Economists and Australian Wage policy Before World War II|Before the 1920s, Australian economics was virtually non-existent; but in the twenty years before World War II there was a conspicuous growth in the body of professional economists, located mainly in the universities. The system of wage fixation caught the attention of some of them. The paper discusses the economists’ commentaries on and contributions to wage policy in relation to (1) proposals in the 1920s for relating money wages to ‘productivity’, (2) emerging and somewhat novel ideas about the tariff, (3) the depression and (4) post-depression recovery. Although most of the economists’ ideas were worked out in local debate, the paper notes the comments on Australia’s wage policies by J.M. Keynes and the role of W.B. Reddaway in his brief sojourn in Australia.
B29|Strike Activity Under Enterprise Bargaining: Economics or Politics?|Australia has moved rapidly from a centralised Award based wage determination system to decentralised enterprise bargaining. This move has been associated with a substantial drop in strike activity. The relationship between working days lost and a series of macroeconomic variables is tested for the period 1985 to 2003, incorporating dummy variables for the different pieces of industrial legislation and four major periods of political strike activity in that period. The economic variables proved mostly insignificant with only the CPI and business inventories having any association with changes in strike activity. Working days lost fell significantly with the introduction of enterprise bargaining. Both the Reform Act 1993 and the Workplace Relations Act 1996 were associated with below trend strike activity. Overall, these results indicate that institutional factors now influence strike volumes, rather than economic.
B29|The Flying Geese Paradigm: A Critical Study Of Its Application To East Asian Regional Development|It is often claimed that what is popularly known as the “flying geese paradigm” of dynamic comparative advantage has accurately depicted the East Asian catching-up process. This paper presents a critical study of the paradigm, as well as its application to the current situation in East Asian economic hierarchy. The paper first presents the various versions of the paradigm, and discusses similarities and differences among them. It then evaluates the application of the paradigm to the East Asian regional development context by identifying major theoretical, conceptual and empirical problems that come with it. It is the author’s hope that the arguments presented in this paper will contribute to the further enrichment of future discussions on the East Asian development experience.
B29|On Some Equilibrium and Disequilibrium Theories of Endogenous Money: A Structuralist View|This paper is intended to be a contribution to a historico-critical analysis of some recent theories of endogenous money supply. Not a systematic survey of the literature on the subject. It is mainly concerned with the internal consistency of the ‘circuit’ theories developed in the 1980’s and early 1990’s and their later reappraisals and adjournments. It deals, inter alia, with some theoretical and practical problems concerning the monetary equilibrium framework of some of such theories, the endogenous or exogenous nature of the supply of money and of its single components, the relative importance of the different functions of money, the distinction between money and bank credit, the ‘closure’ of a monetary circuit and the institutional role of a central bank as a lender of last resort. The author is a non-fundamentalist post- Keynesian monetary theorist. He regards money demand and supply as two strictly connected variables, whose structural interdependence precludes a causal approach to an analysis of the way money enters the circular income flow.
B29|Gerardo Molina y el Estado Providente|In this essay, Gonzalo Cataño examines the ideas on the State defended by the notable thinker and Colombian socialist leader: Gerardo Molina. The article presents a brief biography, followed by a study of his ideas concerning the functions of the State. Although a critical tone predominates all way through the article, it must be remembered that the limitations of an intelligent analyst of the public subjects are always more instructive than the correct considerations of a trivial expositor of the policy. The paper defines Provident State – also known as Welfare State or Supportive State– as a State that guarantees minimum standards of income, health, food, housing, education and labor, as political rights, not charity.
B29|The Flying Geese Paradigm: A critical study of its application to East Asian regional development|"It is often claimed that what is popularly known as the ""flying geese paradigm"" of dynamic comparative advantage has accurately depicted the East Asian catching-up process. This paper presents a critical study of the paradigm, as well as its application to the current situation in East Asia economic hierarchy. The paper first presents the various versions of the paradigm, and discusses similarities and differences among them. It then evaluates the application of the paradigm to the East Asian regional development context by identifying major theoretical, conceptual and empirical problems that come with it. It is the author's hope that the arguments presented in this paper will contribute to the further enrichment of future discussions on the East Asian development experience."
B29|Theory On Economic Development: From Growth of Wealth To Expansion Of Freedom|In Economic Theory, development is the topic, which delves into human welfare. Its aim is linked to welfare expansion in the context of regions. In this working paper, I am assuming that aims and strategies of development are linked to the evolution of welfare notion. At the same time, this paper supports the perspective that regional development occurs when there is a freedom expansion for living a full human life in that region.
B29|Utilities: deregulated or re-regulated?|This article addresses the restructuration of the utilities sector/industry, a process generally described as deregulation. At the core of deregulation processes, not only in the EU, but also in the US, lies the replacement of old-fashioned forms of state regulation based on ownership control by new forms of regulation based on the operation of an independent regulatory body. In Central and Eastern European countries undergoing economic transition, surviving communist-type behavior, along with half-implemented EU deregulation directives, have led to specifically re-regulated utility markets. The new forms of regulation applied in the process of deregulation have served only to preserve the market protection of former state monopolies. Regulators who manage deregulation processes in the EU style allocate benefits across organized producer and consumer groups, so that the regulators' total utility is maximized.
B29|Transformace, reforma a třetí cesta<BR>[Reform, transition and the third way]|"The command economy that the Czech Republic inherited from the communist system was considered unreformable. It seems as if the social and economic transition of ex-communist countries is necessary for their full inclusion among democratic countries with highly developed market economic systems. No new central European tiger has emerged since Erhard""s reform in the post-war West Germany, since welfare-statism also destroyed a genuine economic transition in the Czech Republic. Influential interest groups were able to interrupt the transition process and to stop it halfway in many areas. Political pressures to bring the Czech Republic closer to European Union's standards led to the passing of laws and government measures that were incompatible with the highly-regarded transition strategy. The development of public law at the expense of private law enforcement (in accordance with EU policy) led to the further expansion of bazaar capitalism in the Czech Republic."
B29|From economic development to the development of knowledge. A study on the relations between different works of Albert O. Hirschman|In 1958 Hirschman's The Strategy of Economic Development irrupted in the development economics scene. His work provided the explanations of the economic development with a new point of view, assessing productive activities by their capacity to inducing new activity. This book also induced in its author the studies about non-market mechanisms and their relevance in the correction of disequilibria. This article states that The Strategy of Economic Development constitutes the basis for the later Hirschman's works, and that his economic development theory can be interpreted as a theory of the development of science.
B29|Elective Identities, (Culture, Identization and Integration)|"Most of contemporary individual and social identities (constructed with societal, cultural and technological resources) are radically autonomous, nomadic and virtual - i.e. they are de-traditionalized, open to negotiation and not based on a single interpretation of a tradition. Identizations can be recycled - elements of former identities are being re-used in constructing later ones or identities emerging in one context can be implanted in another or hybridised - a nation state as a model for socio-political identity is a case in point (and so is its recent crisis). Values, political, cultural and social identities - elective identities of ""nomads of the present"", often emerging out of new social movements or informal networks - play an important role in determining choices of information codes, images and identities. Theories of clashes of civilizations and of fundamentalists versus modernists should be seen against the background of increasingly complex and successful attempts at global governance and increasing criticism of the ideologies of status quo. They may testify to the success of globalization instead of demonstrating its failure. The rise of religious fundamentalism and the emergence of network types of organization contribute to further acceleration of identization processes. ""Girotondi della liberta"" in Berlusconi's Italy and radical re-evaluation of cosmopolitanism as a family of images of representation are cases of emergent identizations with unclear but potentially critical political implications."
B29|Bankruptcy Procedures for Sovereigns: A History of Ideas, 1976-2001|"This paper describes the evolution of ideas to apply bankruptcy reorganization principles to sovereign debt crises. Our focus is on policy proposals between the late 1970s and Anne Krueger's (2001) proposed 'Sovereign Debt Restructuring Mechanism,"" with brief reference to the economics literature on sovereign debt. We describe the perceived inefficiencies that motivate proposals, and how proposals seek to change debtor and creditor incentives. We find that there has been a moving consensus on what constitutes the underlying problem, but not on how to fix it. The range of proposed approaches remains broad and only recently shows some signs of narrowing. . Copyright 2002, International Monetary Fund"
B29|History of Value-at-Risk: 1922-1998|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Product liability: the normative Austrian perspective| The paper is an exercise in a normative economic analysis of product liability. After a short historical introduction, we take two of the basic premises of Austrian economic thought and see which system of product liability results. If costs are subjective and entrepreneurship is the essence of an efficient market process a system of caveat emptor follows. The paper also answers some possible criticisms from the mainstream neoclassical perspective.
B29|Karel Englis's Contribution to Economic Science|During the first half of the 20th century Karel Engliš was recognized as a creative economist and philosopher and as a leading representative of monetary and financial developments in the Czechoslovak Republic. His main contribution to economic science was the teleological (ultimate end) theory of national economy, based on the idea that the knowledge and awareness of any economic process is scientifically satisfactory only if goal-orientation can be proved in the activity of all economic subjects ? enterprises, households, banks, the state, etc. For Engliš, the teleological approach became a starting point for a new detailed study of the laws of market economy, especially of the essence, methods, and limitations of state economic and social policy.
B29|La teoría económica, el afecto y la familia|This essay is a commented bibliographic inventory of the references in the economic thought concerning the affection and the family, from Adam Smith to the authors that recently have formalized models toward this subject. Within the commented authors are: Smith, Malthus, Sade, Fourier, J.S. Mill, Masoch, Engels, Veblen, Boulding, Tullock, Posner, Becker, Pollack y Bergstrom.
B29|The Meaning of Local Knowledges|Foucaults studies of the relations between power and knowledge provide an alternative methodology for the studies of knowledges and their organizing. A methodology, which is referred to as genealogy. Process and pluralism is at the heart of genealogy. It thereby challenges unitary sciences and emphasises the concrete, independent and contextual character of knowledges. It seeks the present in the history of struggles among differentials. It focusses on uncovering the different knowledges and their interaction that are behind organized patterns. Finally, it strongly encourages a focus on specific practices like techniques, projects, tasks etc. in and around which the differences play together and interact in specific ways. In these operations, genealogy turns science on its head, because it opposes any unifying narrative and allows knowledges to maintain their own identity. The analysis thus becomes of an ascending kind, where more general phenomena emerge through the detailed study of practices.
B29|Retrospectives: American Economists in the Progressive Era on the Minimum Wage|Beginning in 1912, a number of states passed minimum wage legislation that applied exclusively to women and minors. These tentative experiments in economic legislation ended in 1923 when the Supreme Court overturned the District of Columbia's minimum wage law. Remarkably, at this time virtually all professional American economists supported some variety of minimum wage legislation; however, they did not all give the same reasons. This paper briefly examines the context in which this minimum wage legislation was passed and then surveys several of the arguments that American economists gave in support of minimum wage laws.
B29|The Tao of Laissez-Faire|The existence of the doctrine of laissez faire in Taoist philosophy is mentioned only briefly in the economics literature, and no attempt has been made in it to explain why the Taoists advocate laissez faire. This paper examines Taoist philosophy in order to answer this question, and shows that the vision of a spontaneous and harmonious natural order that lies at the heart of Taoist thought is conceptually very close to the natural order envisioned by classical economics. The doctrine of laissez faire thus has an Eastern as well as a Western philosophical foundation.
B29|Other Things Equal: Love or Money|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Ethique reactive ou proactive: les victimes et les barbares|Dans les rapports entre l'ethique et l'economie, les choses ne vont pas en se simplifiant. Chaque entreprise ou acteur economique, dans l'environnement socioculturel qui lui est propre, va se voir de plus en plus imposer une double necessite: ne pas faire de victimes et ne pas se comporter en barbare! Dans ce vieil antagonisme de l'etre et du paraitre, le second a toujours eu l'avantage de la facilite sur le premier. Il est a craindre qu'il en soit de meme en ce qui concerne l'ethique des affaires. C'est donc l'approche qui pourrait la plus facilement etre universelle qui s'imposera le plus difficilement.
B29|Traditional Sharing Norms as an Obstacle to Economic Growth in Tribal Societies|"This first objective of the paper is to achieve a better understanding of the values and the worldview that lead traditional tribal societies to distribute wealth and incomes in manners that are hostile to economic change. The second objective can be persued namely that of identifying ways of getting out of the vicious ""traditional"" equilibrium in which all change would be blocked owning to the interplay of self-erinforcing forces."
B29|Early Twentieth-Century Heterodox Monetary Thought and the Law of Entropy|The purpose of this paper is to study the link between an important development in the physical sciences, the discovery of the law of entropy, and its impact on the evolution of heterodox monetary theory early this century. Based on the recognition that, unlike the physical world, the monetary system appears to escape the effects of entropy, writers such as Soddy and Gesell developed particular theories and policy views that took this asymmetry into consideration.
B29|Islamic Economics and the Islamic Subeconomy|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Industry-Specific Capital and the Wage Profile: Evidence from the NLSY and the PSID|Using data from the NLSY (1979-1991) and from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID, 1981-1987), we seek to determine whether there is any net positive return to tenure with the current employer once we control for industry-specific capital. Using data from the PSID, Topel (JPE 1991) concluded that 10 years of seniority with an employer translated into a net return of about 25%. However, once we include total experience in the industry as an additional explanatory variable, the return to seniority vanishes almost completely when we use either OLS, GLS or IV-GLS estimation methods, although this conclusion varies somewhat according to the occupation, some occupation classes showing a negative net return to tenure and others showing a positive net return. Note also that this result holds whether the analysis is carried out at the 1-digit, 2-digit or 3-digit level. Therefore, it seems that what matters most for the wage profile in terms of human capital is not so much firm-specificity but industry-specificity. Avec les données du NLSY ainsi que celles du Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID), on cherche à déterminer s'il y a un rendement positif net lié à l'ancienneté dans la firme. Topel (JPE 1991) a montré avec un échantillon du PSID l'existence d'un rendement substantiel (25 % en 10 ans). Toutefois, du moment que l'on inclut l'expérience dans l'industrie courante dans l'équation de salaire (en plus de l'ancienneté dans la firme ainsi que l'expérience totale de travail), l'effet d'ancienneté disparaît presque complètement, que l'on estime par simples moindres carrés généralisés ou par la méthode des variables instrumentales (IV-GLS), et ce, avec les deux échantillons différents. ¸ noter également que ce résultat est robuste au degré d'agrégation des classes d'industries.
B29|Il corporativismo nel pensiero economico italiano: una rilettura critica<BR>[Corporatism in Italian Economic Thought: A Reinterpretation]|"The paper deals with the problem of the critical appraisal of the economic theory of fascist corporatism and of the place such doctrine should be allowed in the history of Italian economic thought. The ideological, political and economic beliefs of the various tendencies of corporatism are discussed and compared, in the light of both the historical conditions of the country and the theoretical knowledge of the Thirties. The direct link of continuity fascists claimed on ethical grounds between corporatism and an important part of the Italian tradition of economic thought is questioned and denied. But no attempt is made to represent corporatism as a purely extemporary and inconsistent historical project. One of the conclusions of the paper is that corporatism was neither a ""historical error"" (a simple parenthesis in the intellectual history of modern Italy) nor a ""mystification"" aiming at the unconfessed protection of vested interests. It was, rather, an attempt to reconcile an obsolete theoretical framework with the emergence of new social and political instances, made und"
B29|The|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Comment [Retrospectives: Animal Spirits]|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Comment [Retrospectives: Animal Spirits]|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|Reply [Retrospectives: Animal Spirits]|No abstract is available for this item.
B29|The When, the How and the Why of Mathematical Expression in the History of Economic Analysis|In writings about the history of the use of mathematical expression in economics, there seems to be a conviction that the movement towards its current flowering was cumulative, inevitable, and indeed, natural. While, such notions are widely held among practicing economists, I want to argue that they are not historically valid. The deployment of mathematical expression in economic discourse enjoyed neither an inexorable nor unhindered progress, but rather was characterized by two primary ruptures in the history of economic thought, episodes marking the inflection points in the rise of mathematical discourse. The main reason for such a disjointed narrative is that, in the evolution of economic thought, most of the participants were not convinced that the subject matter intrinsically demanded mathematical expression, while those so enamored experienced great difficulty in creating a community which could agree upon a formalism which was thought to be well-suited to economic issues.
B29|Retrospectives: Animal Spirits|"John Maynard Keynes argued that when the conditions for rational action are not present, people are driven by ""animal spirits."" This article briefly considers Keynes' argument, and the history of the term."
B29|The reception of Austrian economics in Italy|Nowadays the Austrian School enjoys high reputation in Italy: books by Mises, Hayek and other Austrian economists are constantly republished and reviewed with great interest, both inside and outside academic circles. The situation was very different decades ago, when just a few Italian economists devoted attention to the Austrian School. This work studies the reception of Austrian Economics in Italy, from the beginning to our days, so as to bring out, by way of comparison, relevant features of Italian economic culture. We will try to offer just an overview of the entire story, in an attempt to provide useful elements for a deeper analysis of further topics and periods.
B29|Frédéric Bastiat as an Austrian Economist|Bastiat is widely acknowledged as the most effective advocate of free markets, but his status as an economist is widely denied even by prominent Austrian economists who share his literary style and support for liberty. In particular, his theories of value and exchange have been attacked as a labor theory of value. Bastiat is exonerated here from these charges and is shown to fully oppose objective theories of value and to fully endorse the gains from free exchange. In addition, Bastiat viewed economics as a science based on deductive reasoning and he vehemently opposed the use of mathematics. He thus was an important precursor of the Austrian school of economics.Bastiat est très reconnu comme étant le défenseur le plus éloquent du libre marché. Cependant, son statut en tant quéconomiste est amplement nié, et ce, même par les économistes Autrichiens éminents qui sont en accord avec son style littéraire et sa défense de la liberté. En particulier, ses théories de la valeur et de léchange, considérées comme participant de la théorie de la valeur-travail, ont fait lobjet de critiques. Cet article exonère Bastiat de ces critiques et démontre que ses théories sopposent radicalement aux théories objectives de la valeur : Bastiat avait une compréhension parfaite des gains découlant des échanges libres. De plus, Bastiat envisageait léconomie comme une science reposant sur un raisonnement déductif et sopposait résolument à lemploi des mathématiques. En ce sens, il était un précurseur important de lécole Autrichienne déconomie.
B29|Capital, Interest, and Professor Kirzner|Israel Kirzner is to be credited for clarifying and developing the theory of capital and interest set out by Ludwig von Mises and for articulating and defending the pure time preference theory of interest. A revisiting of Mises and his critics suggests that the pure time preference theory is best formulated in terms of economic actions and then applied (variously) to the anticipated consequences of those actions. Differences between the Misesian and Knightian reckonings of time preference are to be understood in terms of the contrasting conceptions of a zero time preference. Parallels between the time preference theory of interest and a leisure preference theory of wages are explored. Austrian economics is deemed healthy despite lingering puzzles about its theories of interest and wages.On doit au Professeur Kirzner la clarification et le développement de la théorie du capital et de lintérêt dans la lignée de Ludwig von Mises et larticulation et la défense de la théorie de lintérêt comme étant la préférence pure pour le temps. Une relecture des travaux de Mises et de ses critiques suggère qu la théorie de la préférence pure pour le temps est mieux formulée en termes dactions économiques et ensuite appliquée (de manière variable) aux conséquences anticipées de ces mêmes actions. Les différences entre les acceptions Misessiennes et Knigtienne de la préférence pour le temps doivent être comprises en termes de conceptions différentes dune préférence nulle pour le temps. Les rapprochements entre la théorie de lintérêt comme préférence pour le temps et la théorie des salaires comme préférence pour les loisirs sont explorés. Léconomie autrichienne est jugée saine en dépit des énigmes persistantes qui entourent ses théories de lintérêt et des salaires.
B29|Friedrich von Wieser and Friedrich A. Hayek: The General Equilibrium Tradition in Austrian Economics|Bruce Caldwell has disputed a number of points in my earlier account of the development of the Austrian school of economics from Carl Menger to Ludwig von Mises and F.A. Hayek. The issues in contention regard Friedrich von Wiesers intellectual affiliation with Hayek and his influence on the formation of Hayeks economic thought; Wiesers status as a general equilibrium theorist; and the reason for Hayeks early flirtation with general equilibrium theory. In this article I argue that Hayek was a self-conscious adherent of the Wieserian tradition and remained so even after he received the Nobel Prize in 1974 and that he distinguished between this tradition and the Böhm-Bawerkian tradition followed by Ludwig von Mises. I also contend that Wieser used the construction of a general equilibrium economy subject to a single will as both a normative benchmark by which to appraise the performance of the real-world market economy and as an analytical tool to explain the formation of market prices. Finally, I argue that Hayek concerned himself with the problems of the Wieser-type general equilibrium economy beginning with his earliest writings as a professional economist, years before he began to focus on the theoretical problems of money and the business cycle.Bruce Caldwell a discuté un certain nombre de points de mon article récent sur le développement de lécole autrichienne déconomie de Carl Menger en passant par Ludwig von Mises et F.A. Hayek. Les controverses concernant laffiliation intellectuelle de Hayek vis-à-vis de Friedrich von Wieser et linfluence de ce dernier sur la pensée économique de Hayek, le statut de Wieser en tant que théoricien de léquilibre général, et les raisons pour lesquelles le jeune Hayek flirta avec la théorie de léquilibre général.Dans cet article je défends la thèse selon laquelle Hayek était conscient du fait quil sinscrivait dans la tradition Wieserienne et quil létait toujours même après sa réception du prix Nobel en 1974 et quand il fît la distinction entre cette tradition et la tradition inaugurée par Böhm-Bawerk et poursuivie par Mises. Larticle affirme aussi que Wieser utilisa la construction dune économie en équilibre général sujette à une volonté unique à la fois comme standard normatif pour évaluer les performances des marchés dans le monde réel et comme outil analytique pour expliquer la formation des prix marchands. Enfin, larticle argumente que Hayek sintéressa aux problèmes relevant dune économie en équilibre général à la Wieser dans ses premiers écrits en tant quéconomiste et cela bien avant quil ne se concentrât sur les problèmes théoriques de la monnaie et du cycle des affaires.
B29|Anarchism and Minarchism: A Rapprochement|Among classical liberals and libertarians a serious debate has been afoot about whether any sort of government (some call it state) is justified. Murray N. Rothbard, Jan Narveson, Bruce Benson and Randy Barnett are usually listed as the main skeptics, while Ayn Rand, Robert Nozick, John Hospers, among others, are listed as defenders of the morality of limited government. In this paper I argue that once properly understood, the two sides arent in fundamental disagreement. Anarcho-libertarians do embrace the idea that men and women in a free society are justified in establishing a legal order in defense of their basic and derivative rights, and this is also what limited government proponents advance as the basis for the system they deem to be just. I argue that no fundamental difference exists between these two legal orders. The monopoly anarcho-libertarians claim limited government proponents wrongfully sanction is, in fact, not a coercive monopoly and the legal order proposed by anarchists would also have this monopolistic characteristic. This should put an end to this fruitless dispute and free the energies on both sides to mount a really important and henceforth united defense of the free society with its just legal order.Parmi les libéraux classiques et les libertariens un important débat concerne la question de savoir si une quelconque forme de gouvernement (certains lappellent Etat) est justifiée. Murray N. Rothbard, Jan Narveson, Bruce Benson et Randy Barnett sont habituellement classés parmi les principaux sceptiques, alors quAyn Rand, Robert Nozick, John Hospers, entre autres, sont plutôt classés en tant que défenseurs de la moralité dun gouvernement limité. Dans cet article, je soutiens quune fois correctement compris, les deux clans ne sont pas fondamentalement en désaccord. Les anarcho-libertariens soutiennent lidée que les hommes et les femmes dans une société libre sont en droit détablir un ordre législatif pour défendre leurs droits fondamentaux et leurs droits dérivés, et cest aussi ce que les partisans du gouvernement limité proposent comme fondement du système quils considèrent être juste. Je soutiens quil nexiste pas de différence fondamentale entre ces deux ordres législatifs. Le monopole du gouvernement limité que les partisans anarcholibertariens sanctionnent à tort est, en fait, non pas un monopole coercitif, et lordre législatif proposé par les anarchistes aurait lui aussi cette caractéristique monopolistique.Cela devrait mettre un terme à cette dispute stérile et libérer les énergies des deux côtés pour ériger à lavenir une défense unie réellement importante pour une société libre avec un ordre juridique juste.
