B30|Physical Laws and Human Behavior: A Three-Tier Framework|Social sciences start by looking at the social-psychological attributes of humans to model and explain their observed behavior. However, we suggest starting the study of observed human behavior with the universal laws of physics, e.g., the principle of minimum action. In our proposed three-tier framework, behavior is a manifestation of action driven by physical, biological, and social-psychological principles at the core, intermediate, and top tier, respectively. More broadly, this reordering is an initial step towards building a platform for reorganizing the research methods used for theorizing and modeling behavior. This perspective outlines and illustrates how a physical law can account for observed human behavior and sketches the elements of a broader agenda.
B30|"Les années noires de la ""Science de l'Homme"": François Perroux, la Fondation Carrel et l'appropriation de la sociologie"|"le présent article étudie l'inscription du régime de Vichy dans l'histoire de la mise en forme et de l'institutionnalisation des sciences sociales autour d'une ""science de l'Homme"". Le modèle d'une science sociale unifiée est en particulier porté par la Fondation française pour l'étude des problèmes humains et son secrétaire générale, François Perroux. Cette institution, financée directement et de manière substantielle par le Régime, s'inscrit non seulement dans l'histoire longue de l'émergence des sciences sociales en France , mais constitue également une rupture importante dans ce processus. L'article montrera qu'un point de vue particulier relatif à l'organisation et au contenu des sciences sociales va s'y imposer par effet d'homogénéisation du champ scientifique."
B30|Prendre la parole sous l'État français: Le cas de François Perroux|"L’activité de l'économiste François Perroux au moment de l’occupation a été analysée sous différents angles. Dans le travail qui va suivre, nous tâcherons d’éclairer l'activité de Perroux sous l'État français non pas à partir des nombreux ouvrages et articles académiques qu'il publie entre 1940 et 1944, mais plutôt en se consacrant à ses prises de paroles en tant qu’intellectuel public. Pour se faire, nous utiliserons la notion bourdieusienne de ""représentation"""
B30|Rohingya-The Stateless Community Becoming the Lost Generation|The Rohingya is a Muslim ethnic minority group in Rakhine State of Myanmar. It is now established but controversial fact that the Rohingya is a stateless population of the world who has found shelter across vast swathes of Asia mainly in Bangladesh, and also in India, Pakistan, Thailand and Malaysia. But a majority of Rohingyas are living in various camps of Bangladesh with statelessness identity. Recently, the UN warns that the Rohingya children who are living in various camps of Bangladesh would be the lost generations of the world. This article discusses the aspects of “stateless community” and “lost generation” of the world’s most persecuted people-the Rohingya.
B30|The Property Market, Affordability and the Malaysian National Housing Policy|Key Messages • The industry is suffering a downturn that might lead to a wider economic crisis. The negative stage experienced by the housing sector is recognizable in the increasing number of unsold units, in the declining number of transactions and in the progressive cooling down of prices. Failing to recognize this fact would lead to the risk of being unprepared for an economic downturn. • The debate on affordable housing is incomplete if it is not contextualized in the realm of the general evolution of the property market. The current discussion is strongly unbalanced toward the issue of affordability, while the property market’s cyclical dynamic is disregarded; such a tendency could lead to a situation in which the country will not be equipped to face the consequences of the downturn that has already started. • With regard to the affordability issue, the present study argues that home ownership is less of a problem than what the political debate would tend to suggest: with 76.3 per cent of home ownership, Malaysia is performing better than neighbouring countries. • The affordability issue is a complex one, and looking at it simply by looking at the ratio between median house price and median income is simplistic and misleading; in order to decide what is affordable is a choice involving a trade-off between three elements: price, floor area and location. • The low-end market segment is not disregarded by the private developers because it is naturally unprofitable, but because it is artificially made unprofitable by a series of regulatory obstacles that become supply-side bottlenecks. Recommendations • In order to face a downturn in the property market, this paper suggests primarily acting to address home-owners’ negative equities. In the case of the emergence of a severe mortgage crisis, loan condition modifications should be helpful in seeking to reboot homeowners’ damaged balance sheets in an effort to arrest a prolonged deleveraging process and more quickly restore household demand to levels no longer dominated by negative home equity. Keep in mind that this should be an emergency measure to be implemented only in dramatic circumstances. • Fiscal discipline and strict down-payment rules are recommended. In particular, it would be important for the government to monitor quantity and quality of the expenses, being clear on how eventual deficits are financed. With reference to down-payment rules, mortgage, property insurance, and property taxes should not exceed 30 percent of income. • Redesign of the fiscal system in favour of consumption taxes rather than income taxes. A mix of GST and reduced income taxes can be studied in order to ensure a source of income for the government from one side and to orient consumer attitudes toward saving, and so support re-building the monetary funds available for investment projects. • The better way to generate affordable projects would be to remove regulatory obstacles, starting with reducing the direct involvement of government agencies in building low-cost homes. • In contrast with what is suggested by the National Housing Policy, too-strict requirements for low-cost developments (i.e. minimum size) should be avoided in order to facilitate the interaction between supply and demand, taking into account the location and size factors, and therefore allowing lower income people to move toward the economic heart of the country, supporting thus not only their housing issues but also promoting their possibilities for a higher degree of social mobility. • Disruptive entrepreneurship will play a key role in developing new technologies for making housing developments cheaper from the cost side. However, in order to emerge such kind of entrepreneurship requires freedom to react to market signals and cannot be centrally designed, because of the specific nature of entrepreneurial discovery processes. • A higher role for the rental market is expected to emerge in the future. Under this perspective, the government might consider Jacob’s proposal of guaranteed-rent homes, where the central authority guarantees the loan for those developers investing in affordable projects, and partially covers the rent disbursement, in order to make the projects both affordable and economically viable. This method would have the advantage of avoiding capital expenditure from the government side, and moreover of decreasing current expenditures whenever the subsidised tenants improve their economic conditions.
B30|François Perroux, entre mystique et politique|L'article analyse les écrits de François Perroux de l'entre-deux-guerres jusqu'à la période du régime de Vichy. Ce faisant, l'article montre en particulier qu'à travers sa conceptualisation d'une Communauté de travail, pensée comme la fusion des activités et des consciences, Perroux cherche à tenir ensemble mystique sociale et organisation politique. Un effort de rationalisation de l'irrationnel dont le Chef politique est le principal dépositaire par sa capacité à incarner le Mythe national qui doit orienter par le haut la Communauté de travail. Cette interprétation nous permet de situer intellectuellement Perroux vis-à-vis d'éléments structurants du discours vichyste.
B30|Research in Development Studies: Philosophy, Methods and Rigor|A better understanding of the role, epistemology and methodology of research are very important to generate evidence to strengthen development policies to improve development outcomes. This essay will discuss the philosophy and operationalisation of research in the development arena with the focus on the role of applied research, epistemological issues and boundary setting, the choice of research methods, and conceptualisation of rigour in development research.
B30|Парите Като Координация На Стоковото Стопанство. Стари И Нови Прочити На Теорията На Маркс<BR>[Money as coordination, new and old readings of Marx]|В икономическата теория на Маркс съществуват редица проблеми, един от които е за интегрирането, и за логическата връзка между теорията за парите и теорията за трудовата теория за ценността. Това засяга по-широкия въпрос за мястото на парите изобщо в системата на Маркс. Задачата на настоящата статия е да реконструираме в сравнителна перспектива походите на двама френски икономисти, Ж. Картелие и А. Орлеан, като ги съпостави с тези на И. Рубин и П. Струве. Всеки от четиримата предлага свое методи на решение за интегрирането на парите и ценността. Въпреки, че идеите на четиримата автори се преплитат, то могат да се обособят две двойки, а именно И. Рубин – А. Орлеан, и П. Струве – Ж. Картелие. Това отговаря на радикалността на техните аналитични решения. Докато първите съхраняват теорията за ценността (всеки по свои начин), то вторите практически я елиминират (също всеки по свой начин).
B30|Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyyah’s Usury Concept|This article uses a literature review approach focusing on explaining how the concept of usury in the view of Ibn al-Qayyim al-jawziyyah. This article asserts that usury is one of the forbidden transactions in Islam because it is recorded in the letter of Al-Baqarah verse 275, In interpreting the verse related usury, Ibn al-Qayyim explains that usury is divided into two namely riba fadl and usury nasiyah. The usury has become a core in conventional banking in modern times better known as flowers.
B30|Pemikiran Ekonomi Al-Maqrizi<BR>[Al Maqrizi's Economic Thought]|This article writes about the thinking of Al-Maqrizi Islamic economic figure. The method used in the concept of money according to Al-Maqrizi is literature study. Al-Maqrizi is in the second phase in the history of Islamic economic thought, a phrase that begins to show signs of slowing innovative intellectual activities in the Islamic world. Al-Maqrizi is an Islamic economic thinker who conducts special studies on money and inflation. The socio-economic phenomenon and the effects of inflation depend on the nature of income and wealth of each group. If income is fixed or rising, but lower than the rate of inflation then the condition declines. Conversely, if their income rises higher than the rate of inflation, then their material welfare increases.
B30|"Schumpeter vs. Keynes Redux: ""Still Not Dead"""|Diamond (2009) compares the citation time series for Schumpeter and Keynes from 1956 to 2006. Citations to Schumpeter steadily increase throughout the period, whereas citations to Keynes begin to level off and then trend slightly downward beginning in the 1990s. As a result, citations to Schumpeter begin to outstrip those to Keynes. This paper replicates Diamond (2009) and extends the analysis to 2017, which incorporates citations since the onset of the Great Recession. The replication confirms the results in Diamond (2009). The analysis beyond 2006 shows citations to Schumpeter remain larger than to Keynes, but citations to Keynes undergo a resurgence. The paper argues the Great Recession helped renew interest in Keynes. Google Trends data for Schumpeter and Keynes are compared and provide evidence showing the heightened interest in Keynes during the Great Recession. For example, in the United States, the peak of Keynes's search interest occurs in February 2009, five months after Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy.
B30|Antoine Augustin Cournot: The Pioneer of Modern Economic Ideas|Augustin Cournot, an unsung pioneer of many economic ideas during his time, who has written the book, Theory of Wealth, where he developed many economic ideas including the oligopoly theory, doupoly model, the ideas of function and probability into economic analysis. This paper discusses the way he thought the economics should be analyzed as well as his life cycle.
B30|Population and poverty in Ireland on the eve of the Great Famine|The link between demographic pressure and economic conditions in pre-Famine Ireland has long interested economists. This paper re-visits the topic, harnessing the highly disaggregated parish-level data from the 1841 Census of Ireland. Using population per value adjusted acre as a measure of population pressure, our results indicate that on the eve of the Great Famine of 1846{50, population pressure was positively associated with both illiteracy rates and the prevalence of poor quality housing. But while our analysis shows that population pressure was one of the primary factors underpinning pre-Famine poverty, it also highlights the importance of geography and human agency. A counterfactual computation indicates that had Ireland's population stayed at its 1800 level, this would have led to only modest improvements in literacy and housing.
B30|Bilder in der Geschichte der Ökonomie: Das Beispiel der Metapher von der Wirtschaft als Maschine|"In der ökonomischen Theorie haben Metaphern (als Formen eines bildhaften Sprachgebrauchs) immer eine besondere Rolle gespielt. Nach einem historischen Überblick über das Konzept von Metaphern wird die Geschichte des dominanten Stranges in der ökonomischen Theorie als Geschichte einer Metapher von der Maschine skiziiert In der Geschichte der ökonomischen Theorie finden sich immer Metaphern, diese können als Formen eines bildhaften Sprachgebrauchs verstanden werden. Eine besondere Rolle hat im Hauptrang der Theorieentwicklung die Metapher von der Maschine gespielt. Nach einem historischen Überblick über das Konzept von Metaphern (Kap. 1) und der Kulturgeschichte der Metapher von der Maschine (Kap. 3) wird die Geschichte der ökonomischen Theorie als achtstufige Geschichte einer Metapher von der Maschine skizziert: Bei Quesnay als einer machine économique mit Bezug auf die Philosophie von Descartes, bei Smith eine natural order mit Bezug auf die Mechanik bei Newton, bei Malthus und Ricardo als Konzept von ökonomischen Gesetzen in Analogie zu Naturgesetzen in einer Neuinterpretation von Newton - ähnlich auch bei John Stuart Mill, bei Jevons und Walras als explizit ausformulierte ""mechanistische Nationalökonomie"", bei Autoren wie Gérald Debreu als Neuformulierung des Ansatzes von Walras als einer Informationsmechanik, sowie bei Friedrich August von Hayek als Konzept von ""dem Markt"" als einem Informationsnetzwerk in Analogie zu einem Telekommunikationssystem."
B30|The Communist Manifesto: What can we learn today for a country like Vietnam?|Today we can learn from the Communist Manifesto that unregulated markets lead to disastrous economic, social, and political developments, which can endanger the reproduction of the capital system itself. The liberal argument, based on Adam Smith's invisible hand - that markets coordinate the selfish actions of millions of people and lead to the welfare of nations -, is a dangerous dream. The consequence is that politicians should not listen to economists, including foreign advisors who preach the liberal dreams of radical versions of capitalist systems. Especially for developing countries, it is vital that they strive for a regulated version of capitalist development. Marx and Engels had a deep understanding of the functioning of capitalism. They underestimated the possibilities to regulate the capitalist system and also allowed the working class to take part in prosperity. However, there is always the danger that capitalist systems evolve with low levels of regulation with the features of capitalism analysed in the Manifesto.
B30|Population and Poverty in Ireland on the Eve of the Great Famine|The link between demographic pressure and economic conditions in pre-Famine Ireland has long interested economists. This paper re-visits the topic, harnessing the highly disaggregated parish-level data from the 1841 Census of Ireland. Using population per value adjusted acre as a measure of population pressure, our results indicate that on the eve of the Great Famine of 1846{50, population pressure was positively associated with both illiteracy rates and the prevalence of poor quality housing. But while our analysis shows that population pressure was one of the primary factors underpinning pre-Famine poverty, it also highlights the importance of geography and human agency. A counterfactual computation indicates that had Ireland's population stayed at its 1800 level, this would have led to only modest improvements in literacy and housing.
B30|Notas de historia de pensamiento económico para no economistas|La historia del pensamiento económico es moneda corriente en los programas de economía. Este documento tiene como objetivo hacer una presentación muy breve, y resumida, de los principales aportes teóricos de la economía, a partir del último cuarto del siglo XIX, con el fin último de motivar al alumno o al lector occasional, en la iniciación del estudio de temas del Pensamiento económico.
B30|Edmond Malinvaud and the Problem of Statistical Induction|"In this article we follow, over his long career, the evolution of the reflections of Edmond Malinvaud on economic ?science? and its relationship with the ?problem? of statistical induction. To do so we largely rely on his own words by quoting his many articles addressing these issues. We consider in turn his views on statistical methods and structural econometrics, on apriorism versus empiricism, the Koopmans-Vining controversy on measurement with or without theory, econometric methods and the challenge of modelling, the Popperian temptation of a falsifiable economic science, the uneasy alliance between induction and expertise, understanding and advising. We conclude with Malinvaud's views on eclecticism, which he deems to be the only position able to meet, despite its rapid progress, the ""advisory imperative"" characterizing economics."
B30|Inequality as Lack of Co-operation in Economic Thought|This study is about the notion of co-operation by economic thinkers of the 19th century in the United Kingdom. It presents a comparison and contrast of their ideas as well as an analysis of the relationship between co-operation and economic and social inequality. Two approaches of such relationship are identified. First, an economic-centered view, found in Charles Babbage and William Stanley Jevons, where the benefits of co-operation are linked to profit sharing, the increase of productivity and the expansion of the economic system. Second, Robert Owen’s and John Stuart Mill’s ideas on co-operation, even though with different implications, are mainly socially-oriented. Here, it is possible to see a broader social concern that led them to suggest reforms that could have implications in terms of social (e.g., education and gender), and not only economic inequality. Marx’s analysis of co-operation does not belong to any of these approaches. In his view, under capitalism, the effect of some forms of co-operation may generate or reinforce inequality.
B30|Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s Historiographic Lesson and Contemporary History of Economics|The article concerns key-important moments of Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s historiographic methodology, whose work Whig Interpretation of History (1931) generalizes the negative understanding of the qualifications, associated with ï¿½whigï¿½. It is argued that in the contemporary discussions in the history of economic thought/ history of economics Ross B. Emmettï¿½s contra-whig historiographic conception corresponds to Butterfieldï¿½s views, advanced in this and other publications of his, on agents of progress, inï¿½cluding progress in knowledge; whereas Samuelsonï¿½s whig historiographic stand - contrary to his pretension that it represents a particular/ non-classic/non-final, a better whig interpretation is actually restrictive and counterproï¿½ductive. The latter is embodied in the current mainstream economics.
B30|James M. Buchanan: Neoclassical, Austrian, Neither, or Both?|James McGill Buchanan (1919-2013) received the Nobel Memorial Prize in 1986 for his work in public choice theory, set out in his The Calculus of Consent (1962), co-authored with Gordon Tullock. The Virginia School of Political Economy can be seen as a product of the work of Buchanan and Tullock, along with Ronald Coase, who published his ground-breaking paper on “The Problem of Social Cost” in 1960 while he was at the University of Virginia. This school of thought is generally thought to be in some ill-defined sense allied to the Austrian school of economics, mainly perhaps because of a shared pro-market policy stance. On the other hand, links between Buchanan and neoclassical economists such as Friedman and Stigler are frequently drawn, again probably with the pro-market policy recommendations of each in mind. It is notable that Buchanan, Hayek, and Friedman were all at various times presidents of the Mont Pelerin Society. Yet the differences between neoclassical and Austrian perspectives are profound. It has often been said that the one can be characterized as “equilibrium always” and the other as “equilibrium never”. The case of Buchanan and the Virginia School is therefore extremely interesting for the historian of economic thought. Significant questions are raised about the scope for reconciliation between schools of thought at the most profound levels of methodology and social philosophy. I posit that, allowing for a slight amount of breathing room, James Buchanan’s economic writings are more Austrian than anything else. From his earliest writings to his last publications, Buchanan clearly had an Austrian-leaning approach. Additionally, many of the criticisms he laid out about the economics profession were directed toward the more neoclassical minded among his peers. While the act of criticizing neoclassical economists does not indicate that Buchanan was an Austrian, it does seem to lay to rest any conclusions that he was a neoclassical economist himself.
B30|The Economic Geography of Human Capital in Twentieth-Century Latin America in an International Comparative Perspective|In this paper we present results for educational achievement in the different economic regions of Latin America (Big countries: Mexico and Brazil; Southern Cone; Andean countries; Central America; and others) during the twentieth century. The variables we use to measure education are average years of education, literacy, average years in primary school, average years in secondary school, and average years in university. To attain a broader perspective on the relationship of education with human capital and with welfare and wellbeing we relate the educational measures to life expectancy and other human capital variables and GDP per capita. We then use regressions to examine the impact of race and ethnicity on education, and of education on economic growth and levels of GDP per capita. The most significant results we wish to emphasize are related to the importance of race and racial fractionalization in explaining regional differences in educational achievement. Southern Cone countries, with a higher density of white population, present the highest levels of education in average terms, while countries from Central America and Brazil, with a higher proportion of Indigenous Americans and/or blacks, have the lowest levels. In most countries the major improvements in educational achievement are: the expansion of primary education during the first half of the twentieth century, and the expansion of secondary education after 1950. In all cases, average years in university are low, despite improvements in university quality during the last decades of the century when professors exiled during dictatorships returned to their countries of origin. International comparisons (continental averages for years of education weighted by country population size) place twentieth-century Latin America in an intermediate position between the USA and Europe at the top, and countries from Asia and Africa at the bottom.
B30|Mandelbrot, Fama and the emergence of econophysics|It is argued that Mandelbrot’s stable Lévy-Pareto distributions were not accepted into the emerging field of financial economics due to their incompatibility with the analytical techniques and properties of equilibrium economics, and to the absence —both in physics and in economics— of analytical solutions to the infinite variance associated with those distributions. Whilst physicists made stable Lévy distributions plausible, creating Econophysics in the meantime, economists just forgot about them, suggesting their strong bias towards desirable properties and against established facts. ****** Se argumenta que las distribuciones Lévy-Pareto estables de Mandelbrot no se aceptaron en el campo emergente de la economía financiera debido a su incompatibilidad con las técnicas y propiedades analíticas de la economía de equilibrio, y a la ausencia —tanto en la física como en la economía— de soluciones analíticas para la varianza infinita asociada con aquellas distribuciones. Si bien los físicos hicieron posibles las distribuciones Lévy estables, creando entretanto la econofísica, los economistas simplemente las olvidaron, sugiriendo su fuerte sesgo hacia las propiedades deseables y en contra de los hechos establecidos.
B30|A Review of James Forder, Macroeconomics and the Phillips Curve Myth, Oxford University Press, 2014|In this review, I argue that Forder makes a fine job in debunking the story told by Friedman in his Nobel prize lecture about the Phillips curve yet fails to assess the validity of Phelps’s and Friedman’s contributions to the Phillips curve theory.
B30|Introduction: the theoretical legacy of Augusto Graziani|Augusto Graziani (1933â€“2014) was one of the most eminent Italian economists of the twentieth century. He is internationally known as the founding father of the theory of monetary circuit. His contributions to economic theory went beyond the circuit, especially in the early part of his career. They included both other theoretical areas (for example, a critical review of Walras's general equilibrium model) and the analysis of the â€˜uneven developmentâ€™ of the Italian economy. Even his approach to â€˜circuitismâ€™ was quite original and cannot be reduced to a special branch of post-Keynesianism. This introduction to the symposium on â€˜The Economics of Augusto Grazianiâ€™ highlights some key points of his heretical thinking, and gives a quick summary of the papers that follow.
B30|Academic exclusion: some experiences|Abstract We describe and compare the experiences of academic exclusion of Alexander Del Mar, J.A. Hobson, and Gordon Tullock. While aspects of the circumstances differed, a common element was academic exclusion because of challenges to mainstream views. Alexander Del Mar, J.A. Hobson, and Gordon Tullock were in due course recognized for the originality and merit of their contributions, although each incurred personal costs because of the exclusion by the academic elites of their time. Our study takes us into the role of ideologically based prejudice in judgment of the worthiness of economic ideas.
B30|Soft Power as a Effect Instruments in Foreign Policy: Turkey's Soft Power Analysis and the Assessment of its Soft Power Capacity on Azerbaijan|"With the emergence of first political structures of the world, struggles between them gave rise to the concept of power. Since the ancient times, power has played an important role in the concept of international relations and made a significant contribution to the establishment of the discipline as an autonomous structure. The concept of power, which has always maintained its importance, has evolved in time and, for the time being, is known for its rather soft side. In this century, many academic studies that dealt with the soft side of the power have been published, however, while being mentioned in popular publications, the concept has not been favored in the academic publications in Turkey. With this dissertation that is the first study that deals with the soft power within the context of international relations, we intended to contribute to the filling of the void in the Turkish literature. For this purpose, we first discussed the concept of power and the soft power in every aspect. Afterwards, we analyzed the soft power potential of Turkey culturally, politically and within the frame of foreign affairs practices and essentially in the context of Middle East, Caucasus and Central Asia regions. As the soft power sources that may influence the national politics may vary for every country, we chose Azerbaijan as the model of this study and sought for an answer to the question, ""How Turkey can possibly/efficiently have the soft power influence over Azerbaijan?"". As the hypothesis of the study and the answer of the question, we considered the cultural link between these two countries would constitute the most important and effective soft power source. In the conclusion of the study, we interviewed a group of fifteen Azerbaijanis that consisted NGO members, journalists and academicians thus proved the hypothesis of the study."
B30|Nature and Significance of Islamic Economics|Islamic economics has of late landed in confusion and neglect and much concern is being voiced on this state of affairs. The divergence of views on various aspects of the subject tends to grow, cohesive efforts are missing. It is in this context that the present paper takes a look at the nature and significance of Islamic economics and examines the issues of its definition, nature and scope, the questions of methods and methodology, system approach, the problems that seems to hinder its growth, the challenges Islamic economics faces today and how the same can be faced. Since the differences between the Islamicand mainstream economic disciplines stem from the divergent worldviews that condition them, the discussion opens on the topic as background material. This paper is a part of draft Chapter of a book under preparation on Islamic economics and finance. Comments and suggestions are welcome but the paper or its parts cannot be put to any commercial or unfair use.
B30|Islamic finance for SMES|Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) make up the bulk of the economic tissue of the economy. In developing countries, they represent the majority of employment, including female employment. Investing in SMEs is a long-term and smart strategy, with sustainable returns that multiply across regions, countries and societies. SMEs constitute the overwhelming majority of firms. Globally, SMEs make up over 95% of all firms, account for approximately 50% of GDP and 60%–70% of total employment, when both formal and informal SMEs are taken into account. This amounts to between 420 million and 510 million SMEs, 310 million of which are in emerging markets. Promoting access to finance for SMEs has been on the global reform agenda since the global financial crisis. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the opportunities of development and growth as well as the main challenges to Islamic finance for SMEs. This paper will help to deepen understanding of the concepts of Islamic finance as well as SMEs. In addition to evaluate how Islamic financial institutions can support SMEs.
B30|Marcel Boumans, Science Outside the Laboratory: Measurement in Field Science and Economics|Marcel Boumans’ Science outside the Laboratory revolves around the distinction between laboratory and field science, and the challenges that the latter faces in the measurement of scientific phenomena. Boumans raises a methodological puzzle, the possibility of reliable measurement in the field, and he gradually resolves it throughout an excursus in the history of science that brings to light episodes of methodological significance. The book starts with Oskar Morgenstern’s warning about the peril of scientific observation in economics; touches upon Gaussian’s theory of error and its uses in meteorology; discusses Haavelmo’s intuition about the problem of passive observation; and concludes with a survey of contemporary methods for aggregating experts’ judgments. Ultimately, Science outside the Laboratory is a call for expert knowledge as a complementary source of evidence that, if carefully integrated with the traditional tools of field sciences, can eventually lead us to more reliable, and in this sense more objective, measurement. In what follows, I will first outline what I take to be the main theses of the book and discuss some of its main tenets. I will then illustrate some of the crucial steps in Boumans’ argument in detail. I will finally conclude with some general comments about the book.
B30|Religion, Economy, and State: Economic Thought of al-Mawardi in Adab al-Dunya wa-al-Din|The relation between religion, economy and the country became a major topic in the development of public welfare systems. Humans are political creatures that have the potential to realise the level of moral conscience to meet the needs of a better life, but humans as spiritual beings must have a balance between religious morality and economic morality. With economic ethics are supported by religious morality, the welfare system can be realised systemically if the state, communities and individuals can realise the six-dimensional form: religious observance, good governance, justice, national security, the prosperity of society and the nation's vision.
B30|The Economic Systems Of Verner Zombart And Valter Oyken – An Attempt For Comparing The Theoretical Conceptions|In the following work is made an attempt for examining and analyzing the essence, the ways for creating the economic structures, their role in realizing the economic activity in the Society. The solving of the above mentioned task is made according to the theoretical conceptions of Verner and Zombart, and Valter Oyken for the economic form. Herewith are exposed and analyzed their theoretical formulation regarding the elements of the economic form, the ways and the forces which determine it. Subjects of analysis are also their views in the relation between the economic form and the economic process. The idea of the realized survey of their conceptions of the economic shape is to advance arguments regarding the attitude for the determining role of the economic shapes compared to the economic process and the possibility for changes in them, which inevitably bring changes in the realizing of the economic process. This analyze is conducted to show that the neglect of the role and significance of economic forms in economic theory, expressed mostly in the neoliberal theory, is unacceptable and can lead to incorrect conclusions with negative consequences for economic practice.
B30|Corporate Psychology. How does Italian Entrepreneurship Change?|The analysis on the entrepreneurial system development in the world involves inevitably the question: why in some countries businesses made a specific evolutionary process unlike others? Certainly specific and social conditions as well as economic legacies or regulatory issues promoted by political systems involve. However, these factors are mainly relevant when comparing companies from countries with clear socio-economic disparities. In the presence of a homogeneous economic development, however, other significant factors seem to intervene. Corporate psychology therefore aims to identify the causes conditioning the entrepreneurial choices in developed economies. In Italy, the evolutionary behaviour of enterprises has been clearly conditioned from the entrepreneurs’ conception of doing business. This principle involves the choice of the entrepreneurial initiative, the subsequent managerial decisions, and more generally the entrepreneurial fabric development. This paper aims to introduce the topic of the corporate psychology related to new entrepreneurial initiatives in Italy and to propose it as a useful tool for a stable corporate development.
B30|Economic crisis, economic methodology and the scientific ideal of physics|The methodological foundations of mainstream economics have been cited as one of the main reasons for its failure to account for the economic crisis of 2008. In spite of this, the status of economic methodology has not been elevated. This is due to the persistent aversion towards methodological discourse by most mainstream economists. The anti-methodology stance has a long presence as exemplified in Frank Hahn’s (1992) work. After focusing on the debate originating after the publication of Hahn’s arguments, the paper offers a categorization of the main explanations for mainstream methodological aversion. Subsequently, it suggests an explanation based on the role of the physics scientific ideal, arguing that the endeavor to achieve the high scientific status of physics by following the methods of physics, contributed to the negative mainstream attitude towards economic methodology. The relevant writings of the extremely influential mainstream economists Irving Fisher and Milton Friedman, reinforce the assertion that the alleged hard science status of economics renders methodological discussions and especially methodological criticism, rather pointless. The paper also calls for a more systematic discussion of this issue, especially in the wake of the line of argument that links the recent failings of mainstream economics to its methodological basis
B30|Joan Robinson and MIT|"The great question which has always haunted the type of analysis offered by the MIT economists in answer to Robinson's provocative critique (1953) has always been her own question: how to get into equilibrium? If the notion of ""vision at a distance"", inherent in dynamic equilibrium analysis (Dorfman, Samuelson, and Solow, 1958) means co-ordination of long-term expectations, recent work shows theory, that ""getting into equilibrium"" is an impossibility. This vindicates Robinson's position in the capital controversy, at least with respect to the MIT economists."
B30|¿Debería la Historia del Pensamiento Económico ser incluida en los planes de estudio de Economía en pregrado?|Resumen: Este artículo discute los puntos de vista de la corriente de pensamiento dominante respecto a la utilidad o inutilidad de la Historia del Pensamiento Económico (en adelante HPE). Estos puntos de vista se basan en un supuesto oculto: una “visión acumulativa” según la cual el punto de llegada provisional de la economía contemporánea debe incorporar todas las contribuciones teóricas anteriores de una forma mejorada. Los críticos del positivismo le permitieron a la filosofía de la ciencia reconocer la existencia de diferentes enfoques, tanto en la economía como en otras ciencias. La conceptualización, reconocida por Schumpeter como la primera etapa en la teorización económica, permite que las diferentes visiones del mundo en las cuales se basan los diversos enfoques, tomen forma y alcancen un mayor reconocimiento. Es aquí donde la HPE juega un papel esencial. En este artículo se toma como ejemplo las diferencias entre los enfoques clásicos y marginalistas de la Economía. De esta forma, la HPE resulta esencial en los Planes de Estudio de Economía tanto a nivel de pregrado como de posgrado. En el primer caso como una ayuda decisiva para una mejor comprensión y evaluación de los teorías/modelos ya formalizados y, en el segundo caso, como una formación en el método filológico de investigación, esencial en la primera etapa de la teorización. / Abstract : Mainstream views concerning the uselessness or usefulness of HET are illustrated. These rely on a hidden assumption: a ‘cumulative view’ according to which the provisional point of arrival of contemporary economics incorporates all previous contributions in an improved way. Critiques of positivism led philosophy of science to recognise the existence of different approaches – in economics, as in other sciences. Conceptualisation, recognised by Schumpeter as the first stage in economic theorising, is the stage in which the different visions of the world underlying the different approaches, take shape – and are better recognised. In this, HET plays an essential role. As an illustration, the differences between the classical and marginalist conceptualisations of the economy are illustrated. Thus HET is essential in both undergraduate and graduate economic curricula, as a decisive help towards a better understanding and evaluation of formalised theories/models in the first case, and as an education to the philological method of research, essential in the first stage of theorising, in the case of graduate curricula.
B30|¿Se pueden aplicar las ideas Keynesianas al largo plazo? Unas reflexiones teóricas y un modelo ilustrativo|El modelo que se construye en este artículo quiere mostrar que la más importante idea Keynesiana, el principio de la demanda efectiva, no se aplica solamente a un corto plazo en el que unos precios son fijos o rígidos. También se aplica a un largo plazo en el que los precios son perfectamente flexibles y vacían el mercado, las firmas maximizan sus ganancias y la distribución funcional del ingreso depende de las productividades marginales. También se muestra que la naturaleza Keynesiana de un modelo no depende de sus resultados – en unos casos bajar los salarios es una buena idea y en otros no lo es; en unos casos la paradoja del ahorro vale en el largo plazo y en otros no vale – sino del hecho de incorporar (o no incorporar) la noción de demanda autónoma. Para terminar, se le da un sustento a la idea de que la forma en la que se trata el asunto de los salarios monetarios (y su flexibilidad) en la Teoría General no se puede aplicar al mundo “financiarizado” en el que estamos. ****** This paper presents a model intended to show that the most important Keynesian idea, the principle of effective demand, cannot be only applied to short terms, in which some prices are fixed or sticky; but also to long terms where prices are perfectly flexible and empty the market, firms increase their profits, and where the functional income distribution depends on marginal productivities. Moreover, we will show that the Keynesian nature of a model does not depend on its results, in some cases lowering wages is a good policy and in others it is not. In some cases, the paradox of thrift stands out in the long run and in some others it does not; instead, this nature depends on incorporating (or not) the notion of autonomous demand. To conclude, we will support the idea stating that the way in which monetary wages (and flexibility) are addressed in the General Theory is not applicable to the financialized world, where we live.
B30|Posturas de política monetaria ante fluctuaciones de la economía: una revisión de la evolución teórica|En este artículo se hace una exploración a las posturas de política monetaria desde diferentes corrientes de pensamiento económico, las cuales pueden ligarse al comportamiento de la estabilidad del ciclo económico y financiero. Por tanto, parte de la discusión tradicional entre no intervencionismo e intervencionismo; en la primera visión se encuentran los autores clásicos y neoclásicos, con la creencia de que el dinero solo tiene efecto sobre los precios, y dentro de la segunda, Keynes postula la necesidad de un activismo monetario. No obstante, la década de los años setenta marca el principio de la neutralidad del dinero, la que domina en las decisiones de política monetaria, para que luego, en los años noventa, sea aceptado el ciclo económico dentro de la regla de política. Finalmente, el texto analiza cómo con la crisis del 2008 sale a flote una postura de política no convencional, que se transforma en el marco de política para la recuperación económica y se abre el debate acerca del uso de una política macroprudencial por parte de los bancos centrales.******This paper explores the monetary policy positions from different economic schools of thought, which can be linked to the stability behavior of the economic and financial cycle. As such, it is based on the traditional debate between non-interventionism and interventionism. Classic and Neo-Classic authors who believe that money only affects prices uphold the former view. In the latter, Keynes postulates the need for monetary activism. Nevertheless, the 1960s marked the beginning of monetary neutrality as the dominating principle in monetary policy decision-making, so that, later, in the 1990s, the economic cycle was accepted within the policy rule. Finally, the text analyses how, with the 2008 financial crisis, an unconventional policy position was brought forth that later became the policy framework for economic recuperation leading to a debate on the use of macroprudential policy by the central banks.
B30|Recent Engagements with Adam Smith and the Scottish Enlightenment|Recent literature on Adam Smith and other 18th-century Scottish thinkers shows an engaged conversation between the Scots and today’s scholars in the sciences that deal with humans—social sciences, humanities, as well as neuroscience and evolutionary psychology. We share with the 18th-century Scots preoccupations about understanding human beings, human nature, sociability, moral development, our ability to understand nature and its possible creator, and about the possibilities to use our knowledge to improve our surrounding and standards of living. As our disciplines evolve, the studies of Smith and Scottish Enlightenment evolve with them. Smith and the Scots remain our interlocutors.
B30|A Review of James Forder’s Macroeconomics and the Phillips Curve Myth| A review of James Forder’s important history of the Phillips Curve.
B30|Frederic S. Lee’s Contributions to Heterodox Economics|In this introduction we highlight Frederic Lee’s contributions to heterodox economics in terms of theory and community, which should be acknowledged and, more importantly, carried on by those who are concerned with the advancement of heterodox economics as an alternative critical theory to the status quo.
B30|Nicholas Kaldor on endogenous money and increasing returns|Nicholas Kaldor’s contribution to economic theory covers a wide range of topics, elaborated in different historical contexts, such as theories of economic growth and the balance of payments, studies on interregional divergences and monetary theory. In most cases, historians of economic thought have devoted their attention to single aspects of his contributions. This paper aims at integrating Kaldor’s monetary theory and his view of the relevance of increasing returns. His theory of endogenous money is very similar to the view proposed in the contemporary monetary theory of production, and, in this respect, Kaldor’s contribution can certainly be considered an “antecedent” of this line of thought.
B30|¿Debería la Historia del Pensamiento Económico ser incluida en los Planes de Estudio de Economía en Pregrado?<BR>[Should the History of Economic Thought be Included in Undergraduate Curricula?]|Mainstream views concerning the uselessness or usefulness of HET are illustrated. These rely on a hidden assumption: a ‘cumulative view’ according to which the provisional point of arrival of contemporary economics incorporates all previous contributions in an improved way. Critiques of positivism led philosophy of science to recognise the existence of different approaches – in economics, as in other sciences. Conceptualisation, recognised by Schumpeter as the first stage in economic theorising, is the stage in which the different visions of the world underlying the different approaches, take shape – and are better recognised. In this, HET plays an essential role. As an illustration, the differences between the classical and marginalist conceptualisations of the economy are illustrated. Thus HET is essential in both undergraduate and graduate economic curricula, as a decisive help towards a better understanding and evaluation of formalised theories/models in the first case, and as an education to the philological method of research, essential in the first stage of theorising, in the case of graduate curricula Resumen: Este artículo discute los puntos de vista de la corriente de pensamiento dominante respecto a la utilidad o inutilidad de la Historia del Pensamiento Económico (en adelante HPE). Estos puntos de vista se basan en un supuesto oculto: una “visión acumulativa” según la cual el punto de llegada provisional de la economía contemporánea debe incorporar todas las contribuciones teóricas anteriores de una forma mejorada. Los críticos del positivismo le permitieron a la filosofía de la ciencia reconocer la existencia de diferentes enfoques, tanto en la economía como en otras ciencias. La conceptualización, reconocida por Schumpeter como la primera etapa en la teorización económica, permite que las diferentes visiones del mundo en las cuales se basan los diversos enfoques, tomen forma y alcancen un mayor reconocimiento. Es aquí donde la HPE juega un papel esencial. En este artículo se toma como ejemplo las diferencias entre los enfoques clásicos y marginalistas de la Economía. De esta forma, la HPE resulta esencial en los Planes de Estudio de Economía tanto a nivel de pregrado como de posgrado. En el primer caso como una ayuda decisiva para una mejor comprensión y evaluación de los teorías/modelos ya formalizados y, en el segundo caso, como una formación en el método filológico de investigación, esencial en la primera etapa de la teorización.
B30|Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship. A Literature Review|Entrepreneurship is nowadays a buzz word, present both in political arguments and discussions, in official debates and also in the economic literature. However, the entrepreneurship and the recognition of the entrepreneur’s role for the economic system have been revealed by different authors for two centuries. Despite of this fact, there are still controversies regarding the meaning and significance of the entrepreneur and entrepreneurship. Since then, and especially in the latest decades, some new concepts have been added to the already rich literature, e.g. intrapreneur and intrapreneurship. This paper is a modest attempt to review some old but also some recent approaches concerning the named terms and concepts, and thud contributing to a better understanding and use of these concepts. After reminding some relevant approaches regarding the terms entrepreneur and entrepreneurship, the newly emerged terms have been in our attention. Indeed, while notions like „entrepreneur” and „entrepreneurship” are widely used and known, the words „intrapreneur” and „intrapreneurship” are less commonly used and much more new but in rapidly spreading, due to the fact that the recent decades have been labeled by certain economists as „the entrepreneurship era”. The reason why the notion of intrapreneurship is less known than that of entrepreneurship is very simple to explain: the former one is pretty new, whereas the latter one has a history of over 200 years.
B30|The World Economy in the Times of Financial Crisis and its Impact on European Energy Policy|Since 2007, globalization of the world economy has led to the expansion of the financial crisis. It affects the long-term international negative positions of EU members. They reacted to the new situation by carrying out structural reforms and by support of new adaptation programs. An important element of this process was the preparing of the convergence of the national energy policies in the framework of the Europe 20-20-20 program, which should remain one of the determining elements of their success in support of the international competitiveness of the EU.
B30|Ernesto Rossi|"The article describes the evolution of corporate law in Italy from the postwar period to the most recent innovations. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Mercato e Concorrenza"", 18 November 2015, organised the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia civile"
B30|Paolo Sylos Labini|"The article describes the evolution of corporate law in Italy from the postwar period to the most recent innovations. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Mercato e Concorrenza"", 18 November 2015, organised the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia civile"
B30|Giovanni Demaria|"The article describes the evolution of corporate law in Italy from the postwar period to the most recent innovations. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Mercato e Concorrenza"", 18 November 2015, organised the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia civile"
B30|Sergio Steve|"The article describes the evolution of corporate law in Italy from the postwar period to the most recent innovations. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Mercato e Concorrenza"", 18 November 2015, organised the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia civile"
B30|Octav Onicescu – Omul si opera Restituiri: contributii la dezvoltarea cercetarii economice Entropia informationala în economie - Versiune preliminara -|The aim of this paper consists in a thorough research of the activity and work of the academician Octav Onicescu, in order to highlight his most important contributions to the development of education and research in economics and mathematics and to the economic and social progress as well. An essential issue of the activity of Octav Onicescu consists in the multidisciplinary nature of his research and activity. The most important contributions he brought are based on the results he obtained in science. The new concepts and approaches introduced by Octav Onicescu are discussed in relationship with their contributions to the progress of science. Also, the activity of the famous Romanian scientist in some key positions will be presented in order to prove his contributions to the development of the economic and social domains in Romania.
B30|Teorii si politici privind austeritatea si efectele acesteia|In this survey are submitted and analysed the following three important hypotheses of the austerity effects on the fiscal consolidation: Keynesian conventional theory asserting contractionary effects; Ricardian equivalence asserting neutral effects; German hypothesis advocating expansionary effects. The new approaches based on empirical researches prove that signs of the effects generated by the austerity measures depend on the different factors and circumstances which both fiscal and monetary policies entail.
B30|Agronomists and accounting. The beginnings of capitalist rationalisation on the farm (1800-1850)|At the dawn of the nineteenth century numerous debates took place on the development of capita-list agriculture and the ways of making as much profit as possible from farm land. Until now this subject has hardly been examined and is unique in that it pertains to the economic history of agriculture, the history of agronomy and the history of managerial thinking. This article aims to highlight the usage of double-entry accounting for agronomic experiments in the first half of the nineteenth century, as well as the significance of the results and the way these were debated. Our aim is to present the authors’ reasons and the role played by bookkeeping in the construction of economically rational knowledge and reasoning. Thus we will bring to light two mechanisms which are common to this accounting quantification drive: data tabulation and the inclusion of data in balance sheets, making it possible to compare inputs and outputs in production processes.
B30|O debate Gudin/Simonsen paralelo ao debate do cálculo econômico socialista|This paper analyzes the historical context of the debate between Roberto Simonsen and Eugênio Gudin on the role of state planning in the post-war Brazilian economy. Both had different views on how to develop the Brazilian economy: Simonsen defended the active state intervention with the objective of closing production bottlenecks and to coordinate efforts in order to increase the productive efficiency; Gudin defended the adoption of liberalization policies and incentive to private entrepreneurship. Such positions resemble a lot the positions adopted by socialists and liberals during the socialist economic calculation debate, which occurred a decade before. Although Simonsen had been influenced by other traditions (such as the Old American Institutionalism), he defended practical applications of planning that emerged from that debate, Gudin was directly influenced by the liberal positions, citing Hayek, Mises and Robbins. In the end, I argue that the debate can open way to understand complexity questions in the economy and the relation between complexity of the productive structure and development
B30|La recepción de Wicksell en España (1930-1960)|En un trabajo de 1927, Schumpeter llamó a Wicksell (1851-1926) “el Marshall sueco” y dijo de él que “ningún otro de los arquitectos que han plantado los cimientos del análisis moderno tiene hoy día tanto que ofrecernos”. Pese a este juicio, y a que efectivamente hoy se le reconoce como uno de los grandes economistas de todos los tiempos, Wicksell fue poco conocido fuera de su país hasta que sus obras comenzaron a traducirse al inglés a partir de 1934. España no fue una excepción a este hecho, pero tampoco estuvo muy a la zaga, como sí ocurrió realmente con otros economistas importantes. En este trabajo se estudian las distintas vías de recepción en España de sus principales aportaciones analíticas a la ciencia económica así como su influencia sobre los economistas españoles en el periodo 1930-1963.
B30|In search of lost time: the neoclassical synthesis|Present-day macroeconomics has sometimes been dubbed “the new neoclassical synthesis”, suggesting that it constitutes a reincarnation of the neoclassical synthesis of the 1950s. This paper assesses this understanding. To this end, we examine the contents of the “old” and the “new” neoclassical syntheses. We show that the neoclassical synthesis originally had no fixed content, but two meanings gradually became dominant. First, it designates the program of integrating Keynesian and Walrasian theory. Second, it designates the methodological principle that in macroeconomics it is better to have alternative models geared towards different purposes than a hegemonic general equilibrium model. The paper documents that: (a) the first program was never achieved; (b) Lucas’s criticisms of Keynesian macroeconomics eventually caused the neoclassical synthesis program to vanish from the scene; (c) the rise of DSGE macroeconomics marked the end of the neoclassical synthesis mark II; and (d) contrary to present-day understanding, the link between the old and the new synthesis is at best weak.
B30|De la critique des corporations à la libération des forces productives : l'économie politique de Jean-Baptiste Say|In the Traité d’Economie Politique and in the Cours Complet d’Economie Politique, Jean-Baptiste Say develops a criticism of corporations and other industrial regulations. According to him, these regulations are barriers to the entrepreneurial freedom and to the progress of arts. They are almost always tools of individual and collective oppression and at the origin of various economic, social and political ills. In this paper, we detail Say’s argumentation against corporations and show that it is part of more general framework based on the influence of institutions on the economy and of machines on commerce. His critical analysis leads us to present his conception of a necessary liberation of the forces of production, which requires the creation of a general framework favorable to the freedom to undertake and a blossoming of the forces of production (machines). These elements also constitute the foundations of his political economy. JEL Codes : A11, B12, B30, K11, N01, P14, P16
B30|History, statistics and theory: Frederic M. Scherer and modern industrial organization|This short paper is an affectionate attempt to summarize in a few pages the career of Frederic M. Scherer who since more than five decades unremittingly holds a key role within the discipline labelled as Industrial Organization. Naturally the wide-ranging scholarship and the multi-faceted personality of Frederic M. Scherer inevitably loom large over this limited tribute.
B30|Vladimir G. Wenger: Scientist and His Time|(To the 115th Birth Anniversary) The article is devoted to the creative work of the Soviet economist-agrarian Vladimir Grigorievich Wenger, doctor of economic sciences, the employee of Institute of Economics, Academy of Sciences of the USSR. He was not only a contemporary, but also an active participant of all the most important events of this time, having the ability to analyze and critically comprehend. Along with deep agrarian studies of collective farmers, agricultural production and rural development in the Soviet Union; that have lost their relevance at the present time, Wenger’s works contribute to the understanding of the Soviet system as a social phenomenon.
B30|"The ""Alternative"" Socialism of Professor Alexander Tsankov"|The paper presents the economic views and political activities of one of the most influential Bulgarian political economists – Alexander Tsankov. They were strongly influenced by his socialist worldview. The socialism of professor Tsankov is alternative only if one accepts the self-definition of Marxism as the sole scientific socialism. Then any deviation from orthodoxy should be considered as alternatives to scientifically based ideas. In the context of what is seen as socialism during the nineteenth and almost up to the end of the twentieth century, the views of professor Tsankov are not a departure from, but a variant of the socialism. He combined the elements which are characteristic of social democracy and conservative statist (and hence nationalistic) socialism
B30|Boris Brutzkus and the Socialist Calculation Debate|The paper discusses the contribution of the Russian economist Boris Brutzkus to the socialist calculation debate during the 1920s and 1930s. He was among the first economists to prove that the socialist economy could not be organized on a rational basis, because under common ownership of the means of production economic calculation is impossible. In his published theoretical works in Russian and in English Brutskus debunks some of the basic ideas of Marxism and in doing this he uses arguments that others (far more famous) critics of the socialist economic system (Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek) reached much later. Among the main contributions of Brutzkus are his views on the role of entrepreneurs in a market economy and the inability central authority to collect and process the huge amount of data required for allocation of production between different industries.
B30|Profilo di Giuseppe Toniolo (Giuseppe Toniolo's profile)|Giuseppe Toniolo is probably the most important exponent of the economical and social catholic thought between ’800 and ’900. He analyzed the genesys and the positive as well as the negative contribution of Capitalism to the modern economy dinamics; he noted the role of Socialism in defense of the «legitimate needs» and the «exemplary rights» of popular classes, but he also highlights the allencompassing and deterministic aspects, deriving from Hegel, as well as the the non-religious aspect. Alternatively, he proposes a «Christian way» to build a new free and righteous society, where ethics is an intrinsic factor of economics, wealthy is not the final aim but instrumental, the profit is subject to the centrality of the human being, to be is predominant on to have, and «democracy» express through its representatives those everlasting moral values always reviving as well as deeply renewed.
B30|Giuseppe Toniolo: bilancio bibliografico (Giuseppe Toniolo: Bibliographical analysis)|This essay examines Giuseppe Toniolo’s main bibliography, with particular attention to biographical events, different steps of his educational path, his works, his scientific method and spirituality, the role he played in nationalwide and worldwide Catholic movement. This bibliographical work also analyses the relationship between Toniolo and the Catholic hierarchy as well as the one between ethics and economics, Thomism and Neo-Scholastic, medievalism, corporatism, statistics, social, theological, legal, political and above all economic thought, without excluding academic activity and promoting cultural institutions.
B30|Da Pistoia a Palermo. Giuseppe Toniolo e l'avvio della 'Settimana sociale dei cattolici italiani' (From Pistoia to Palermo. Giuseppe Toniolo and the beginning of the 'Settimana sociale dei cattolici italiani')|The article focuses on the double role of Giuseppe Toniolo as economist and promoter of the Catholic movement, dealing with one of his successful initiatives: ‘La Settimana sociale dei cattolici italiani’. The essay describes the project that aimed to popularize the Catholic social doctrine and that during its first years (1907-1908) resulted in three great meetings held in Pistoia, Brescia and Palermo. These events, that required a lot of work to Toniolo as scholar and leader of Catholic associations, met a great number of obstacles of political nature and, also of intellectual, doctrinal and regional origin.
B30|Will the Financial Crisis Become a Milestone in the Development of Methodology of Economics?|It has been widely accepted that philosophers of science wrote a “swansong” for positivism during the second half of the 20th century. Milton Friedman and Paul Samuelson, major contributors in the fi eld of economic methodology at the time, the argument goes, never refl ected the demise. Therefore, positivist roots are still to be found in infl uential theoretical concepts developed by mainstream economists. Specifi cally, I present the hypothesis of rational expectations and the theory of effi cient markets as two signifi cant outcomes of a “high tide” of positivist thinking in economics. However, quite a large number of scholars currently share the view that the two concepts contributed in a non-negligible manner to the development leading to the fi nancial crisis culminating in 2008 and 2009 and should be replaced by behavioural or other approaches. The article thus asks, in quite a novel way, if the crisis - seen by many as an empirical rejection of both the concepts - can also be seen as a milestone in the development of methodology of economics.
B30|Commento di Modigliani alla teoria della disoccupazione di Sylos Labini (attraverso la corrispondenza del 1956)|"This note discusses Modigliani's and Sylos Labini's unemployment theory starting from a long letter Modigliani wrote to his friend and colleague, commenting the provisional edition of ""Oligopolio e Progresso Tecnico"" (1956). While in his influential article review (1958) Modigliani especially analysed and developed along original lines Sylos Labini's microeconomic theory, in the letter he deeply discussed Sylos Labini macroeconomics. Modigliani criticized Sylos Labini's classical definition of investment and the ensuing confusion between monetary and real causes of unemployment. From their correspondence their different theoretical perspective clearly stands out: Modigliani was interested in explaining the emergence of unemployment equilibrium in a static context, Sylos Labini its persistence as the result of structural changes."
B30|Modigliani's comments on Sylos Labini's theory of unemployment (1956-1958)|"This note discusses Modigliani's and Sylos Labini's unemployment theory starting from a long letter Modigliani wrote to his friend and colleague, commenting the provisional edition of ""Oligopolio e Progresso Tecnico"" (1956). While in his influential article review (1958) Modigliani especially analysed and developed along original lines Sylos Labini's microeconomic theory, in the letter he deeply discussed Sylos Labini macroeconomics. Modigliani criticized Sylos Labini's classical definition of investment and the ensuing confusion between monetary and real causes of unemployment. From their correspondence their different theoretical perspective clearly stands out: Modigliani was interested in explaining the emergence of unemployment equilibrium in a static context, Sylos Labini its persistence as the result of structural changes."
B30|Lawrence R. Klein and the Economic Forecasting – A Survey|"Lawrence Robert Klein played a fundamental role in the genesis and development of econometric applications and forecasting. The work dedicated to forecasting earned him the 1980 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences ""for the creation of econometric models and their application to the analysis of economic fluctuations and economic policies”. His pioneering initiatives and his research that spanned over almost 70 years make L. R. Klein one of the key figures in macroeconomics and econometrics."
B30|Understanding the reasoning pattern of Islamic jurists? views on the status of ar-rahn (Islamic pawn broking) contract and its ruling|According to Islamic jurisprudence, ar-rahn can be described as the detention of the pledge to the creditor or the seller in securing his debt or fulfilling his right. However, Muslim jurists differed in determining the nature of ar-rahnu contract. The ?anaf?, Sh?fi?? and ?anbal? jurists viewed ar-rahnu as a charitable (tabarru? ) contract wheareas the Maliki jurists considered it as a form of an exchangeable (mu??wa??t). These differences originated from the different interpretation of the verse 2: 283 in the Qur?an. Using the taxonomical classification?s approach founded by Rosch (1976), this paper examines the pattern of reasoning adopted by the jurists of main schols of Islamic jurisprudence. Rosch?s model is chosen as it can assist the researcher to categorize the aspects of discussion between the ar-rahn?s nature, conditions (shur??) and rulings (?ukm). While the model consists of superordinate and subordinate relationships, the paper enhances the conceptual framework of rahn into the discussion of conditions and rulings. Thus, the harmonized effort of taxonomical classification is been developed to discuss the related rulings of expanded discussion resulted from the status of ar-rahn either a form of charity or an exchange contract. The finding shows that M?lik? and Sh?fi?i were seen to be the most consistent schools in holding their stance about ar-rahn?s nature. The consistency can be identified through the examination of ar-rahn?s rulings that matched with their original position. It is also found that the rulings of M?lik? jurists are more lenient about the stipulation of conditions in the contract while Sh?fi?i stood otherwise.
B30|Jean Tirole — Ökonomie-Nobelpreisträger 2014|This article summarises some of the most important works of Jean Tirole, the first economist in more than 30 years — following George Stigler in 1982 — to win the Nobel Prize for his work in industrial economics. The article argues that Jean Tirole has revolutionised the field of industrial organisation — not only through his articles, but even more so through his textbook — by providing a solid gametheoretic underpinning, emphasising the role of asymmetric information. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
B30|Marshall, los Webb y Schumpeter en Estados Unidos: descubriendo una nueva realidad económica<BR>[Marshall, the Webbs, And Schumpeter in the United States: Discovering a New Economic reality]|Marshall, los Webb y Schumpeter, tres grandes nombres de la historia del pensamiento económico, viajaron a Estados Unidos en distintos momentos de la llamada Época Dorada del capitalismo, entre comienzos del último tercio del siglo XIX y la Gran Guerra. Este periodo coincidió con la fase de ascenso de Estados Unidos al indiscutible liderazgo conómico internacional, tras una rápida e intensa transformación desde una sociedad aún esencialmente agraria y rural a otra industrial y urbana. Marshall visitó Estados Unidos en 1875, los Webb en 1898, y Schumpeter en 1913. Los tres descubrieron una nueva realidad económica que contrastaba con la vieja Europa, pero las diferencias de percepción fueron notables, tanto porque visitaron el país en tres momentos distintos de su rápido proceso de transformación, como porque contemplaron la novedosa realidad que se les presentaba desde tres miradas bien dispares.
B30|Competitividad de la industria de bienes de equipo de España y Alemania (1993-2008): ventaja absoluta y costes relativos<BR>[Competitiveness of Capital Goods Industry in Spain and Germany (1993-2008): Absolute Advantage an Relative Cost]|El presente trabajo realizará un análisis comparativo del sector de bienes de equipo de España y Alemania, con el objeto de desentrañar los determinantes de la competitividad de esta industria. La hipótesis central es la siguiente: la industria de bienes de equipo de Alemania es más competitiva debido a su mayor productividad real y sus menores costes relativos. De este modo, se partirá de la teoría clásica y marxiana de la formación de los precios, y el modelo de las ventajas absolutas de Anwar Shaikh. Para nuestro propósito, se calcularán los índices de tipo de cambio, los índices de costes laborales unitarios reales y la balanza comercial bilateral de los bienes de equipo.
B30|La esclavitud y la trata de negros en el pensamiento económico español, siglos XVI al XVIII|Entre el siglo XVI y el XVIII la esclavitud fue adquiriendo en el Imperio español una indudable importancia económica, tanto por el creciente peso de la mano de obra esclava en el Nuevo Mundo, como por la relevancia política, económica y administrativa de los sucesivos asientos. Sin embargo, la atención prestada a las cuestiones de la esclavitud y la trata en la literatura económica española fue decreciendo: éstas pasaron de tener un lugar en los textos escolásticos de los siglos XVI y principios del XVII, a convertirse en algo completamente marginal para los economistas ilustrados del Dieciocho. El propósito de este artículo es poner de manifiesto esta paradoja a través del análisis de los escasos textos de los teólogos escolásticos, arbitristas y economistas de la Ilustración que abordaron la esclavitud y la trata. La cuestión reviste interés, pues fueron tres centurias en las que los debates económicos en el ámbito del pensamiento español tuvieron un buen nivel, que se reflejó en la traducción a otras lenguas europeas de numerosas obras económicas españolas.
B30|Ekonomia jako nauka pozytywna. Refleksje na marginesie 'Ekonomii dobra i zla' Tomasa Sedlacka/Economics as a Positive Science. Reflections after Reading Thomas Sedlacek’s 'Economics of Good and Evil’|One of the fundamental methodological problems of economics as a separate science is the question whether economic theorists are able to restrict themselves to the description of facts without assessing them. Is it possible to create an economic theory utterly deprived of value judgements? In other words – is economics a positive science? This problem is still debatable, notwithstanding efforts to eradicate all value judgements from economic analysis and to treat it as a touchstone of the scientificity of economic reasoning. The main purpose of the article is to analyse Sedlacek arguments and to confront his stance with other approaches. Furthermore, an attempt is made to assess whether his position could be attractive for contemporary mainstream economists.
B30|Quand le luxe devient une question économique : retour sur la querelle du luxe du 18e siècle|Condemnation or glorification of luxury is a classic and recurrent question in the history of political ideas. Today, it continues to generate a set of conflicting emotions. In order to understand this debate, we chose to immerse ourselves in the history of economic thought, and, more specifically, in the quarrel of luxury that occurred during the Enlightenment. If luxury is immoral, it is not necessarily obnoxious, it participates in the circulation of wealth, maintains a certain industry and stimulates trade. The different positions of philosophers (Mandeville, Condillac, Montesquieu, Hume, Rousseau) and economists (Melon, Quesnay, Smith, Say) seem to reflect more a change in the systems of values (the interest and the useful versus the moral) than a real challenge of luxury consumption. JEL Codes: A11, A13, B11, B12, B30
B30|Débats scientifiques et controverses en sciences de gestion ou la construction de réseaux académiques|(VF)Cet article contribue à la littérature épistémologique en sciences de gestion. Pour cela, il questionne comment les débats scientifiques s’organisent et évoluent dans un réseau académique en sciences de gestion. La réponse à cette question est apportée par l’examen d’un réseau académique particulier, celui traitant des liens entre contrôle et religion, fondé sur la théorie de l’acteur réseau (ANT). Nous montrons que les débats scientifiques s’organisent dans des sous-réseaux caractéristiques de la recherche dans la discipline plus qu’ils ne sont orientés vers une thématique de recherche particulière. Ils évoluent au fil des appropriations et traductions par ces différents sous-réseaux déplaçant le débat scientifique vers leurs centres d’intérêt respectifs. Ceux-ci évoluent à leur tour au gré des entrées et sorties d’humains et de l’apparition de non-humains que sont les revues.(VA)This paper contributes to the epistemological literature in management research. Under this purview, it questions how scientific debates are organised and evolve within an academic network. This is answered through the examining of a specific academic network, that dealing with linkages between control and religion. This investigation is informed with Actor-Network Theory (ANT). We show that scientific debates are being organised in sub-networks reflecting the whence and whither of research in a discipline rather than oriented towards a specific theme. Such debates evolve over successive appropriations and translations by these sub-networks that displace the terms of the discussion to their respective matters of interest. These latter also evolve as human and non-human actors (e.g. journals) appear.
B30|Fiscal psychology past and present: Contemporary experiments validate historical hypotheses|Fiscal psychology is not a modern discipline. The history of economic thought leaves no doubt as to the fact that many of the notions of fiscal psychology as we know it today were present in the past. There are even cases, though these are not frequent, of economists and social scientists of the past who understood certain psychological aspects of the taxpayer which went out of fashion and of which contemporary fiscal psychology is not aware. Such is the fate of Amilcare Puviani (1854–1907), a marginalist in the tradition of Vilfredo Pareto and an advocate of the study of Italian Public Finance which was in vogue at the end of the 1800s and the early years of the 1900s. We have conducted a number of experiments to verify certain of Puviani’s theories regarding the behaviour of the taxpayer, all of which tested positively. Of particular interest is his concept that a minor tax levied contemporaneously with a heavier tax is better tolerated than if it is levied alone. Another related concept, not yet widely known to contemporary fiscal psychology, is of undoubted interest: a tax when levied under favourable circumstances is more tolerable. Finally, we verified Puviani’s hypothesis that a tax is easier to accept if split into a number of instalments of nominal amounts, and also (but this is applicable only to a certain category of tax payer) that an indirect tax is better supported if it is not specified in the price of the product or service being taxed.
B30|Who is the Narrator of the Fable of the Individuality in Political Economy: Mandeville or Smith?|In this study, the historical roots of individuality will be examined. According to the view of economic individuality, pursuit of self-interest is the fundamental motivation for all of human beings. When we look into the eighteenth century, the main argument was whether the rise of the commercial society erosions the moral values or not. This argument was especially discussed by the philosophers of the Scottish Enlightenment. This subject was most throughly discussed by Adam Smith who finds a solution which is very important and also debatable to date. This solution actually created a problem which is called the Adam Smith problem. Smith, thanks to his approaches to this subject, became the creator of the individual of political economy. And this creates a situation in which his two important books namely Wealth of Nations and Theory of Moral Sentiments are not considered totally. In this context Theory of Moral Sentiments has been ignored and Smith’s individual is narrowed to an individual prototype which economics needs. In this study the adventure of the creation of the prototype, which has mentioned above, and the contributions of Adam Smith and Bernard Mandeville will be evaluated both with their agreements and contradictions.
B30|Considerations On Entrepreneurship And Entrepreneurs. Current Features Of Entrepreneurship In Romania|Promoting entrepreneurship in Europe has been a core objective of the European Union ever since the Lisbon European Council decided in March 2000 to improve the EU's performance in the areas of employment, economic reform and social cohesion. The European Commission began the debate by publishing, at the start of 2003, a Green Paper on „Entrepreneurship in Europe”. This study presents some considerations on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship development stage in Romania.
B30|Protectionism and Protectionists Theories in the Balkans in the Interwar Period|This paper makes a comparative analysis between two unique theories of international trade and protectionism which emerged in Bulgaria and Romania during the period between the two World Wars as a response to the specific economic environment and the spread of economic ideas coming from economically developed countries. These are the general theory of protectionism based on Mihail Manoilescu’s (1891-1950) ideas of national productivity and the theory of international trade and productive forces forwarded by Konstantin Bobchev (1894-1976). Probing into the two theories allows the formulation of interesting academic and purely practical assertions and ideas that could help understand the trajectories and limits of the independent development of peripheral European economies. As in the past, so today, Bulgaria and Romania share more or less similar problems – those of the catching-up economies, lack of own capitals, severe strain on their balance of payments, dependence on the leading countries in the European Union, etc. Following this logic, a look back at the “protectionist past” of the Balkan countries opens new possibilities of highlighting the so-called Bairoch paradox, which claims the positive impact of protectionism on economic growth, and which in a sense comes into conflict with the main postulates of free international trade (Bairoch, 1999 [1993]; Becuwe, Blancheton, 2011).
B30|Innovation concepts and typology – an evolutionary discussion|This paper is devoted to the analysis of evolution of innovation concepts, aspects and types. First emergence and evolution of different aspects and concepts of innovation are analyzed, and then the development of innovation concepts from a historical perspective and finally an overview of the types of innovation classifications developed in the literature are given. Complementary the different definitions of innovation are described and analyzed in detail. The main goal of the article is to identify, describe and visualize the development trend of innovation conceptualization and understanding over time
B30|Development of Social and Economic Forecasting and Ideas of A. Anchishkin|The role of the prominent Soviet economist, academician A. Anchishkin (1933—1987), whose 80th birth anniversary we celebrate this year, in the development of ideas and formation of economic forecasting in the country at the time when the directive planning acted as a leading tool of economic management is explored in the article. Besides, Anchishkin’s special role is noted in developing a comprehensive program of scientific and technical progress, an information basis for working out long-term forecasts of the country’s development, moreover, his contribution to the creation of long-term forecasting methodology and improvement of the statistical basis for economic analysis and economic planning. The authors show that social and economic forecasting in the period after 1991, which has undertaken a number of functions of economic planning, has largely relied on further development of Anchishkin’s ideas, at the same time responding to new challenges for the Russian economy development during its entry into the world economic system.
B30|A Parallel between Socialism and Cooperatism|This article sets out to present a parallel between the socialist and the cooperative doctrine, made by Professor Nicolae Ghiulea and exposed in a conference in 1946. Leaving utopian conceptions, sentimentality and related ideologies aside, Ghiulea strictly refers to the scientific socialism built by Marx and Engels, and the modern cooperative, with its principles established by the equitable Rochdale pioneers. Apparently divergent notions, we shall see that the two systems are similar and connected in many ways. Nevertheless, the professor also points out the differences that singularize them.
B30|Ethical Investment and Consumers in Cultural History|A short cultural history of the impact of Ethical Investment and Consumers over the years. Primarily from a UK based perspective looking at the evoluton of ethical business issues and their contemporary impact. Topics covered include impacts in books, films and foreign policy. History of Influencing the market via international conventions and discussion of debates on the value of mainstreaming, political disputes (The human rights and wrongs of boycotts) and the 1990s take off for codes of conduct
B30|La teoría del consumo y de los ciclos en Thorstein Veblen|Thorstein Veblen (1857-1929) fue uno de los fundadores de la economía institucional norteamericana. Este artículo presenta su teoría del consumo basada en los hábitos expuesta en la Teoría de la clase ociosa, y su teoría de los ciclos económicos y las crisis expuesta en la Teoría de la empresa de negocios. Para situarlas en contexto se esboza una síntesis de su pensamiento y de sus críticas a la economía ortodoxa.
B30|Gresham's Law in Corporate Finance|Financing patterns in corporate takeovers and private equity deals over the last twenty years demonstrate the widespread application of Rolnick and Weber’s (1986) extension of one of the most venerable principles of monetary economics: Gresham’s Law. Two currencies, corporate securities (bad money) and cash (good money) circulate together with the former playing the dominant role of par money in times when investors exhibit irrational enthusiasm. Heightened social pressure in the form of herding combined with greater uncertainty about the degree and duration of the overvaluation of securities jointly play the role of transactions costs creating a preference for payment in the par money and most deals are financed with equity or debt securities rather than cash. To illustrate, overvalued bank loans were the most common form of financing in the credit bubble up to 2008 while stock deals predominated in takeover financing during the Internet bubble period of the late 1990s. Normal markets, not characterized by irrational enthusiasm, display the use of both corporate securities and cash in funding takeovers with cash deals (good money) enjoying a premium in the form of more favorable stock market reaction. The analysis provides useful insights for both monetary economists and researchers in corporate finance. For the former, it brings a fresh currency to the interpretation and extension of Gresham’s law relating the classic debate to contemporary, as opposed to historical, events. For the latter, the lesson is that principles of monetary economics can enhance understanding of corporate financing choices.
B30|Maurice Allais on Equilibrium and Capital in some of his 1940s Writings|The article discusses M. Allais’ contributions on equilibrium and capital during the 1940s. While in his Traité (1943) Allais formalizes for the first time an intertemporal general equilibrium (IGE) in a finitehorizon economy, he subsequently abandons this notion, and in the Économie (1947) resumes, instead, the more traditional method based on the notion of stationary equilibrium. The article argues: i) that Allais’ reasons to leave the IGE framework behind, of which the most important turn round his misgivings about the sufficiently correct foresight entailed by that notion, and that reflect the impossibility to establish a correspondence between observations and theory by means of the IGE method, are well-justified; ii) that his shift to the method based on the notion of stationary equilibrium to connect the results of neoclassical theory with observations cannot be accepted, since a notion of stationary equilibrium that would make this correspondence possible must face an insurmountable difficulty in the treatment of the factor capital.
B30|Introduction. The ‘Rivista Internazionale Di Scienze Ssociali’ in the Post-War Years (1945-1960)|This article introduces the collection of the translated versions of a number of essays published in Rivista Internazionale di Scienze Sociali (RISS) during the 1940s and 1950s, under the directorship of Francesco Vito. More generally, this essay deals with the diverse topics discussed in RISS which concerned both economic theory and policy. With respect to the former field, RISS played an important role in presenting and critically examining the ‘‘new economics’’: Keynesian macroeconomics, business cycle theory, econometrics, imperfect competition and their advancements. As to economic policy, most of the articles in the volume were ‘fathered’ by Vito and a small group of scholars who had embraced his ‘Personalistic’ view of economics. In the articles, particular attention was devoted to the challenges posed by the reconstruction of the Italian economy, by European integration and by the pursuance of a set of social reforms which could promote the dignity and empowerment of human beings.
B30|A leap forward over the wall: Italian economy and economic thought in the Fifties|May the history of economic thought be a useful device for addressing a sustainable path towards economic and financial recovery from the Great Financial Depression and the nowadays Sovereign Debt Crises? According to Cicero the answer should be predictable: ‘‘Historia, magistra vitae’’, but things are likely to be more difficult. Many economists believe that past financial performances may be misleading in predicting and forecasting the future, being the proof of a weak efficient market. This paper finds its roots in the cultural challenge promoted by the Editorial Board of the Rivista Internazionale di Scienze Sociali to select a sample of its articles published during the Fifties, proposing the analysis of the whole sample and of each single article that may add some interesting evidences about both economic methodologies arising from a comparative study, both specific ideas and reflections which may reveal something valuable for the current economic turmoil.
B30|Economic History or History of Economics? Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius : Review Essay|In this essay, I review Sylvia Nasar's long awaited new history of economics, Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius . I describe how the book is an economic history of the period 1850-1950, with distinguished economists' stories inserted in appropriate places. Nasar's goal is to show how economists work, but also to show that they are people too—with more than enough warts and foibles to show they are human! I contrast the general view of the role of economics in Grand Pursuit with Robert Heilbroner's remarkably different conception in The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times, and Ideas of the Great Economic Thinkers . I also discuss more generally the question of why economists might be interested in their history at all. (JEL B10, B20, B30, N00)
B30|Potential Impacts of 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans|No abstract is available for this item.
B30|Blanco White y las cuestiones econo?micas|Between the end of the Enlightenment and the incipient liberalism, Blanco White was one of the most important Spanish intellectuals of the first half of the nineteenth century. His exile in England (1810)1841) and his mastery of the English language enabled him to relate to some of the great British economists and thinkers of the era, such as Malthus, Bentham, Whately, Senior or J.S. Mill. Despite this and his initial training in the business world, Blanco White never paid particular attention to socioeconomic issues. In fact, he has been primarily studied as political writer, journalist, man of letters or religious polemicist. However, he also addressed some issues of undoubted economic interest, as the slave trade, the situation of Spain in the early nineteenth century, the problem of the poor, or the colonial question and the overseas trade. This paper aims to examine how Blanco White approached these issues within the context of the ideas of his Spanish contemporaries. It also aims to show that Blanco’s ideas were largely rooted in a Spanish tradition of thought (full text in Spanish)
B30|"From The Entropy Law To ""Farfala Effect"" And Their Economic Perception"|It is said that theories explain laws, and laws are facts of observation. At the first sight these two concepts reduced to axioms are perfectly logical and consistent, but the law is a valid creation only in an unit of time, starting with the laws of physics and finishing with the ones of economics who are no more than temporal realities. However, there are some laws of physics that have not lost their validity and have not become non-realities or factual realities because the universe has its own mechanisms of self-adjustment, self-organization. In other words, regardless of the chaos that created the universe, there was a natural and logical reorganization based on the laws of physics that have always existed. Therefore the laws of physics and economic laws were discovered and not invented. Some authors put an equal sign between the disorder (entropy) and chaos, others on the contrary are making differences between the two concepts, but both consider an unpredictable behavior, sensitive to change and conditionings which have became, in the most random situations, issues that we can easily see in the economic field. The laws of physics are the same for all observers, but the perception is different, something that explains human behavior that has lost sight of the need to ask about the possible consequences of the changes which brings them to its original state of nature, the fact that the report of it and the natural environment represents the basis of existence and the relation with the social environment determines quality of life. In this context we would like to submit to attention some aspects concerning the entropic nature and also the chaos theory found in economy.
B30|What do sticky and flexible prices tell us?|In this paper, we investigate the information content of prices in relatively sticky-price sectors versus relatively flexible-price sectors. We first present some empirical evidence that relatively flexible prices react more to deviations of output from trend than stickier prices and that sticky prices can tell us about firms’ inflation expectations. We then develop a simple DSGE model with a sticky-price sector and a flexible-price sector and use this model to show that these empirical results are exactly what you would actually expect to see, given standard economic theory. Taken together, the results of this paper suggest that calculations of ‘flexible-price’ inflation could, potentially, be used to provide monetary policy makers with a steer on the output gap, which is notoriously hard to measure, and that calculations of ‘sticky-price’ inflation could, potentially, be used to provide monetary policy makers with a steer on the medium-term inflation expectations of price-setters.
B30|A bibliometric account of Chinese economics research through the lens of the China Economic Review|Very few studies on the assessment and evolution of Chinese economics research draw on quantitative methods, namely bibliometrics. Bibliometrics is a powerful tool that helps to explore, organize and analyze large amounts of information in a quantitative manner. Selecting the most important economic journal focusing on the Chinese economy – the China Economic Review (CER) – we classified and assessed all the (512) articles that have been published in CER from its founding (1989) to December 2010. Based on these articles, and undertaking an exploratory statistical analysis on three databases – a ‘bibliographic’ database (512 articles), a ‘roots’ database (over 10 thousand citations), and an ‘influence’ database (over 3 thousand citations), we concluded that: 1) ‘Economic Development, Technological Change, and Growth’; ‘Economic Systems’, and ‘International economics’ are the most important topics for Chinese economics literature; 2) there is a trend in Chinese economics research for growing ‘rigor’, associated to a noticeable rise in the weight of formal/mathematical-based articles; 3) the ‘International economics’ topic does not influence nor is it influenced by Chinese economics literature; and 4) Chinese economics literature is characterized by a certain level of endogamy, given that its range of influence is rather concentrated (geographically) in China and the USA.
B30|A Joyful Economist. Scitovsky’s Memoirs|"Few economists choose to write memoirs, and of those who do most adopt the ""logic of my contributions£ approach. Tibor Scitovsky, Hungarian-born theorist who spent most of his career at Stanford and Berkeley, instead left us unpublished recollections, many of his childhood, others bearing on his personal philosophy (and shift therein) - of teaching, of the role of economic theory, of its imperfections. By their nature these Memoirs give us glimpses into his nimble, original thinking, without being weighed down with considerations of priority, answering critics, and so on. The paper tries to capture this spirit, frequently in Scitovsky’s own words."
B30|Uncertainty and Human Action. An Economic Perspective|Through globalization, the world economic system acquires properties and features that its component parts or subsystems had not previously; as the economic, social and political interdependencies amplify it occurs an aggregation of national markets into a single unit, which causes an increase of degree of complexity and thus of uncertainty and risks. The heterogeneity of economic system components (individuals, organizations) is a reality and the economists have to determine variables which describe the dynamics of their action. Under uncertainty, total knowledge of future business processes is impossible to imagine. On the methodological level, beyond rational - irrational disputes, mainstream and heterodox theories converge towards action orientation to the future, which is the point of tangency with the recent theory of complexity. The proponents of both groups agree that in formulating predictions, modeling behaviors, monetary policy and income distribution, the critical factor that dominates and influences decisions is the uncertainty.
B30|The Actuality of the Crafts Issue in Romania|The issue of crafts has always been of actuality in Romania, as well as worldwide. This article sets out to present the vision of Professor Nicolae Ghiulea concerning the trades’ situation in the interwar period. We expose various aspects of the vast problem and different solutions in order to solve it. Born in ancient times, crafts retain great significance even today, along with the large industry, being indispensable to any national economy, to its culture and civilization.
B30|Probability and social science : methodologial relationships between the two approaches ?|This work examines in depth the methodological relationships that probability and statistics have maintained with the social sciences. It covers both the history of thought and current methods. First, it examines in detail the history of the different paradigms and axioms for probability, from their emergence in the seventeenth century up to the most recent developments of the three major concepts: objective, subjective and logicist probability. It shows the statistical inference they permit, different applications to social sciences and the main problems they encounter. In the other side, from social sciences—particularly population sciences— to probability, it shows the different uses they made of probabilistic concepts during their history, from the seventeenth century, according to their paradigms: cross-sectional, longitudinal, event-history, hierarchical, contextual and multilevel approaches. While the ties may have seemed loose at times, they have more often been very close: some advances in probability were driven by the search for answers to questions raised by the social sciences; conversely, the latter have made progress thanks to advances in probability. This dual approach sheds new light on the historical development of the social sciences, probability and statistics, and on the enduring relevance of their links. It permits also to solve a number of methodological problems encountered all along their history.
B30|The rhetoric of failure: a hyper-dialog about method in economics and how to get things going|All are agreed that orthodox economics is unsatisfactory but there is wide disagreement, especially among heterodox critics, whether the problems lie at the level of substantive theory or at the level of methodology. This paper gives first an overview of the methodological questions at issue. The frame of reference includes J. S. Mill, Jevons, Popper, Keynes, and Lawson. Drawing on the conclusions, the domain of economics is subsequently refocused. Human behavior is moved from the center to the periphery. From elementary systemic properties the relation of income and profit is then consistently derived. This solves the profit conundrum.
B30|Ideengeschichtliche Aspekte von unabhängigen Institutionen|In der Ökonomik tritt der zirkuläre “unechte” Fortschritt auf, der sich z.B. vom kumulativen, besonders für die Naturwissenschaften charakteristischen Fortschritt abgrenzt. Die Ideen- bzw. Dogmengeschichte kann somit eine wertvolle Erkenntnisquelle sein. In diesem Papier wird das Konzept der „unabhängigen öffentlichen Institution“ auf seine ideengeschichtlichen Grundlagen hin beleuchtet. Die Betrachtung erfolgt im wesentlichen chronologisch entlang der Entwicklungsstufen der ökonomischen bzw. polit-ökonomischen Theorie. Es wird mit der frühen, noch stark normativ bzw. metaphysisch ausgerichteten und unsystematischen ökonomischen Theorie der Antike und frühen Neuzeit begonnen, deren Erfahrungsgegenstand nicht notwendigerweise dem entspricht, was heute als „Ökonomie“ verstanden wird. Sodann werden die ersten Systeme mit Schwergewicht auf positiven Aussagen untersucht. Der inhaltliche Schwerpunkt liegt dann auf der modernen ökonomischen Theorie, die methodisch präzise zwischen positiven und normativen Aussagen trennt.
B30|Are There Important Differences between Classical and 21st-Centutry Monetary Theories? Did the Keynesian and Monetarist Revolutions Matter?|It is not generally realized how little changed monetary theory and the theory and practice of monetary policy are from three-quarters of a century ago, when J.M. Keynes wrote the book that many believe marked a great divide.
B30|The Monetary Theory of Kalecki and Minsky|The monetary theory of Kalecki and Minsky is usually placed within the Post-Keynesian tradition, deriving from the monetary analysis of John Maynard Keynes. The paper argues that Kalecki and Minsky shared a common inheritance in Swedish and German monetary theory, rather than the Marshallian tradition. Thus the monetary analysis of Kalecki and Minsky emphasises the endogeneity of money through capitalist reproduction, rather than through the mechanisms connecting central bank money to credit creation in the banking system. This provides the link between the monetary theory of Kalecki and Minsky and modern circuit theory.
B30|Moeda e acumulação de capital: Keynes, Robertson e o conceito de poupança|This paper retrieves the central elements of John Maynard Keynes and Dennis Holme Robertson’s views about the concept of saving during the 1920 and 1930s. The first section covers the partnership between both economists at the beginning of the period, as well as their respective theories on the behavior of the diverse kinds of savings, particularly the ones of a compulsory nature, along the cyclical process of capital accumulation. After that, the principle of effective demand and the multiplier theory, as developed in Keynes’ General Theory, are examined in order to identify how these ideas moved away from the kind of analysis associated with the forced saving doctrine. Following this, the attention is focused on Robertson’s criticisms of the income-multiplier mechanism. Finally, the last section discusses Keynes’s counter argument, especially the adjustment he conducted in his theory of investment by incorporating the notion of finance into the liquidity demand function. The concluding remarks sum up the main points of the debate, evaluating its most important theoretical repercussions.
B30|Moeda, crédito e ciclos econômicos em Marshall|This paper retrieves Alfred Marshall’s analysis of commercial cycles and the role of both speculation and credit in the different phases of this process. After a brief introduction to the subject, Marshall’s contributions to two distinct areas of his theory of economic fluctuations are presented, the first being the Marshallian concept of interest rates and the second his restatement of the Quantity Theory of Money as the basis for the price level determination. Next, comes Marshall explanation of the business cycles as such, followed by its formal dynamic version through a system of differential equations which shows that when inexperienced speculators dominate the demand for credit money, the commercial cycles will likely be quite intense within the framework of the Marshallian macroeconomic approach.
B30|Uma Revisão dos Argumentos Keynesianos sobre os Determinantes do Equilíbrio de Longo Prazo com Desemprego Involuntário|After the publication of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (hereafter, GT), an intense debate about its main preposition – that the long-run equilibrium of the economy is a position of involuntary unemployment – was established. The consensus view that emerged from it, known as neoclassical synthesis, established the triumph of the classical theory, according to which the long-run equilibrium of the economic system is characterized by full-employment of the labor force. According to the neoclassical synthesis, GT was a special case of the classical theory, the one where nominal wages and/or nominal prices are rigid. The objective of the present paper is to restate the original arguments of the GT in order to show that the conventional interpretation went wrong and that there is enough elements if GT to show that a long-run equilibrium with involuntary unemployment may exist even if nominal wages and prices are flexible.
B30|El utilitarismo de Jeremy Bentham ¿fundamento de la teoría de Leon Walras?|El presente texto cuestiona el utilitarismo de Jeremy Bentham como fundamento de la teoría marginalista walrasiana. La problemática se aborda a través de un análisis comparativo del pensamiento de Jeremy Bentham y de Leon Walras en tres áreas centrales: sus visiones de la sociedad y el objetivo social, sus aproximaciones teóricas y metodológicas en relación directa con sus respectivas teorías de la sociedad, y el lugar del principio de utilidad en el marco de las teorías generales de sociedad. El escrito contribuye a un debate vigente sobre los fundamentos filosóficos de la teoría de la elección racional y a deshomogenizar el pensamiento de los padres del marginalismo.
B30|Incidencia de la remuneración al capital en el ciclo económico colombiano durante el periodo 1980-2005|Desde finales del siglo XIX hasta mediados del siglo XX, el ciclo económico fue uno de los temas más relevantes en la agenda económica. La importancia de su estudio radicaba en la prioridad de encontrar las causas y la duración de las crisis económicas, y, asimismo, poder determinar o predecir con qué frecuencia sucederían. En la actualidad, con las recientes crisis financieras en Estados Unidos (2008) y en Colombia (1998-2009), este estudio vuelve a tomar importancia. Este trabajo expone varios puntos de vista al respecto y se centra en una visión muy poco examinada: la teoría de Michal Kalecki, la cual sirve de base para analizar el ciclo económico colombiano en el periodo 1980-2005, y así comparar el modelo estimado por medio del método de mínimos cuadrados trietápicos (MC3E) con el comportamiento de la remuneración al capital durante el mismo periodo, a partir de lo cual se encuentra una relación estrecha entre esta última, la decisión de invertir y, por consiguiente, la fase decreciente del ciclo económico.
B30|Walras and Cournot’s mathematical method: comparison and discord challenge|This article contributes to the explanation of the methodological differences between Cournot and Walras when these authors apply mathematics to economics. Our article explains the reasons behind Cournot’s refusal when Walras required him to write an article, which advocates the application of mathematical method in economics. We indicate then why Cournot remains in favour of mathematical method even after the publication of Principles in 1863. We show then that Cournot refers to specific way of considering mathematics in economics. This way differs from the Walras’ one in several aspects.
B30|Economic History or History of Economics? A Review Essay on Sylvia Nasar's Grand Pursuit: the Story of Economic Genius|In this essay I review Sylvia Nasar's long awaited new history of economics, Grand Pursuit. I describe how the book is really an economic history of the period from 1850-1950, with distinguished economists' stories inserted in appropriate places. Nasar's goal is to show how economists work, but also to show that they are people too--with more than enough warts and foibles to show they are human! I contrast the general view of the role of economics in Grand Pursuit with Robert Heilbroner's remarkably different conception in The Worldly Philosophers. I also discuss more generally the question of why economists might be interested in their history at all.
B30|Orthodox versus Heterodox (Minskyan) Perspectives of Financial Crises: Explosion in the 1990s versus Implosion in the 2000s|Orthodox and heterodox theories of financial crises are hereby compared from a theoretical viewpoint, with emphasis on their genesis. The former view (represented by the fourth-generation models of Paul Krugman) reflects the neoclassical vision whereby turbulence is an exception; the latter insight (represented by the theories of Hyman P. Minsky) validates and extends John Maynard Keynes's vision, since it is related to a modern financial world. The result of this theoretical exercise is that Minsky's vision represents a superior explanation of financial crises and current events in financial systems because it considers the causes of financial crises as endogenous to the system. Crucial facts in relevant financial crises are mentioned in section 1, as an introduction; the orthodox models of financial crises are described in section 2; the heterodox models of financial crises are outlined in section 3; the main similarities and differences between orthodox and heterodox models of financial crises are identified in section 4; and conclusions based on the information provided by the previous section are outlined in section 5. References are listed at the end of the paper.
B30|Wine terroir concept: some preceding in Arrigo Serpieri's agrarian zone|"The paper aims at discussing the role played by the theory of business clusters in wine marketing and in particular it aims at discussing the ""terroir"" de nition in wine economics in order to fi nd some preceding roots within the Italian Arrigo Serpieri's thought, often considered a politician rather than a theory maker, but recently reconsidered and revalued (Becattini 2002) as a Master of research methodology. Wine terroir is quite a philosophical concept but it can give competitive advantages in wine marketing as it has the power to explain di erent prices of wines with similar organoleptic characteristics. After a brief discussion on literature about the concept of economic spatial analysis, the second section investigates the multisemantic shifts of the word ""terroir"", focusing on the conspicuous idea that within any ""terroir"" are connected individuals involved in production, in social organization and in agricultural practices, all being oriented in valorising the area itself. The third section treats of some traditional explanations of spatial patterns of economy arguing that production is intrinsically a local fact and any production-site is an exclusive combination of natural and historical resources as well as cultural resources and social organization. The fourth section attempts to explain the Serpieri's theoretical viewpoint on the specifi city of local development within an ""agrarian zone"" that can be considered as a general preceding of the ""terroir"" concept. The fifth section presents some theoretical application of special analysis on wine sector as updated wine marketing uses ""terroir"" as a dif ferentiation tool aiming at dominating high-end and luxury goods market segments, facing competition of branded wines that have less cost and geographical restraints."
B30|A Bibliometrics Portrait of Chinese Research through the Lens of China Economic Review. A research proposal|Notwithstanding, in the last two decades, there has been a noticeable increase in published work on the research field of Chinese economy. There are few studies, which analyze the evolution of Chinese economics research, and the weight of international economics within it, by resorting to objective methods, namely bibliometrics. Giving our focus on Chinese economics related research, we select to base our empirical analysis on the “seed journal” China Economic Review (CER), which is the most important economic journal especially concerned with the issues of Chinese economy. We classify and assess all the (522) articles that were published in CER from its genesis (1989) up to December 2010. We construct three main databases: the first database as bibliographic database that contains the more than 500 articles published in CER, where we classify articles by themes (such as Macroeconomics, Microeconomics and International Economics) and types(such as formal vs. empirical); the second database includes the references of those 500 articles, which we denominate ‘roots of Chinese economics research’; and the third database, the ‘influence of Chinese economics research’, where we have all the studies that cited (more than 3000 references) the 500 articles published in CER. By undertaking an exploratory statistical analysis on the three databases - bibliographic database, ‘roots’ database and ‘influence’ database, we are able to assess three main group of issues: 1) the importance, within Chinese economics of the topic ‘international economic’; the types of research that are pursued in the period of analysis (formal vs empirical); and the most prolific authors in the area; 2) the ‘roots’ of Chinese economics, that is, who and which outlets are influencing most Chinese economics research; 3) the scope of influence of Chinese economics literature.
B30|Trademarks as Fictitious Commodities: An Erosion of the Public Interest? An Assessment of the use of trademarks over urban space at the example of London’s Regent Street and Paris’ Champs-Elysées|With reference to Karl Polyani’s notion of fictitious commodities we evaluate whether the protection of two worldwide known streets, namely ‘Regent Street’ in London and the ‘Champs- Elysées’ in Paris may be perceived as an erosion of the public interest and thus call for potential policy reformulation or reforms to substantive trademark law. The reasons for this choice are twofold: Firstly, the existing body of literature offers an in-depth discussion on the complex dynamics between the public interest and patents and copyrights, yet relatively little has been said so far on the correlation of the public interest and trademarks. Secondly, trademark protection over urban space is a recent phenomenon that has in and by itself not yet been properly grasped, neither from a policy, commercial or legal perspective. We conclude that the ownership structure of each of these two trademarks suggests that, contrary to intuition, it is the use of trademark protection rather than the renouncement from trademark protection that guarantees, at least in these two instances, the public interest. We contend however that the increased use of trademark protection over urban space does bear the potential for the erosion of the public interest and call upon policy makers to formulate guidelines in that respect.
B30|Ekonomie budoucnosti: čtyři možné scénáře<BR>[The Future of Economics: Four Possible Scenarios]|Already during the financial crisis from 2007 through 2009, a growing number of scholars, laymen or media outlets blamed economics as such, at least partially, for the turmoil and subsequent economic malaise. Therefore, the debate concerning future long-term development of economics - or, more precisely, prevailing economic theory - has been intensifying. The following text outlines four possible scenarios - synthetic, evolutionary, reactionary, and revolutionary - of such a development. Each scenario is connected with a methodologist of economics or a methodologist of science, who represent it, for it is right the domain of methodology or/and philosophy of science wherein it is necessary to look for an ideological background belonging to different research traditions in economics as well as for an understanding of determining stances and worldviews of the traditions' proponents.
B30|Goodwin's social philosophy: Continuity and change|In the paper I present and discuss an unpublished essay of Richard Goodwin found in the Goodwin’s Archive at the University of Siena on the theme of social philosophy. I will illustrate the main points of his text, briefly compare these late views with those entertained at the beginning of his scientific life (namely his Harvard dissertation on Marxism also kept in the Archive) and add a few remarks in connection with the implications for economics suggested by his analysis.
B30|Monetary crisis in the 30th and the reactions of Bulgarian economists|In the paper, I deal with the issues of how the Bulgarian academic community interpreted the monetary crisis (especially pound devaluation) and in what theoretical models Bulgarian economists thought and practical solutions they offered during the Great Depression. The decisive phase of the Gre at Depression period was the banking crisis in Austria and Germany, which led to a currency crisis of the sterling pound and its devaluation in the summer of 1931, and of the dollar in early 1934. The crises of those two main currencies began to bear direc tly on Bulgaria and thus became the subject of numerous analyses (Delaisi, 1933; Robbins, 1934). JEL codes: B 10, B 20, B30, N13, N14, G01.
B30|Personal Income Tax Structure: Theory and Policy|The eminent contributors (including Altshuler, Creedy, Freebairn, Gravelle, Heady, Kalb, Sørensen and Zodrow) investigate the beneficial directions for medium-term tax reform in the light of global developments and lessons from the latest taxation research. In addressing this issue, they review recent advances in both the theoretical and empirical tax literature and reform evidence from individual countries. Topics covered include the impact of taxes on economic performance; international and corporate taxation; personal tax and welfare systems; environmental taxation; and country-specific tax reform experiences.
B30|Vilfredo Pareto and the methodology of the Italian tradition in public finance|In the last decade of the nineteenth century, Italian scholars started using a scientific methodology to tackle public finance problems. Their studies are now referred to as the Italian tradition in public finance, whose origin is considered to lie with De Viti de Marco (1888). Shortly before his death in 1950, Fasiani, the last scholar of the Italian tradition, published an important article, in which he showed that, even if Pareto never worked in public finance, he had some influence on the Italian public finance scholars. This paper aims to draw scholarly attention to the above article and to direct new light onto Pareto’s methodological influence on the Italian tradition. Firstly it is pointed out that the Paretian idea of science deeply influenced the late scholars of the Italian tradition. Secondly, it is shown that Paretian sociology was less important than his economic methodology. Thirdly, it is argued that it is necessary to distinguish the problems concerning the explanation of public choices, from the problems of the economic effects of public policies; then, in a generalized Paretian approach, most public policies may be studied under economic hypothesis. It follows that much of the Italian tradition may be taken back to a Paretian approach, even if it remains true that, in the latter, public choices may be explained by sociological reasoning only.
B30|The double taxation of savings: the Italian debate revisited|In the first half of the 20th century, Italian scholars of public finance debated J. S. Mill's theorem on the double taxation of savings. Building on I. Fisher's contribution, L. Einaudi started the discussion, which lasted for some 30 years, involving a significant number of scholars. This paper critically discusses the crucial aspects of this debate, with the aim, firstly, to highlight its peculiarity and specificity with respect to the previous Anglo-Saxon literature. A second aim is to discuss critically, from a historiographical perspective, the main reasoning put forward in the debate.
B30|Jury on stage: a common law play|" Legal processes have a theatrical component to them. They offer an audience (the spectators) and actors (the legal parties, lawyers, as well as the jury and judge) who perform a play on the stage of the courtroom. In this paper we focus on the role of the jury, which appears to be simultaneously audience and actor. As audience, it assures that the power of the judge is limited. As actor, the jury is able to play its role in such a way as to incorporate social attitudes into the verdict. Exploring this theatrical component may shed new light on the debate whether juries are a ""good"" way of finding legal settlements. Further, it could indicate how legal processes are perceived by the public. As our line of argument builds on Adam Smith's moral and legal philosophy, the analysis may also contribute to the understanding of one of the building blocks of Smith's philosophy, namely the impartial spectator.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
B30|An Agenda Of Morality For Business Ethics|The aim of this paper work is to conclude a short confirmation for business ethics. A redundant argument for business ethics, should, in our opinion start from the philosophical field. A major problem with business ethics is the foreclosing of philosophy, society and politics from its debate area. Before understanding the common sense for business ethics, we have to know how to act in a moral way. It is important to understand the identity of the human being, its signification and goals. Therefore the first part of this research enclose to philosophy, pointing out three aspects concerted to morality. We consider that only after a proper analyze of the human being, we can argue for business ethics and its implication in different area. Otherwise “business” becomes a problem for “ethics” and “ethics” become a problem for “business”.
B30|Demand for Self Control: A model of Consumer Response to Programs and Products that Moderate Consumption|Is it better to apply effort to increase personal consumption, or control what one wants? The model presented here provides a characterization of demand for self control, namely, its responsiveness to price and risk. Unlike most other models of self control, the model does not identify self control with time inconsistency or rely on the multiple-selves framework. Self control refers to resources allocated to preference transformation technology enabling consumers to moderate desire for ordinary consumption by reducing threshold levels required to achieve goals or target-levels of consumption. Consumers face a choice between allocating resources toward increasing expected levels of consumption or increasing chances of contentment through self control. Because of strong income effects, demand for self control turns out to be non-monotonic in price and sometimes discontinuous, revealing potential for unanticipated and sometimes surprisingly large responses to small changes in price. The model is used to analyze consumers’ willingness to follow new regulations, take up credit counseling, enroll in financial literacy programs, and purchase products aimed at improving financial decision making through cultivation of self control.
B30|Tribute to Paul. A. Samuelson|Paul .A. Samuelson, the first American Nobel laureate in Economics and the foremost academic economist of the 20th century. As a graduate student at Harvard, Samuelson studied Economics under Joseph Schumpeter, W.W. Leontief, Goldfried Haberler and the ‘American Keynes’ Alvin Hansen. He was the first American to win to Nobel Prize in Economics; and he is considered to be one of the founders of Neo-Keynesian Economics and a seminal figure in the development of Neoclassical Economics.
B30|Economics and Hegemony; Globalization and International Trade Agreements|This paper examines the concept of hegemony and its historical impacts on the Arabic and Islamic countries. It is foreseen that has long path applied by the Western countries as disclosed by trade applications and history of economic thought. Impacts on Arabic and Islamic countries were visible in terms of trade, balances and persistent debts. A strong tool is evident with the called for integration, interdependence and the generated dependency syndrome. The establishment of that mechanism depends on a theory which we present as the Hegemonic Stability. The Arabic and Islamic countries did not succeed to form their effective economic blocks in order to counter such hegemonic effects because of their internal political structure which affect the structure of their international trade and economic benefits.
B30|Economía de la cultura. Una nueva área de especialización de la economía|Cultural economics has recently been included in the development of Economics. The seminal paper Performing Arts: The Economic Dilemma by William Baumol and William Bowen, much acknowledged by specialists and from which this specialisation originates, dates back to 1966. In spite of its short life, cultural economics is a dynamic area for applying economic analysis to diverse subjects such as: “Baumol’s cost-disease”, cultural policy, models of consumption of cultural goods, concepts of capital and cultural value, organisational and managerial structures of cultural companies, the functionary of art markets and the development of the sector’s economic accounts.
B30|“Destructive” and “Creative” Results of Dynamic Analytical Frameworks of Marx and Schumpeter|This study aims to analyze the destructive and creative results of Marx’s and Schumpeter’s analysis starting out from the argument that their analytical frameworks are dynamic. Capitalism involves economic and non-economic variables and hence is dynamic and instable. Because of this reason, a dynamic framework is embraced in this study which takes into account the changes in concrete historical time. Also paper argued that Marx and Schumpeter contend that the working of capitalism undermines its own institutional structure. In this regard, the paper seeks to establish connections between Marx and Schumpeter by their dynamic visions. In order to show these connections, in the first section of the study the historical metarialism context of Marx is evaluated. The topic of the second section is the the creative actions which establish the dynamic framework of Schumpeter. In the third section, destructive and creative reasults of dynamic analysis of Marx and Schumpeter are examined.
B30|Theories of International Relations: from an American Science Towards a Pluralism of Thought|No abstract is available for this item.
B30|Unemployment and Full Employment. A Retrospective View|This paper shows that Pigou’s theory of unemployment, contrary to what Keynes thought, does not assume states of full employment only, but offers an analysis of situations of persistent underemployment which are not necessarily associated with labour market supply factors. Indeed, Pigou’s «classical theory» assigns a significant role to aggregate demand in the determination of mass unemployment, although Pigou was very cautious as regards the feasibility of demand policies as a means for achieving full employment. The modern theory of the natural rate of unemployment, as empirically developed in the context of the NAIRU approach, claims to provide an explanation of equilibrium unemployment based on labour market supply factors. After showing the weak operational content of the modern NAIRU approach, this paper emphasises the theoretical distance between models developed within this approach and Pigou’s «classical theory» of unemployment
B30|Lucas on the relationship between theory and ideology|This paper concerns a neglected aspect of Lucas's work: his methodological writings, published and unpublished. Particular attention is paid to his views on the relationship between theory and ideology. I start by setting out Lucas's non-standard conception of theory: to him, a theory and a model are the same thing. I also explore the different facets and implications of this conception. In the next two sections, I debate whether Lucas adheres to two methodological principles that I dub the 'non-interference' precept (the proposition that ideological viewpoints should not influence theory), and the 'non-exploitation' precept (that the models' conclusions should not be transposed into policy recommendations, in so far as these conclusions are built into the models' premises). The last part of the paper contains my assessment of Lucas's ideas. First, I bring out the extent to which Lucas departs from the view held by most specialized methodologists. Second, I wonder whether the new classical revolution resulted from a political agenda. Third and finally, I claim that the tensions characterizing Lucas's conception of theory follow from his having one foot in the neo-Walrasian and the other in the Marshallian-Friedmanian universe.
B30|Hobbes: Caos de la conepción liberal|Nos proponemos examinar los conceptos que configuran la organización social desde la perspectiva del caos en el contexto liberal. La metáfora del caos remite a la idea de lacooperación social en donde el reconocimiento de los deseos privados constituye la base del bien común. De esta manera se parte de suponer la condición del conocimiento que tienen los individuos de la situación caótica en la sociedad civil
B30|Sustainable Development in a Post Keynesian Perspective: Return to Basics of Ecodevelopment|While sustainable development is a unanimously accepted watchword today, we wish to show that the post Keynesian school, even if it did not emphasize on environmental issues and, generally speaking, on sustainable development as such, has tools that make it relevant on this topic. Indeed, post Keynesian sustainable development can be close to Sachs’ ecodevelopment, which is inspired by Kalecki. Thus, post Keynesianism and ecodevelopment share the same position related to economic growth. They meet, via the concept of radical uncertainty, on the importance of the precautionary principle. If the implications of the principle of effective demand seem to oppose them, these divergences can be easily overcome.
B30|In Defense of Dwelling in Great Minds: A Few Quotations from Michael Polanyi’s The Study of Man|It seems like a small and perhaps shrinking minority of economists know reverence of individual figures. Most economists seem to be without heroes, and sometimes disparage reverence as cultish idolatry. Here I collect from Michael Polanyi’s The Study of Man (1959) a few passages that eloquently suggest that “we need reverence to perceive greatness, even as we need a telescope to observe spiral nebulae.” The selection is made in the defense of seeking out and communing with great minds.
B30|F. A. Hayek’s influence on Nobel Prize winners|No abstract is available for this item.
B30|Please Bring me the New York Times – On the European Roots of Richard Abel Musgrave|Richard Musgrave was one of the around 200 academic economists who emigrated from Germany when Fascism came to dominate the country. This memorial lecture traces the German and European roots of Richard Musgrave’s oeuvre, trying to shed light on his family background as well as on the political and scientific factors that influenced his education as an economist. Particular emphasis is given to the development of his notion of public goods.
B30|Ueber die normativen Implikationen des Ordoliberalismus fuer die moderne Wirtschaftsethik (The Ethical-Normative Implications of German Ordoliberalism)|Bei der Rezeption der ordoliberalen Freiburger Schule wurde bislang die wirtschaftsethische Perspektive weitgehend vernachlaessigt. Der Aufsatz gibt vertiefte Einblicke in das ethisch-normative Denken des Ordoliberalismus am Beispiel des Werks von Walter Eucken. Dabei wird es neben der Bestimmung der Sozialen Marktwirtschaft als funktionsfaehige und menschenwuerdige Ordnung um Euckens an Kant angelehntes Freiheitsverstaendnis gehen sowie um eine Einordnung Euckens in die moderne Wirtschafts- und Unternehmensethik. (Eucken’s writings are rich in content not only from an (constitutional) economic perspective but also from an economic and business ethics perspective – an often neglected perspective of the reception of German Ordoliberalism in general and the Freiburg School of Economics in particular. The paper gives a first insight into the ethical-normative thinking of Eucken, as one of the main representatives of Ordoliberalism, and explains Eucken’s conception of Social Market Economy as a functioning and humane order as well as Eucken’s Kantian understanding of freedom. To conclude the essay tries to classify Eucken’s Ordoliberalism as a part of the spectrum of modern economic and business ethics.)
B30|La obra de Octavio Elorrieta (1881-1962). El monte al servicio de la economía|This paper analyzes the professional life and the work of Octavio Elorrieta y Artaza, who became, with his works about forest economy and his positions in the Spanish Forest Administration, the most influential forest engineer in Spain in the early 20th Century. The article tackles the proposals of Elorrieta on forest exploitation, forest policy, and the possibilities that the forestland offered towards solving the agrarian social problem in the South of the country in the thirties. It also suggests why it is worthwhile reading this author nowadays. The main conclusion is that Elorrieta played a central role in the definition of a new way of perceiving forest lands; a new perception that, on the one hand, tried to set those areas in an outstanding place of national policy in order to increase their production and to guarantee their conservation, and, on the other hand, it involved the potential danger to reduce the conception of forests just to its bare economic aspects.
B30|Equilíbrio com Desemprego Involuntário em um Modelo de Ciclo-Limite Convencional|"O presente artigo apresenta um modelo dinâmico não linear que gera um ciclo-limite a partir de duas equações diferenciais, onde uma dessas equações representa a dinâmica do ajustamento de preços e a outra o ajustamento das quantidades, em um contexto em que prevalecem preços e salários flexíveis. Nesse contexto demonstra-se a validade da visão keynesiana a respeito da existência de um equilíbrio estável com desemprego involuntário no longo prazo. O modelo aqui desenvolvido mostra também que a economia pode ficar ""presa"" numa órbita em torno dessa posição de equilíbrio, apresentando assim flutuações regulares e auto-contidas do nível de renda e de emprego."
B30|Reflexiones de economía política: la justicia social en la obra de Léon Walras|Este documento presenta una interpretación del pensamiento económico, político y social de Léon Walras. Su obra, además de ser un llamado al uso del lenguaje matemático, como herramienta explicativa de las relaciones económicas, es un intento por conectar la naturaleza propia del interés material y la justicia social. Su propuesta de una política monetaria que ordena progresivamente la combinación de cuatro sistemas monetarios (monometalismo plata, bimetalismo, billón regulador y monometalismo oro), mientras que el Estado por medio de un impuesto único a la renta se convierte en copropietario de la tierra, constituyen una reflexión sobre la propiedad y las instituciones, que favorecen la actividad económica. El pensamiento walrasiano muestra una coherencia interna de sus argumentos más compleja que la simple percepción reduccionista realizada a su modelo de equilibrio general.
B30|Versión real y versión monetaria de una economía de mercado artesanal|"Resumen: La economía artesanal representa específicamente la división social del trabajo porque trata de una economía de intercambio entre productores independientes; ella integra la producción (a diferencia de la economía de intercambio puro) pero descarta la división técnica del trabajo (a diferencia de la economía capitalista). Este texto presenta un modelo real y un modelo monetario de una economía artesanal en la cual cada productor especialista-consumidor generalista, pretende maximizar su utilidad. Mientras que en el primer modelo se dibuja una ""economía del mercado general"" asociada a los precios relativos de equilibrio, el segundo modelo monetario resume una ""economía de los mercados particulares"" conectada a precios absolutos de desequilibrio."
B30|Comercio y Geografía Económica: una nota sobre la contribución de Krugman a la teoría económica|Resumen: El objetivo de esta nota es presentar la contribución de Paul Krugman a la teoría económica. Se muestra el aporte y la influencia que tienen sus artículos de 1979 y 1991 en la renovación de la teoría del comercio y la aparición de la nueva geografía económica. En especial, se muestra que Krugman crea un marco teórico que permite explicar fenómenos como el comercio intraindustrial, el comercio entre los países desarrollados y los procesos de aglomeración, bajo escenarios de competencia monopolística y de rendimientos crecientes a escala. El interés de la contribución de Krugman estriba en que estos fenómenos no habían podido ser explicados satisfactoriamente por el modelo neoclásico estándar
B30|Sustainable Development in a Post Keynesian Perspective: Return to Basics of Ecodevelopment (In French)|While sustainable development is a unanimously accepted watchword today, we wish to show that the post Keynesian school, even if it did not emphasize on environmental issues and, generally speaking, on sustainable development as such, has tools that make it relevant on this topic. Indeed, post Keynesian sustainable development can be close to Sachs’ ecodevelopment, which is inspired by Kalecki. Thus, post Keynesianism and ecodevelopment share the same position related to economic growth. They meet, via the concept of radical uncertainty, on the importance of the precautionary principle. If the implications of the principle of effective demand seem to oppose them, these divergences can be easily overcome.
B30|Real and Monetary Approach to the Handcraft Economy|The handcraft market represents the social division of work because it is referred to the exchange between separated producers; unlike pure exchange and capitalist economies, the handcraft economy integrates production but gets rid off the technical division of work. This paper displays both real and monetary models of the handcraft market where each consumer-producer generalist, maximizes his utility function. In the first model a .general market economy. arises, which is related to relative equilibrium prices, whereas in the second one, the monetary model, a .particular market economy. arises, which is linked to absolute disequilibrium prices.
B30|Trade and Economic Geography: a Note on Krugman’s contribution to Economic Theory|The purpose of this paper is to present the major contributions of Paul Krugman to economic theory. It shows the contribution and influence that articles of 1979 and 1991 have exerted on the renewal of trade theory and the emergence of new economic geography. In these articles, Krugman successfully explains intraindustry trade, trade among developed countries and agglomeration processes, all these phenomena of great importance that had not been satisfactorily explained from the point of view of standard neoclassical models. To do so, he uses a theoretical framework that incorporates monopolistic competition and increasing returns to scale.
B30|Social Quality and Precarity: Approaching New Patterns of Societal (Dis)Integration|The main issue of this article is to discuss the question of ‘precarity’ in the context of the theory of social quality (see Beck et al, 2001), with which to pave the way for developing further the theoretical foundation of precarity. Societal practice is the main challenge this concept tries to address. However, the danger is to introduce a new term, yet maintaining a discussion on traditional problems as poverty, marginalisation and exclusion. Our thesis is that these problems, far from being sufficiently tackled, are currently going along with and being adjunct to another challenge, namely precarity. Although the ‘old problems’ are not problems of individuals and expression of their ‘personal failure’, precarity – seen in the context of the theory of social quality – means a new stage of socialisation of the problems by further individualisation of the victims. In principle, we can say that this understanding of precarity is an expression of a further erosion of society, characterising especially periods of transformation of economic systems.
B30|Works of economic interest in the seventeenth century Muslim world|In the 17th Century, the importance of Turkish and Persian increased because of being languages of rulers and receiving official patronage. Thus, along with writing on socio-economic problems in Arabic language, many works of economic interest appeared in those languages. While the focus of the paper is works in Arabic language accomplished in the Ottoman controlled territory of the Islamic world, it also introduces those written in other languages, provided that their translations were available.
B30|Dalai Lama et Laurens van den Muyzenberg, Ce que le bouddhisme peutapporter aux managers<BR>[Dalai Lama and Laurens Muyzenberg. What Bhudhism Can teach managers?]|Buddhism, one of the three largest religions in the world, is rich and deep in spirituality and philosophical content. In Asian and Western countries, the economic and managerial aspects of Buddhism have become a subject of renewed interest and many studies. The book What Buddhism can bring to managers, written jointly by the 14th Dalai Lama and Laurens van den Muyzenberg, claims to present a comparative approach about Buddhist and capitalist concepts with regard to leadership and the corporate social responsibility, and it is also an effort to apply doctrines Buddhists in the managerial process.
B30|Workfare – The Reinvention of the Social|The presentation aims on refocusing the mainstream debate, starting from looking at work as the central reference rather than seeing the constituting problem of workfare as one of social policy/social security. Of course, at the end the objective is a clearer understanding of how measures aiming on work and employment integration can meaningfully be utilised for responsible policy making. For this, an introductory step will look at what we are actually dealing with when we talk about workfare. Then a second step will very briefly present the EUropean political debate, returning thereafter to the question what we are actually dealing with when we talk about workfare. Then, in a third step, a paradox is presented: the gain of employment, going hand in hand with a loss of work. The conclusion will discuss in the fourth step workfare in the light of power and life.
B30|From Giustizia e Libertà to the Partito d’Azione|The short-lived political season of the Partito d’Azione spanned from 1942 to 1947. Playing its part in the Resistance this party had succeeded in giving of its best in the fierce armed struggle against the Nazis and fascists, but failed to adapt to the political normality of the post-war period and reconstruction. In this context the “democratic revolution” line represented the sole attempt to prefigure a republican Italy set more on breaking with the past than preserving continuity. Manlio Rossi Doria’s contribution to this line still remains of central importance for historiographic study of the events marking this period of Italy’s history.
B30|How can a psychologist inform economics? The strange case of Sidney Siegel|Before Kahneman and Tversky showed how behavioural economics could bring psychology and economics into a unified framework, in the 1950s a social psychologist, Sidney Siegel, entered the realm of economics and laid the foundation of experimental economics. This paper gives an assessment of Siegel’s overall contribution and claims that Siegel was not only a pioneer of experimental economics but also of behavioural economics. Had his view on the integration of psychology and economics been more promptly received, it might have triggered a different and more successfully path to the injection of greater realism in economics. When Siegel died, his approach to integrate psychology and economics lost its main advocate. Although his legacy was paramount in the work of the Nobel Prize Vernon Smith, Siegel endorsed a quite different approach to how make interdisciplinary research effective.
B30|Globalization and the Concept of Subsistence Wages|According to Malthus, there is an “Iron Law” for wages: they cannot stay above subsistence levels. When they do, increased population soon enough pushes them down to the previous level of immiseration. One might think that modern economics has long ago confined such views to the dustbin of history, however, belief in the “Iron Law” has made a comeback in this era of globalization. We argue that all versions of the Iron Law, new and old, are vulnerable to a knock-out critique. We argue that the Iron Law of Wages, and slavery for production and profit, are logically incompatible: if one ever existed, the other cannot.
B30|Taxonomizing the Relationship Between Biology and Economics: A Very Long Engagement|No abstract is available for this item.
B30|The Postwar West German Economic Transition: From Ordoliberalism to Keynesianism|The Federal Republic of Germany has experienced a fundamental shift in economic philosophy from Ordoliberalism to Keynesianism. This paper elucidates the main tenets of both schools of thought and their eventual influences on economic policy from 1945 through the late 1960s. West Germany’s transition to Keynesianism follows a relatively cohesive narrative, as the complexities of event history resonate to similar effect in academic and political spheres. By the end of this investigation, intellectual quagmires surrounding economic successes of the postwar period appear as the logical consequences of an academic community that underestimates the importance of normative economic philosophy for policy implementation and society writ large. Reconnecting historical narrative with economic philosophy thus serves in a dual capacity, clarifying a particularly controversial period in economic historiography while also illuminating the underlying problems of our present circumstance.
B30|Keynesianismo, Poskeynesianismo y Nuevokeynesianismo: ¿Tres doctrinas diferentes y una sóla teoría verdadera?<BR>[Keynesianism, PostKeynesianism and Newkeynesianism: ¿Three different doctrines just one real theory?]|"During the seventies, Keynesianism faced the most critical decade. It was characterized by some deep critics to the ""General Theory"", due to the ausence of strong microfoundations and a overdimensionated importance of demand shocks over the role of supply shock in economic theory. Eighties unleash the beginning of a new authors stream; it has as a main purpose to develop an answer to all those critics made during the past decade. In such way, a new stream named the newkeynesianism had appeared. On the other side, the Postkeynesianism seemed to be far from the critics. It was supossed to be the next step in Keynesianism theory, since its major effort was to provide a framework for the analysis of long run economics, just like a growth theory."
B30|German-speaking economists in British exile 1933-1945|The paper deals with the contributions by German-speaking economists in the UK during the Nazi period. It first gives an overview on the emigration of economistsfrom Germany and Austria and the subgroup who came to Britain. Adolph Lowe's reflections on contemporary Britain, liberty, and economics and sociology are then discussed as an example how exile and acculturation have influenced topics and methodology of emigre scholars. The Oxford Institute of Statistics, with Jacob Marschak as the founding director, in the late 1930s and early 1940s became an important place where emigre economists from Central Europe played a decisive role. The paper then deals with die important contributions of emigre scholars to the new sub-discipline development economics before, finally, the role of exiled economists as analysts of the German war economy is discussed.
B30|German-speaking economists in British exile 1933-1945|The paper deals with the contributions by German-speaking economists in the UK during the Nazi period. It first gives an overview on the emigration of economistsfrom Germany and Austria and the subgroup who came to Britain. Adolph Lowe's reflections on contemporary Britain, liberty, and economics and sociology are then discussed as an example how exile and acculturation have influenced topics and methodology of emigre scholars. The Oxford Institute of Statistics, with Jacob Marschak as the founding director, in the late 1930s and early 1940s became an important place where emigre economists from Central Europe played a decisive role. The paper then deals with die important contributions of emigre scholars to the new sub-discipline development economics before, finally, the role of exiled economists as analysts of the German war economy is discussed.
B30|Rossi-Doria at Scandale: a borderline research project|Between 1954 and 1955, in the context of a project launched by the Unesco social research section on the effects of agrarian reform in Italy, Manlio Rossi-Doria took on responsibility for and coordination of the surveys to be carried out at Scandale, a commune in the Marquisate of Crotone, in Calabria. The point we wish to make in this article, based on documentation in the Archivio Rossi-Doria, is that, given also its historical background, the survey carried out at Scandale assumes particular significance in the entire intellectual and scientific development of Rossi-Doria. The methodological and analytic significance of the project is highlighted with reconstruction of two dimensions of the background: a “macro” dimension regarding the configuration taken on by the development of the Italian – and in particular southern Italian – economy around the mid-1950s, and a “micro” dimension concerning the scientific and professional progress of Manlio Rossi-Doria and, closely bound up with it, the role of cultural leadership played by the Agricultural Economics Research Institute in Portici.
B30|Large and small firms’ role in the knowledge-based industries innovation process|This paper is an introduction to the discussion of the role played by knowledgebased large and small firms in the innovation process. It takes into account the theoretical background within the Schumpeterian-Penrosian tradition. The paper reviews a model where firm size has important implications for specific stages of the innovation process. An important conclusion in this work is that small firms are highly responsive when reacting to technological change. However, financial restrictions constitute an important impediment for innovation development in small firms. From this perspective, cooperation and alliances between large and small firms is an adequate response to the problems arising when knowledge-based firms innovate. The paper also presents some empirical results obtained from a survey on biotechnology-related industries conducted in Canada in 1999 as an empirical demonstration of this theoretical approach.
B30|Exit, voice, and loyalty in international organizations: US involvement in the League of Nations|No abstract is available for this item.
B30|La Economía en los diccionarios y las enciclopedias del Siglo XVIII en España|This article tackles with the economic content of the Spanish encyclopaedic literature of the 18th Century. After having analysed the genealogy of the dictionaries of commerce of the European Enlightenment, the paper studies the Spanish projects, as well as the economic content of the Spanish encyclopaedic literature of the Eighteen Century. The works analysed gather the translations of foreign works, but mainly the Spanish original compilations that embraced encyclopaedias, specialized dictionaries on political economy or commerce and other dictionaries on topics linked to economics, like agriculture, arts and crafts, geography or public finance. Lexicographical dictionaries, in particular those that defined the terms related to arts and crafts, have been also studied.
B30|Sobre a filosofia moral de Adam Smith|This article examines Adam Smith’s Theory of moral sentiments. Taking as its point of departure the moral philosophy of the Scottish enlightenment, the paper presents the central argument of Smith’s Theory. It analyses the concepts of “sympathy” and “impartial spectator” and points to the originality of Smith’s argument on the relationship between morality and sociality.
B30|Sobre A Filosofia Moral De Adam Smith|This article examines Adam Smith’s Theory of moral sentiments. Taking as its point of departure the moral philosophy of the Scottish enlightenment, the paper presents the central argument of Smith’s Theory. It analyses the concepts of “sympathy” and “impartial spectator” and points to the originality of Smith’s argument on the relationship between morality and sociality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B30|Has Anne Robert Jacques Turgot been neglected by the Credit Rationing Theory?|This article deals with the contribution of Turgot to Credit Rationing Theory. By criticising usury laws, Turgot showed the negative influences of external rigidities on the credit market. Given that this argument is at the core of Desequilibrium Credit Rationing Theory, we underline the founding contribution of Turgot. Furthermore, we show that Turgot's analysis came before that of Smith, who is traditionally mentioned as the instigator of Credit Rationing Theory. Turgot's thought is modern too as he showed endogenous causes to credit rationing.
B30|L'ECOLE AUTRICHIENNE DANS LE PANORAMA DE LA PENSEE ECONOMIQUE De sa naissance it la Deuxieme Guerre mondiale|This paper is devoted to the nature, the homogeneity and the evolution of the Austrian school between its emergence in the 1870 and the lauching of the Second World War. We also investigate its status in relation to other currents of thought in economics. The economists associated with this current disagree among themselves as to their distance towards an orthodoxy which is itself in continuous evolution. We will first examine the contribution of Menger and of his immediate disciples. We will then study the contributions of the Austrian economists between the two world wars.
B30|Knut Wicksell, Gustav Cassel, Eli Heckscher, Bertil Ohlin and Gunnar Myrdal on the Role of the Economist in Public Debate|In Swedish public debate, economists have been more influential than any other category of social scientists. We examine the views of five great Swedish economists on the role of the university economist in the public arena. What did they say about scholarly objectivity and value judgements, about political commitment and educating the people? The five economists are Knut Wicksell, Gustav Cassel, Eli Heckscher, Bertil Ohlin and Gunnar Myrdal. Representing two generations and a broad political spectrum, they were immensely productive. They founded Swedenâ€™s tradition of media-tuned university economists strongly involved in the current social issues. More recently, however, academic economists in Sweden have shifted away from that ideal. The future of the old heritage hangs in doubt.
B30|Pigou e a revolução keynesiana|This paper contemplates the evolution of Pigou´s stance towards the Keynesian Revolution. Preliminarily, a brief contrast between his and Keynes´s approach to the problem of unemployment is made. After that, Pigou´s first reactions to The General Theory are presented, along with the rejoinder from the Keynesian camp. In the sequence, the emergence of the Pigou effect in the context of the classical stationary state long run equilibrium is reconstituted, as well as the body of criticism to such mechanism formulated by many economists at that time. In the end, Pigou´s last assessment of Keynes´s contribution to economic theory is retrieved, comparing it to his initial impressions on the advance of Keynesianism in the academic world.
B30|Adam Smith e seu contexto: o iluminismo escocês|Adam Smith and his context: the Scottish enlightenment This essay argues that Adam Smith´s thought should be interpreted within the intellectual context of the Scottish enlightenment. It discusses the origins and the specific nature of the enlightenment in Scotland in order to highlight the differences between the social theory of the Scottish literati and the dominant approach to economics.
B30|“Mr Keynes and the ‘Classics’” Again: A Methodological Enquiry|Keynes is usually interpreted as proposing, or intending to propose an original theory of employment and income. However, this paper shows that Keynes was actually proposing more than a theoretical alternative. He saw himself breaking away from the ‘Classics’ at the connected levels of theory and methodology. This paper thus argues that modern economists going back to the old story of the relation between Mr. Keynes and the ‘Classics’ can learn something about several controversial issues in macroeconomics and methodology like for instance the role of experiments and formal arguments in economics. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, Inc. 2006
B30|Kharaj and land proprietary right in the sixteenth century: An example of law and economics|Kharaj (land-tax) has been a controversial subject since the formative period of Islamic jurisprudence. It is said that Muslim jurists have been very conservative while dealing with the subject of kharaj. But this is wrong perception or opinion. The Controversy have mainly been revolved around the kharaj-payer's relationship with the land he owned or cultivated. This nature of relationship was necessary, for in circumstances it alone determined what to do with the kharaji land. A host of problems surfaced over the centuries and the Muslim jurists dealt with them differently. The later jurists, specially during the Ottoman period, face situations which did not exist in early period. So they were compelled to develop their own thoughts over a number of issues and in so doing they had to differ from their predecessors. It may, therefore, be argued that the Islamic law on kharaj has never been rigid and static.
B30|Ropa a jej postavenie v globalizácii svetového hospodárstva<BR>[Oil and its position in the process of globalization of the world economy]|This study is devoted to analysis of different aspects of world oil market development and its role in further growth of individual national economies, especially in connection with the ever intensifying globalization process. The study shows individual aspects and parts of the oil market, be it production and consumption of crude oil, its territorial dislocation, including EU, and also an analysis of the impact that has the development of oil consumption on economical results of individual national economies. In the first place it analyses the connections with the growth of competition ability of companies. Further research is devoted to the establishment of crude oil price and to the most important aspects on which depends the price creation process. Supply and demand factors are also analyzed. The study comes to a conclusion that the biggest obstacle in using the crude oil will not be its availability, at least in the short run, but the ever fast increasing price. This high price will enable the use of oil only to such companies and countries that will be able to implement the oil in the production process with very high efficiency. Such conditions satisfy only products and services that are based on unique technical and scientific know-how, with high added value, or in such areas of national economies where the use of oil is unenviable.
B30|El concepto de libertad en la teoría política de Norberto Bobbio|This essay offers a critical reconstruction of Noberto Bobbio’s concept of liberty. The historical and analytical review of his work leads to the identification of three descriptive uses of the concept of liberty: negative or liberal liberty, democratic liberty or autonomy, and positive liberty, of a socialist type. In the second part, the reaches and limitations of these three uses are commented on, highlighting the insufficiency of dichotomy between negative and positive liberty, the incompatibility of negative liberty with the legally and fundamentally reinforced idea of liberty consecrated in the Colombian Constitution and the foundation of social rights such as the realization of liberty, that in a State based on the rule and law can be based independently or as a means to be able to really exercise the liberties.
B30|Oskar Morgenstern als wirtschaftspolitischer Berater in den 1930er-Jahren|The point of departure of this study is that in the 1930s Oskar Morgenstern, well-known as the co-founder of game theory, was preoccupied by his activities in Austrian economic policy, possibly even more so than with his project to revolutionize economic theory. The main questions to be examined in this regard are, first, to what extent Morgenstern's advice did conform to the teachings of the Austrian school and, second, if he really exerted an influence on economic policy-making in Austria during this period. In order to answer this question the paper draws to a large part on unpublished sources from the Oskar Morgenstern Papers and uses them as a basis for determining Morgenstern's role in a few critical episodes of Austrian economic policy-making. (author's abstract)
B30|Oskar Morgenstern als wirtschaftspolitischer Berater in den 1930er-Jahren|The point of departure of this study is that in the 1930s Oskar Morgenstern, well-known as the co-founder of game theory, was preoccupied by his activities in Austrian economic policy, possibly even more so than with his project to revolutionize economic theory. The main questions to be examined in this regard are, first, to what extent Morgenstern's advice did conform to the teachings of the Austrian school and, second, if he really exerted an influence on economic policy-making in Austria during this period. In order to answer this question the paper draws to a large part on unpublished sources from the Oskar Morgenstern Papers and uses them as a basis for determining Morgenstern's role in a few critical episodes of Austrian economic policy-making.
B30|Wirtschaftliche Entwicklung oder evolutorischer Wandel Ein integrativer Versuch zur Fundierung der evolutorischen Ökonomik|In two survey articles on evolutionary economics Hodgson points out that currently a consensus of opinion concerning the meaning and explanation of economic evolution does not exist. But most of the authors involved agree that the common characteristic of its subject is the central importance of endogenously emerging innovation activity of privately owned enterprises, causing a structured economic and organizational change. Compared with that, there is a lively dispute regarding the question if processes of technical and economic change can be explained analogously to the basic principles of biological evolution. From an economic point of view Schumpeter and Marshall, geared to the level of a single firm, are of great importance for the development of an evolutionary theory of economic change. The path-breaking approach of Nelson and Winter, also based on the significance of innovation activities of firms, but on their behaviour as well, points the way to a micro foundation of evolutionary change and its possible applications, for instance the theory of the firm and Schumpeterian competition. So, after the exposition of Schumpeter and Marshall on discontinous and gradual economic development, a concept of economic evolution following Neo-Darwinian biological evolution is worked out in detail. In that as a result the idea of „Universal Darwinism” is the focus of interest. A population of firms instead of a single firm comes to the fore, according to population thinking in biology. In enlarging the Schumpeter-Marshall model finally an evolutionary theory of innovation activity will be elaborated.
B30|A mão invisível de Júpiter e o método newtoniano de Smith|This paper examines Adam Smith's understanding of the philosophy and science, the motivations that lead us to investigate nature and society, and the proper methods of investigation and exposition. The paper also criticizes those authors that interpret Smith's work as an example of the mechanical approach or as a kind of positivism 'avant la lettre'.
B30|Technological knowledge, institutions and property rights in Thorstein Veblen's thought|The article suggests an interpretation of Veblen's approach of technological knowledge, which aims at identifying its foundations, nature and implications. In doing so, the article shows that the Veblenian approach of technological knowledge lies within a global framework that cannot fit into the frame of orthodox economics, as it built up at the beginning of the XXth century. This acknowledgement impedes the very possibility of a thorough dialogue between Veblen's system of thought and the contemporay developments of early neoclassical economics.
B30|Aristotelism, handel och det liberala systemet|Uppsatsen tar sin utgångspunkt i Aristoteles tankar om handel och vänskap och klargör bl.a. hur privat äganderätt, genom att den ger upphov till ”en sfär av frihet där självstyrda verksamheter går att utövas utan att förtrampas av andra”, är en nödvändig förutsättning för uppnående av målet om mänsklig blomstring eller människans moraliska välbefinnande. Den kommersiella verksamhet som äganderätt möjliggör, med frivilliga transaktioner människor emellan, ses som ett exempel på ”nytto-” eller ”fördelsvänskap” som är central för den sociala ordningen.
B30|Monetary Equilbrium|The first part of the paper surveys the discussion of monetary equilibrium by Wicksell, Lindahl, Myrdal, Ohlin and Palander. In the second part a number of analytical aspects of monetary equilibrium are discussed: The formulation of the first equilibrium condition in terms of prices instead of in terms of quantities; The interpretation of the second equilibrium condition as equality between saving and investments; What was the exact interpretation of the rate of interest as a monetary phenomenon; The economic interpretation of a gap between the natural and the loan rate of interest; and the use of equilibrium and disequilibrium analysis.
B30|Valuing Tullock's Rejects: The Reception of His Work in Rent Seeking|Gordon Tullock's work in economics spans nearly 50 years and is known for the breadth, originality, and quantity of his contributions in public choice, constitutional political economy, law and economics, bioeconomics, and monetary history. Despite his lack of formal training in economics, Tullock published in major economic journals early in his career. A number of his papers, which proved to be seminal to the theory of rent seeking, were rejected by top economic journals. This paper explores possible reasons for the editor's reception to Tullock's work and uses citation counts to value Tullock's rejected papers. My paper shows that Tullock's work continues to be cited, often far more frequently than the papers which journals chose to publish when they rejected Tullock's submissions. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2005
B30|Industrial Economics in Scandinavia|Based on diverse research methods, we trace and map industrial economics research in Denmark, Norway and Sweden in the periode of 1880 to 1908. After describing this research in terms of key contributors, we argue that industrial economics developed rather unevenly in the Scandinavian countries. Danish research was mainly theoretical and strongly oriented towards the international context, whereas Norwegian research was largely industry analysis with a strong leaning towards managerial economics. Swedish research in industrial economics is very scant until the end of the 1960s.
B30|Taxation and Domestic Free Trade|In this paper it is argued that the domestic division of labor and trade is organized according to the same principle as the international division of labor and trade – the Ricardian comparative advantages. After all, the ultimate source of these comparative advantages is the individual. The comparative advantages of individuals then lend themselves to groups of people, companies, regions and countries. It is these that make it worthwhile for people to cooperate on any larger scale at all; we all rely on them and they imply that there is room for everyone in society. But just as tariffs ruin the international division of labor, taxes and similar domestic government interventionism destroy the domestic division of labor among people. This is illustrated by means of the ‘division of labor condition’, where taxes enter as a possible restriction to trade, thus creating a Darwinist society of the survival of the fittest. The least productive individuals and those who face the highest barriers to trade run the risk of ending up on the outskirts of society. The more productive ones will run the risk of overreaching as they are forced to perform more and more tasks themselves. The result is not only more home labor and more black markets, but also real barter and situations where nothing gets done at all. To restore the division of labor, and to make room for everyone who wants to participate in it, it is argued that removing barriers to domestic trade is the only possible option.
B30|Eritrean Education - Retrospect And Prospect|Education has long been recognized as a central element in economics development. In Eritrea, Church education played a significant role in transmitting church literature from generation to generation. Quranic schools also played a similar role in the Muslim communities of the Eritrean Society. Since Independence, education is well organized in the country. Eritrea has invested heavily in education and has embarked on a wide-ranging program. The World Bank, Eritrea has also made substantial investment in a plan intended to quickly raise the country's skill levels. The guiding purpose of the research on which this article is based, is to explore the educational history of Eritrea at different periods. It covers the Eritrean education system during the Italian Rule, British Rule, and Ethiopian Rule. It also provides educational development of Eritrea after independence. The methodology used in this paper is essentially a descriptive analysis of data obtained from the secondary sources.
B30|Návraty dr. Bernarda Mandevilla aneb počestní darebové v ekonomické transformaci<BR>[Come-backs of dr. Bernard Mandeville: virtuous knaves in economic transformation]|"The author undertakes in his essay a risky experiment as he tries to look at the present-time-economic-transformations in the view of the great thinker of 18th century, Dr. Bernard Mandeville, who famed by his Fable of the Bees, or Private Vices and Public Benefits. The philosophy of Mandeville, as is well known, influenced besides others, F. A. Hayek and J. M. Keynes, the former by ascribing Mandeville the primacy of the idea of spontaneity in evolution and the latter by assesing luxury in promoting the spending. In the course of economic reforms the truthfullnes of the so-called Mandevill paradox has been widely afirmed; knaves were becoming virtuous and property conferred respect and authority upon the ""nouveau riche""."
B30|Bernard de Mandeville, Adam Smith a počestní darebové naší doby<BR>[Bernard de Mandeville, Adam Smith and virtuous knaves of our times]|"This is the reaction on the article of Václav Klusoň ""Come-Backs of Dr. Bernard Mandeville: Virtuous Knaves in Economic Transformation"". I put in contrast economic thinking of B. Mandeville and A. Smith and argue that both Smith's social and moral philosophy and his economic thought is more relevant for our present time. Smith's system of natural liberty - free trade and free enterprise - brings the invisible hand of the markets to work and transform self-interests of individuals into social benefits. I doubt that knaves were becoming virtuous in the process of transformation and privatization. Rather it is the other way around: virtuous men are becoming knaves in our present social, political and economic system of excessive taxation and regulations. The state is so much involved in bureaucratic, regulative and redistributive activities that it fails to function as the guardian of law and order."
B30|Para ler Adam Smith: novas abordagens [Reading Adam Smith: new approaches]|A new comprehension of Adam Smith's writings arose in the last years. These studies emphasized the political and ethical dimensions of his work and its connection with the eighteenth-century context. This article reviews the historical reception of Smith's works and discusses the recent literature about the relation between his moral philosophy and political economy.
B30|The Origin Rent-Seeking Concept|Possibly as a prelude to a mini series of critical review essays, this short paper is intended to revisit and clarify Tullock's contributions to the concept of rent-seeking. Some subsequent contributions are highlighted, so are its implications on social costs and wealth transfers.
B30|Smith e Keynes sobre as unidades de salário [Smith and Keynes on wage units]|The paper analyses Adam Smith's labour commanded value theory and proceeds with a comparison between this theory and Keynes' wage units approach, demonstrating that both authors were mainly concerned with a nominal anchor to the measure of value. This similarity in both theories is observed in the economic literature in several occasions However, there are no detailed analyses of the elements that originate the differences between those authors as for the monetary theory and which are in a way or another associated to the use of nominal wages as an anchor for the measurement of value.
B30|Der Rechtsstaat in Deutschland und Spanien: Projektbeschreibung<BR>[The Rechtsstaat in Germany and Spain: description of the project]|"Das Dokument besteht aus einem ""Geleitwort zur Reihe"" der HerausgeberInnen und einer nicht namentlich gezeichneten Projektbeschreibung. Dt. Zusammenfassung der Projektbeschreibung: Das Projekt ist ein Beitrag zur insb. seit den 1980er Jahren geführten Debatte über die Verrechtlichung (span. juridificación) des Sozialen. Daß dieser Begriff im Deutschen und Spanischen, nicht aber bspw. im Englischen existiert, verweist auf den breiteren rechtshistorischen und rechtstheoretischen Rahmen, in den dieses Projekt eingebettet ist: Auf die dem deutschen und spanischen Begriff des Rechtsstaats / Estado de Derecho eigene Entgegensetzung von (metaphysischem) Recht und (parlamentarischem) Gesetz, die weder das britische Konzept der rule of law noch das französische Konzept des État légal kennen. Die Verrechtlichung wurde bisher vor allem anhand der Praxis der staatlichen Verwaltungen sowie der Arbeits- und Wirtschaftsbeziehungen untersucht. Weitergehend ist aber zu fragen, ob eine solche Verrechtlichungsstrategie auch erfolgreich sein kann, wenn ein höheres Konfliktniveau vorliegt. Deshalb soll hier die Verrechtlichung im internationalen Vergleich anhand eines Extrembeispiels analysiert werden: der scharfen politischen und bewaffneten Konfrontation zwischen dem bundesdeutschen Staat und der Roten Armee Fraktion (RAF) sowie dem spanischen Staat und den Grupos de Resistencia Antifascista Primero de Octubre (Antifaschistische Widerstandsgruppen 1. Oktober - GRAPO). Dabei sollte auch die Debatte über den Rechtsstaat eine neue Wendung erfahren: Während diese bisher auf den Gegensatz zwischen Nord- und Westeuropa einerseits sowie Süd- und Mitteleuropa andererseits fixiert war, sollen hier interne Differenzierungen des Rechtsstaats-Konzeptes analysiert werden: So soll nach dem Einfluß gefragt werden, den die unterschiedlichen politischen Situationen in Spanien und der BRD zum Zeitpunkt des Beginns jener Kämpfe und die unterschiedlichen ideologischen Vorstellungen von RAF und GRAPO/PCE(r) auf die Reaktionen der jeweiligen Staatsapparate hatten (und im Falle Spaniens: weiterhin haben). Was sind die Unterschiede und Ähnlichkeiten der Transformation politischer „Feinde” (Carl Schmitt) in die juristische Kategorie von ‚Angeklagten‘? El documento consiste de un ""prefacio para la colleción"" de l@s editor@s y una descripción anonimo del proyecto. Resumen de la descripción del proyecto: El proyecto es una contribución al debate sobre la juridificación [Verrechtlichung] de lo social que se ha dado en especial desde los años ochenta. El hecho de que este concepto exista en alemán y en español, pero no exista por ejemplo en inglés, indica ya el amplio marco de la historia y de la teoría del Derecho en el que se mueve este proyecto. En este sentido, la contraposición del derecho (metafísico) y de la ley (parlamentaria) es característica del concepto, alemán y español, de Estado de Derecho, pero no lo es del inglés rule of law [imperio de la ley] ni del francés État légal. La juridificación se ha investigado sobre todo por medio de la práctica de la administración estatal así como de las relaciones laborales y económicas. Si vamos más allá cabe preguntarse, si tal estrategia de juridificación también puede tener éxito cuando existe un nivel más intenso de conflicto. Por ello, se debe analizar aquí la juridificación mediante el contraste de dos ejemplos extremos de ambos países: la encarnizada confrontación política y armada entre el Estado federal alemán y la Rote Armee Fraktion (Fracción del Ejército Rojo – RAF) así como entre el Estado español y los Grupos de Resistencia Antifascista Primero de Octubre (GRAPO). Con ello, debería tomar un nuevo rumbo el debate sobre el Estado de Derecho: mientras que hasta ahora estaba anclado, de una parte, en la oposición Europa del Norte y Europa Occidental, y de la otra, en la de Europa del Sur y Europa Central, se van a analizar aquí las diferencias internas del concepto de Estado de Derecho que se dan en este último caso. Así, se va a plantear qué influencia han tenido en la reacción de los respectivos aparatos del Estado las diferentes situaciones políticas en España y en la RFA en el momento en que comenzaron esas luchas, así como las diferentes concepciones ideológicas de la RAF y del GRAPO/PCE(r). ¿Cuáles son las diferencias y las semejanzas en la transformación de los “enemigos” políticos (Carl Schmitt) en la categoría jurídica de ‘acusados’?"
B30|The Making of Economics:Volume I: The Foundation|"A classic returns. The third edition of The Making of Economics appeared in 1987. Now, in a major revision, Ray Canterbery brings the book right up to date with new chapters on the ""casino economy"" (a term the author invented to describe an economy driven by making money with money rather than focusing on real production, now overtaken by reality), Joseph Schumpeter, globalization, and general equilibrium. Canterbery retains the engaging flavor of the earlier editions by covering the times and ideas of the major economists, such as Smith, Ricardo, Malthus, Mill, and Marshall, while giving ample ink to the remarkable dissidents — Marx, Veblen, Galbraith, Heilbroner, and other ""radicals"". Canterbery again unmasks a traditional economics eschewing value judgements but itself standing on hidden ones even as he traces its origins to Isaac Newton's idea of an orderly universe. Personal references relate the great economists' ideas to the societies in which they lived, making the historical figures really come alive. Economics is displayed as a developing discipline, a discipline still evolving. This book is also available as a set with Volume II: The Modern Superstructure and Volume III: The Radical Assault."
B30|Classical Political Economy through the Sieve of Dialectic Reason: the Hegelian Rereading|This article examines Hegel's analysis of the economic system in his mature philosophical work, the Philosophy of Right. It argues that this analysis is not grounded on the adoption and development of classic economic theses but on their dialectic reinterpretation. This particular logic of comprehension found the singularity of Hegel's view of the economic sphere and it's irreducibility to classical theses. The article explains how this logic leads the philosopher to underscore the inadequacies of market coordination and its necessary transcendence in the rational state. Then the article displays the originality of Hegel's articulation of civil society and state, like a mid line between planning and liberalism.
B30|Adam Smith and All That|This paper tells you everything you need to know in order to impress your friends with your knowledge of the most famous people and the useful past of the subject of economics. However, it is recommended that this paper should not be read in the company of anyone who reads dusty old books, and who therefore has a tendency to sneeze.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B30|Matching, human capital, and the covariance structure of earnings|Using method of moments techniques (ref: Chamberlain (1984), Gallant and Jorgenson (1979)), this paper's objective is to test the predictions of the theory of job-matching and the theory of human capital pertaining to the covariance structure of residuals from a typical Mincer log earnings equation. The selection process implicit to job matching is such that we should observe a decrease in the contribution of the variance of the job-match component when we follow the workers as they acquire tenure in their job. Results are generally in agreement with these predicted patterns, especially in the case of more educated workers. On the other hand, if jobs are considered as pure experience goods, the predicted increase in the variance at the start of the employment relationship is not supported by the data, except perhaps for less educated workers. Turning next to human capital theory, the predicted trade-off between the job-specific intercept and slope parameters is strongly supported by the data, especially in the case of workers having at least a High School diploma. Par le biais de la méthode des moments (réf.: Chamberlain (1984), Gallant et Jorgenson (1979)) et avec des données non balancées du NLSY, cette étude cherche à tester les prédictions engendrées par la théorie du matching ainsi que la théorie du capital humain quant à la structure de covariance des résidus d'une équation de salaire typique à la Mincer. Le processus de sélection qu'implique le matching fait en sorte que l'on devrait observer une diminution de la contribution du terme reflétant la variance dans la qualité du match lorsque l'on suit les travailleurs à mesure qu'ils acquièrent de l'ancienneté dans leur emploi. Les résultats corroborent cette prédiction surtout pour les travailleurs plus scolarisés. Par contre, dans la version pure experience good de la théorie, la prédiction à l'effet que la variance devrait s'accroître au tout début de la relation d'emploi s'avère non validée par les résultats<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B30|Bankruptcy Procedures for Sovereigns: A History of Ideas, 1976-2001|"This paper describes the evolution of ideas to apply bankruptcy reorganization principles to sovereign debt crises. Our focus is on policy proposals between the late 1970s and Anne Krueger's (2001) proposed 'Sovereign Debt Restructuring Mechanism,"" with brief reference to the economics literature on sovereign debt. We describe the perceived inefficiencies that motivate proposals, and how proposals seek to change debtor and creditor incentives. We find that there has been a moving consensus on what constitutes the underlying problem, but not on how to fix it. The range of proposed approaches remains broad and only recently shows some signs of narrowing. . Copyright 2002, International Monetary Fund"
B30|The concept of degrees of uncertainty in Keynes, Shackle, and Davidson|The aim of this piece is to discuss in what extent one can find - in the works of Shackle and Davidson - an understanding of uncertainty capable of both comprehend the concept of probable knowledge and admit the existence of degrees of 'true uncertainty'. Sharing the opinion of other scholars (Runde, 1990; Dow, 1995, and Dequech, 1997), we think that it is possible to find this definition of uncertainty in Keynes's works, and so make a point to the understanding of uncertainty as a concept feasible to be graded. Moreover, we claim that this concept is not incompatible with the understanding of the social reality as a nonergodic process. To sustain this claim, we will discuss Davidson's and Shackle's views and show that in their writings there are some elements that support our main point.
B30|Implementation theory|"The implementation problem is the problem of designing a mechanism (game form) such that the equilibrium outcomes satisfy a criterion of social optimality embodied in a social choice rule. If a mechanism has the property that, in each possible state of the world, the set of equilibrium outcomes equals the set of optimal outcomes identified by the social choice rule, then the social choice rule is said to be implemented by this mechanism. Whether or not a social choice rule is implementable may depend on which game-theoretic solution concept is used. The most demanding requirement is that each agent should always have a dominant strategy, but mainly negative results are obtained in this case. More positive results are obtained using less demanding solution concepts such as Nash equilibrium. Any Nash-implementable social choice rule must satisfy a condition of ""monotonicity"". Conversely, any social choice rule which satisfies monotonicity and ""no veto power"" can be Nash-implemented. Even non-monotonic social choice rules can be implemented using Nash equilibrium refinements. The implementation problem can be made more challenging by imposing additional requirements on the mechanisms, such as robustness to renegotiation and collusion. If the agents are incompletely informed about the state of the world, then the concept of Nash equilibrium is replaced by Bayesian Nash equilibrium. Incentive compatibility is a necessary condition for Bayesian Nash implementation, but in other respects the results closely mimic those that obtain with complete information."
B30|L'école autrichienne dans le panorama de la pensée économique|Les questions que nous nous posons sont celles de la nature, de l'homogénéité et de l'évolution de l'école autrichienne, entre son émergence dans les années 1870 et le déclenchement de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale. C'est ensuite celle de son statut par rapport aux autres courants de la pensée économique, la question de l'orthodoxie et de l'hétérodoxie. Les économistes rattachés à ce courant de pensée sont eux-mêmes en désaccord à ce sujet et mesurent diversement leur distance à une orthodoxie qui est elle-même en mouvement. Nous traiterons d'abord de la contribution de Menger. Nous examinerons ensuite l'oeuvre de ses disciples immédiats, qu'on peut désigner comme la deuxième génération de l'école autrichienne. Nous nous pencherons enfin sur les contributions des économistes autrichiens entre les deux guerres mondiales, que nous regrouperons comme troisième et quatrième générations de l'école.
B30|The Strange 'Laissez Faire' of Alfred Russel Wallace: The Connection between Natural Selection and Political Economy Reconsidered|Darwinism and Evolutionary Economics brings together contributions from eminent authors who, building on Darwinâ€™s own insights and on developments in evolutionary theory, offer challenging views on how economics can use evolutionary ideas effectively.
B30|Contemporary Muslim Economic Thinking At The Turn Of The 21st Century|No abstract is available for this item.
