B40|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
B40|Physical Laws and Human Behavior: A Three-Tier Framework|Social sciences start by looking at the social-psychological attributes of humans to model and explain their observed behavior. However, we suggest starting the study of observed human behavior with the universal laws of physics, e.g., the principle of minimum action. In our proposed three-tier framework, behavior is a manifestation of action driven by physical, biological, and social-psychological principles at the core, intermediate, and top tier, respectively. More broadly, this reordering is an initial step towards building a platform for reorganizing the research methods used for theorizing and modeling behavior. This perspective outlines and illustrates how a physical law can account for observed human behavior and sketches the elements of a broader agenda.
B40|La conception de l'homme dans la théorie de l'Echange Composite de François Perroux : entre homo economicus et homo religiosus|Cet article réexamine les fondements, analytiques, conceptuels et philosophiques sur lesquels repose la conception de l'homme que Perroux promeut pour définir l'Echange Composite par rapport à l'homo œconomicus propre à l'Echange Pur. Une première partie montre que l'Echange Composite constitue -i- une critique du rationalisme des modèles d'Echange pur marginalistes et d'équilibre général -ii- que cette critique repose sur une série de concepts qui ont contribués à définir le système que Perroux a toujours défendu (effets de domination, luttes-concours, conflits-coopérations, coûts de l'homme, dons et transferts contraints). Une seconde partie met en évidence que ces concepts trouvent leur origine dans une philosophie spécifique à la fois spiritualiste et communautariste qui s'inscrit dans l'oecuménisme chrétien de Perroux et qui fonde sa conception de l'homme.
B40|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
B40|On the Microfoundation of Linear Oligopoly Demand|We critically assess the representative consumer model that forms the foundation of a well-known class of linear oligopoly demand structures. It is argued that this approach has several limitations. We present an alternative microeconomic foundation by deriving the same demand system directly from a population of heterogeneous buyers. Our approach can be easily adapted to different demand specifications.
B40|Wechselwirkungen zwischen orthodoxer Wirtschaftswissenschaft und Neoliberalismus|Die fehlende Einbettung der Wirtschaftswissenschaft in die Gesellschaft und ihr soziales Umfeld haben schwerwiegende Folgen. Ein tieferliegendes Verständnis ökonomischer Zusammenhänge ist verloren gegangen, was zu einer mangelnden Analysefähigkeit der Zunft geführt hat. Ein Kandidat für die Charakterisierung der aktuellen politischen und gesellschaftlichen Verhältnisse ist der Neoliberalismus. Welche wechselseitigen Beziehungen zwischen orthodoxer Wirtschaftswissenschaft und Neoliberalismus vorherrschen, darauf will diese Arbeit versuchen Antworten zu geben. Insbesondere wird ersichtlich, dass der Neoliberalismus seine Legitimation auf den wissenschaftlichen Erkenntnissen der orthodoxen Wirtschaftswissenschaft aufbaut. Aufgrund dessen wird die orthodoxe Wirtschaftswissenschaft auf ihre ontologischen, epistemologischen und methodologischen Grundlagen hin untersucht. Es wird gezeigt, wie über Kriterien der Ermöglichung und der Demarkation ein Wissenschaftsbild transportiert wird, welches dem Neoliberalismus seine Legitimation verleiht. In Hinsicht darauf, dass Wechselwirkungen auch eine reaktive Wirkrichtung implizieren, wird versucht darzulegen wie der Neoliberalismus die orthodoxe Wirtschaftswissenschaft prägt. Hierbei wird vor allem das Journalsystem und die Drittmittelförderung betrachtet.
B40|Das vermeintliche Wissen der ökonomischen Lehrbuchwissenschaft: Ein Essay|Der Beitrag verfolgt die beiden miteinander verwandten Fragen, wie Ökonom*innen zu wissen vorgeben und warum sie überhaupt wissen wollen. Es wird argumentiert, dass sowohl die ökonomische Wissensform als auch die Motivation der Wissenden im Verlauf des 20. Jahrhunderts einen grundlegenden Wandel erfahren haben. Das Wissen wichtiger ökonomischer Lehrbücher der Gegenwart hat mit einem objektiven, dezidiert wissenschaftlich motivierten Wissen nur noch wenig gemein. Ihren Inhalten und Formen liegt vielmehr eine produktive Absicht zugrunde, die auf die Subjektivität ihrer Leser*innen zielt.
B40|Quantitative methods in the triangulation process|The following article presents an analysis of selected quantitative methods in the research process. The author highlighted the importance of quantitative analysis in the research process, which requires to collect a great number of data, as well as to analyse and interpret them. Selected research methods were stipulated: SPACE (Strategic Position and Action Evaluation), network methods and the Delphi method. An analysis of the use of triangulation method in order to enhance the reliability of research results was carried out.The Author attempted to answer the following research questions: What research methods should be employed in the research processes within the area of economics? Is the methodological triangulation a prerequisite in research processes? Does the triangulation enhance the reliability of employed quantitative methods in research processes?
B40|Toward a new microfounded macroeconomics in the wake of the crisis|The Great Recession that followed the financial crisis of 2007 is not only the largest economic crisis after the Great Depression of the 1930s, it also signals a crisis of economics as a discipline. This is not only the consequence of the inadequacy of mainstream macroeconomics, and specifically the Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) workhorse model, to forecast such a huge event, or at least to detect the worrying tendencies towards it. Even more relevant is the choice to explicitly avoid the modeling of large crises (that for someone is a motivation for not attacking pre-crisis DSGE models focused on the analysis of small deviations from the steady-state), so denying the intrinsic nature of capitalism, a system that necessarily proceeds through cycles and (extended) crises. The replies of the DSGE approach to critics have led to extensions regarding for instance the role of financial frictions, heterogeneous agents, and bounded rationality (though typically in the form of quasi-rational expectations). The alternative paradigm of agent-based (AB) macroeconomics can take into account all these elements at once within an evolutionary modeling framework based on heterogeneity and interaction, so capable to endogenously reproduce complex dynamics, from small fluctuations to large crises, due to innovation and industrial dynamics, rising inequality and financial instability, and so on. The integration between AB macroeconomics and the (post-Keynesian) stock–flow consistent approach represents a promising way for the future development of this research field.
B40|Reclaiming the University: transforming economics as a discipline|Economics as a discipline is currently in disarray. In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, academic experts, students, commentators, practitioners and politicians all questioned the status of academic economics and many called for a ‘new economic thinking’. Nearly a decade later, however, there is little evidence of a transformation in research and teaching. The present study first clarifies what is meant by a transformation of economics as a discipline, since this remains an ill-defined term and may be interpreted in very different ways. It then establishes the conditions of a successful transformation of the discipline in terms of intra-disciplinary and extra-disciplinary factors. The paper argues that economics as a discipline cannot be expected to trigger this transformation by itself (i.e. via self-regulation), since the ‘market for economic ideas’ is prone to market failure. In addition, the influence of external factors and actors on the market may serve to distort the congruence between the individual researcher’s utility and societal welfare. External incentives are therefore required to establish constitutional guardrails that ensure fair competition between ideas.
B40|Wechselwirkungen zwischen orthodoxer Wirtschaftswissenschaft und Neoliberalismus|Die fehlende Einbettung der Wirtschaftswissenschaft in die Gesellschaft und ihr soziales Umfeld haben schwerwiegende Folgen. Ein tieferliegendes Verständnis ökonomischer Zusammenhänge ist verloren gegangen, was zu einer mangelnden Analysefähigkeit der Zunft geführt hat. Ein Kandidat für die Charakterisierung der aktuellen politischen und gesellschaftlichen Verhältnisse ist der Neoliberalismus. Welche wechselseitigen Beziehungen zwischen orthodoxer Wirtschaftswissenschaft und Neoliberalismus vorherrschen, darauf will diese Arbeit versuchen Antworten zu geben. Insbesondere wird ersichtlich, dass der Neoliberalismus seine Legitimation auf den wissenschaftlichen Erkenntnissen der orthodoxen Wirtschaftswissenschaft aufbaut. Aufgrund dessen wird die orthodoxe Wirtschaftswissenschaft auf ihre ontologischen, epistemologischen und methodologischen Grundlagen hin untersucht. Es wird gezeigt, wie über Kriterien der Ermöglichung und der Demarkation ein Wissenschaftsbild transportiert wird, welches dem Neoliberalismus seine Legitimation verleiht. In Hinsicht darauf, dass Wechselwirkungen auch eine reaktive Wirkrichtung implizieren, wird versucht darzulegen wie der Neoliberalismus die orthodoxe Wirtschaftswissenschaft prägt. Hierbei wird vor allem das Journalsystem und die Drittmittelförderung betrachtet.
B40|Economic Theory ten years after the crisis: Just tweaking around the edges? and/or A bit of repair at the seams?|It is my intention to address, primarily within the scope of mainstream macroeconomic theory, three of the questions making up the main theme of the conference, namely: How a very problematic theory continues to survive and dominate both the policy and the academic scene. What are the processes in the economy and the society that sustain its dominance? What is the condition of the economic Orthodoxy (particularly under its current form of the New Macroeconomic Consensus, that is the hybrid of mild neoliberalism with conservative New Keynesianism)? A good many orthodox economists hold the view that there is no necessity for a paradigm shift. On the contrary, a mere evolution towards a more pluralistic discipline would suffice. Hence the title of my talk.
B40|Στόχος Της Παρούσας Μελέτης Είναι Η Αναλυτική Διερεύνηση Της Παραγωγικής Διάρθρωσης Της Περιφέρειας Κρήτης. Ειδικότερα, Αναλύεται Ο Βαθμός Αλληλεξάρτησης Των Κλάδων Οικονομικής Δραστηριότητας, Όπως Προκύπτει Από Τις Κλαδικές Διασυνδέσεις Τους, Αλλά Και Η Διάρθρωσης Της Απασχόλησης Και Των Επαγγελμάτων Που Τεκμαίρονται Μέσα Από Αυτές. Με Την Εφαρμογή Της Ανάλυσης Εισροών-Εκροών Προσδιορίζονται Οι Κλάδοι-Κλειδιά Για Την Παραγωγή Και Την Απασχόληση Καθώς Και Τα Πιο Δυναμικά Επαγγέλματα. Από Την Ανάλυση Προκύπτει Μία Ομάδα Κλάδων Οικονομικής Δραστηριότητας, Των Οποίων Η Βελτίωση Της Έντασης Και Της Έκτασης Των Αλληλεξαρτήσεων, Μπορεί Να Δημιουργήσει Στην Περιφέρεια Κρήτης Μια Εσωτερική Δυναμική Η Οποία Θα Ενισχύσει Την Αποτελεσματικότητα Της Οικονομίας Της|No abstract is available for this item.
B40|Of time, uncertainty, and policy-making : Lionel Robbins’ lost philosophy of political economy|In the second edition of his methodological Essay, Lionel Robbins attributes a significant role to uncertainty, dynamics and the time element. Understanding the motives that led to these revisions may offer important clues to assess what happened to political economy ever since, and how far economics has diverged from Robbins’ agenda. Our main claim is that these topics appeared on the second edition of the Essay because Robbins saw them as fundamental if economics (as a science) were to achieve its goal of being a useful tool for political economy, following the English Classical economists’ distinction between science and art. His conception of science was thus tailored to his interests in political economy, rejecting attempts to mimic the methods of the natural sciences by preserving the human element that makes economics a social science.
B40|Rationality in Economics: Theory and Evidence|We examine the various senses in which economist use the term “rationality” and then outline some of the commonly drawn implications and auxiliary assumptions. Finally, we confront the implications with the empirical evidence, drawing on the insights from the exciting new field of behavioral economics.
B40|What are axiomatizations good for?|Abstract Do axiomatic derivations advance positive economics? If economists are interested in predicting how people behave, without a pretense to change individual decision making, how can they benefit from representation theorems, which are no more than equivalence results? We address these questions. We propose several ways in which representation results can be useful and discuss their implications for axiomatic decision theory.
B40|François Perroux : Echange pur contre échange composite - Controverses et enjeux de justice|Cet article examine les enjeux du concept d’Echange Composite que François Perroux propose pour critiquer celui d’Echange pur. La première partie étudie les critiques que Perroux adresse aux modèles marginalistes, néo-marginalistes, d’équilibre général et d’optimalité parétienne pour définir l’Echange Composite. La seconde partie apprécie les concepts qui caractérisent l’Echange Composite (effet de domination, luttes-concours, conflits-coopérations, coûts de l’homme, dons et transferts contraints). Nous étudions les enjeux de ces concepts par rapport aux formes de justice distributive que Perroux envisage pour définir l’Echange Composite par rapport aux théories de la justice de Walras et de Rawls.
B40|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
B40|Riflessioni intorno al tema della razionalità in economia|A partire dagli anni settanta, il concetto di razionalità proprio dell'economia subisce una revisione critica che porta alla nascita dell’economia comportamentale e sperimentale. Sulla base del riconoscimento dei limiti delle capacità computazionali e di varie anomalie rispetto agli assunti alla base della teoria della scelta razionale, prende piede una letteratura che adotta un maggiore realismo psicologico per fondare modelli teorici e predizioni empiriche. L'articolo riflette da un punto di vista metodologico su questi sviluppi, passando in rassegna i contributi sul tema di Herbert Simon, Daniel Khaneman e Amos Tversky, e Richard Thaler.
B40|The frame of reference for new economic thinking|After the crisis of 2018-2010, which led to the complete discrediting of neoclassical theory, the demand for new scientific ideas and an alternative vision of the most fundamental economic problems has sharply increased in economic science. At the same time, the discrediting of the neoclassical theory led to a critical attitude to the very idea of a general economic equilibrium, which is the central idea of neoclassical paradigm. The emphasis is increasingly shifting to the creation of disequilibrium models of economy. This book argues that this approach is incorrect. The wrong is not the very idea of equilibrium, but its neoclassical understanding and its concepts and equilibrium models, which are caused by false methodologies of neoclassicists. Without a preliminary dialectic analysis of economic categories and the operationally closed model of commodity-money flows of a market economy created on its basis, it is impossible to find out feedbacks that ensure the self-regulation of the economic system. The “Symmetrical model” of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy. It is shown that the evolution of market economy, which due to the immanent logic of intrasystem processes generates extreme inequality in income distribution, leads to a disruption in the harmony and symmetry of counter flows of commodity and money, thus destroying the system of positive and negative feedbacks that provide the homeostasis of economic system. This book is a collection of articles. Since each of them is a complete whole, the reader can get acquainted with the articles in any sequence, but after reading all of the articles, he will get a new non-standard understanding of functioning of a market economy. Although each article gives a complete analysis of a specific topic, nevertheless, all of them are arranged in such a sequence that they serve as different stages in the development of a single original concept, beginning with a methodology and ending with a mathematical model of a general economic equilibrium.
B40|Does corruption hampers inward FDI in South Africa from other African countries? a gravity model analysis|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between corruption and FDI inflows from other African countries to South Africa. The study uses gravity model and employs panel data econometric technique such as pooled, fixed and random effects model. The results indicate that there is a significant negative relationship between corruption and FDI inflows from other African countries to South Africa. This implies that policy makers in South Africa should implement measures to curb corruption. This will help in attracting FDI inflows from other African countries and encourage the creation of job opportunities.
B40|Comments on Economic Models, Economics, and Economists: Remarks on Economics Rules by Dani Rodrik|"This essay reviews Dani Rodrik's superb book Economics Rules and argues that it can serve as an ideal platform for discussing what economists can and should accomplish. The essay comments on some of the major issues in contemporary economics examined in the book: whether economics is a science, the meaning of economic models, the nature of ""facts"" in economics, and others. It also touches on issues that the book overlooks, such as the sociology of the profession, the teaching curriculum in economics, and the dismal situation of publishing in economics."
B40|Imprecision|This paper surveys the various modes of imprecision and seeks to clarify the concept of imprecision, to account for the pervasiveness of the phenomena, and to explain why we have to come to terms with it throughout our cognitive affairs. The structure of these deliberations will be as follows: Having set the stage for considering imprecision (in section 1), it will briefly elaborate upon each of them (in section 2). Next comes a discussion of two of the main ramifications of imprecision, namely vagueness (section 3) and oversimplification (section 4). There follows (in section 5) a consideration of why imprecision is inevitable in our cognitive dealings, and why this feature of investigation actually admits of an evolutionary explanation. The paper concludes (in section 6) with a retrospective glance at the overall situation from a philosophical point of view. Overall, the discussion is of an analytical cast, seeking to clarify the conceptual nature and operational bearing of imprecision within the cognitive scheme of things.
B40|Reactivity in Economic Science|There is a fundamental difference between the natural and the social sciences due to reactivity. This difference remains even in the age of Artificially Intelligent Learning Machines and Big Data. Many academic economists take it as a matter of course that economics should become a natural science. Such a characterization misses an essential aspect of a social science, namely reactivity, i.e. human beings systematically respond to economic data, and in particular to interventions by economic policy, in a foreseeable way. To illustrate this finding, I use three examples from quite different fields: Happiness policy, World Heritage policy, and Science policy.
B40|Fundamentos teóricos y leyes económicas en El Capital de Piketty. Un análisis crítico|El artículo lleva a cabo un análisis crítico, desde la economía política, del modelo teórico de Thomas Piketty en su libro El Capital del siglo XXI. Se destacan numerosas inconsistencias en las relaciones causales que Piketty establece para justificar la existencia de leyes fundamentales del capitalismo. Por ello, se concluye que más bien se trata de fuerzas que operan en un mismo plano, construidas a partir de elementos psicológicos, técnicos y de escasez, y de una serie de hipótesis discutibles sobre la tasa de ahorro, la elasticidad de sustitución, el crecimiento económico y ciertas excepciones a la teoría de la productividad marginal. ***** The article conducts a critical analysis, from a political economy approach, into the theoretical model proposed in Thomas Piketty’s “Capital in the Twenty-First Century”. It highlights several inconsistencies in the causal relationships that Piketty establishes to justify the existence of fundamental laws of capitalism. We conclude that these relationships constitute forces that operate in the same space, and have been developed from psychological, technical, and scarce-related elements. They are also a result of a series of questionable assumptions about the savings rate, the elasticity of substitution, economic growth, and certain exceptions to the theory of marginal productivity.
B40|Reactivity in Economic Science|There is a fundamental difference between the natural and the social sciences due to reactivity. This difference remains even in the age of Artificially Intelligent Learning Machines and Big Data. Many academic economists take it as a matter of course that economics should become a natural science. Such a characterization misses an essential aspect of a social science, namely reactivity, i.e. human beings systematically respond to economic data, and in particular to interventions by economic policy, in a foreseeable way. To illustrate this finding, I use three examples from quite different fields: Happiness policy, World Heritage policy, and Science policy.
B40|Capital structure theory: Reconsidered|In the mainstream of the academic field of finance, the Modigliani and Miller's (1958) proof of capital structure irrelevance theory, has been praised as the cornerstone of modern scientific finance. However, the capital structure irrelevance theory is based on a set of assumptions, which are both unrealistic and contradictory to the main assumption of the mainstream academic finance. This paper shows that by making more appropriate assumptions, capital structure becomes relevant. The paper, on a foundational ground, argues that since the results of sophisticated mathematical models change as soon as their underlying assumptions are changed, the claim about the scientific nature of the mainstream academic finance becomes questionable.
B40|Edmond Malinvaud and the Problem of Statistical Induction|"In this article we follow, over his long career, the evolution of the reflections of Edmond Malinvaud on economic ?science? and its relationship with the ?problem? of statistical induction. To do so we largely rely on his own words by quoting his many articles addressing these issues. We consider in turn his views on statistical methods and structural econometrics, on apriorism versus empiricism, the Koopmans-Vining controversy on measurement with or without theory, econometric methods and the challenge of modelling, the Popperian temptation of a falsifiable economic science, the uneasy alliance between induction and expertise, understanding and advising. We conclude with Malinvaud's views on eclecticism, which he deems to be the only position able to meet, despite its rapid progress, the ""advisory imperative"" characterizing economics."
B40|Paternalism and the public household. On the domestic origins of public economics|The ancient Greek conception of oikonomia is often dismissed as irrelevant for making sense of the contemporary economic world. In this paper, I emphasise a tread that runs through the history of economic thought connecting the oikos to modern public economics. By conceptualising the public economy as a public household, Richard A. Musgrave (1910-2007) set foot in a long tradition of analogy between the practically oriented household and the state. Despite continuous references to the domestic model by major economists throughout the centuries, the analogy has clashed with liberal values associated with the public sphere since the eighteenth century. Musgrave's conceptualization of public expenditures represents one episode of this continuing tension. His defence of merit goods, in particular, was rejected by many American economists in the 1960s because it was perceived as a paternalistic intervention by the state. I suggest that the accusation of paternalism should not come as a surprise once the ‘domestic’ elements in Musgrave's conceptualisation of the public sector are highlighted. I develop three points of the analogy in Musgrave's public household (the communal basis, a central direction, and consumption to satisfy needs) which echo recurring patterns of thought about the state
B40|What matters and how it matters: A choice-theoretic representation of moral theories|We present a new “reason-based” approach to the formal representation of moral theories, drawing on recent decision-theoretic work. We show that any moral theory within a very large class can be represented in terms of two parameters: (i) a specification of which properties of the objects of moral choice matter in any given context, and (ii) a specification of how these properties matter. Reason-based representations provide a very general taxonomy of moral theories, as differences among theories can be attributed to differences in their two key parameters. We can thus formalize several important distinctions, such as between consequentialist and non-consequentialist theories, between universalist and relativist theories, between agent-neutral and agent-relative theories, between monistic and pluralistic theories, between atomistic and holistic theories, and between theories with a teleological structure and those without.
B40|Infinite Idealizations and Approximate Explanations in Economics|If we take it that, at least in the social sciences, “realistic” implies “finite”, then countless economic models involving infinitary assumptions must obviously be classified as unrealistic—for example, models with infinitely divisible goods, a continuum of traders, consumers optimizing over an infinite time horizon, or players optimizing over an infinite number of interactions. We argue that unrealistic models involving infinities can, in principle, supply explanations in economics. We develop a concept of approximate explanation based on the “method of decreasing abstraction”, that is, the practice of approximating complex situations through a sequence of increasingly realistic models. Our account of approximate explanation renders the testing view of economic science compatible with scientific realism. However, compatibility does not extend to the folk theorems for infinitely repeated games, which are used widely in applied economics (e.g., in industrial economics) and beyond (e.g., spontaneous emergence of social order). Explanations based on these theorems are rejected by our criterion.
B40|Paternalism and the public household. On the domestic origins of public economics|The ancient Greek conception of oikonomia is often dismissed as irrelevant for making sense of the contemporary economic world. In this paper, I emphasise a tread that runs through the history of economic thought connecting the oikos to modern public economics. By conceptualising the public economy as a public household, Richard A. Musgrave (1910-2007) set foot in a long tradition of analogy between the practically oriented household and the state. Despite continuous references to the domestic model by major economists throughout the centuries, the analogy has clashed with liberal values associated with the public sphere since the eighteenth century. Musgrave's conceptualization of public expenditures represents one episode of this continuing tension. His defence of merit goods, in particular, was rejected by many American economists in the 1960s because it was perceived as a paternalistic intervention by the state. I suggest that the accusation of paternalism should not come as a surprise once the ‘domestic' elements in Musgrave's conceptualisation of the public sector are highlighted. I develop three points of the analogy in Musgrave's public household (the communal basis, a central direction, and consumption to satisfy needs) which echo recurring patterns of thought about the state.
B40|Reported Effects vs. Revealed-Preference Estimates: Evidence from the propensity to spend tax rebates|We evaluate the consistency of two methods for estimating the effect of an economic policy: i) asking people how the policy caused them to change their behavior (reported effects); ii) inferring this change using data on behavior and differences in treatment across people (revealed-preference estimates). Both methods are widely used to measure spending caused by increases in liquidity. Using Federal stimulus payments disbursed quasi-randomly in 2008, we find larger revealed-preference estimates of spending propensities for households who report greater spending responses, and the methods produce similar average propensities. But evidence is mixed on the relationship between spending propensities and liquidity.
B40|Crisis and theoretical methods: equilibrium and disequilibrium once again|The financial crisis of 2007-8 damaged the credibility of macroeconomic analysis based on price-taking Walrasian intertemporal general equilibrium models. This talk explores methodological alternatives, particularly stable Nash-Cournot equilibria of social interaction models that center on agents’ response to other agents’ actions rather than on agents’ forecasts of future paths of prices and production. Social interaction equilibria in conjunction with constraints from information theory highlight the social coordination problems at the root of macroeconomic policy questions. Equilibrium concepts enhance the explanatory power of economic theories in contrast with the limitations of disequilibrium dynamical systems analysis and agent-based modeling. Constrained maximum entropy methods offer a general approach to macroeconomic modeling. Various conceptions of equilibrium in economics arise from distinct conceptions of expectations.
B40|Against Samuelson’s Whig Interpretation of History of Economic Analysis and its Current Legitimation|The paper presents a negative view with respect to Paul Samuelson’s whig interpretation of history of economic analysis – to what he reduces historiography of economics, and actually against its current legitimation, seen in Medema and Waterman (2010) and Medema and Waterman, eds. (2014). The analysis is focused on the unity of Samuelson’s whig historical and theoretical approaches. The attention is drawn to a series of original methodological and theoretical views in his influential publications, identifying his position, which (views) as a matter of fact disprove his claim for ‘better’ whig interpretation of history of economic science. It is pointed out that it is not a mere idiosyncrasy of Samuelson’s contribution amongst the figures of post-World War II economics; it is an expression of the general tendency in mainstream economics to embody in its theory the whig historical approach.
B40|Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s Historiographic Lesson and Contemporary History of Economics|The article concerns key-important moments of Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s historiographic methodology, whose work Whig Interpretation of History (1931) generalizes the negative understanding of the qualifications, associated with ï¿½whigï¿½. It is argued that in the contemporary discussions in the history of economic thought/ history of economics Ross B. Emmettï¿½s contra-whig historiographic conception corresponds to Butterfieldï¿½s views, advanced in this and other publications of his, on agents of progress, inï¿½cluding progress in knowledge; whereas Samuelsonï¿½s whig historiographic stand - contrary to his pretension that it represents a particular/ non-classic/non-final, a better whig interpretation is actually restrictive and counterproï¿½ductive. The latter is embodied in the current mainstream economics.
B40|Subjective Probability Does Not Exist|We show that the rationality arguments used to establish the existence of subjective probabilities depend essentially on the identification of acting-as-ifyou-believe and actually believing. We show that these two ideas, the pretense of knowledge about probabilities, and actual knowledge about probabilities, can easily be distinguished outside the restricted context of choice over special types of lotteries. When making choices over Savage-type lotteries, rational agents will act as if they know their subjective probabilities for uncertain events, but they will reveal their ignorance in other decision making contexts. This means that subjective probabilities cannot be assumed to exist, except when there is objective warrant for them.
B40|Commitment to norms and the formation of institutions|The paper discusses Searle's description of institutions in terms of deontological constitutive rules and collective recognition. It aims at integrating Searlian conception of commitment with an epistemology of rule-following capable to illustrate processes of formation of institutions. Social ontology per se cannot account for the formation of constitutive rules. Actually, it requires taking as given the object of collective recognition, i.e. the specific content of status functions. The hypothesis of interactive intentionality is introduced to account for the commitment to status functions as the result of an interactive decision-making process concerning alternative constitutive definitions. This interactive process, by acting on the normative interpretation of decision contexts, frames relevance and salience criteria and grounds the formation of institutions. Interactive intentionality hypothesis offers the opportunity to make social-ontological approach based on commitment theoretically commensurable with social-scientific approach based on equilibria and self-enforcement.
B40|The Relationship between Psychology and Economics: Insights from the History of Economic Thought|Psychological ideas had always played a role on the formation of economic thought as can be seen in the works of many influential pre-classical and classical authors. Up to the beginning of the 20th century, there was almost no methodological objection regarding the incorporation of ideas from psychology into economic theories. After this period, a fundamental shift in mainstream economics took place which is also known as the Paretian turn. This conceptual change, initiated mainly by Vilfredo Pareto and completed with the emergence of the theories of choice in the first decades of the 20th century, attempted to expel all psychological notions from economic theory. However, in the last three decades, the increasing appeal of subjective well-being research and especially of the new behavioral economics, re-brought the topic onto the surface. In order to better comprehend and to contribute to the recent discussion concerning the relationship between the two disciplines, the study of relevant views found in history of economic thought is necessary. The paper starts with a brief sketch of the history of the relationship between economics and psychology, focusing also to the recent literature which points to a reconsideration of this relationship. After an examination of psychological ideas found in influential pre-marginalist writers, the paper discusses the arguments supporting the case for the interaction between the two fields. It also suggests that the work of Richard Jennings can be seen as the peak of the early interaction between economics and psychology. Finally, it considers the relevance of these arguments for the current debate concerning the relationship between economics and psychology.
B40|Concordian Economics: Beyond Micro and Macroeconomics|In Concordian economics there is no distinction between micro and macro economics, because the economic process is the same for the individual person, the city, the nation, or the world, What changes is the scale, but not the structure of the process. When micro and macro economics are seen as one, it makes no sense to add monetary wealth to real wealth. It becomes then evident that monetary wealth is not wealth; monetary wealth is a legal representation of real wealth.
B40|¿Qué Funciona, Para Quién, En Qué Aspectos, Hasta Qué Punto, En Qué Contexto Y Cómo? Una Introducción A La Evaluación Realista Y Sus Métodos<BR>[What Works, For Whom, In What Respects, To What Extent, In What Contexts, And How? An Introduction To Realist Evaluation And Its Methods]|Este artículo introduce la Evaluación Realista (ER) para el análisis de políticos públicas. La ER encuentra justificación en las limitaciones de prácticas dominantes, como las técnicas de evaluación de impacto, para ofrecer explicaciones sobre el porqué una intervención o programa tuvo (o no) resultado. La noción de cambio o transformación de la ER se centra en el estudio contextual de la agencia humana, o la forma en que individuos y colectividades actúan frente a iniciativas públicas o privadas orientadas a resolver problemáticas sociales. El texto se adentra en propuestas metodológicos para el despliegue de una ER en la práctica, tarea que implicará un trabajo interdisciplinario para refinar diferentes teorías sobre qué funciona, para quién, en qué aspectos, hasta qué punto, en qué contexto y cómo. Su adherencia al realismo científico hace de la ER una alternativa democrática, pero rigurosa, para contribuir en la generación de diseños más pertinentes de políticas públicas.
B40|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - O. R. Lange|O. R. Lange, a Polish economist, statistician, econometrician, sociologist, politician and diplomat was classified as a reformist Marxist. He became famous for studies on planning and socialist economies. Lange demonstrates and proves the possibility of the existence of an effective socialist system. He also analyzed capitalist economy, e.g., the issue of cyclical fluctuations and unemployment.
B40|La economía como argumento político: evidencia de estudiantes de economía en Chile|En este documento reportamos los resultados de una encuesta a estudiantes de pregrado y posgrado de economía de cinco universidades de Chile, en materia de pensamiento económico. A través de un modelo econométrico de variable dependiente discreta ordenada, encontramos que la única variable que explica consistentemente las diferencias en pensamiento y opinión económica entre estudiantes es la preferencia política, incluso tras controlar por características personales y universidad de origen. La preferencia política influye en cuestiones normativas y positivas, apoyando la visión de que la economía es, en cierto grado, un argumento político. Finalmente, dado que estos resultados sugieren que en sus opiniones sobre política económica, los estudiantes de economía están expresando indirectamente sus preferencias políticas y normativas, sería recomendable incluir en la formación de los estudiantes tópicos que contribuyan a un buen razonamiento político. In this paper we report the results of a survey of undergraduate and graduate students of economics from five universities of Chile, on issues of economic thought. Through an econometric model of discrete and ordered dependent variable, we find that the only variable that consistently explains the differences of thought and opinion on economic issues among students is the political preference, even controlling for personal characteristics and university of origin. Political preference influences both normative and positive questions, supporting the view that economics is to some extent a political argument. Finally, these results suggest that, as in economic policy opinions, students of economics are indirectly expressing political and normative preferences, would be advisable to include topics in the training of students of economics that also contribute to a good political reasoning.
B40|The Double Edge of Case-Studies: A Frame-Based Definition of Economic Models|Starting on the 1950s, the philosophy of science rearranged its methods. Logic gradually lost space as philosophers’ exclusive tool of analysis, whereas case-studies and historical methods emerged as viable instruments. However, the methodological transposition concealed a double-edged knife. The approximation of philosophy and scientific practice happened at the expense of exponentially widening the list of possible philosophical definitions for scientific concepts, creating numerous incomparable explanations. The present paper thus advocates in favor of the use of more objective tools for defining scientific concepts, looking to reduce incomparability of definitions. From this point of view, framing proposals are presented as suitable mechanisms for reasoned definitions, given that frames’ exemplar-dependency entail the necessity of organized selections of case-studies. In this context, community targeting understood as a limit of time and discipline for the selections of case-studies stood out as an organizational criterion. Considering this criterion, the present paper selected as case-studies, for defining the concept of an economic model, the first two cases where the term ‘model’ was utilized for referring to abstract economic reasoning. The proposed frame presented the following attributes: mathematical structure, adaptability, simplification, neutrality and purpose.
B40|CLASSES, CAPITAL AND THE SOCIAL FORMS IN BETWEEN - On the political and intellectual organization of the contradiction|This working paper focusses on a rigorous and somewhat idiosyncratic exposition of the concepts of dialectics, determinations of reflection (or essentialities) and social forms, adopting a Marxist reading of Hegel's Science of Logic. The objective of this focus is to address one of the elements highly common in debates between Marxists and post-structuralists e amongst Marxist themselves: the centrality of categories of the one (like Universality, necessity, identity and so on) or of the multiple (like particularity, contingency, difference etc). Hence, the focus of this work is on the centrality of reflexive or mutual determinations (essence, non-identical identity, contradictory unity and social forms). Initially, even though Marx and some Marxist authors had used the notion of social forms, none of them had this notion developed in itself. The specific developments of this notion: such as the value forms, commodity form, political and juridical social forms were explored by various authors and by Marx himself. But, in the literature review made for this research, it wasn't found any conceptualization of the general notion. The concept of social form can be explored as a methodological resource to mediate those above-mentioned elements of the debates. For instance, to centralize the social forms is to centralize the negative and reflexive element when we discuss if it's the capital and its tendency laws that make for the historical march or the class struggle and the political contingency. The focus is on the something that exists in-between, the objectivation process in itself, not in its extremes
B40|"A replication plan for ""Does social media reduce corruption?"" (Information Economics and Policy, 2017)"|The importance of replicating economic research to improve the validity of findings has been the topic of an ongoing discussion, but there is not a consensus of what that means in practice. This article discusses a rationale for replicating a study and offers a plan of how one might go about approaching a replication of an actual study.
B40|Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? Despite evidence to the contrary, the American Economic Review concluded that all was well with its archive|In 2011, the Annual Report of the Editor of the American Economic Review reported that the journal's data-code archive was functioning well, and made no changes in the archive rules. This was based on an audit of the archive that the editor has commissioned. The audit was performed by a graduate student who apparently had no experience with archives, and the audit concluded that all was largely well with the archive. In point of fact, all was not well with the archive: the archive did not support the publication of reproducible research. The rules for the archive should have been changed and were not; thus the American Economic Review continued to publish articles that were not reproducible. The cause of reproducible research was set back many years.
B40|Zur Stärkung wissenschaftlicher Kritik<BR>[On strengthening of academic critique]|Kritik ist ein wichtiger Teil der Wissenschaft, der jedoch nicht immer hinreichend gewürdigt wird. Dieser Beitrag zeigt die Bedeutung wissenschaftlicher einschließlich destruktiver Kritik und das Fehlen von Anreizen dazu auf und beinhaltet konstruktive Verbesserungsvorschläge.
B40|Economia ed etica: razionalità economica, mercato e impresa|Il lavoro propone una riflessione sulla tormentata relazione che caratterizza il rapporto tra etica ed economia, con particolare riguardo a due questioni, che in questa fase del capitalismo sembrano particolarmente rilevanti. La prima fa riferimento al dibattito di economia normativa innescato dagli esiti drammatici della crisi finanziaria e riguarda appunto il grado di legittimazione etica di un mercato libero da regole, e la conseguente sostenibilità teorica e logica delle argomentazioni a sostegno delle posizioni di policy del liberismo ortodosso. La seconda questione fa riferimento ai recenti sviluppi in tema di business ethics e riguarda la legittimazione etica dell’impresa ed il conseguente problema della individuazione dei meccanismi e dei soggetti atti a promuovere e dare attuazione ai principi di una nuova etica economica. Un aspetto quest’ultimo che investe in maniera significativa la deontologia e l’operare dell’impresa e delle professioni ad essa legate.
B40|Social Entrepreneurship Research – Challenges, Explanations and Suggestions for the Field Development (Przedsiebiorczosc spoleczna – wyzwania, przyczyny i sugestie dla obszaru badawczego)|Employing critical review of the key literature in the area of entrepreneurship and management studies on social entrepreneurship, this paper aims to outline the current challenges this field is facing, also introducing related explanations and suggesting required changes. The field of social entrepreneurship research is at its nascent stage, determined by ongoing definitional debates and low legitimacy in the scholarship, leading to limited theory development. The key challenge lies in the lack of consistent theory and weak research infrastructure. What lies behind these challenges is the complexity and diversity of the social entrepreneurship phenomenon and academic discourses. There are significant institutional and economic differences between individual countries and regions, which in the end constitute the complexity of the phenomenon. The related definitional debate generates challenges in developing the research infrastructure, which is strengthened by functionalist approach. At the same time, there is a strong need to employ the contribution of other, affiliated disciplines, not limited to entrepreneurship and management, feeding on sociology, anthropology, political science, economics. Their conceptual framework, research methods, particularly derived from sociology, may serve as a useful framework for the field development. This may generate scholarly interest in moving towards other research paradigms, employing subjectivist approaches, or assuming radical change in the society. Moving beyond dominant functionalist paradigm may give voice to initiatives and ventures in social entrepreneurship that have so far been marginalized in research. This, in result, could develop social entrepreneurship research field.
B40|Le retour de l’économie keynésienne|Pre-crisis standard macroeconomic models, qualified as neo Keynesian, rely more on the concept of natural rate of interest than on global demand. But new insights in macroeconomic theory build far more realistic models, especially as regards labour and good and services markets. These models renew with the Keynes intuitions – under-consumption, savings paradox – and are more suitable to reality confrontation. The Keynesian or neo-classical pattern should no more be a political or theoretical stake but rather an empirical one. For example, recent econometric studies highlight that the American economy behaves as Keynesian during the biggest crisis but as non Keynesian during smaller ones. This should be a guide for policy makers. Classification JEL: E12, E13, E17.
B40|What is Wrong with Phelps’s Analysis of the West’s Economies?|Abstract Edmund Phelps argues against present day capitalism and economic theory because the former has lost it dynamism and the latter has ignored the human spirit. He provides little evidence that things are getting worse and ignores how economic takes into account human desire for autonomy and creativity. Phelps looks fondly on his liberal arts education, but his reason for doing so is slipshod and unworthy of a Nobel Prize winner.
B40|The meaning of happiness: attention and time perception|Abstract This paper experimentally studies the relationship between happiness, attention and time perception. The experimental results challenge the prevailing results in the economic and psychological literature. A Go/No-Go test reveals a clear negative correlation between happiness and attention: the subject who is happier is also more inattentive, probably because of his or her state of lightheartedness, a state of mind that seems to negatively affect performance. Furthermore, the fact that happier subjects evaluate the passage of time with different objective and subjective measures opens up paths of further research in assessing a new feature of happiness.
B40|An analysis of the titles of papers submitted to the UK REF in 2014: authors, disciplines, and stylistic details|Abstract In 2014 over 52,000 academics submitted >155,500 journal articles in 36 different disciplines for assessment in the UK’s four-year Research Evaluation Framework (the REF). In this paper the characteristics of the titles of these papers are assessed. Although these varied considerably between the disciplines, the main findings were that: (i) the lengths of the titles increased with the number of authors in almost all disciplines, (ii) the use of colons and question marks tended to decline with increasing author numbers—although there were a few disciplines, such as economics, where the reverse was evident, (iii) papers published later on in the 4-year period tended to have more authors than those published earlier, and (iv), in some disciplines, the numbers of subsequent citations to papers were higher when the titles were shorter and when they employed colons but lower when they used question marks.
B40|Why German historicists were wrong to put John Stuart through the Mill|Many German historical economists have denounced classical political economy’s pretension to establish abstract universal laws. This paper seeks to defend John Stuart Mill against this criticism. It argues that, contrary to what these authors alleged, they have a great deal more in common with Mill on this topic than they were willing to realise. In fact, from a methodological as well as a political perspective, their views on relativity regarding both economic laws and the laissez-faire principle are very similar to those of Mill’s..
B40|Multi-attribute compositional voting advice applications (MacVAAs) : a methodology for educating and assisting voters and eliciting their preferences|This paper introduces a technique to elicit voter preferences, by integrating multiattribute compositional analyses Macs with a voting advice application VAA. The technique requires users to make trade-offs between different positions on a single issue, and between different issues. MacVAAs more closely resemble the electoral decision-making process in elections in which more than two parties participate than classic VAAs. MacVAAs also overcomes the assumption of issue orthogonality and assumption of rationality that classic VAA erroneously make. Results of a field application of the technique during the 2012 Dutch parliamentary elections in 2012 are presented. Advantages and disadvantages are discussed.
B40|Multi-attribute compositional voting advice applications (MacVAAs) : a methodology for educating and assisting voters and eliciting their preferences|This paper introduces a technique to elicit voter preferences, by integrating multi-attribute compositional analyses Macs with a voting advice application VAA. The technique requires users to make trade-offs between different positions on a single issue, and between different issues. MacVAAs more closely resemble the electoral decision-making process in elections in which more than two parties participate than classic VAAs. MacVAAs also overcomes the assumption of issue orthogonality and assumption of rationality that classic VAA erroneously make. Results of a field application of the technique during the 2012 Dutch parliamentary elections in 2012 are presented. Advantages and disadvantages are discussed.
B40|De jure and de facto institutions – disentangling the interrelationships|In this paper we contribute to the debate on the nature of institutions and their economic effects by extending the focus to the de jure – de facto institutional distinction. Firstly, we define and conceptualize de facto institutions, as well as elaborate on their place in the broad institutional system and identification. Then we investigate the possible interrelationships between de facto and de jure institutions. Finally, we make a link between these interrelationships and economic outcomes. In this way the paper fills an underexploited niche in institutional research, which is a major background for law and economics.
B40|Endophilia or Exophobia: Beyond Discrimination|The discrimination literature treats outcomes as relative. But does a differential arise because agents discriminate against others—exophobia—or because they favour their own kind—endophilia? Using a field experiment that assigned graders randomly to students' exams that did/ did not contain names, we find favouritism but no discrimination by nationality, but neither by gender. We are able to identify these preferences under a wide range of behavioural scenarios regarding the graders. That endophilia dominates exophobia alters how we should measure discriminatory wage differentials and should inform the formulation of anti-discrimination policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B40|Pluralism in economics: Inquiries into a Daedalean concept|The state of contemporary economics had been a subject of discussion even before the most recent global financial crisis. The one-sidedness of the discipline has frequently been lamented and calls are often made for its pluralisation. Nevertheless, there is neither a consensus over the form of pluralism that is required (whether this is a theory, method, or paradigm pluralism, for example), nor agreement among economists over the underlying diagnosis of a lack of pluralism. Even the justification for this pluralistic norm - i.e. whether it should be seen in terms of an ethics of fairness and tolerance or as the imperative of academic freedom - remains disputed and is often unclear. The present paper aims to shed some light on these ambiguities.
B40|Vom Tätig-Sein und Güter-Haben|Geldökonomien vermitteln nicht einfach Wirtschaftssubjekte; sie führen zu einer charakteristischen Trennung zwischen Arbeitenden und Konsumenten. Während die klassische Ökonomie die Arbeit in den Mittelpunkt rückte, sollen nach neoklassischer Lehre die Konsumenten durch ihre Präferenzen die gesamte Ökonomie über die Preise steuern. Diese Denkfigur wird nachfolgend in ihrer ideologischen Funktion dechiffriert. Die Reduktion der meisten Menschen auf die Rolle passiver Konsumenten, die andererseits beim Gelderwerb dem Diktat des Eigentums als Arbeitskraft subsumiert sind, prägt sowohl die Struktur der modernen kapitalistischen Gesellschaften wie die Psyche der Menschen. Die Dualität von Tätig-Sein und Güter-Haben entpuppt sich als spezifische Herrschaftsform.
B40|Understanding the shift from micro to macro-prudential thinking: A discursive network analysis|While some economists argued for macro-prudential regulation pre-crisis, the macro-prudential approach and its emphasis on endogenously created systemic risk have only gained prominence post-crisis. Employing discourse and network analysis on samples of the most cited scholarly works on banking regulation as well as on systemic risk (60 sources each) from 1985 to 2014, we analyze the shift from micro to macro-prudential thinking in the shift to the post crisis period. Our analysis demonstrates that the predominance of formalism, particularly, partial equilibrium analysis along with the exclusion of historical and practitioners' styles of reasoning from banking regulatory studies impeded economists from engaging seriously with the endogenous sources of systemic risk prior to the crisis. Post-crisis, these topics became important in this discourse, but the epistemological failures of banking regulatory studies precrisis were not sufficiently recognized. Recent attempts to conceptualize and price systemic risk as a negative externality point to the persistence of formalism and equilibrium thinking, with its attending dangers of incremental innovation due to epistemological barriers constrains theoretical progress, by excluding observed phenomena, which cannot yet be accommodated in mathematical models.
B40|The Crisis in Economic Theory: A Review Essay|The Great Recession and the financial crisis of 2007-09 prompted calls for fundamental reforms of economic theory. The role of theory in economics and in recent economic events is considered in light of two recent books: the sociologist Richard Swedberg's The Art of Social Theory and the economist André Orléan's The Empire of Value: A New Foundation for Economics.
B40|Ontology, Methodological Individualism, and the Foundations of the Social Sciences|"This is a review essay based on a critical assessment of The Ant Trap: Rebuilding the Foundations of the Social Sciences by Brian Epstein. Epstein argues that models in the social sciences are inadequate because they are based on a false ontology of methodological individualism, and proposes a new model of social ontology. I examine this model and point to flaws in it. More generally, I argue against Epstein's methodological approach, which treats social ontology as prior to social scientific modeling and as certifying the ""building blocks"" that modelers then use. I argue that modelers can legitimately shape the building blocks for their own models."
B40|The Misty Grail: The Search for a Comprehensive Measure of Development and the Reasons for GDP Primacy|" type=""main""> Recent decades have seen a flurry of new indicators to measure economic progress, but none of them has succeeded in replacing GDP. This article seeks to explain this outcome and to contribute to the debate about composite indicators versus a dashboard approach. To this end, it reviews some of the most popular alternatives to GDP (the Human Development Index, the Genuine Progress Indicator, the Happy Planet Index, and an environmentally corrected GDP), focusing on their conceptual foundations rather than on their statistical consistency as most of the literature does. It is shown that most of these measures are theoretically inconsistent; the exception is the environmentally corrected GDP, but since this too has failed to replace GDP, inconsistency must be only one reason behind the limited use of alternative measures. The author argues that the main reason for GDP's primacy is that GDP is better suited to reflect the goals of capitalist market economies. This implies that constructing composite indicators as alternatives to GDP will be pointless as long as the current preference system has not changed to include environmental or social goals. The author also suggests that for this purpose a dashboard approach, which provides different social groups with intelligible quantitative instruments, may be preferable to the use of composite indicators."
B40|From Information To Theory. A Logical Approach|The paper focuses on the logical path from information acquiring to theory elaborating. To this end, the entire chain from signal – sign – information – knowledge – theory is examined and clarified from a logical point of view. Mainly, the passing from one to another of the chain components is analyzed in order to get the general mechanisms of theories emerging. The paper has a strong general and abstract character, so its results can be applied both to natural sciences and to social sciences like economics.
B40|Medición y manipulación de normas sociales en juegos experimentales de corrupción|Los estudios experimentales de sobornos investigan los factores que modulan los comportamientos vinculados a estas situaciones de corrupción. Para que capten conductas análogas a la realidad, es necesario que representen de manera apropiada las normas sociales que se ven transgredidas cuando hay corrupción. En esta revisión presentamos críticamente tres técnicas para medir o generar normas sociales en experimentos económicos: el efecto de marco, la estimación de normas mediante un juego de coordinación y el castigo de terceros. Discutimos cómo la complementariedad y el mejoramiento de estas técnicas pueden contribuir a la validez externa de los estudios experimentales de corrupción. ***** Bribery experiments investigate the factors that modulate decisions in corrupt exchanges. To measure behaviours that are representative of decisions in the real world, it is necessary for the social norms that are typically transgressed in corruption to be adequately represented in the experiments. In this review, we critically present three techniques used to measure or generate social norms in economic experiments: Framing effects, the estimation of social norms through a coordination game, and third-party punishment. We discuss ways in which the complementarity and improvement of these techniques can contribute to the external validity of experimental studies on corruption.
B40|Mandelbrot, Fama and the emergence of econophysics|It is argued that Mandelbrot’s stable Lévy-Pareto distributions were not accepted into the emerging field of financial economics due to their incompatibility with the analytical techniques and properties of equilibrium economics, and to the absence —both in physics and in economics— of analytical solutions to the infinite variance associated with those distributions. Whilst physicists made stable Lévy distributions plausible, creating Econophysics in the meantime, economists just forgot about them, suggesting their strong bias towards desirable properties and against established facts. ****** Se argumenta que las distribuciones Lévy-Pareto estables de Mandelbrot no se aceptaron en el campo emergente de la economía financiera debido a su incompatibilidad con las técnicas y propiedades analíticas de la economía de equilibrio, y a la ausencia —tanto en la física como en la economía— de soluciones analíticas para la varianza infinita asociada con aquellas distribuciones. Si bien los físicos hicieron posibles las distribuciones Lévy estables, creando entretanto la econofísica, los economistas simplemente las olvidaron, sugiriendo su fuerte sesgo hacia las propiedades deseables y en contra de los hechos establecidos.
B40|Interpelaciones desde la condición posmoderna a la disciplina histórica|Nadie escapa a su tiempo y el tiempo todo lo transforma, las condiciones de existencia, los valores y las posturas subjetivas, así como las teóricas a partir de las cuales se vive y se interpreta la realidad. Los cambios de apreciación son desechados por algunos, por disolutos, confusos y faltos de referentes certeros; mientras que otros acogen la novedad por su apertura a otros mundos, vivencias y posibilidades. El debate sobre la posmodernidad no escapa a tal polémica, así como no es posible estar por fuera de la condición posmoderna. A partir de dos pares de conceptos se revisan grandes cambios paradigmáticos en las maneras de vivir, concebir y valorar la historia. De lo estructural a las particularidades y de lo singular a las pluralidades. ****** Nobody escapes to his time and the time change everything, existence conditions, the values and subjective stance, as well as the theoretical from which you live and you interpret reality. The interpretations changes are throw away by some, by dissolute, confused and lacking accurate references; while others welcome the novelty for its openness to other worlds, experiences, and possibilities. The debate on postmodernity does not escape such controversy, just as it is not possible to be outside the postmodern condition. From two pairs of concepts major paradigmatic changes in the ways of living, conceiving and valuing history are reviewed. From the structural to the particularities and from the singular to the pluralities.
B40|The Integration Of Search In Macroeconomics: Two Alternative Paths|Our paper analyzes and compares two attempts at integrating unemployment in macroeconomics. The first, due to Diamond, consists in a search model exhibiting multiple equilibria and wherein cycles may be produced. The second is due to Andolfatto and Merz who, more or less simultaneously, constructed models enabling the integration of the matching function into RBC modeling. In the first sections, we present the methodology upon which our paper is based – Leijonhufvud’s decision-tree insight – and briefly describe these three economists’ motivations and the context in which they were working. We continue with recounting the birth and further development of the search paradigm upon which Diamond’s, Andolfatto’s and Merz’s attempts were based. These preliminaries settled we address the heart of the paper, the critical analysis of their respective contributions. Our interest lies specifically in how they made their way in the development of the field. We explain why Diamond’s model, which ambitioned to rival Lucas’s explanation of business fluctuations, did not live up to its author’s expectations. Andolfatto and Merz’s project was less ambitious yet their model became an established component of the RBC program – but at the price of abandoning several constitutive traits of the search approach.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B40|The Integration of Search in Macroeconomics: Interviews with David Andolfatto, Peter Diamond and Monika Merz|Peter Diamond, Monika Merz, and David Andolfatto must all three be credited for having integrated a search perspective in macroeconomic theory. In a previous paper, “The Integration of Search in Macroeconomics: Two Alternative Paths”, we set ourselves the task of analyzing and comparing their respective contributions. To support our study, we conducted interviews with them. The present paper is an edited transcript of these three interviews.
B40|Reason-Based Choice And Context-Dependence: An Explanatory Framework|We introduce a “reason-based” framework for explaining and predicting individual choices. The key idea is that a decision-maker focuses on some but not all properties of the options and chooses an option whose “motivationally salient” properties he/she most prefers. Reason-based explanations can capture two kinds of contextdependent choice: (i) the motivationally salient properties may vary across choice contexts, and (ii) they may include “context-related” properties, not just “intrinsic” properties of the options. Our framework allows us to explain boundedly rational and sophisticated choice behaviour. Since properties can be recombined in new ways, it also offers resources for predicting choices in unobserved contexts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B40|Economics: Between Prediction And Criticism|We suggest that one way in which economic analysis is useful is by offering a critique of reasoning. According to this view, economic theory may be useful not only by providing predictions, but also by pointing out weaknesses of arguments. It is argued that when a theory requires a nontrivial act of interpretation, its roles in producing predictions and offering critiques vary in a substantial way. We offer a formal model in which these different roles can be captured.
B40|A lottery on the first day of classes! An innovative structured steps assignment on a partially randomly selected topic|In this paper we present an innovative in-depth writing assignment with structured steps in an undergraduate economic development course, where we bring two developing countries, randomly selected and represented by two students in class to write about, and later discuss, a certain development problem existing in the two countries, and to prove which country was more successful in overcoming its problem. The assignment started with its most exciting part – the lottery – which was used to assign countries for the students. The guideline, which comprised a detailed outline, important websites and how to use them, and a detailed rubric, provided students with the necessary answers to their inquiries. The feedback on the first part of the projects indicated not only the depth and width required but the degree of accuracy as well. The results were magnificent compared to traditional projects where students were only required to write on a topic of their choice with no accompanying clarifying material on the amount of depth and width required and with no feedback.
B40|Understanding urban mobility and the impact of public policies: The role of the agent-based models|This paper provides a critical review of research on Agent-Based Models (ABMs) focusing on urban mobility, dealing either with passengers or with freight transport. The work concentrates on urban areas where public policies aiming at improving the sustainability of city systems necessarily affect both passengers and freight dimensions. Traffic in towns is responsible for a high share of congestion and pollution and consequently, it contributes to the climate change problems. The following conclusions can be derived. ABMs present important advantages for analysing urban transport and its sustainability but more efforts are needed in order to test and improve their use. In the literature, there is still a gap in urban transport AB modelling. The number of developed models is limited and they are often applied in broader geographical areas than urban ones. Only some of the works includes the estimation of environmental impacts as a result of certain types of agents' behaviour. Despite their potential effectiveness to represent the impacts of different public policies on agent behaviour and on the environment, none of the ABMs have been implemented in the real word by the researchers and there is no evidence of application of any model by policy-makers.
B40|Potential for Trouble: The IMF's Estimates of Potential GDP|This issue brief examines the IMF’s methodology for estimating potential GDP, and its pitfalls and problems. A number of economists have noted recent problems with overestimates of actual GDP in recent years in Greece, and the IMF’s own research has found that the multipliers associated with fiscal tightening had been underestimated. But the policy and political implications of potential GDP estimates, which are not only forecasts but also continuously revised for past estimates, may be even more important.
B40|RBC Methodology and the Development of Aggregate Economic Theory|This essay reviews the development of neoclassical growth theory, a unified theory of aggregate economic phenomena that was first used to study business cycles and aggregate labor supply. Subsequently, the theory has been used to understand asset pricing, growth miracles and disasters, monetary economics, capital accounts, aggregate public finance, economic development, and foreign direct investment.
B40|Finance and Sustainability Synthesis Report of WP7|This paper investigates the relationship between finance and environmental sustainability. The first part summarises a few crucial methodological and foundational issues underlying meaning and implications of financialisation, sustainability and their mutual relation. The second part focuses on a particularly significant case study: the unsustainability of the existing energy system based on carbon fuels focusing on the urgency of a rapid transition to a low carbon economy. The third part explores which role financial instruments may play to facilitate the transition towards a low carbon economy. In particular, it investigates the implications for sustainability of the growing trade of energy derivatives. The forth part examines the consequences of the disembedment of money from the socioecological flows of matter and energy. The fifth part investigates the relations between financialisation of built environments and urban sustainability. The final part of the paper draws the main policy implications from the preceding analysis in the light of the growing problems affecting environmental policy in a financialised economy. The main policy conclusion is that, notwithstanding the growing conflict between the ongoing process of financialisation and sustainability, finance has to play a crucial role to implement a process of convergence towards a sustainable path of development.
B40|All Frames Created Equal are Not Identical: On the Structure of Kahneman and Tversky's Framing Effects|This paper revisits Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky's work on 'framing'. It shows how various conventions from economic theory allow the establishment of different equivalence relations between pairs of problems in framing experiments. Then, an exegesis of their comments on these experiments is conducted regarding the relation between their theoretical explanation through prospect theory and the positive/normative distinction in models of individual behaviors. Throughout, a methodological framework with a distinction between identity, equivalence and equality (borrowed to philosopher Craig Dilworth) is developed for a critical analysis of the relation between external frames (the empirical structure of a decision problem) and internal frames (the psychological representation of the decision problem by decision makers).
B40|A la recherche de la signification perdue du paradoxe d'Allais|"Dans ""Le paradoxe d'Allais. Comment lui rendre sa signification perdue?"" (Revue économique, 2014/5 - Vol. 64), Philippe Mongin propose une image contestable, parce que abusivement rassurante, de la rationalité des sujets participants aux expériences de MacCrimmon et Larsson [1979]. Nous montrons cela en restituant les données des auteurs pour l'effet de conséquence commune et l'effet de rapport commun (deux paradoxes d'Allais), que Mongin assimile bien qu'il distingue ces deux effets. Deux tendances dans les données nous conduisent à rejoindre Mongin pour conclure que ces expériences sont une source d'inspiration fructueuse pour la théorie de la décision, ce que nous illustrons brièvement par le rôle qu'elles ont joué dans l'apparition de l'utilité espérée dépendante du rang et dans le tournant interindividuel en psychologie cognitive de la décision."
B40|Economic paradoxism and meson economics|The structure of the paper brings together three major sections, following the general approach to the impact of paradoxes in economic theory. The first section describes a necessary investigation in the synthesized universe of paradoxes, to capitalize on Quine’s paradox taxonomy, and to reveal the importance of really paraconsistent paradoxes, defining, in a relative and innovative manner, economic paradoxism in the sense of excess of creative capitalization of paradoxes in the area of science, as initiated by mathematician and logician Florentin Smarandache. The second section turns into an original exposition of economics theory and the third section reveals the concept of meson economics and the principles of that economy, completed with some final remarks, some of which are conclusive, and some others interrogative, aligned to the paradox of knowledge, in keeping with which human beings are looking for answers, and finally find more and more questions.
B40|Historical overview of the literature on business performance measurement from the beginning to the present| The paper summarizes the concept of business performance and the performance measurement. The concept of business performance has changed a lot over the past decades. The managers have understood that in order to achieve organizational goals, more emphasis should be placed outside the owners, on other market participants, on the stakeholders (eg: customers, clients, employees, suppliers and other partners, local communities, …). The ’90s are also called „The performance measurement revolution”, because a lot of new performance measurement methods, systems appeared. The performance measurements have the prominent role: to collect information about where we are going to achieve the goals, if needed for intervention.
B40|Reviewing journal papers effectively, efficiently and fairly| Academic journals rely on researchers agreeing to act as reviewers (or referees) for submitted papers. Researchers who publish papers themselves benefit from the contributions of those who review their papers, and so have a moral obligation to provide reviewing services for journals. However, reviewing is time consuming, and the total number of papers published continues to increase, so editors have found it increasingly difficult to obtain reviews. Further, the quality of reviews provided by reviewers varies greatly. This paper addresses various issues related to the journal refereeing process, including: tips on how to go about conducting a high-quality review efficiently and fairly; what can and cannot realistically be expected of referees; advice on dealing with ethical issues in refereeing; problems with the existing peer-review system used most commonly by journals; and a look at novel review systems.
B40|O wartosciowaniu dobr ekonomicznych/On the Valuation of Economic Goods|The presented study includes an analysis of the category of ‘good’ on the basis of philosophy and economics. Particular attention was paid here to the factors determining the monetary value (price) of an economic good. While achieving the assumed objective of the research, answers to the following questions were sought: What is the difference, therefore, in the interpretation of good as an axiomatic category and good which the economy deals with? What is the basis for the valuation of goods which are the subject of economic analysis? While seeking answers to these questions, an attempt was made to justify the thesis according to which contemporary understanding of the way of valuating goods by the market is limited to accepting the price understood as a variable representing a kind of relationship set in a given time period.
B40|A criterion for realism, with an application to behavioral economic models|Many economists working within the framework of behavioral economics (BE) label the conventional way of modeling as unrealistic, and consider their own approach as more realistic than the standard practice. However, a criterion for realism is lacking in behavioral economics literature. This paper offers a simple criterion for predicating realism to economic models, and provides an illustration of such criterion at work on a particular BE model.
B40|The Meaning of Failed Replications: A Review and Proposal - Working Paper 399|Economists are increasingly using publicly shared data and code to check each other’s work, an exercise often called ‘replication’ testing. But this much-needed trend has not been accompanied by a consensus about what ‘replication’ means. If a follow-up study does not ‘replicate’ an original result, according to current usage of the term, this can mean anything from an unremarkable disagreement over methods to scientific incompetence or misconduct. This paper proposes an unambiguous definition of replication. Many social scientists already use the term in the way suggested here, but many more do not. The paper contrasts this definition with decades of unsuccessful attempts to standardize terminology, and argues that many prominent results described as replication tests should not be described as such. It argues that professional associations should formally adopt this definition, thereby improving incentives for researchers to conduct more and better replication tests.
B40|Economics and Its Discontents|In contrast to its historical origins as a part of moral philosophy, and subsequent evolution as “political economy”, economics in recent decades has self-defined its scope of inquiry increasingly narrowly. And, as is well known, over time the field has imposed on itself ever more rigorous standards of analytical formalization. Both trends are understandable, but each comes at high cost. Moreover, the formalization requirement is often imposed arbitrarily, excluding some dimensions from the analysis because they are hard to formalize while admitting others without question. As a result, the field has been largely unable to address some of the first-magnitude problems the Western economies now face. / Im Gegensatz zu seinen historischen Ursprüngen zunächst als Teil der Moralphilosophie und dann in ihrer Entwicklung zur ,Politischen Ökonomie‘ hat die Wirtschaftswissenschaft ihr selbstdefiniertes Erkenntnisfeld zunehmend eingeengt. Auch hat sie sich, wie allgemein bekannt, immer rigorosere formal-analytische Standards gegeben. Beide Entwicklungen sind nachvollziehbar, aber mit Kosten verbunden. Außerdem werden die formalen Anforderungen häufig willkürlich aufgezwungen, womit einige Analysedimensionen nur deshalb ausgeschlossen werden, weil sie schwer zu formalisieren sind, während andere Dimensionen ohne weiteres Hinterfragen akzeptiert werden. Das Ergebnis ist, dass die Wirtschaftswissenschaften sich als weitgehend unfähig erwiesen haben, einige der drängendsten Probleme westlicher Volkswirtschaften zu adressieren.
B40|Central Fallacies of Modern Economics|Although it is widely recognised that the modern discipline of economics is short on explanatory successes, there is little sign that ongoing critical assessments of the situation are leading to any improvements. The reason for this lack of progress, it will be argued, is a prevalence of a set of fallacies maintained very often by mainstream practitioners and heterodox critics alike. These tend to take the form of presuppositions that underpin more explicit beliefs and accepted practices. Mostly they remain implicit and largely unnoticed. When noticed, they are regarded as so obviously correct they are rarely critically examined. Here I do examine them both explicitly and critically. / Obwohl es weithin anerkannt ist, dass die moderne Wirtschaftswissenschaft nur geringen Erklärungserfolg vorweisen kann, gibt es nur wenig Anzeichen dafür, dass kritische Einschätzungen dieser Situation zu irgendwelchen Verbesserungen führen. Der Grund für diesen Mangel an Fortschritt liegt, wie hier argumentiert wird, in der Vorherrschaft einer Reihe von Irrtümern, die häufig gleichermaßen von Mainstream-Praktikern wie heterodoxen Kritikern aufrecht erhalten werden. Dieses findet gemeinhin in der Form von Vorfestlegungen statt, die explizitere Überzeugungen und akzeptierte Praktiken untermauern. In den meisten Fällen blieben diese Vorfestlegungen implizit und werden deshalb nicht erkannt. Und wenn sie erkannt werden, werden sie so offensichtlich korrekt angesehen, dass sie selten kritisch reflektiert werden. Hier werden sie einer expliziten und kritischen Untersuchung unterzogen.
B40|Rethinking of Coase Theorem: Externalities and Uncertainty|A behavior of economic agents in many respects depends on taking into account those conditions that have appeared around them. Traditionally, to such conditions, researchers have referred the uncertainty and factors of the institutional control, often projected on a value of the transaction costs. Studies in stimulants for any form of the agents’ behavior lead us to an analysis of the Coase theorem, which is expected to explain a number of similar regularities. However, ambiguous approaches to the theorem interpretation generate conflicts in a perception and identification of externalities. It is a solution to this challenge, which is a focus of this research. In a critical review of works by Coase and his followers, the theorem statement has been made clearer; we have also put forward a hypothesis on an origin of the externalities and introduced additional criteria to identify them. The paper has given a scientific rationale for an author’s assumption that the utility of impure goods depends on the vector of the externalities, which ultimately determines the stratification in a field of the externalities (positive or negative).
B40|Truth and financial economics: A review and assessment|Truth is important in the theory and practice of finance. Asset valuation is based on models that calculate true asset values as distinct from observed market prices. In financial economics, truth is essential in theoretical and empirical work in market microstructure, corporate finance and asset pricing. The versatile use of “true values” in finance is reviewed and assessed in the context of those philosophical theories of truth which are most relevant to asset pricing debates: the correspondence theory of truth, the coherence theory as well as the pragmatist approach to truth. We find that truth, in asset valuation, is not external to the context of inquiry; it is always model-dependent. This finding motivates the argument that (the truth of propositions about a) theory-independent reality should be explored on the level of structures that trigger market outcomes, rather than the level of asset values. Our findings on the context-dependent character of true asset values also necessitate the exploration of the structure of scientific inquiry in which some contexts prevail over others and some valuation models are widely adopted as measures of truth.
B40|Glass ceilings and sticky floors: drawing new ontologies|How did the ‘glass ceiling’ and related characteristics of female labour force experience become recognised as a proper object for social scientific study? Exploring interactions between the contexts of discovery and justification reveals how this phenomenon was recognised and established by combining different forms of expertise and experience that came from both within and without the social scientific fields. The resulting object of study might well be described as embedding a ‘civil or community ontology’, for the intersections of facts and values in these different knowledge communities was equally important in defining the content of that object of research.
B40|Free market madness and human nature|Purpose - – This paper aims to discuss the crises of free market capitalism in terms of its understanding of human nature. It reveals how recent market madness can be attributed to certain elements of human nature. Design/methodology/approach - – The paper uses a conceptual and philosophical approach to analyze crises of free market capitalism. It links both success and failure of capitalism to its understanding of human nature. It compares and contrasts economic assumptions of human nature in conventional and Islamic economics. It attempts to explain the 2008 financial crisis through a comprehensive theory of human nature. Findings - – It sheds some light on the irrational aspect of human nature as the driving factor behind the 2008 financial crisis. It elaborates on the importance of knowing self for knowing human decisions in free market economy. It concludes with the need for a comprehensive theory of human nature to predict and prevent irrational and irresponsible behaviors of populist politicians, greedy capitalists and conspicuous consumers. The paper also reflects on the 2013 Nobel Prize in economics as a victory for the study of human nature. Originality/value - – The paper offers a new perspective to understand crises of free market capitalism.
B40|The Role of Psychology in Austrian Economics and Game Theory: Subjectivity and Coordination|In this contribution we relate the respective works of two important economists, Friedrich von Hayek and Michael Bacharach, namely one of the main intellectual leaders of the Austrian Schools and one of the most original game theorists. Hayek and Bacharach are two authors - few in number – who do not conceive that economic analysis could be built without the help of psychology. They both considered that subjective perceptions of the real world provide the first stage of decision processes and that, within this stage, psychological factors played a fundamental role. Therefore, they both proposed how perceptions, economic rationality and social coordination could be combined. However economists who really accept to take psychology into account often face new difficulties. The incorporation of subjectivity in economic behaviour can make much more complex the analysis of economic and social coordination. To overtake these new difficulties we will see that both Hayek and Bacharach integrate a specific approach to human cognition and resort to an evolutionary explanation of social coordination. This is the main message we deliver in this contribution.
B40|Is Publication in the Hands of Outstanding Scientists? A Study on the Determinants of Editorial Boards Membership in Economics|This paper aims at casting light on editorial boards of leading journals in economics. This topic has been largely neglected by economists and sociologists of science, although the crucial role played by editors of prestigious journals in steering the discipline. We start our analysis by mapping the content specialization and the level of oligopoly of the contributing institutions within each journal. Then, we assess the impact of editorial boards’ interlocking and turnover on similarity between journals. In the second half of the paper we investigate the determinants of editorial board membership in leading economic journals during the decade from 1994 to 2004. We observe that the scientist’s past productivity is a strong predictor of membership. Nevertheless, other determinants are at play. Among others, we found a significant positive effect of scientist’s social connections with the members of the discipline who are entitled to decide for the appointment as editor.
B40|Recent Engagements with Adam Smith and the Scottish Enlightenment|Recent literature on Adam Smith and other 18th-century Scottish thinkers shows an engaged conversation between the Scots and today’s scholars in the sciences that deal with humans—social sciences, humanities, as well as neuroscience and evolutionary psychology. We share with the 18th-century Scots preoccupations about understanding human beings, human nature, sociability, moral development, our ability to understand nature and its possible creator, and about the possibilities to use our knowledge to improve our surrounding and standards of living. As our disciplines evolve, the studies of Smith and Scottish Enlightenment evolve with them. Smith and the Scots remain our interlocutors.
B40|Understanding the Politics of Perikles Around 450 BC. The Benefits of an Economic Perspective|Perikles is usually seen as a great statesman and clever leader of the Athenians. In the mid fifth century BC, he seems however to have been in serious political trouble and may well have been in danger of losing the struggle for power and of being ostracised. The fact that his incentives changed considerably at this point in time is ignored in traditional historical accounts. In contrast, we see the fierce competition as a motivation for several important policy measures introduced by Perikles at this particular time: the pay to jurors, the new law on citizenship (which has been a puzzle to many historians), and the building projects on the Acropolis and elsewhere. Compared to traditional analyses, an economic rational-actor approach thus provides a diachronic analytical benefit by focusing on the way incentives change over time and it provides a synchronic benefit by dealing with various decisions in a common framework.
B40|Is History of Economics What Historians of Economic Thought Do? A Quantitative Investigation|This paper presents a quantitative investigation into the history of economic thought (HET). Building on previous work (Marcuzzo 2008; 2012), we propose an empirical study with the aim of describing the dynamics of changes in HET in recent years, detecting three trends: 1) a sort of ‘stepping down from the shoulders of giants’, namely a move towards studies of ‘minor’ figures and/or economists from a more recent past; 2) the blossoming of archival research into unpublished work and correspondence; 3) less theory-laden investigations, connecting intellectual circles, linking characters and events. Using data from Econlit we show the evolution of the overall publication of het articles (1955-2013) and of HET fully or partially specialized journals (1993-2013); for the latter, by devising proxies which are amenable to quantitative assessment, we demonstrate that there is some evidence to support these claims.
B40|Crossing Boundaries, Displacing Previous Knowledge and Claiming Superiority: Is the Economics of Discrimination a Conquest of Economics Imperialism?|Becker’s work on discrimination is commonly viewed as one of the first expressions of “economics imperialism”. This paper challenges this view by looking at previous and later works on discrimination. Two elements define economics imperialism: the crossing of established frontiers between approaches and disciplines and the intention of substituting one approach for another. Section 1 briefly presents the origins of economics imperialism and proposes a two-aspects definition of the concept. Section 2 contextualizes Becker’s model of discrimination as imperialism “within economics” rather than towards other social sciences. Section 3 characterizes Arrow’s statistical discrimination as a humble theoretical imperialism, calling for the complementarity of social sciences rather than for the superiority of economics. Section 4 states that empirical measurements of discrimination in economics are a type of empirical imperialism essentially because these methods replace other social sciences in their contexts of expertise.
B40|Misreporting to looping questions in surveys : recall, motivation and burden|"""Looping questions are used to collect data about several similar events, such as employment spells, retirement accounts, or marriages. The questions collect information about the number of events experienced as well as details about each one. The questions require respondents to think hard to recall each event and are often lengthy and repetitive. Looping questions can be asked in two formats, and which format a survey uses may affect the quality of the data collected. We develop theory-based hypotheses about the effects that the choice of format has on measurement error in looping questions and test the hypotheses using experimental data from a recent web survey with a link to administrative records. Results show that one format collects more accurate event reports, but the other format provides higher quality data to the follow up questions. We conclude with guidance for those who write survey questions as well as those who rely on survey data for substantive analyses."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
B40|The Meaning Of Failed Replications: A Review And Proposal|The welcome rise of replication tests in economics has not been accompanied by a single, clear definition of replication. A discrepant replication, in current usage of the term, can signal anything from an unremarkable disagreement over methods to scientific incompetence or misconduct. This paper proposes an unambiguous definition of replication, one that reflects currently common but unstandardized use. It contrasts this definition with decades of unsuccessful attempts to standardize terminology, and argues that many prominent results described as replication tests â€“ in labor, development, and other fields of economics â€“ should not be described as such. Adopting this definition can improve incentives for researchers, encouraging more and better replication tests.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B40|Virginia political economy: a rational reconstruction|Recognition of a distinctive style of political economy denoted as Virginia political economy appeared early in the 1960s. It is common though not universal to identify a school of thought by the academic location of the main figures associated with the creation and propagation of a particular set of ideas. By this approach, Virginia political economy is associated with the three academic venues where James Buchanan and Gordon Tullock did most of their work. This paper takes a methodological approach to identifying Virginia political economy, which gives Virginia political economy an analytical rather than a regional identity. I do this by employing a form of rational reconstruction to articulate what I perceive to be the analytical hard core of Virginia political economy. While Buchanan and Tullock were pivotal characters in the development of Virginia political economy, that hard core is neither reducible to Buchanan and Tullock nor do they convey fully that hard core as is has arisen through scholarly interaction among many people over 50 years. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
B40|The living space, and local and regional economy:An examination of human mobility and human living|The paper examines human mobility and human living, and how human beings relate with space. The paper’s objective is to reevaluate and advance the theory on locality, and local and regional economy. The paper initially gives a brief and broad overview on the existing theoretical frameworks to position its arguments. It then examines the formation of the Philippine territory and the Filipino people to look at the different forms in how human beings relate with space and the natural environment. After that, it uses an anthropo-historical perspective to look at the major lifestyles and human relationships with the natural environment from the dawn of human history to the present time. The objective is to ferret-out the spatial requirements and lifestyle stereotypes of human existence. It asserts that human existence has two forms: existence as individuals and existence as members of the human species. Furthermore, it asserts that human existence is sustained through a material exchange with the natural environment, and therefore spatiality is a necessity for human existence. From these perspectives, the paper argues that human living understood as the process of human existence has three modes: economic production (acquisition of the means to satisfy material and psychological needs), individual reproduction (recovery of the life force of the individual), and species reproduction (reproduction of the human species). The paper then pointed-out four major stereotypes of human lifestyle according to human mobility and spatiality for human existence. A. Nomadic lifestyle stereotype. B. Sedentary agricultural lifestyle stereotype. C. Lifestyle stereotype under simple reproduction. D. Lifestyle stereotype under expanded reproduction. Finally, the paper reconstitutes and redefines locality, and local and regional economy to give focus on human beings and human living. Locality is the entity that holistically unites the different processes of individual reproduction, species reproduction, and economic production at a defined space. Local and regional economy is the unfolding at a defined space of individual reproduction, species reproduction, economic production, and their interactions.
B40|Russian Way out of the Crisis: Originality Versus Universal Trend|The article analyzes the results of the systemic transformation of the economy of the Russian Federation (the RF), assessment of the balance of the positive and negative results of Russian reforms and the current government's economic policy is given. The alternative options of economic policy are offered with the aim of bringing the country to the path of sustainable development.
B40|Transparency, Accountability, and Trust in Society|"The paper analyses the concepts of transparency and accountability, their correlation with other key concepts used in Russian social and economic discourses, and also the critique of the transparency and accountability practices. It is shown that the main effect of development of these technologies is the substitution of reality by the ""picture"" formed for external users, transformation of this ""picture"" into the self-purpose. The reason of this is the change of paradigms of trust. Society has passed from trust in authorities with their right to make decisions on the basis of professional judgment to trust in procedures and standards, trust in ""picture"". We have changed trust in result to trust in processes of its receiving."
B40|History of Economic Thought, Quo vadis?|"The paper demonstrates that economists lose interest in the study of the history of economic thought (HET). The roots that have affected the move of the HET to the periphery of the mainstream research preferences are analyzed. Based on a review of the current situation in the field of HET studies, the author shows that the field is gradually moving from the realm of the ""pure"" economics to converge with other humanities. The results of the survey of undergraduate and graduate students of the leading Russian universities confirm this trend. Saving HET in the economics curriculum requires deepening its integration with other social sciences."
B40|Economic Models as Analogies|"People often wonder why economists analyse models whose assumptions are known to be false, while economists feel that they learn a lot from such exercises. We suggest that part of the knowledge generated by academic economists is case-based rather than rule-based. That is, instead of offering general rules or theories that should be contrasted with data, economists often analyse models that are ""theoretical cases"", which help understand economic problems by drawing analogies between the model and the problem. Thus, economic models, empirical data, experimental results and other sources of knowledge are all on equal footing, that is, they all provide cases to which a given problem can be compared. We offer complexity arguments that explain why case-based reasoning may sometimes be the method of choice and why economists prefer simple cases."
B40|Economic Models as Analogies|" People often wonder why economists analyze models whose as- sumptions are known to be false, while economists feel that they learn a great deal from such exercises. We suggest that part of the knowledge generated by academic economists is case-based rather than rule-based. That is, instead of oering general rules or theories that should be contrasted with data, economists often analyze models that are \theoretical cases"", which help understand economic problems by drawing analogies between the model and the problem. According to this view, economic models, empirical data, experimental results and other sources of knowledge are all on equal footing, that is, they all provide cases to which a given problem can be compared. We of- fer complexity arguments that explain why case-based reasoning may sometimes be the method of choice and why economists prefer simple cases.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
B40|To Understand the Informal|"(On the Book by V. L. Tambovtsev ""Economics of Informal Institutions"") The review considers the first attempt in the history of Russian economic thought to give a detailed analysis of informal institutions (IF). It recognizes that in general it was successful: the reader gets acquainted with the original classification of institutions (including informal ones) and their genesis. According to the reviewer the best achievement of the author is his interdisciplinary approach to the study of problems and, moreover, his bias on the achievements of social psychology because the model of human behavior in the economic mainstream is rather primitive. The book makes evident that namely this model limits the ability of economists to analyze IF. The reviewer also shares the author’s position that in the analysis of the IF genesis the economists should highlight the uncertainty and reject economic determinism. Further discussion of IF is hardly possible without referring to this book."
B40|Through the Methodological View of the Historiographic Discussion of Mid-1990s|At the centre of the present study is shedding some additional light for the further clarification of the concepts of “whig” and “counter-whig” in the historiography of economics. The focus is on the relation (partial coverage in the content or other crossings) of the concepts of the absolutist and the relativist approaches and the corresponding types of history, the internalist and the externalist approaches and the corresponding kinds of history, and especially on the relation between “whig” and “contra-whig” types of history of economics in the light and in the context of the envisioned relations. The study is based on an electronic publication in December 1996 of selected by Esther-Mirjam Sent postings of historians of economics, intellectual historians, etc., who have taken participation in the discussion, the rise of which was given by a Guest editorial of James P. Henderson (November 1996) “Whig History is Dead – Now What?”, addressed to the attention of the members of the History of Economics Society. The central message argued through the view of this discussion is in a direction of conceptualizing a relatively holistic historiographic approach, reviving the role of the History of Economics in constructing contemporary social-economic theory and against the divide and tearing apart the unity of methodology of economics, history of economics and economics.
B40|New Economic Sociology: Theoretical Achievements and Contemporary Challenges|This study presents some basic theoretical achievements and key concepts of the “new economic sociology”, which pretends to explore not peripheral economic phenomena, but fundamental economic processes. The theoretical programme of the new economic sociology is conceptualised in contrast with the assumptions of the neoclassical economics. The contributions of Bulgarian scholars to the analysis of important issues in the field of economic sociology are also highlighted. The study suggests hypotheses to explain the symptoms of recent slowdown in the development of economic sociology and possible perspectives for new theoretical breakthroughs. They are discussed in the context of contemporary societal challenges and conflicts, which seek their economic-sociological interpretation.
B40|On the Nature of Economic Laws: Carl Menger and Léon Walras [Natura legilor economice în concepţia economiştilor Carl Menger şi Léon Walras]|The purpose of the present paper is to emphasize, on the basis of a comparative study, the differences between Neoclassical School of economics and Austrian School’s approaches regarding the nature of economic laws – especially the differences between Carl Menger and Léon Walras’s conceptions. Their ideas depend largely on how each of them conceive the role and purpose of economic science.
B40|Completing incomplete preferences|We propose a model for individuals who have incomplete preferences and attempt to complete them. We show that two empirical puzzles ‑ the willingness-to-pay and willingness-to-ask (WTP-WTA) gap as well as the present bias ‑ arise naturally in the process of completing incomplete preferences. Based on the model, an incentive-compatible mechanism to measure the incompleteness in preferences is developed. An experimental implementation of the measurement mechanism provides results consistent with our model.
B40|Completing incomplete preferences|We propose a model for individuals who have incomplete preferences and attempt to complete them. We show that two empirical puzzles ‑ the willingness-to-pay and willingness-to-ask (WTP-WTA) gap as well as the present bias ‑ arise naturally in the process of completing incomplete preferences. Based on the model, an incentive-compatible mechanism to measure the incompleteness in preferences is developed. An experimental implementation of the measurement mechanism provides results consistent with our model.
B40|On the Cambridge, England, Critique of the Marginal Productivity Theory of Distribution|The Cambridge critique of the marginal productivity theory of distribution is entwined with the criticsâ€™ theories of value, price, distribution, capital, growth, and methodology that occurred alongside it. The article first discusses these dimensions, then the inescapable need to explain the origin and size and rate of profits in any approach to the theory of distribution. The need in the neoclassical approach to have a unit in which to measure capital that is independent of distribution and prices is examined. The alternative classical/Marxian alternative and the relationship of pricing and market structures to systemic relationships in Post-Keynesian theory are analysed. Unresolved debates among the critics of the mainstream are outlined including those between Garegnani and Hahn. Ways forward are suggested in the concluding section.
B40|Some Unsettled Issues in a Second Phase of the Cambridge-Cambridge Controversy|The aim of this paper is to clear up some issues in a second phase of the Cambridge-Cambridge capital theory controversies, when the neoclassical argument was chiefly conducted in terms of the Walrasian specification of capital in intertemporal and temporary general equilibrium models. It is held that the response by the neoclassical side in that phase has not been as satisfactory to rebut the implications of reswitching and capital reversing as some neoclassical scholars have argued. The reason for this can be traced in the overlooking of the implications of the redefinition of equilibrium implied in those models.
B40|Capitalism and Forms of Capitalism|To understand a severe economic crisis such as that of 2008, it is not sufficient to analyze capitalism-in-general along with various economic policy decisions and contingent events. An adequate analysis requires taking account of the particular form of capitalism. This approach to crisis theory is illustrated by an examination of the roots of the economic crisis that broke out in 2008 in the United States.
B40|Estimación De Un Modelo Determinista Para La Posición Del Reino Unido En El Índice De Desarrolo Humano, 1990-2010|En este trabajo se estudia la relación entre innovación y la posición en el índice de desarrollo humano en el Reino Unido. El contraste del modelo ha resultado robusto para el caso de la economía británica y su capacidad de innovación entre 1990 y 2010, así como su facultad predictiva para la evolución cíclica en el período estudiado.
B40|Let’s take the bias out of econometrics| This study exposes the cognitive flaws of ‘endogeneity bias’. It examines how conceptualisation of the bias has evolved to embrace all major econometric problems, despite extensive lack of hard evidence. It reveals the crux of the bias – a priori rejection of causal variables as conditionally valid ones, and of the bias correction by consistent estimators – modification of those variables by non-uniquely and non-causally generated regressors. It traces the flaws to misconceptions about error terms and estimation consistency. It highlights the need to shake off the bias to let statistical learning play an active and formal role in econometrics.
B40|The Belief that Market Transactions Are Mutually Beneficial: A Comparison of the Views of Students in Economics and Other Disciplines|Using a survey of a large group of first and final year students of different disciplines to study their belief in the existence of mutual benefits of market transactions, we observe significant differences between economics and business students on the one hand, and, on the other hand, students of other disciplines. These differences increase over time, due partly to economics students increasingly supporting the belief and partly to other students, in particular psychology students, increasingly disagreeing with it. The beliefs of economics students are more homogeneous at the end of their studies. We, therefore, report evidence of both a selection effect and an effect of studying different disciplines that goes beyond initial self-selection.
B40|Richard Abel Musgrave and Joseph Alois Schumpeter: Two intellectual authorities in economics and their shared and different frameworks, read through the lenses of the Perlman dichotomies|The paper compares R.A. Musgrave and J.A. Schumpeter and their relationship. First, their biographical and intellectual backgrounds are analyzed. Then the approach of shared intellectual frameworks according to M. Perlman’s dichotomies are applied to Musgrave’s and Schumpeter’s contributions.Musgrave was an admirer of Schumpeter but the analysis of their approaches applying the dichotomous approach and the inclusion ofMusgraves article on Schumpeter and the tax state also highlight their intellectual differences despite the fact that both had deep roots in the European tradition and a broad understanding of the social sciences, social economics and the embeddedness of the economy in the institutional-judicial nexus on the one and more individualist traditions on the other hand. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
B40|From Edgeworth to econophysics: a methodological perspective| Although most of the marginalist economists' methodology was influenced by nineteenth-century classical physics, the work of Francis Ysidro Edgeworth represents the highest point of classical physics influence to the development of mainstream economic methodology. Subsequent leading theorists were not as explicit, although economic theory continued to be influenced by physics as the work of Pareto, Fisher and Samuelson indicates. However, the physics methodological framework has made a recent reappearance in the relatively new field of econophysics. Although there are a few methodological similarities, there are also many important differences between mainstream economics and econophysics. Econophysicists' emphasis to statistical mechanics rather to mechanical models, their reservations towards rational agent theory and their rejection of many standard assumptions of mainstream economics are examples of such differences. The paper examines the above from a methodological viewpoint. It also discusses the possible reasons for this historical development and its implications for economic methodology.
B40|İktisat-Fizik İlişkisine Tarihsel Bakış|Değişen ve giderek karmaşık hale gelen dünyada yüzyıllar içerisinde bilimin köklü değişimlere uğradığını söylemek mümkündür. Özellikle fizikteki gelişim ve yeniliklerin tüm bilimleri etkilediği ve yeni dönemler açtığı iddia edilebilir. Đktisat bilimi fiziğin yüksek derecede etki yarattığı bilim dallarının başında gelmektedir. Klasik iktisadın deterministtik dünya görüşünün hakim olduğu Newton fiziği üzerine inşa edildiği söylenebilir. Yirminci yüzyılda fizikteki determinist dünya görüşünün terk edilip, fiziğin köklü değişimlere uğraması, iktisat bilimi üzerinde de önemli değişimlere neden olmuştur. Yaşanılan karmaşık dünyada geleneksel iktisat kuramlarının belirli olguları anlamada yetersiz kalması ve istatistiksel fizik tekniklerinin doğrusal olmayan dinamiklerle bir araya gelerek bu karmaşık yapıyı açıklamadaki gücü, özellikle 1990’ların başında fizikçilerin, son yıllarda ise iktisatçıların ilgisini çekmiştir. Bu doğrultuda yapılan çalışmalar daha önceleri sadece fizik dergilerinde, son zamanlarda ise iktisat dergilerinde de yer buluyor olması bunun en önemli göstergesidir. Bu çalışmanın amacı iktisadın doğuşu ile başlayan iktisat – fizik ilişkisini incelemek ve fizik biliminin geçirdiği evrimin iktisat bilimini ne derecede etkileyerek değiştirdiğini göstermektir.
B40|The dilemma explanation-understanding in economic science|In economic science has always been present the dilemma explanation-understanding. For some schools and trends of economic thought the reality is formed by domains of observables, calculablesor thinkable objects that are enough to know through the explanatory model; and by domains of experiences or intuitables objects that require to be addressed by the interpretative model. In this article, using the critical analysis of epistemological and hermeneutical discourse, arguments are made against this exclusionary perspective and in favor of a process of interpretation, which under the principle of complementarily, would lead to the use of both models in a same domain and thus achieve a better approximation to the truth of the economic reality.
B40|Homo Economicus in XXI Century|The article deals with the thesis, that the modern neoclassical model of «homo economicus» corresponds to the real human type, acting in all the spheres of Western and Russian social life today. In support to this hypothesis author comes up with two arguments: social-anthropological and ideological. The first one touches on the transformation in the mode of life of an individual and the whole societies of Western Europe and USA. As the result of this transformation it became possible to speak about the supremacy of the “capitalistic spirit” in the West to the middle of XIX century. The second argument addresses to the ideological basis of such a transformation, and present some evidences of the existence of the «homo economicus» in the Russian social-cultural area.
B40|A Certain Amount of ‘Recantation'. On the Origins of Frank H. Knight’s Antipositivism|The aim of this paper is to investigate in some detail the origins of Knight’s antipositism and to assess the main influences that brought him to a change in methodological perspective after 1921. As importantly, what follows is also an attempt to increase our general understanding of the methodological debates taking place during the early decades of the last century and to shed new light on the inherently pluralistic character of US interwar economics. This paper is organized as follows: the first section outlines Knight’s methodological views as presented in his early works; the second section discusses Knight’s “recantation” and his attack on behavioristic social science; the third section analyze Knight’s discussion of the nature and limitations of scientific economics; the fourth section offers a brief digression on Knight’s relationship with American institutionalism; the fifth section deals with the later developments of Knight’s antipositivism; the final section presents some conclusions
B40|Using Pollutant and not-Pollutant Capital into a dynamic analysis of Environment-Economic integrated models: a critical approach|This paper analyzes economic-environment integrated dynamic models. These models are built taking into account the coupling between environmental variables and economic variables. In particular, we consider two kinds of capital: pollutant and not-pollutant capital. We start with a simple linear model and after we introduce other variables like the gross output and Government abatement policy. So, we formalize more complex models that often consist of nonlinear differential equations. Central purpose of our work, is the use of the theory of dynamical systems for the analysis of the dynamics of some variables included in models of different structure. We have a critical approach, both in the same mathematical method and assessment of the general economic and political environmental problem in a capitalist economy. Our conclusions are very different from those of mainstream economic theory: we believe that a new model of development is closely related to a new way of thinking about environmental protection, and that the model of capitalist development is inadequate for this purpose.
B40|Economic Theory As Praxeology|The paper aims to deliver a logical and epistemological demonstration for the economics statute inside the social sciences. In my opinion, economics is not a science because it doesn’t verify the criteria of scientificity, as this concept is generally accepted. The demonstration is based on sufficiency predicates of cognition and scientificity, respectively. More general, I think no social discipline is a science. Some of them are hermeneutics, some are praxeologies, and some are ethics. Economics seems to be a praxeology.
B40|Geld und Sprache: Der innere Widerstreit in der Modernisierung|"Geld und Sprache sind das ""Band der menschlichen Gesellschaft"" (Cicero). Im vorliegenden Text wird die menschliche Sprache als soziale Form, als Prozess der Vergesellschaftung rekonstruiert und das damit verbundene Denken daraus entwickelt als Logos. Das Geld stellt logisch und historisch ein Novum innerhalb dieser Vergesellschaftung dar, das zu einer sich immer weiter einlagernden berechnenden Vernunftform (Ratio) führt. Diese wachsende Dominanz der Ratio über den Logos charakterisiert den Prozess der Modernisierung und erlaubt zugleich ihren inneren Gegensatz aufzudecken. Es zeichnet sich schließlich in der völligen Verdinglichung der Ratio in der Künstlichen Intelligenz eine neue Weise der Vergesellschaftung ab, worin die Herrschaft des Geldes in neuer Form reproduziert wird."
B40|An application of econophysics to the history of economic thought: The analysis of texts from the frequency of appearance of key words|This article poses a new methodology applying the statistical analysis to the economic literature. This analysis has never been used in the history of economic thought, albeit it may open up new possibilities and provide us with further explanations so as to reconsider theoretical issues. With that purpose in mind, the article applies the intermittency of the turbulence in different economic texts, and specifically in three important authors: William Stanley Jevons, Adam Smith, and Karl Marx.
B40|Knightian uncertainty and stock-price movements: Why the REH present-value model failed empirically|Macroeconomic models that are based on either the rational expectations hypothesis (REH) or behavioral considerations share a core premise: All future market outcomes can be characterized ex ante with a single overarching probability distribution. This paper assesses the empirical relevance of this premise using a novel data set. The authors find that Knightian uncertainty, which cannot be reduced to a probability distribution, underpins outcomes in the stock market. This finding reveals the full implications of Robert Shiller's ground-breaking rejection of the class of REH present-value models that rely on the consumption-based specification of the risk premium. The relevance of Knightian uncertainty is inconsistent with all REH models, regardless of how they specify the market's risk premium. The authors' evidence is also inconsistent with bubble accounts of REH models' empirical difficulties. They consider a present-value model based on a New Rational Expectations Hypothesis, which recognizes the relevance of Knightian uncertainty in driving outcomes in real-world markets. Their novel data is supportive of the model's implications that rational forecasting relies on both fundamental and psychological factors.
B40|Концепция системно-инновационного библиометрического анализа и картографирования экономической литературы . The concept of system-innovation bibliometric analysis and mapping of economic literature |Представлены исторические предпосылки и этапы формирования и апробации концепции системно-инновационного библиометрического анализа и картографирования экономической литературы (СИБАКЭЛ). Показано, что корни современного системного и билиометрического анализа можно найти в древнеиндийском трактате «Артхашастра» и в ряде других старых произведениях. Концепция СИБАКЭЛ создана и развивается объединенными усилиями экономического факультета Новосибирского национального исследовательского государственного университета и Института экономики и организации промышленного производства СО РАН. Наибольшее значение для предлагаемого варианта библиометрического анализа имеют предметная классификация JEL и электронная библиография EconLit, которые созданы и постоянно обновляются Американской экономической ассоциацией (АЕА). Велика роль специально созданных в рамках концепции методик и программных средств. Многолетняя апробация концепции позволила получить ряд новых результатов для развития научных исследований и высшего профессионального образования. Представлена краткая характеристика нового проекта на основе EconLit. Проект позволяет указать направления экономических исследований, которые возникли в 2006–2013 гг. на пересечениях 822 предметных микрообластей классификации JEL. Американская экономическая ассоциация дала любезное разрешение на публикацию результатов нового проекта на английском и русском языках. The article presents the historical background and the stages of formation and approval of the concept of system-innovation bibliometriс analysis and mapping of economic literature (SIBAMEL). We show that the roots of modern system and bibliometric analysis are in the ancient Indian treatise «Arthasastra» and in some other old documents and works. The Department of Economics of the National Research University – Novosibirsk State University and the Institute of Economics and Industrial Engineering of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciencescreated and developed this concept SIBAMEL. JEL subject classification and the electronic bibliography EconLit are important foundation for suggested variant of bibliometriс analysis. It is necessary to stress the role of special techniques and software that were elaborated in the framework of the SIBAMEL. The concept received approval in different research, education and publication projects. This approbation provided a number of new results for the development of research and professional education. This article contain the brief presentation of new project on the EconLit basis. This project shows new directions of economic research, which has grown on the intersections of 822 subject micro fields of JEL classification in 2006-2013. The American Economic Association gave her kind permission to publish the results of the new project in English and Russian.
B40|Issues in Identifying Economic Crises: Insights from History|Economists have been blamed for their inability to forecast and address crises. This paper attributes this inability to intertwined factors: the lack of a coherent definition of crises, the reference class problem, the lack of imagination regarding the nature of future crises, and sample selection biases. Specifically, economists tend to adapt their views on crises to recent episodes, and omit averted and potential crises. Threshold-based definitions of crises run the risk of being ad hoc. Using historical examples, this paper highlights some epistemological shortcomings of the current approach.
B40|Chasing the B: A Bibliographic Account of Economics’ Relation to its Past, 1991-2011| Some historians argue that the history of economic thought (HET) is useful and important to economists and that historians should remain in economics departments. Others believe that historians’ initiatives toward economists are doomed in advance to failure and that they should instead ally themselves with historians and sociologists of science located in humanities departments. Generally, the contributions that are devoted to reviewing the state of HET take a firm side for either one of these two positions and therefore have a prescriptive view on how history should be written. By contrast, our paper proposes a descriptive account of the kind of contributions to HET that have been published in major economics journals over the past two decades. To avoid definitional issues over HET, we use the B category of the JEL classification to retrieve and analyze the relevant literature. We show that, though contributions to HET are still found in top economics journals, the rate of publication of such papers has become increasingly uneven and the methods and narrative styles they adopt are increasingly remote from that advocated in the sub-disciplinary literature. For this reason, historians who are still willing to address the economics’ community should be more interested in expanding the frontiers of their field rather than in trying to anticipate their targeted readers’ preferences.
B40|Mostly Sunny: A Forecast of Tomorrow's Power Index Research|Power index research has been a very active field in the last decades. Will this continue or are all the important questions solved? We argue that there are still many opportunities to conduct useful research with and on power indices. Positive and normative questions keep calling for theoretical and empirical attention. Technical and technological improvements are likely to boost applicability.
B40|The Idea Of ‘‘Common Good’’ And The Role Of The State In Present Day Social Economics|This paper explores the meaning of the idea of common good as used in the classical political tradition in order to study its role in the present political economy. It first analyses the received meaning of the term ‘‘common good’’ in economics with the help of a brief sketch of its historical development. Subsequently, some analysis of the notion is performed and related to some existing economic literature. Its relevance and limitations, due to incomparability with some mainstream economics, will be underlined. As the idea of common good connects individual behaviour to some collective notion of ‘‘good’’, the paper will discuss the relationship between the idea of common good and the role of the state in the economy.
B40|Phänomenologie des Geldes|"Phänomenologie ist eine philosophische Methode – eigentlich: Nicht-Methode –, in der man den Blick vom untersuchten Gegenstand (hier das Geld) umkehrt auf die Denkformen, in denen er gedacht wird. Der Kerngedanke einer Phänomenologie des Geldes lautet: Geld ist eine Denkform und nur darin eine soziale Wirklichkeit. Man versteht ""Geld"" nur durch Teilnahme an einer Geldökonomie. Das sind allerdings Erfahrungen, über die in der Moderne jeder verfügt. Man kann das Geld als kategoriales Novum nicht aus einer Form von Nicht-Geld ""ableiten"". Der Text entfaltet dies an vielen Aspekten der Geldverwendung, insbesondere auch den Begriff vom Geld als Marktzutrittsschranke."
B40|Ökonomische Bildung: Geistige Monokultur oder Befähigung zum eigenständigen Denken?|Der vorliegende Beitrag versucht den Einfluss und die Größenordnung der akademischen Bildung in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften, vor allem der Standardlehrbücher, abzuschätzen und fragt kritisch, auf welchem Bildungsverständnis die moderne Wirtschaftswissenschaft implizit beruht. Unter anderem wird konstatiert, dass in den Lehrbüchern kein aufgeklärtes und (selbst)reflektierendes Bildungsverständnis sichtbar ist, welches die Voraussetzungen des eignen Denkens bewusst vermitteln könnte. Im Anschluss daran werden die Grundzüge einer derartigen Alternative diskutiert und die Frage aufgeworfen, was Multiperspektivität und eine kritische Reflexion der eigenen geschichtlichen Wurzeln in der Lehre bedeuten kann.
B40|GDP and convergence in modern times|In this chapter I discuss historical estimates of GDP at both the national and the regional level, and their application for assessing economic performance in modern times. Having been invented in (and conceived for) industrial capitalist societies, GDP has stronger informative power in those contexts where industry and services, and market exchange, retain the lion’s share of production. In modern times, when comparing the series available for different countries, there are three major methodological problems to be acknowledged and possibly addressed: the dissimilarity of the quantity series and related proxies; deflation through purchasing power parities distant in time; and the differences in the base year used to construct GDP constant price (Laspeyres) indices (the latter issue may be less widely recognized, but it may have a remarkable impact). The way the estimates are constructed also has a bearing upon the statistical tools and models we should use to interpret them; owing to the lack of reliable long-run series, cross-sectional techniques are often preferable to time series analysis; provided we have reliable estimates, growth accounting - decomposing GDP growth into productivity and industry mix effects - may provide important clues about the choice between theoretical approaches; not least for the quality of our data, cross-country convergence models based on conditioning variables should always be supplemented by historical information from qualitative sources and case studies. More generally, cliometricians should prove themselves capable of adapting their models to different historical contexts and relativizing findings to the limits of their estimates.
B40|Becoming Applied: The Transformation of Economics after 1970|Abstract: This paper conjectures that economics has changed profoundly since the 1970s and that these changes involve a new understanding of the relationship between theoretical and applied work. Drawing on an analysis of John Bates Clark medal winners, it is suggested that the discipline became more applied, applied work be ing accorded a higher st atus in relation to pure theory than was previously the case. Discussing new types of applied work, the changing context of applied work, and new sites for applied work, the paper outlines a research agenda that will test the conjecture that there has been a changed understanding of the nature of applied work and hence of economics itself.
B40|Production of (Pleasant) Time by Means of (Unpleasant) Time: Some Notes on Consumption Theory and Time Use| The aim of this paper is to propose an analytical framework wherein the individuals' choice problem is addressed in terms of alternative time-consuming activities rather than alternative bundles of goods and services. In particular, the paper reverses Becker's (1965, The Economic Journal, 75 (299), pp. 493–517) proposal to approach the problem of time allocation by transforming the time spent in consumption into foregone earnings. The result of reversing Becker's approach is a model that represents each activity as a sort of productive process allowing pleasant time to be produced by consuming ‘direct’ unpleasant time plus the ‘indirect’ amount of unpleasant time equivalent to the market goods used up as inputs.
B40|D'une « démocratie créatrice » à un « capitalisme raisonnable ». Lecture croisée de la philosophie de J. Dewey et de l'économie de J.R. Commons|J. Dewey and J.R. Commons have shared a common intellectual and practical engagement for democracy. This paper contends that the proximity of their analysis is larger than the explicit tribute Commons’ conception of social sciences pays to Dewey’s social philosophy. On the basis of a cross-lecture of these authors, we show their convergences on democracy as an ethical ideal and on democratic state as an ongoing process, as well as the complementary answers they give to the problems faced by democracy. We underline that Commons has made a notable contribution to pragmatism by expanding Dewey’s « creative democracy » to a « reasonable capitalism ». Classification JEL : B25, B31, B40
B40|Economics for Substantive Democracy|What is the scope of economics as a science, what is economics for? Real freedom or what we call substantive democracy has never been an objective of economics. In this perspective freedom, or the lack of it, would not be a purpose of a particular economic system, but at best one of its side effects. In this paper I sustain that economics’ discourse has become one the most substantial contributors to what could be called the erosion of democracy. The first argument used in this case against economics refers to its attempt to be considered a neo-naturalistic science; the second concerns the fact that economics considers democracy contradictory to the expression of its scientific rationality and; the third, that economics crowds out people from decision-making processes by pushing them into the hands of experts. What part should economics be called to play in this search for substantive democracy? This issue is all the more critical that economics has reached the status of a major political fact. Partisan political programs have essentially become economic programs, and economic variables have thereby become major global political issues. One of the ways for economics to contribute to substantive democracy is to propose an alternative discourse to mainstream economics. An economics favorable to substantive democracy should, thereby, be political rather than naturalistic, pluralist rather than monist and, instead of crowding out people from decisions processes, should aim at the co-production of economic knowledge with those concerned by the outcome of economic decisions.
B40|ECAES, SABER PRO y la historia del pensamiento económico en EAFIT|"El presente artículo estudia las implicaciones del rediseño del examen Ecaes (Saber Pro) para la presentación por parte de estudiantes de la Universidad EAFIT. Su enfoque particular es la manera como se adecua el plan de estudios en el área de historia del pensamiento económico como preparación para los módulos de Análisis Económico de los antiguos ECAES, hoy SaberPro, y para otros fines académicos. Las fuentes de información para el artículo incluyen conversaciones y correspondencias con los directores académicos y administrativos de la Escuela de Economía y Finanzas y del departamento de Economía de la Universidad EAFIT, tambien se revisaron los planes de estudios de Economía de la Universidad EAFIT, Universidad de los Andes, Universidad de Antioquia entre otras y los datos de los resultados del examen durante el periodo 2006-2009 obtenidos del ICFES. This article studies implications of the recent redesign of the ""Economic Analysis"" module of the standardized test formerly known as ECAES, lately redsignated SaberPro. Its main concern is with the implications to the curriculum at the Universidad EAFIT – more specifically, with the adequacy of the history of economic thought (h.e.t.) part of the curriculum as preparation for the test and for other purposes. The sources of information for the article include conversations and correspondence with the academic and administrative leadership of the EAFIT Escuela de Economía y Finanzas and Departmento de Economía. They also include h.e.t. course syllabi from the Universidad EAFIT and, by way of comparison, from the Universidad de los Andes, the Universidad de Antioquia, and elsewhere; documents regarding the objectives and format of the ECAES economics exam obtained from the ICFES and AFADECO websites; and data for exam results over the period 2006 to 2009 obtained from ICFES."
B40|Can Tax Compliance Research Profit from Biology?|Historically, tax compliance has been a highly interdisciplinary avenue of research to which economics, psychology, law, sociology, history, political science, and accountancy have made valuable contributions. It is less well understood, however, whether we can glean useful insights into tax compliance by moving beyond the social sciences. In particular, the literature pays little attention to the relevance of biology. This paper attempts to remedy this shortcoming by examining the potential opportunities and limitations of introducing biological concepts into tax compliance research.
B40|Integrating search in macroeconomics: the defining years|Our paper studies two attempts at integrating unemployment in macroeconomics. The first, due to Diamond, consists in a search model exhibiting multiple equilibria. The second is due to Andolfatto and Merz who, more or less simultaneously, were able to integrate the matching function in RBC modeling. As a common thread of these two attempts is to be based on the search approach as developed in labor economics, we recount the birth and further development of the search paradigm in a first section. We then analyze Diamond’s, Andolfatto’s and Merz’s contributions. Our interest lies specifically in how they made their way in the development of the field. We show that Diamond’s model, which ambitioned to rival Lucas’s Expectations and the Neutrality of Money model, did not live up to its author’s expectations. We propose an interpretation as to the reason this was so. As to Andolfatto and Merz, while their project was less ambitious, we show that they were able to establish what they were striving at, namely an harmonious integration of one particular search model within the RBC paradigm. The price to be paid, however, was to abandon several constitutive traits of the search approach.
B40|On the Reception of Haavelmo’s Econometric Thought|Trygve Haavelmo’s The Probability Approach in Econometrics (1944) has been widely regarded as the foundation document of modern econometrics. Nevertheless, its significance has been interpreted in widely different ways. Some modern economists regard it as a blueprint for a provocative, but ultimately unsuccessful, program dominated by the need for a priori theoretical identification of econometric models. They call for new techniques that better acknowledge the interrelationship of theory and data. Others credit Haavelmo with an approach that focuses on statistical adequacy rather than theoretical identification. They see many of Haavelmo’s deepest insights as having been unduly neglected. The current paper uses bibliometric techniques and a close reading of econometrics articles and textbooks to trace the way in which the economics profession received, interpreted, and transmitted Haavelmo’s ideas. A key irony is that the first group calls for a reform of econometric thinking that goes several steps beyond Haavelmo’s initial vision; while the second group argues that essentially what the first group advocates was already in Haavelmo’s Probability Approach from the beginning.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B40|Instrumental cardinal concerns for social status in two-sided matching with non-transferable utility|In this paper we apply the instrumental approach to social preferences in order to distinguish among various shapes of preferences for social status. In particular, we consider the shape of reduced preferences that emerge in the equilibrium of a two-sided matching model with non-transferable utility. Cole et al. (1992, 1995) show that, under full observability of potential mates׳ attributes, instrumental concerns for social status are ordinal, i.e., only one׳s own rank in the distribution of attributes matters. We show that when we depart from full observability, instrumental concerns for social status become cardinal, i.e., also other features of the distribution of attributes matter. We also show that the actual shape of cardinal concerns depends on how individuals can deal with the informational asymmetry, alternatively leading to upward concerns, i.e., making comparisons with higher rank people; downward concerns, i.e., making comparisons with lower rank people; or bidirectional concerns, i.e, being both upward and downward.
B40|Rhetoric and analogies|The art of rhetoric may be defined as changing other people's minds (opinions, beliefs) without providing them new information. One technique heavily used by rhetoric employs analogies. Using analogies, one may draw the listener's attention to similarities between cases and to re-organize existing information in a way that highlights certain regularities. In this paper we offer two models of analogies, discuss their theoretical equivalence, and show that finding good analogies is a computationally hard problem.
B40|Open access to data: An ideal professed but not practised|Data-sharing is an essential tool for replication, validation and extension of empirical results. Using a hand-collected data set describing the data-sharing behaviour of 488 randomly selected empirical researchers, we provide evidence that most researchers in economics and management do not share their data voluntarily. We derive testable hypotheses based on the theoretical literature on information-sharing and relate data-sharing to observable characteristics of researchers. We find empirical support for the hypotheses that voluntary data-sharing significantly increases with (a) academic tenure, (b) the quality of researchers, (c) the share of published articles subject to a mandatory data-disclosure policy of journals, and (d) personal attitudes towards “open science” principles. On the basis of our empirical evidence, we discuss a set of policy recommendations.
B40|One Swallow Doesn't Make a Summer: Reply to Kataria|In this paper we reply to Mitesh Kataria’s comment, which criticized the simulations of Maniadis, Tufano, and List (2014, Am. Econ. Rev. 104(1), 277–290). We view these simulations as a means to illustrating the fact that we economists are unaware of the value of key variables that determine the credibility of our own empirical findings. Such variables include priors (i.e., the pre-study probability that a tested phenomenon is true) and the statistical power of the empirical design. Economists should not hesitate to use Bayesian tools and meta-analysis in order to quantify what we know about these variables.
B40|Chasing the B: A Bibliographic Account of Economics’ Relation to its Past, 1991-2011|Some historians argue that the history of economic thought (HET) is useful and important to economists and that historians should remain in economics departments. Others believe that historians’ initiatives toward economists are doomed in advance to failure and that they should instead ally themselves with historians and sociologists of science located in humanities departments. Generally, the contributions that are devoted to reviewing the state of HET take a firm side for either one of these two positions and therefore have a prescriptive view on how history should be written. By contrast, our paper proposes a descriptive account of the kind of contributions to HET that have been published in major economics journals over the past two decades. To avoid definitional issues over HET, we use the B category of the JEL classification to retrieve and analyze the relevant literature. We show that, though contributions to HET are still found in top economics journals, the rate of publication of such papers has become increasingly uneven and the methods and narrative styles they adopt are increasingly remote from that advocated in the sub-disciplinary literature. For this reason, historians who are still willing to address the economics’ community should be more interested in expanding the frontiers of their field rather than in trying to anticipate their targeted readers’ preferences..
B40|Economic theory and social classes|The marginalist economic theory believes that the effectiveness of the collective action exerted by a social class as a whole conflicts with the hypothesis of competition (perfect competition). A question of method is at the root of this view: the marginalist theory only takes into consideration the individual maximizing behaviour of workers, capitalists and entrepreneurs. In this way it excludes from the analysis the study of social links, which, as a matter of fact, are the conditions for collective action. In the classical approach, economic relations are instead affected by the institutions and social conventions that characterize each particular historical moment. As a consequence, the classical notion of competition (free competition) does not exclude a role for the social links that can justify collective action and, at the same time, make it effective. This characteristic of the classical approach is particularly considerable as concerns the theory of income distribution. A re-proposal of the classical theory of wages which takes into consideration the development and complexity of the institutions that, these days, condition the conflict for the distribution of income, cannot actually disregard the role of collective action.
B40|Short‐Run Macro After the Crisis: The End of the “New” Neoclassical Synthesis?|The Financial Crisis of 2008, and the Great Recession in its wake, have shaken up macroeconomics. The paradigm of the “New” Neoclassical Synthesis, which seemed to provide a robust framework of analysis for short‐run macro not long ago, fails to capture key elements of the recent crisis. This paper reviews the current reappraisal of the paradigm in the light of the history of macroeconomic thought. Twice in the past 80 years, a major macroeconomic crisis led to the breakthrough of a new paradigm that was to capture the imagination of an entire generation of macroeconomists. This time is different. Whereas the pre‐crisis consensus in the profession is broken, a sweeping transition to a single new paradigm is not in sight. Instead, macroeconomics is in the process of loosening the methodological straightjacket of the “New” Neoclassical Synthesis, thereby opening a door for a return to its original purpose: the study of information and coordination in a market economy.
B40|Monetary Policy and Value Judgments : Did we forget Myrdal’s legacy ?|"Myrdal’s works are usually analysed with a dual and separated point of view : on the one hand the methodological papers concerning the value problem and based on a strong non neutrality thesis ; on the other part the theoretical analysis concerning monetary theory and policy, with a Wicksellian filiation. In fact both the dimensions are strongly connected by a common way : the application of the Hägerström’s Swedish guillotine between is and ought, but also the construction of a bridge between economic science and political views on social engineering and economic policy. Myrdal wants to address this problem : how economic science can become politically relevant ? This paper analyses two stages of that unique project : the proposition of a ""technology of economics"" (1930), and the selection process for a ""norm for monetary policy"" (1939). It shows that Myrdal distorts an initial end and means scheme by proposing some intermediary concepts between positive and normative fields. From a theoretical and statistical framework and an explicit value judgment these concepts enable to elaborate an iterative tree of selection of a speci-c monetary policy. If the Myrdal’s project encounters difficulties in conciliating a non-cognitivist thesis with economic prescriptions and in proposing a tractable method, it remains an important benchmark for the analysis of the links between positive and normative views concerning monetary policy."
B40|Post Keynesian modeling: where are we, and where are we going to?|" This paper presents the current ""state of the art"" of Post Keynesian modeling, as well as the most important issues raised by it. We first present a new formal statement of Keynes's model. We then analyze the three most important classes of Post Keynesian contemporary models: the Kaleckian models of growth, the Minskian models showing the destabilizing effects of financial variables on the economy, and the path-dependent models insisting on the nature of time in economics, and on the absence of any ""natural"" anchor. We argue that, whereas the current Post Keynesian models have a lot in common with Keynes's model, none of them encompass all its rich and realistic properties, and a synthetic dynamic Post Keynesian model is desirable, and has still to be framed."
B40|Becoming Applied: The Transformation of Economics after 1970|This paper conjectures that economics has changed profoundly since the 1970s and that these changes involve a new understanding of the relationship between theoretical and applied work. Drawing on an analysis of John Bates Clark medal winners, it is suggested that the discipline became more applied, applied work being accorded a higher status in relation to pure theory than was previously the case. Discussing new types of applied work, the changing context of applied work, and new sites for applied work, the paper outlines a research agenda that will test the conjecture that there has been a changed understanding of the nature of applied work and hence of economics itself.
B40|From Long-Run Utopia to Technical Expertise: Solow's Growth Model as a Multipurpose Design|Combining concrete policy-oriented modeling strategies of World War II with what was received as traditional neoclassical theory, in 1956 Robert Solow constructed a simple, clean, and smooth-functioning “design” model that served many different purposes. As a working object it enabled experimentation with long-run equilibrium growth. As an instrument of measurement it was applied to time series data. As a prototype it was supposed to feed into larger-scale econometric models that were, in turn, thought of as technologies for policy advice. Used as a teaching device, Solow’s design became a medium of “spreading the technique,” and one of the symbols for neoclassical macroeconomics that soon became associated with MIT.
B40|Models and Fictions in (Micro-)Economics|"How can an argument that is based on assumptions known to be false deliver any insightful conclusions let alone be used for policy recommendations? Over the years, a variety of concerns regarding (micro-)economic modelling and its relevance for real life have been expressed along these lines. Adding to this methodological discussion, I take seriously the recurrent comparison of economic models with literary fiction (fables, metaphors, parables,...) and argue that many of the concerns expressed can be alleviated in a coherent picture if one adopts the fiction view of models proposed by Frigg (2010a,b). In particular, I argue how adopting such a view not only opens a way for meaningful comparisons of economic models with reality but also relieves the pressure on assumptions to be empirically verifiable. Moreover, the argument suggests a distinctive role for strong mathematical theories such as expected utility theory (setting limits to the fictional world to be imagined), the often extensive story telling in economic modelling (adapting the model to a context and suggesting comparisons with ""reality"") as well as for empirical studies putting economic modelling to the test (exploring properties of the real world and how they relate to properties of the fictional model-world). Thus, suggesting a coherent framework in which various aspects of the discussion can be accommodated, I hope to add some valuable structure to the ongoing debate about how to interpret (micro-)economic modelling."
B40|The Market in Economics: Behavioural Assumptions and Value Judgments|This paper tries to convey the essence of the economic theory of behaviour of individuals and firms to an audience of non-economists. The hypotheses of utility and profit maximization and their use as building blocks in the theory of market equilibrium are explained. The paper discusses the efficiency of the market mechanism and sources of market failure. It considers the origin of preferences and the role played by ethical and religious views for consumer demand and labour supply. It concludes by discussing the role of economic theory in the design of institutions and considers the view that the introduction of market incentives in new areas may be harmful to society.
B40|A Brief History of Envelope Theorems in Economics: Static and Dynamic|This paper studies how envelope theorems have been used in Economics, their history and also who first introduced them. The existing literature is full of them and the reason is that most families of optimal value functions can produce them. The paper is driven by curiosity, but hopefully it will give the reader some new insights.
B40|Luigi Bodio: promoter of the political and high scientific mission of statistics and pioneer of the international statistical cooperation|Luigi Bodio (1840-1920) was an Italian economist and statistician, considered one of the founders of the Italian Statistics. He was one of the 21 founding members of the International Statistical Institute (ISI) in 1885, ISI Director-General during the first 20 years (1885-1905) and ISI President for 11 years (1909-1920). This article gives a short insight into Luigi Bodio’s life and may be useful to the Italian and the International Communities interested in the history of statistics and in the origins of international statistical cooperation.
B40|Beyond choice: investigating the sensitivity and validity of measures of strength of preference|Many experiments investigating different decision theories have relied heavily on pairwise choices between lotteries. These are easy to incentivise, but often yield only limited dichotomous information. This paper considers whether respondents’ judgments about their strength of preference (SoP) for one alternative over another can usefully supplement standard choice data. We report extensive evidence that such judgments show sensitivity to variations in question format and parameter values in the directions we should expect, not only within-subject but also between-sample. We illustrate how such judgments can usefully supplement standard pairwise choice data and enrich our understanding of observed behaviour. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
B40|Open access to research data: Strategic delay and the ambiguous welfare effects of mandatory data disclosure|Mandatory disclosure of research data is an essential feature for credible empirical work but comes at a cost: First, authors might invest less in data generation if they are not the full residual claimants of their data after the first journal publication. Second, authors might “strategically delay” the time of submission of papers in order to fully exploit their data in subsequent research. We analyze a three-stage model of publication and data disclosure. We find that the welfare effects of universal mandatory data disclosure are ambiguous. The mere implementation of mandatory data disclosure policies may be welfare-reducing, unless accompanied by appropriate incentives which deter strategic delay.
B40|A Cognitive Approach to Law and Economics: Hayek's Legacy| Hayek's contribution to law has been criticized and disputed. This paper shares the opinion that the significance of Hayek's legal writings and their relevance to law and economics can only be understood by jointly analyzing his economic and legal theories. Moreover, I will argue that both theories must be reconsidered in light of Hayek's theory of mind. This theory represents the key to understanding Hayek's thought in that it provides an insight into the complexity of cognitive and psychological determinants of coordination processes. The latter are essential for understanding the emergence of social institutions. From this perspective, Hayek's theory bears close relevance to current research in law. He suggests a different methodological approach in which the analysis of the micro-foundations of behavior is of central importance. I argue that such multidisciplinary inquiry can contribute to legal theory by explaining perception in decision-making processes. This line of analysis may also contribute to a normative legal theory that reduces errors in legal contexts. Such an interdisciplinary approach seems to be consistent with the OIE requirement — in the tradition of Veblen and Commons — that economic science must deal with a consistent theory of human behavior.
B40|La lutte contre la pauvreté à l'épreuve des essais cliniques. Réflexion sur l'approche expérimentale de l'économie du développement|By trying to guarantee that the fight against poverty is based on evidence, randomized experiments, essentially developed by Esther Duflo within the J-PAL, offer a new way to fight poverty. The originality of such approach is to import the methodology of clinical trials in development economics. In order to stress the main epistemological issues of Esther Duflo's methodology, this paper aims to interrogate this new approach in development economics through the philosophical analysis of Georges Canguilhem in medicine. Afterwards, we show that such approach struggles to produce efficient remedies against poverty; instead, it offers a global view of poverty symptoms
B40|Southern Italy between History and Popular Literature. A Reply to Daniele and Malanima|"The article responds to Daniele and Malanima's harsh criticism (""Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro? Il Mezzogiorno fra storia e pubblicistica"", Ri vista di Storia Economica, 2014, n. 1) of my last book (Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro, il Mulino, 2013), about the reconstruction of regional disparities in Italy and the causes of the Italian North-South divide. For what concerns the estimates of regional GDP, it is shown that: my estimation procedure for 1871 was transparent; the interpolation procedure presented by Daniele and Malanima is not replicable, and its results look ambiguous; the procedure through which Daniele and Malanima claim to have converted regional estimates from historical to current borders is incompatible with their own results; nowadays, a new and more accurate estimate at current borders is available. Concerning the re-interpretation of the North-South divide, I find that Daniele and Malanima present my work in an unfair way, which leads them to a number of interpretative errors (as in reading the econometric results) and to specious controversies; furthermore, the two authors do not consider important or recent findings of the historical research (while at the same time supporting a historically unreliable popular literature on Southern Italy) and refer to economic models in a way that is not always correct, neither accurate. They also champion a view of history which looks to me short-sighted and contradictory."
B40|Bounded-Rationality Models: Tasks to Become Intellectually Competitive|Research in experimental economics has cogently challenged the fundamental precept of neoclassical economics that economic agents optimize. The last two decades have seen elaboration of boundedly rational models that try to move away from the optimization approach, in ways consistent with experimental findings. Nonetheless, the collection of alternative models has made little headway supplanting the dominant paradigm. We delineate key ways in which neoclassical microeconomics holds continuing and compelling advantages over bounded-rationality models, and suggest, via a few examples, the sorts of further, difficult pushes that would be needed to redress this state of affairs. Closer collaboration between theoretic modeling and experiments is clearly seen to be necessary.
B40|Bounded-Rationality Models: Tasks to Become Intellectually Competitive|Research in experimental economics has cogently challenged the fundamental precept of neoclassical economics that economic agents optimize. The last two decades have seen elaboration of boundedly rational models that try to move away from the optimization approach, in ways consistent with experimental findings. Nonetheless, the collection of alternative models has made little headway supplanting the dominant paradigm. We delineate key ways in which neoclassical microeconomics holds continuing and compelling advantages over bounded-rationality models, and suggest, via a few examples, the sorts of further, difficult pushes that would be needed to redress this state of affairs. Closer collaboration between theoretic modeling and experiments is clearly seen to be necessary.
B40|Boundedly Rational versus Optimization-Based Models of Strategic Thinking and Learning in Games|The paper is a comment on the article by R. Harstad and R. Selten and considers the tradeoff between bounded rationality and optimization models in the game-theoretic context. The author shows that in most of the models elements of opimization are still retained and that it is thus more productive to further improve the optimization-based modeling rather than to abandon them altogether in favour of bounded rationality.
B40|Boundedly Rational versus Optimization-Based Models of Strategic Thinking and Learning in Games|Harstad and Seltenâ€™s article in this forum performs a valuable service by highlighting the dominance of optimization-based models over boundedly rational models in modern microeconomics, and questioning whether optimization-based models are a better way forward than boundedly rational models. This article complements Rabinâ€™s response to Harstad and Selten, focusing on modeling strategic behavior. I consider Harstad and Seltenâ€™s examples and proposed boundedly rational models in the light of modern behavioral economics and behavioral game theory, commenting on the challenges that remain and the most promising ways forward.
B40|Structuralism as a Pamphlet|"(On the Book by E. Reinert ""How Rich Countries Got Rich… And Why Poor Countries Stay Poor"". 2nd ed.) The review outlines the connection between E. Reinert’s book and the tradition of structural analysis. The latter allows for the heterogeneity of industries and sectors of the economy, as well as for the effects of increasing and decreasing returns. Unlike the static theory of international trade inherited from the Ricardian analysis of comparative advantage, this approach helps identify the relationship between trade, production, income and population growth. Reinert rehabilitates the ""other canon"" of economic theory associated with the mercantilist tradition, F. Liszt and the German historical school, as well as a reconside­ration of A. Marshall’s analysis of increasing returns. Empirical illustrations given in the book reveal clear parallels with the path of Russian socio-economic development in the last twenty years."
B40|The Role of Normative Judgments in Economic Science|The article explores the relationship between positive and normative components of economic theory. In the beginning interpretations of philosophy of science of the positive and normative judgments are presented and how they relate to scientific knowledge. In positive thinking we distinguish empirical from theoretical reasoning, and in normative - characteristic (methodological) from value judgments. Special attention is paid to the role of the methodological norms for the formation of positive theories. The second paragraph presents accepted by most economists principles of methodological instrumentalism and methodological individualism. They provide the logical reasoning of the postulate of rationality - the most important component of the core of the neoclassical research program. The third paragraph is devoted to the normative economic theory, presented by the welfare economics. The main methodological problem faced by the ones that are working in this branch of the economic science is to compare the usefulness of different individuals and their aggregation. The Pareto criterion is not a satisfactory solution because it is irrelevant to the distribution of benefits consequently additional criteria for social welfare are needed. Theory of social choice warns that if individual preferences are quite different, it would be very difficult to move from the individual level of utility to the level of social welfare in the construction of a social welfare function. Public choice theory focuses on procedures for political decision making on the selection of institutions that allow easier consensus among voters. In the end it is concluded that taking into account various aspects of the regulatory context is difficult to accept the dichotomy positive - normative, as the result of its implementation can lead to a sharp reduction in utility that economics brings in relation to the solution of practical tasks, including the supply of principles of economic policy.
B40|Integrating Social Status into Economic Theory: The Social Status Economics of Robert Frank|This article offers an overview of the American economist Robert Frank’s approach towards integrating social status concerns into conventional economic models of consumer choice, individual time allocation between work and leisure, income allocation between consumption and saving, etc. Preserving the methodological individualism of traditional economic analysis Frank succeeds to add a promising new layer to neoclassical economic theory - implicit markets for social status – which is able to explain both competitive behavior and the apparent deviation from it in a multitude of real-life instances.
B40|Problems of the Philosophy of Natural and Social Sciences – An Introduction to the Philosophy of Economics [Probleme ale filozofiei ştiinţelor naturii şi a ştiinţelor socio-umane – O introducere în filozofia ştiinţelor economice]|In the view of analysing the differences and resemblances of the natural and social sciences (with the economics between them), some of their ontological and epistemological problems and solutions are presented. Many methodological options succeed to preserve the basic unity and autonomy of the natural and human ontological domains and, alike, of their corresponding sciences.
B40|Philosophy of the Multilevel Reality. Applications in Economics (I) [Filozofia realitǎţii multinivel. Aplicaţii în economie (I)]|In the first part (§§1-3), based on the ontological and epistemological problems and solutions and on the analysis of the philosophical grounds of three main schools of economics, exposed in the previous papers, a short overview of the philosophy of the multilevel reality is undertaken. It is shown that the hierarchy of the sciences is not only formal, but corresponds to a true organization of the reality.
B40|An Investigation of Editorial Favoritism in the AER|This paper contributes to a substantial literature assessing the credibility of academic research. We examine the hypothesis that selection procedures of journals favor submissions that cite journal insiders. Our tests use data from the American Economic Review (AER) and the number of citations to AER publications that appear in non-AER journals. We find that citations to AER-insiders in articles in the AER were statistically insignificant; however, increased frequency of citations in non-AER journals were positively (albeit statistically insignificant) related to references to AER insiders. The sign is precisely opposite of what one would expect if submissions were judged on criteria other than intellectual merit. The evidence is robust across specifications. Given our metric, sample, and procedures, we do not find any significant support for the hypothesis of editorial favoritism.
B40|A Model of Modeling|We propose a formal model of scientific modeling, geared to applications of decision theory and game theory. The model highlights the freedom that modelers have in conceptualizing social phenomena using general paradigms in these fields. It may shed some light on the distinctions between (i) refutation of a theory and a paradigm, (ii) notions of rationality, (iii) modes of application of decision models, and (iv) roles of economics as an academic discipline. Moreover, the model suggests that all four distinctions have some common features that are captured by the model.
B40|Indifference Curve Analysis: The Correct And The Incorrect|The thesis of this paper is that when the indifference curve is concave to the origin, the optimal point on the budget line is not the corner solution on the highest (most north eastern) indifference curve, the analysis all too often offered in the literature, but, rather, somewhat paradoxically, the lowest (most south western) indifference curve. The economics profession, as articulated through the megaphone of intermediate micro economics texts, offers a mixed result in this regard. Some few do offer a correct analysis, but many do not; others ignore the issue entirely. The contribution of the present paper and the aim of our research is to provide a correction of the widespread but erroneous indifference curve analysis that appears in many of our intermediate microeconomics texts. Our methodology is one of contrast: we offer what we see as both the correct and the incorrect versions of indifference curve analysis.
B40|Consistency in pluralism and microfoundations|John King has made challenging contributions to our thinking in many areas. This paper focuses on two of these: the case for pluralism and the case against requiring macroeconomic theory to be expressed in terms of its microfoundations. The purpose of this paper is to explore further the relationship between the two, requiring discussion of the relationship between the different levels of philosophy, methodology, theory and reality. A particular focus is put on the role of the concept of consistency in these two papers. This concept is explored further here at different levels and according to different methodological approaches. The contrast is drawn between its meaning in classical logic and in human logic.
B40|The role of belief in the debate over austerity policies|The purpose of this paper is to argue that awareness of the epistemological issues arising from an open-system ontology is critical to understanding the crisis and the policy response, to challenging that understanding and to encouraging a radical policy shift. The argument is couched in terms of belief as an epistemological concept. In particular the paper addresses the misleading impression, persuasively conveyed by mainstream economists, that their argument for austerity is ‘scientific’ and independent of ideology, power and ethics. The resulting widespread belief in austerity policies as scientifically justified has prevented arguments against austerity gaining more traction. The critique of austerity policies would therefore be strengthened by a critique of this rhetorical (mis)representation of economic theorising.
B40|The Problem of Methodological Pluralism in Ecological Economics|Methodological pluralism advocates balanced consideration of multiple research methods. The concept rests upon the necessity of choice in the absence of conclusive principles to guide the preference of method. Ecological economics, however, appears to be engaging in a different conception creating confusion as to the scope for intellectual openness. This paper offers clarifications for this concept and a critique. Ecological economics advances a coherent theory crafted along its biophysical worldview and moral commitments. These imperatives guide the choice of method and favour a reduced range of methodological possibilities to the exclusion of neoclassical economic options. If ecological economics is seen as an ideological opposite of neoclassical economics, it would need a selective methodological strategy rather than maintaining methodological diversity. Maintaining diversity may erode the basis of its heterodox criticisms by requiring openness to the orthodox alternatives. Ecological economics has shown difficulty in sustaining its long-standing pluralist commitments while increasingly seeking clear differentiation from its monolithic “enemy”.
B40|Il Mezzogiorno fra storia e pubblicistica. Una replica a Daniele e Malanima<BR>[Southern Italy between history and journalistic books. A reply to Daniele and Malanima]|The article responds to Daniele and Malanima’s harsh criticism (Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro? Il Mezzogiorno fra storia e pubblicistica, Rivista di Storia Economica, 2014, n. 1) of my last book (Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro, Il Mulino, 2013), about the reconstruction of regional disparities in Italy and the causes of the Italian North-South divide. For what concerns the estimates of regional GDP, it is shown that: my estimation procedure for 1871 was transparent; the interpolation procedure presented by Daniele and Malanima is not replicable, and its results look ambiguous; the procedure through which Daniele and Malanima claim to have converted regional estimates from historical to current borders is incompatible with their own results; nowadays, a new and more accurate estimate at current borders is available. Con-cerning the re-interpretation of the North-South divide, I find that Daniele and Malanima present my work in an unfair way, which leads them to a number of interpretative errors (as in reading the economet-ric results) and to specious controversies; furthermore, the two authors do not consider important or re-cent findings of the historical research (while at the same time supporting a historically unreliable journal-istic literature on Southern Italy) and refer to economic models in a way that is not always correct, neither accurate. They also champion a view of history which looks to me short-sighted and contradictory. L’articolo risponde alle aspre critiche mosse da Daniele e Malanima (Perché il Sud è rimasto indie-tro? Il Mezzogiorno fra storia e pubblicistica, Rivista di Storia Economica, 2014, n. 1) al mio ultimo libro (Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro, Il Mulino, 2013), circa la ricostruzione dei divari regionali in Italia e l’interpretazione della questione meridionale. Per quel che riguarda la ricostruzione dei divari, si mostra che: la mia procedura di stima per il 1871 è trasparente; la procedura di interpolazione realizzata da Da-niele e Malanima non è replicabile e si accompagna a risultati poco chiari; il metodo con il quale Daniele e Malanima dichiarano di essere passati dai confini storici ai confini attuali è incompatibile con i loro risultati; disponiamo oggi di una nuova ricostruzione per anni campione, ai confini attuali, più approfon-dita. Per quel che concerne la reinterpretazione del divario Nord-Sud, a mio giudizio Daniele e Malanima propongono una lettura parziale del mio lavoro, che li conduce a errori di interpretazione (ad esempio nel leggere i modelli econometrici) o a forzature polemiche; inoltre i due autori non considerano importanti o recenti contributi della ricerca storica (mentre supportano una certa pubblicistica storicamente inattendibi-le in circolazione sul Mezzogiorno) e fanno un utilizzo non sempre appropriato della letteratura economi-ca. Nemmeno la loro visione della storia, e all’interno di questa del comune mestiere di «costruttori di stime», a me sembra condivisibile.
B40|Heurística: notas muy preliminares para analizar problemas en economía<BR>[Heuristics: very preliminary notes in economics to analyze problems]|"In the field of economics could highlight three theses models to evaluate information and arguments that are opposed to the schemes existing political economy. Thesis work we derive Albert Hirschman around what he calls ""rhetorical intransigence."" Explain this author: (1) the perversity thesis, which holds that any deliberate action to improve some aspect of political, social or economic order only serves to exacerbate the situation to be remedied; (2) the futility thesis which states that attempts to carry out social reforms will be zero or limited in scope; (3) the theory of risk, ensuring that the political and social costs of the proposed reforms is considerably high and jeopardize what has been achieved. An applied research from studies of argumentation can describe how these rhetorical enroll in specific cases, to show two things: first, what were the predominant communication techniques in the economic environment over a historical period and why some groups are reported as abnormally"
B40|The Contrast between Mainstream and Heterodox Economics: A Misleading Controversy—“Necessary” System versus “Natural” System|This article focuses on a broad distinction within economic thinking and the methodological misconceptions that are implied by it. We find today, on the one hand, mainstream economics, which uses both the method of abstract rationality typical of the logical-formal sciences and the method of the natural sciences—two methodologies that, as we shall prove, are inappropriate for the study of social reality. On the other hand we find the opponents of mainstream economics, primarily heterodox economics, who emphasize methodological pluralism and lend, in the extreme, their support to the relativist view that all views may be right in their own way. Such an unconstrained pluralist attitude to method obstructs interaction and reciprocal understanding among students, the scientific appreciation of theoretical contributions and the same fecundating role of pluralism. We shall see that methodological diffuseness is the primary factor explaining the failure of attacks against mainstream economics and we shall look for a solution to this embarrassing impotence by searching for general methodological procedure and rules fully appropriate to the scientific study of social reality.
B40|The Economics of Financial Securities for Environmental Obligations and Their Impact in Royalty Revenues from Alberta Oil Sands in North America|The use of natural resources comes with dramatic responsibilities for producers and resource owners. According to Alberta Environment and Sustainable Resources Development mining companies must plan for suspension, abandonment, remediation and surface reclamation of the territory they utilise. These companies, also known as Approval Holders, have choices as to which security types to use in order to satisfy their environmental liabilities. These choices have material impact in determining annual royalty and tax revenues collected by the government.Royalty regulation in Alberta allows Approval Holders to deduct their annual costs from revenues. QETs (Qualifying Environmental Trusts), unlike Letters of Credit, are allowed for such deductions. As a result, when used by Approval Holders QETs shrink the royalty revenue materially, since its full value is tax and royalty deductible. However, Approval Holders cannot deduct QETs from taxable income if the mine field is no longer recoverable and the production of bitumen has stopped permanently. As time horizon of existing mine fields in Oil Sands shrinks and future commodity prices stay uncertain we expect that Approval Holders will make a quick use of QETs to reduce their taxable income in the near future. In this paper, we explain why oil sands operators have not used QETs as financial securities and which uncertainties should play critical roles in identifying negative revenue impacts. This report gives an analysis of such differences and suggests possible ways to avoid royalty revenue reductions from Oil Sands mine fields.
B40|Possibilities of Application of the Index Concentration of Linda in Small Economy: Example of Serbian Food Industries|The aim of this paper is to show the possibility and importance of using the index of concentration of Linda in the analysis of market structure in small economies, and thus, to examine the possibility of its involvement in the practice of anti-monopoly state authorities in those countries. Results of application of the mentioned (system) index are proved in comparison with the results of previously conducted cluster analysis in the food industry, one of the most competitive branch in the economy of Serbia. The study showed the solidity and excellent opportunities of using the index of Lindа even in relatively small economy, in which predominate oligopolistic and other imperfectly-competitive structures.
B40|Методологические Возможности “Блумингтонской Школы”: И Перспективы Развития Современного Неоинституционализма<BR>[The Formation of the “Bloomington School”: Methodological Opportunities and Perspectives of Contemporary New Institutionalism Development]|В статье анализируются институциональные процессы формирования научной Блумингтонской школы за последнюю четверть века, которая тесно связана с концептуальным и методологическим наследием Элинор Остром, а также работами ее коллег и учеников. Автор подчеркивает значимость неоинституциональной методологии в современной социологической мысли, в исследованиях социальных дилемм, общих ресурсов, коллективных действий и идентичности. По мнению автора, исследования Блумингтонской школы попытались предложить решение проблемы социально-экономического развития традиционных сообществ в стабильности в условиях социетальной неопределенности, используя неоинституциональную методологию. Дальнейшее методологическое развитие Блумингтонской школы автор связывает с конкретизацией определений социальных дилемм и общих ресурсов, изучением проблем как устойчивости, так и распада институтов, и их трансформации из динамического равновесия с позитивными гнездовыми экстерналиями в девиантное неравновесие. In the article the institutional processes of Bloomington school formation are analyzed. Such processes are closely connected to the conceptual and methodological heritage of Elinor Ostrom and her colleagues and students. The author underlies importance of neo-institutional methodology in the contemporary sociological thought, in studies of social dilemmas, common-pool resources, collective actions and identity. In author’s opinion, by using neo-institutional methodology, studies of the Bloomington school have tried to find a solution of the problem of stable social-economic development of traditional societies. In author’s opinion, the further development of the Bloomington school is connected with further defining social dilemmas and common-pool resources, studies of institutional stability and institutional disintegration and transformations of institutions from dynamic equilibrium with positive nested externalities to dynamic non-equilibrium.
B40|Reforming the methodolgoy of product development in Islamic finance|It is commonly observed that the current methodology of product development in Islamic finance has failed to reflect the productive nature of Islamic economics. This is evidenced by a number of current products being substantially indistinguishable from their conventional counterparts according to the commonly-held views. Reform in this regard, if to be undertaken, must not overlook the positive and sound aspects of the current methodology used for product development, since this methodology has undoubtedly yielded some good products and helped fulfill basic Sharia requirements in transactions. As such, the following methodology needs to be adopted. First is to identify the necessary Sharia elements in any product structuring in terms of both form and substance, with a special emphasis on the ones that reflect the special constructive nature of Islamic finance. Second is to group these elements according to their observance in the current structured products. Having identified the neglected Sharia elements, the article will then examine the reasons behind their negligence, whether it is for necessary and unavoidable factors or just for ease pursuance. In light of the findings, the article will either consolidate the current methodology adopted for product development, or propose and lay down the basics of a new one that upholds the unjustifiably neglected Sharia requirements.
B40|Will the Financial Crisis Become a Milestone in the Development of Methodology of Economics?|It has been widely accepted that philosophers of science wrote a “swansong” for positivism during the second half of the 20th century. Milton Friedman and Paul Samuelson, major contributors in the fi eld of economic methodology at the time, the argument goes, never refl ected the demise. Therefore, positivist roots are still to be found in infl uential theoretical concepts developed by mainstream economists. Specifi cally, I present the hypothesis of rational expectations and the theory of effi cient markets as two signifi cant outcomes of a “high tide” of positivist thinking in economics. However, quite a large number of scholars currently share the view that the two concepts contributed in a non-negligible manner to the development leading to the fi nancial crisis culminating in 2008 and 2009 and should be replaced by behavioural or other approaches. The article thus asks, in quite a novel way, if the crisis - seen by many as an empirical rejection of both the concepts - can also be seen as a milestone in the development of methodology of economics.
B40|Utilitarianism According to John Stuart Mill|The article discusses utilitarianism in the form elaborated by John Stuart Mill. Although utilitarianism has been variously employed by philosophers and economists, Mill is the fi gure most closely associated with this theory. His ideas deeply infl uenced economists of the 20th century and continue to shape the postulates of contemporary economics and other social sciences. We demonstrate how seminal utilitarianism was to Mill’s work, explore what infl uenced his thoughts on it, and place our analysis in the socioeconomic context of the time Mill was writing. We argue that utilitarianism has eclipsed Mill’s other contributions to economics, yet is often oversimplifi ed and has unjustly served as a platform for a more general critique of homo economicus.
B40|Fenomenologie jako základ ekonomické metody<BR>[Phenomenology as a Foundation of Economic Method]|In recent years, economic approach to human behavior has been challenged by contributions of cognitive science under the name of behavioral economics. As a result, two methodological strands in economics discord with each other: objectivistic (naturalistic) approach refuses the role of motivations in human behavior, adopting methods of natural science; subjectivistic (interpretative) approach, on the other hand, takes the teleological structure of human action as its corner stone. It is argued that position of the latter (esp. rational choice theory) has been undermined because it builds upon primitive version of human teleological structure. The paper shows that phenomenology offers a promising solution. Phenomenology identifies typical, invariant structures of human action and social world, with various degrees of their anonymity. If economic approach is founded on those structures adequately, then both rational choice theory and bounded rationality theories become compatible, as they differ in their degrees of anonymity only; they both belong to the body of (subjectivistic) economic approach to human behavior.
B40|Can Tax Compliance Research Profit from Biology?|Historically, tax compliance has been a highly interdisciplinary avenue of research to which economics, psychology, law, sociology, history, political science, and accountancy have made valuable contributions. It is less well understood, however, whether we can glean useful insights into tax compliance by moving beyond the social sciences. In particular, the literature pays little attention to the relevance of biology. This paper attempts to remedy this shortcoming by examining the potential opportunities and limitations of introducing biological concepts into tax compliance research.
B40|La racionalidad en la formación de expectativas. Crítica de la hipótesis de expectativas racionales|La hipótesis de expectativas racionales domina los programas de investigación macroeconómica desde su surgimiento en los años setenta. Este marco metodológico dio a la macroeconomía fundamentos dinámicos consistentes con la teoría de la elección racional. Sin embargo, el costo ha sido muy alto: desapareció la posibilidad de concebir desequilibrios a nivel agregado y, con ella, la utilidad de la política económica. Este artículo revisa diversas críticas a la hipótesis de expectativas racionales y expone otra forma de microfundamentación que permite explicar los fenómenos de desequilibrio.
B40|XXI Century. The Age of Great Challenges. The Problem of “Us” and the “Others” - Il XXI secolo: l’era delle grandi sfide. Il problema di “noi” e gli “altri”|The aim of this paper is to discuss some of the great challenges that will characterize the XXI Century. In the background we consider the problem of the relationship between “Us” and the “Others”, that is how to reconcile the power of Western universalism with the multitudes of other identity groups based on values. We argue that the “Great Converge” which will characterize world economy the next decades represents one of the greatest challenges in human history. The management of economic, financial, monetary, demographic, cultural and environmental forces will need some form of global agreement or global constitution: which means finding some general principles agreed upon by all nations of the world if we want to have a peaceful and sustainable development of the planet. The changing concept of time will represent another of the great challenge which we will have to face. We are living a growing a-synchronicity between and among different categories of time: the time of history; the time of finance; the time of economic development; the internal time consciousness of individuals; the time of objects and the time of consumerism; the time of life and death; the time of generations; the time of institutions and institutional building; the time of property; and, finally and most important, the time of culture and the time of of nature. Together with a new conception and management of time, we also need to reconsider the very economic foundations of the institutions of capitalism. This is possible, we shall argue, if we introduce a new function to represent economic and non-economic behavior within societies. A function based not only on the calculation of the monetary return of individuals, but based also on values and tastes. This, we suggest, maybe achieved by combining cardinal and parametric functions in a single representation (an algebraic field) where values and tastes are considered not only as “means”, to achieve individual or collective welfare, but also as “ends” in themselves. This should allow us to reconcile the typical Western profit maximizing conception of individuals and society, against all other non-economic considerations, which differ across the world according to a great variety of existing and evolving value systems. - Obiettivo di questo contributo è quello di discutere alcune delle grandi sfide che caratterizzeranno il XXI Secolo. Terremo nel sottofondo il problema del rapporto tra “noi” e gli “altri”, ovvero come riconciliare il potere dell’universalismo Occidentale all’interno della moltitudine di altri gruppi identitari basati sui diversi insiemi di valori. Cercheremo di dimostrare che la c.d. “Grande Convergenza”, che caratterizzerà l’economia mondiale nelle prossime decadi, rappresenterà una delle maggiori sfide della storia dell’umanità. La gestione dell’evoluzione delle potenti forze economiche, finanziarie, monetarie, demografiche, culturali e ambientali che caratterizzano la nostra epoca, avrà bisogno di una qualche forma di accordo o costituzione globale. Ciò significa trovare alcuni principi generali da tutti condivisi per fare in modo che l’evoluzione della storia del pianeta sia sostenibile e pacifica. Le mutazioni in atto del concetto di tempo rappresentano una delle altre grandi sfide che dovremo affrontare. Assistiamo ad una crescente a-sincronia tra i diversi concetti di tempo: il tempo della storia; il tempo dello sviluppo economico; il tempo della finanza; il tempo della coscienza interna dell’individuo; il tempo degli oggetti e del loro consumo; il tempo della vita e della morte; il tempo delle generazioni; il tempo delle istituzioni e dell’institutional building; il tempo della proprietà; ed, infine, il tempo della cultura e della natura. L’a-sincronia potrebbe creare “punti di catastrofe” ed è quindi necessario studiare e capire cosa sia meglio fare per ridurre questi rischi. A fianco di un ripensamento sulla natura e la gestione del tempo della globalizzazione, crediamo sia necessario anche dare nuove fondamenta economiche alle istituzioni del capitalismo. Ciò è possibile, secondo noi, anche attraverso la costruzione di una nuova funzione per la rappresentazione dei comportamenti economici e sociali all’interno delle nostre società. Una funzione che non sia solo basata su ritorno economicopecuniario dell’individuo, ma basata anche sui valori e sui gusti. La proposta per la costruzione di una funzione del benessere collettivo fondata anche su valori e gusti si basa sulla combinazione di funzioni cardinali e funzioni parametriche in una rappresentazione singola (un campo algebrico) nella quale valori e gusti vengono considerati non solo come “mezzi” per ottenere il benessere individuale e collettivo, ma anche come “fini” in se stessi. Si tratta, a nostro avviso, di un tentativo di riconciliare la tipica concezione Occidentale della massimizzazione del profitto individuale e collettivo, con tutte le altre considerazioni non puramente economiche e/o “diversamente economiche”, che esistono nel mondo, all’interno di una varietà di sistemi di valori, alcuni rigidi e stabili e altri, la maggioranza, in grande evoluzione.
B40|Another brick in the wall? A comment on Francesco Boldizzoni's The Poverty of Clio|A book that reflects on the state-of-the-art in Economic History and discusses the different approaches of current and past research is highly welcome. Fortunately, Economics, History and Economic History, are nowadays fluently using multi-dimensional approaches to development, in which belief systems, culture and values play an important role. We must apply the same tools of analysis to our contemporary production. Unfortunately, the study of research methodology and of the History of Economic Thought has been losing ground in the education of economists, as much as the study of Economics is considered useless in the education of historians. In this context, every attempt to bridge the gap, to critically approach and to promote the link between history and economics is a welcome contribution. KEY Classification-JEL: B29, B40
B40|Beyond orthodoxy in economic history: Has Boldizzoni resurrected synthetic-structural history?|Boldizzoni's attempted resurrection of a realist, non-abstract, historical approach to economic history is learned, rhetorically rich, and largely persuasive but lacks some crucial dimensions. The continuing dominance of orthodoxy in ‘official’ economic history after the institutionalist turn (despite a context of methodological and socio-political pluralism among the wide range of practitioners under various labels) lies in its continued abstraction and reductive econometrics. But ad hoc adjustments while maintaining rational choice, methodological individualism, and an uncritical ideological defence of free markets, do not address the basic, underlying weaknesses that Boldizzoni correctly identifies. In proposing his manifesto for revival of the synthetic-structural tradition, however, he should have paid more attention to recent arguments in defence of new philosophical and theoretical foundations for social science history.. KEY Classification-JEL: B29, B40
