B49|Social Capital and Health: A Meta-Analysis|This study investigates the extensive empirical literature on social capital and health using meta-analysis. Our final sample consists of 12,459 estimated effects taken from 450 studies. Our main result is that the overall mean size of the effect of social capital on health is very small, though it is statistically significant. This low association follows from a relatively large share of individually insignificant estimates, combined with the large sample sizes that characterize this literature. Furthermore, despite an extensive theoretical literature concerned with delineating different kinds of social capital, we find few systematic empirical differences. While cognitive social capital has a significantly stronger association with health than structural social capital, especially for mental health, the difference is empirically minor. There is no evidence of significant differences between bonding, bridging, and linking social capital.
B49|Humans in the perfectly competitive market|The perfectly competitive market – a hypothetical situation free of market failure – serves as a benchmark for economic theory, providing the basis for the two fundamental welfare theorems. The radical abstractions of this idea makes it hard to grasp its full implications, however. In this essay, I explore the perfectly competitive market using literary fiction. Part I discusses fiction as a tool for economic theory. Part II is a science fiction story about two economists travelling to the perfectly competitive market for their honeymoon. Part III develops main theoretical insights emerging from the story. First, to preclude market failure, complete social isolation must prevail. Second, the requirements of symmetric information and no external effects are extremely hard to reconcile, leading to an impossibility result: if trade is permitted anytime, and deliberate, welfare-relevant learning is feasible, no perfectly competitive market can exist.
B49|El Efecto Globo: identificación de regiones propensas a la producción de coca|La lucha contra las drogas, especialmente contra la cocaína, ha empleado una gran porción de los recursos económicos, ambientales y humanos de Colombia en las últimas cuatro décadas. No obstante, no parece que haya avances significativos en la reducción del tráfico de cocaína ni en la reducción de cultivos de coca. Una de las principales razones por la que las estrategias que atacan la oferta de narcotráfico han fracasado es el llamado Efecto Globo, según el cual represiones en la producción de drogas de una región están asociados a aumentos en otras regiones por efectos de desplazamiento. Con el objetivo de reducir de manera definitiva los cultivos de coca en Colombia durante la implementación de los acuerdos de paz, se busca identificar los municipios susceptibles a las consecuencias del Efecto Globo, es decir, encontrar los municipios que son potencialmente cocaleros a través de un ejercicio de predicción. Este ejercicio permitirá alertar al gobierno para que implemente políticas focalizadas que eviten el desarrollo de producción de hoja de coca. La metodología empírica se centra en técnicas de análisis supervisado de aprendizaje de máquinas (machine learning), en particular ensambles de modelos a través de subbagging, los cuales permiten el desarrollo de un modelo de predicción agregado que pueda clasificar los municipios potencialmente cocaleros.
B49|El efecto globo: Identificación de regiones propensas a la producción de coca|La lucha contra las drogas, especialmente contra la cocaína, ha empleado una gran porción de los recursos económicos, ambientales y humanos de Colombia en las últimas cuatro décadas. No obstante, no parece que haya avances significativos en la reducción del tráfico de cocaína ni en la reducción de cultivos de coca. Una de las principales razones por la que las estrategias que atacan la oferta de narcotráfico han fracasado es el llamado Efecto Globo, según el cual represiones en la producción de drogas de una región están asociados a aumentos en otras regiones por efectos de desplazamiento. Con el objetivo de reducir de manera definitiva los cultivos de coca en Colombia durante la implementación de los acuerdos de paz, se busca identificar los municipios susceptibles a las consecuencias del Efecto Globo, es decir, encontrar los municipios que son potencialmente cocaleros a través de un ejercicio de predicción. Este ejercicio permitirá alertar al gobierno para que implemente políticas focalizadas que eviten el desarrollo de producción de hoja de coca. La metodología empírica se centra en técnicas de análisis supervisado de aprendizaje de máquinas (machine learning), en particular ensambles de modelos a través de subbagging, los cuales permiten el desarrollo de un modelo de predicción agregado que pueda clasificar los municipios potencialmente cocaleros.
B49|Sequential Common Consequence Effect and Incentives|Economics calls for monetary incentives to induce participants to exhibit truthful behaviour. This experiment investigates the effect of reducing incentives on dynamic choices, which encompass the individual and chance in a sequence of decisions. This experiment compares choices with the commonly used random lottery incentive system (RLIS) to hypothetical choices in the dynamic choice setting surrounding the common consequence effect (CCE), both horizontal and vertical. In addition, the RLIS is partially controlled for by eliciting with single choice individual preferences over the two horizontal CCE static choice problems. Results suggest that lessening incentives do not induce a systematic shift in preferences when emotional responses are not at stake.
B49|Exchange rate volatility: Trader's beliefs and the role of news|The study of financial market volatility has focused on the unexpected and expected components of news (Vortelinos, 2015; Omrane and Hafner, 2015). We incorporate the role of biases arising from the 'availability' of recent outcomes to the traders, in influencing trading decisions. The theory of heuristics (Tversky and Kahneman, 1974) is used to build on the theory of trader's biases which helps to understand the reasons behind market volatility. Empirically the model is tested with five minute data on USD/INR and time stamped news from the US and Indian markets. We find that volatility is likely to be in higher ranges with increase in trader's biases, corresponding to unexpected news component. GARCH analysis of returns of average bid-ask rates shows that unexpected news, expected news and bias corresponding to expected news lead to increased volatility.
B49|An Experiment on Social Mislearning|We investigate experimentally whether social learners appreciate the redundancy of information conveyed by their observed predecessors' actions. Each participant observes a private signal and enters an estimate of the sum of all earlier-moving participants' signals plus her own. In a first treatment, participants move single-file and observe all predecessors' entries; Bayesian Nash Equilibrium (BNE) predicts that each participant simply add her signal to her immediate predecessor's entry. Although 75% of participants do so, redundancy neglect by the other 25% generates excess imitation and mild inefficiencies. In a second treatment, participants move four per period; BNE predicts that most players anti-imitate some observed entries. Such anti-imitation occurs in 35% of the most transparent cases, and 16% overall. The remaining redundancy neglect creates dramatic excess imitation and inefficiencies: late-period entries are far too extreme, and on average participants would earn substantially more by ignoring their predecessors altogether.
B49|Comparative advantage and Provincial Competitiveness of the main industries in South Africa: An Economic Base Analysis Approach|Economic disparities across provinces and local municipalities are remarkable in developing countries such as South Africa. Economic development practitioners, policy makers, development planners, investors and business people alike have much to gain from a careful consideration of the economy. It is very important for local and foreign investors to know which industry is more concentrated in a particular area and which is non-existent. The identification of these industries allow investors to carefully take calculated opportunities and for development policy makers to prudently provide the right economic development direction. The main objective of this paper is to offer an empirical investigation of the geographic concentration of the main South African industries. This paper focuses on two economic base analysis techniques namely the location quotient and shift share technique that both seek to examine industrial dis/advantages, structure and competitiveness. The goal of economic base analysis is to uncover and reveal characteristics, strengths, weaknesses and trends that describe a regional economy. In this case, the industry Location Quotient (LQ) is a way of quantifying how concentrated industries are for each province compared to South Africa as a whole. Using data from Quarterly Labour Force Survey (QLFS) by Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) the paper report the findings over the period of 2012 to 2016. Preliminary key findings indicate that the comparative advantage of agriculture and mining declined between 2012 and 2016 in Mpumalanga, Limpopo and North West, whereas that of utilities, manufacturing improved in Northern Cape, KwaZulu Natal, Free State and Limpopo Provinces has increased. Furthermore, under the dynamic location quotient analysis, the agriculture and mining both have a location quotient in excess of 1.0, but require ?intensive care? in terms of planning and investment as their advantage have declined over time in three out of nine provinces. In addition, in terms of the dynamic location quotient, community services, finance, manufacturing and transport (ranked according to employment size) can be regarded as ?pre-emergent? industries in the Mpumalanga, Gauteng and Western Cape Provinces. In terms of shift share analysis, employment changes due to regional competitiveness were similar to changes due to industrial mix factors experienced in the mining, construction, transport and finance in the Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga and North West Provinces. Overall, the results suggest that policy makers should speed up the construction of large and medium sized industrial enterprises, promoting the development of secondary industry and actively enhance development of the tertiary industry.
B49|Toward A New Framework of Islamic Economic Analysis|The effort to develop Islamic economics as a discipline has not brought about the expected results. Differing from previous diagnoses, in this paper, I argue that it is the absence of a clear notion of what economics can be considered to be Islamic that impedes the development of Islamic economics. Such a clear notion is essential. I therefore propose three main conditions under which an economics can be considered as (and henceforth to be given the prefix) Islamic. I further propose that the scope of Islamic economics consists of four distinguished fields of work, and that the methods used in the development of Islamic economics vary depending on the end sought within each field of work. I finally expand on three implications, which together give rise to a hope that the development of Islamic economics, and its body of knowledge, is likely to be much less complicated than Islamic economists have ever thought.
B49|What economics education is missing: The real world|The global financial crisis (GFC) led to increasing distrust in economic research and the economics profession, in the process of which the current state of economics and economic education in particular were heavily criticized. Against this background we conducted a study with undergraduate students of economics in order to capture their view of economic education. The paper is based on the Documentary Method, a qualitative empirical method, which combines maximum openness with regard to the collection of empirical material coupled with maximum rigor in analysis. The empirical findings show that students enter economics curricula with (1) epistemic, (2) practical or (3) moral/political motivations for understanding and dealing with real-world problems but end up remarkably disappointed after going through the mathematical and methods-orientated introductory courses. The findings further indicate that students develop strategies to cope with their disappointment - all of them relating to their original motivation. The theoretical contextualization of the empirical findings is based on the psychological concept of cognitive dissonance.
B49|"""The market deals out profit and losses"": Wie ökonomische Standardlehrbücher das unreflektierte Denken in Metaphern fördern"|"Das Paper analysiert den bisher kaum beachteten Gebrauch von Metaphern in ökonomischen Standardlehrbüchern am Beispiel der Lehrtexte von Paul A. Samuelson und N. Gregory Mankiw. Dabei steht die metaphorische Semantik des abstrakten Konzeptes ""des Marktes"" im Zentrum der Untersuchungen. Mittels textanalytischer Methoden und mit Rückgriff auf die Conceptual Metaphor Theory verfolgen die Autorinnen die Einführung des Konzeptes ""der Markt"" als abstraktes und weitestgehend inhaltsleeres Konzept, die (Um-)Deutungen des Konzepts mithilfe von Entitätsmetaphern, Personifizierungen und Orientierungsmetaphern und die Verbindung des Begriffes mit politisch-ideologischen Wertungen. Hauptergebnisse sind: (1) Ökonomische Standardlehrbücher weisen einen massiven und stillschweigenden Gebrauch von Metaphern auf. (2) Dieser Gebrauch kann das kognitive Unbewusste der Leser_innen beeinflussen, und (3) Reflexive ökonomische Bildung kann zu einem verantwortungsvollen Umgang mit Metaphern befähigen."
B49|Random Lottery Incentive Mechanism in Dynamic Choice Experiments|Cubitt, Starmer and Sugden [TheEconomic Journal, 108, 1362-80, (1998)] pose a dynamic choice argument against the random lottery incentive (RLIS) mechanism. To wit, the RLIS relies on principles of dynamic choice. Thus, experimental research on the dynamic choice principles should be conducted ina single choice design. This study attempts to evaluate the empirical validity of their argument by quasi-replicating their single choice experiment in a RLIS design. Results suggest that one may use the RLISin dynamic choice experiments.
B49|Biased Beliefs About Random Samples: Evidence from Two Integrated Experiments|This paper describes results of a pair of incentivized experiments on biases in judgments about random samples. Consistent with the Law of Small Numbers (LSN), participants exaggerated the likelihood that short sequences and random subsets of coin flips would be balanced between heads and tails. Consistent with the Non-Belief in the Law of Large Numbers (NBLLN), participants underestimated the likelihood that large samples would be close to 50% heads. However, we identify some shortcomings of existing models of LSN, and we find that NBLLN may not be as stable as previous studies suggest. We also find evidence for exact representativeness (ER), whereby people tend to exaggerate the likelihood that samples will (nearly) exactly mirror the underlying odds, as an additional bias beyond LSN. Our within-subject design of asking many different questions about the same data lets us disentangle the biases from possible rational alternative interpretations by showing that the biases lead to inconsistency in answers. Our design also centers on identifying and controlling for bin effects, whereby the probability assigned to outcomes systematically depends on the categories used to elicit beliefs in a way predicted by support theory. The bin effects are large and systematic and affect some results, but we find LSN, NBLLN, and ER even after controlling for them.
B49|Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s Historiographic Lesson and Contemporary History of Economics|The article concerns key-important moments of Herbert Butterfieldï¿½s historiographic methodology, whose work Whig Interpretation of History (1931) generalizes the negative understanding of the qualifications, associated with ï¿½whigï¿½. It is argued that in the contemporary discussions in the history of economic thought/ history of economics Ross B. Emmettï¿½s contra-whig historiographic conception corresponds to Butterfieldï¿½s views, advanced in this and other publications of his, on agents of progress, inï¿½cluding progress in knowledge; whereas Samuelsonï¿½s whig historiographic stand - contrary to his pretension that it represents a particular/ non-classic/non-final, a better whig interpretation is actually restrictive and counterproï¿½ductive. The latter is embodied in the current mainstream economics.
B49|A game-theoretic analysis of the Waterloo campaign and some comments on the analytic narrative project|Abstract The paper has a twofold aim. On the one hand, it provides what appears to be the first game-theoretic modeling of Napoléon’s last campaign, which ended dramatically on June 18, 1815, at Waterloo. It is specifically concerned with the decision Napoléon made on June 17, 1815, to detach part of his army and send it against the Prussians, whom he had defeated, though not destroyed, on June 16 at Ligny. Military strategists and historians agree that this decision was crucial but disagree about whether it was rational. Hypothesizing a zero-sum game between Napoléon and Blücher, and computing its solution, we show that dividing his army could have been a cautious strategy on Napoléon’s part, a conclusion which runs counter to the charges of misjudgment commonly heard since Clausewitz. On the other hand, the paper addresses some methodological issues relative to “analytic narratives”. Some political scientists and economists who are both formally and historically minded have proposed to explain historical events in terms of properly mathematical game-theoretic models. We liken the present study to this “analytic narrative” methodology, which we defend against some of objections that it has aroused. Generalizing beyond the Waterloo case, we argue that military campaigns provide an especially good opportunity for testing this new methodology.
B49|CLASSES, CAPITAL AND THE SOCIAL FORMS IN BETWEEN - On the political and intellectual organization of the contradiction|This working paper focusses on a rigorous and somewhat idiosyncratic exposition of the concepts of dialectics, determinations of reflection (or essentialities) and social forms, adopting a Marxist reading of Hegel's Science of Logic. The objective of this focus is to address one of the elements highly common in debates between Marxists and post-structuralists e amongst Marxist themselves: the centrality of categories of the one (like Universality, necessity, identity and so on) or of the multiple (like particularity, contingency, difference etc). Hence, the focus of this work is on the centrality of reflexive or mutual determinations (essence, non-identical identity, contradictory unity and social forms). Initially, even though Marx and some Marxist authors had used the notion of social forms, none of them had this notion developed in itself. The specific developments of this notion: such as the value forms, commodity form, political and juridical social forms were explored by various authors and by Marx himself. But, in the literature review made for this research, it wasn't found any conceptualization of the general notion. The concept of social form can be explored as a methodological resource to mediate those above-mentioned elements of the debates. For instance, to centralize the social forms is to centralize the negative and reflexive element when we discuss if it's the capital and its tendency laws that make for the historical march or the class struggle and the political contingency. The focus is on the something that exists in-between, the objectivation process in itself, not in its extremes
B49|Beyond wishful thinking: Explorative Qualitative Modeling (EQM) as a tool for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)|The UN's Sustainable Development Goals in their generalized form need to be further reflected in order to identify synergies and trade-offs between their (sub-)targets, and to apply them to concrete nations and regions. Explorative, qualitative cause and effect modeling could serve as a tool for adding crucial factors and enabling a better understanding of the interrelations between the goals, eventually leading to more informed concrete measures better able to cope with their inherent obstacles. This work provides and describes a model that could serve as a template for concrete application. The generalized model already points to some potential ambivalences as well as synergies that can be reflected on using some of the latest theories and concepts from economics and transition research, among other fields. Its first analyses cautiously raise doubts that some possible assumptions behind the original Sustainable Development Goals might overlook some systemic boundaries. For example, an undifferentiated increase of productivity contradicts a lessened environmental impact and need for resources in light of potential planetary boundaries.
B49|A Model Of Nonbelief In The Law Of Large Numbers|"People believe that, even in very large samples, proportions of binary signals might depart significantly from the population mean. We model this ""non-belief in the Law of Large Numbers"" by assuming that a person believes that proportions in any given sample might be determined by a rate different than the true rate. In prediction, a non-believer expects the distribution of signals will have fat tails, more so for larger samples. In inference, a non-believer remains uncertain and influenced by priors even after observing an arbitrarily large sample. We explore implications for beliefs and behavior in a variety of economic settings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
B49|Reflections and Comments on Randomness|This article is not directed to any purpose other than conveying the effort of understanding to the ones that are able to understand randomness.
B49|Economics and Physics: A Forgotten Discussion|This paper has the objective of reviewing some of the key aspects that involve the association between physics and economics. It also invites to considerate the history behind the neoclassical model and how its physical origin is not well known. It is curious to see the close relation between these two sciences, but it is also curious how this could lead to misinterpretations and beliefs of economics being dependent on physics, which clearly is not the case.
B49|Reason-Based Choice And Context-Dependence: An Explanatory Framework|We introduce a “reason-based” framework for explaining and predicting individual choices. The key idea is that a decision-maker focuses on some but not all properties of the options and chooses an option whose “motivationally salient” properties he/she most prefers. Reason-based explanations can capture two kinds of contextdependent choice: (i) the motivationally salient properties may vary across choice contexts, and (ii) they may include “context-related” properties, not just “intrinsic” properties of the options. Our framework allows us to explain boundedly rational and sophisticated choice behaviour. Since properties can be recombined in new ways, it also offers resources for predicting choices in unobserved contexts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Experimental methods: Pay one or pay all|In some experiments participants make multiple decisions; this feature facilitates gathering a considerable amount of incentivized data over the course of a compact session. A conservative payment scheme is to pay for the outcome from every decision made. An alternative approach is to pay for the outcome of only a subset of the choices made, with the amount at stake for this choice multiplied to compensate for the decreased likelihood of that choice’s outcome being drawn for payoff. This “pay one” approach can help to avoid wealth effects, hedging, and bankruptcy considerations. A third method is to pay only a subset of the participants for their choices, thereby minimizing transactions costs. While the evidence on differences across payment methods is mixed, overall it suggests that paying for only a subset of periods or individuals is at least as effective as the “pay all” approach and can well be more effective. We further the discussion about how to best choose an incentive structure when designing an experiment.
B49|Narrativity from the Perspectives of Economics and Philosophy: Davis, Ross, Multipleselves Models... and Behavioral Economics|Narrativity broadly refers to the way humans construct and use stories, be them the widely known ones in a given culture or the more private ones people tell to each other or to themselves. The main goal of this paper is to clarify the extent to which the notion of narrativity can play a role in economic analysis with respect to the representation of economic agents in models of individual behaviors. To do so, we scrutinize a set of contributions from a twofold perspective. From the perspective of economics, we seek to clarify the issues regarding which we, as economists, should be interest in narrativity. From the perspective of philosophy, we, as economic methodologists or philosopher of economics, seek to clarify the conceptual issues inherent to the notion of narrativity that are not trivial or can be of some use for economic analysis. To some extent, this twofold perspective on narrativity and economics has already been taken by John Davis (2009; 2011) and Don Ross (2005; 2014), who use the notion of narrativity to account for individuals’ sense of a unified self and identity, notably with respect to the recent surge of multipleselves models in economics. We propose to further Davis’ and Ross’ efforts in at least three respects: firstly, through a comparative study of their contributions focused on narrativity from the perspective of economics; secondly, by discussing the connections between their contributions and the set of existing contributions related to narrativity in behavioral economics that none of them discuss; and, thirdly, by taking, at least for the sake of argument, a philosophically critical perspective on narrativity.
B49|Consultative, Democracy and Trust|We report experimental results from three Colombian villages concerning the impact of a voting mechanism on interpersonal trust and trustworthiness. The vote is purely consultative in that participants are asked to declare in a secret ballot the most “appropriate” plan of action for individuals involved in a “Trust Game”. The plan of action that is most voted is then publicly announced. The mechanism is unbinding, as only the aggregate result of the voting is disclosed and it has no bearing on individual decisions. In spite of the strategic irrelevance of the announcement, we observe an increase in both trust and trustworthiness after the announcement is carried out, in comparison to the baseline case where no voting takes place.
B49|Click‘n’Roll: No Evidence of Illusion of Control|Abstract Evidence of illusion of control—the fact that people believe to have control over pure chance events—is a recurrent finding in experimental psychology. Results in economics find instead little to no support. In this paper we test whether this dissonant result across disciplines is due to the fact that economists have implemented only one form of illusory control. We identify and separately tests in an incentive-compatible design two types of control: (a) over the resolution of uncertainty, as usually done in the economics literature, and (b) over the choice of the lottery, as sometimes done in the psychology literature but without monetary payoffs. Results show no evidence of illusion of control, neither on choices nor on beliefs about the likelihood of winning.
B49|What can ants tell us about collective behavior during a natural catastrophe?|The fire ant, Solenipsis invicta, has successfully invaded and colonized ecosystems worldwide. Like humans, fire ants build permanent domiciles to house family members, establish well-defined territories for foraging and fight to the death when invading neighbors breach the borders. One of the more striking behaviors of fire ants is their ability to form a living raft when springtime rains flood their domiciles. What are the survival benefits, if any, to collective behavior during a flood? To address this question, we quantified the survival of individuals as solitary swimmers compared to cooperative rafters. We found that large workers and matriarchs survived equally well as solitary swimmers or rafters. In contrast, small workers drowned whether they were solitary swimmers or rafters. However, when rafting with large workers or matriarchs, the mortality of small workers declined three-fold. We propose a behavior phenotype classification scheme to catalog the diverse behaviors observed in this series of experiments. Although the ultimate goal of rafting behavior by fire ant workers is to protect their matriarch, the proximate goal for the vast majority of fire ants is to save themselves first and to save others if the opportunity arises. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
B49|Controlling for the Compromise Effect Debiases Estimates of Risk Preference Parameters|"The compromise effect arises when options near the ""middle"" of a choice set are more appealing. The compromise effect poses conceptual and practical problems for economic research: by influencing choices, it distorts revealed preferences, biasing researchers' inferences about deep (i.e., domain general) preferences. We propose and estimate an econometric model that disentangles and identifies both deep preferences and the context-dependent compromise effect. We demonstrate our method using data from an experiment with 550 participants who made choices over lotteries from multiple price lists. Following prior work, we manipulate the compromise effect by varying the middle options of each multiple price list and then estimate risk preferences without modelling the compromise effect. These naïve parameter estimates are not robust: they change as the compromise effect is manipulated. To eliminate this bias, we incorporate the compromise effect directly into our econometric model. We show that this method generates robust estimates of risk preference parameters that are no longer sensitive to compromise-effect manipulations. This method can be applied to other settings that exhibit the compromise effect."
B49|Through the Methodological View of the Historiographic Discussion of Mid-1990s|At the centre of the present study is shedding some additional light for the further clarification of the concepts of “whig” and “counter-whig” in the historiography of economics. The focus is on the relation (partial coverage in the content or other crossings) of the concepts of the absolutist and the relativist approaches and the corresponding types of history, the internalist and the externalist approaches and the corresponding kinds of history, and especially on the relation between “whig” and “contra-whig” types of history of economics in the light and in the context of the envisioned relations. The study is based on an electronic publication in December 1996 of selected by Esther-Mirjam Sent postings of historians of economics, intellectual historians, etc., who have taken participation in the discussion, the rise of which was given by a Guest editorial of James P. Henderson (November 1996) “Whig History is Dead – Now What?”, addressed to the attention of the members of the History of Economics Society. The central message argued through the view of this discussion is in a direction of conceptualizing a relatively holistic historiographic approach, reviving the role of the History of Economics in constructing contemporary social-economic theory and against the divide and tearing apart the unity of methodology of economics, history of economics and economics.
B49|Essentials of Constructive Heterodoxy: Financial Markets|What stands before all eyes as failed Orthodoxy is ultimately caused by the wrong answer to Mill's Starting Problem. It is now pretty obvious that one cannot put utility maximization, equilibrium, well-behaved production functions, ergodicity or any other physical or psychological or sociological or behavioral assumption into the premises. No way leads from such premises to the explanation of how the actual market economy works. The logical consequence is to discard them. Having first secured a superior formal starting point, the present paper addresses the question of how the various types of financial markets emerge from the elementary monetary circuit.
B49|Major Defects of the Market Economy|When we characterize an argument that has no sound theoretical foundation as political, then what has been produced by economists so far is political economics. However, since the Classics and Marx all major economic schools have defended the claim that they were doing science. This claim has been convincingly rebutted. So, the task is still before us. The way forward is to move from behavioral to structural economics. In what we should be mostly interested are not so much the behavioral defects of economic agents but the structural defects of the market system and how to repair them.
B49|Svar Model To Examine The Short And Long Term Monetary Policy In Indonesia|This research was conducted by the author to see the impact of monetary policy on the domestic macro-economic variables is important in Indonesia using a structural model of the short and long term, contained in a structural model of vectorAutoregressions (SVAR). The author uses the effects of macroeconomic policy is the key in this research, by applying the matrix model SVAR initiated by Bernanke & Mihov (1998) short term and Blancard & Quah (1989) long term. Research conducted using the 4 variables, consisting of two domestic variables, namely the interest rate of Bank Indonesia (SBI), the consumer price index (CPI) and two non-domestic variables, namely the interest rate the central bank United States(FFF), the rate of inflation in the United States (INF_USA). From the research that has been done can be inferred that the SVAR models used in this study can be used as a reference to the theoretical expectations in order to show that the rise in interest rates and the central bank of the United States could affect Indonesia's domestic variables.
B49|Mapeando o pós-keynesianismo: Uma abordagem cienciométrica|O presente artigo tem por objetivo estudar a corrente pós-keynesiana na economia para delinear suas características. A metodologia usada para atingir este objetivo combina concepções filosóficas e linguísticas, com técnicas computacionais e cienciométricas. Primeiro, tal metodologia parte do conceito de finitismo de significados (meaning finitism) para compreender o que significa uma expressão do ponto de vista da sua construção social. A ideia de finitismo consiste em expandir o significado de um termo para permitir que ele seja formado por uma infinidade de conceitos, e não por uma a definição unívoca. Tal ideia é baseada na filosofia da linguagem de Ludwig Wittgenstein. Segundo, o contexto social em que o significado da expressão “Post Keynesian” surge tem que ser escolhido. Neste artigo, o contexto relevante é a comunidade acadêmica dos economistas, representada pelas revistas em que esses pesquisadores publicam seus artigos. Assim, o significado da expressão “Post Keynesian” é estudado a partir de uma base de dados formada por milhares de artigos acadêmicos. Terceiro, o modo especifico de estudar a expressão “Post Keynesian” neste contexto é através um programa computacional para construir um mapa de Co-word. Este mapa representa a co-ocorrência de palavras relevantes que co-ocorrem com a expressão em foco como distâncias em um espaço bidimensional. Quarto, a literatura pós-keynesiana é utilizada para estabelecer conexões entre as palavras que aparecem no mapa, dando origem a um quadro de significados e características da corrente pós-keynesiana. Em paralelo com esta metodologia, o presente artigo apresenta, ainda, um gráfico que mostra as ocorrências da expressão “Post Keynesian” nas revistas de economia, cotejando tal gráfico com a literatura histórica da corrente.
B49|Identité, Intentionnalité, Opacité et Gouvernance Interactive|Le point de départ de cette recherche correspond à l’étude, d’un point de vue philosophique, des comportements d’agents, d’acteurs, appartenant à une population hétérogène, basée sur une approche cognitiviste et sociale de l’identité et l’hypothèse selon laquelle les logiques d’action relèvent d’une fragmentation infinie des « moi » (Elster, Lahire, Sen).Le jeu social auquel participent ces agents en matière de médiation et de coordination fait référence à la sociologie de la traduction (Callon) correspondant à la mise en oeuvre de procédures spécifiques (au sens de la prétopologie) relatives à l’émergence de différentes formes sociales (Simmel), de communautés hybrides en tant que structures éphémères.Le but est alors d’expliquer comment les différentes formes d’engagement des agents (Thévenot), à travers les appareils (Lyotard, Déotte), les réseaux (en tant qu’artefacts) mis en place au niveau de la genèse de ces structures et conditionnant leur autonomie, induisent à la fois une certaine ambiguïté et une certaine opacité entre l’individuel et le collectif et quelles peuvent en être les conséquences en matière de gouvernance interactive.
B49|A Plea For Introducing Conspiratorial Reasoning In Economics|Along with the economic globalization, economics must decode a more complex reality, to which classical answers are no longer helpful. Due to excessive abstraction and mathematical representation, the economic and social phenomena are partially analyzed and understood - after the delimitation from the political context that has driven and maintained them. We notice that, throughout history, global economic relations have always been altered by the achievement instinct or by the desire for power; that markets and natural order had been violated due to the interventionist factor which takes various forms: the state, the elites or groups animated by particular interests. That is why conspiracy theories can be starting points in analyzing our world, by underlying specific political and economic interests that govern the public decision system. This paper aims to plead for introducing conspiratorial reasoning in economics; a reasoning that rejects total hazard and the limits imposed by the study of unintended consequences of economic phenomena.
B49|Starting small toward voluntary formation of efficient large groups in public goods provision|We test a mechanism whereby groups are formed voluntarily, through the use of voting. These groups play a public-goods game, where efficiency increases with group size (up to a limit, in one treatment). It is feasible to exclude group members, to exit one's group, or to form larger groups through mergers involving the consent of both merging groups. We find a great degree of success for this mechanism, as the average contribution rate is very high. The driving force appears to be the economies of scale combined with the awareness that bad behavior will result in exclusion or no admission. However, an important additional component is that it is possible for previous outsiders to later redeem themselves by becoming high contributors, typically in efficient large groups.
B49|Valuation of Intangible Assets the Main Pawn for New Challenges Related to the Knowledge Era|Intangible assets are considered a resource controlled by an economic entity arising from past events that is expected to generate future earnings. Through them we can debate the technical-material and financial developments over time and due to permanent development capacity. Today we are witnessing a constantly changing flow of information found in a perpetual technological change that began the emergence of a new stage in the evolution of society was called knowledge. In this context we talk about the new economy which tries to present more complex reality in which we find ourselves. Evaluation of intangible assets constitute a comprehensive and very complex process that should be treated with great caution, especially since it appears that can lead to new challenges, both because of globalization and the development of technological innovation. It involves understanding the peculiarities of the competence assessment and an independent professional appraiser.
B49|Conspiratorial Reasoning And Economics|The unintelligibility of the social and economic phenomena is due to isolation from the various backgrounds that has driven and maintained them. The conspiratorial reasoning insists over those backgrounds and focuses on identifying the intentionality in the primary cause. Throughout history, global economic relations have been ordered by private goals, which often subordinated to the desire for wealth or power; the market and the natural order had been oppressed by the state interventionism and by the will of some political powerful groups. In this context, we believe that the conspiratorial reasoning can be an instrument of the economic analysis, by pointing the specific political and economic interests that rule over the apparent hazard of interests. This paper aims to illustrate the peculiarities of the conspiratorial reasoning, as an alternative, beneficial reasoning, which can guide us to the answers we need in a world of paradoxes and coincidences.
B49|Elicitation effects in a multi-stage bargaining experiment|We examine elicitation effects in a multi-stage bargaining experiment with escalating stakes conducted under direct-response and strategy-method elicitation. We find a significantly greater incidence of decisions leading to bargaining failure under direct responses. In addition, the predictive power of alternative risk attitude measures differs between the elicitation methods. Potential sources of the effects and resulting implications are discussed. Copyright Economic Science Association 2014
B49|Incorporating Limited Rationality into Economics|Harstad and Selten (this forum) raise interesting questions about the relative promise of optimization models and bounded-rationality models in making progress in economics. This article builds from their analysis by indicating the potential for using neoclassical (broadly defined) optimization models to integrate insights from psychology on the limits to rationality into economics. I lay out an approach to making (imperfect and incremental) improvements over previous economic theory by incorporating greater realism while attempting to maintain the breadth of application, the precision of predictions, and the insights of neoclassical theory. I?then discuss how many human limits to full rationality are, in fact, well understood in terms of optimization.
B49|Research Methodology Strategies In Strategic Management|This paper review and examine how strategic management researchers apply research methods, and what strategies use as part of the research process, to locate, organize, manage, transform, create, communicate and evaluate research tools, data and information resources. It also analyzes recent developments on research methodology to create scientific knowledge in theory building and practice in strategic management offering an overview of methodologies used in strategic management research. The assessment of strategic management’s research methodology is based on a review and analysis of strategies for the incorporation of knowledge of managerial research methods. Finally, the paper identifies and discusses some methodological research issues and reviews future directions on research methodologies in strategic management.
B49|Extensive Imitation is Irrational and Harmful|Rationality leads people to imitate those with similar tastes but different information. But people who imitate common sources develop correlated beliefs, and rationality demands that later social learners take this correlation into account. This implies severe limits to rational imitation. We show that (i) in most natural observation structures besides the canonical single-file case, full rationality dictates that people must “anti-imitate” some of those they observe; and (ii) in every observation structure full rationality dictates that people imitate, on net, at most one person and are imitated by, on net, at most one person, over any set of interconnected players. We also show that in a very broad class of settings, any learning rule in which people regularly do imitate more than one person without anti-imitating others will lead to a positive probability of people converging to confident and wrong long-run beliefs. JEL Code: B49.
B49|Risk of loss towards an agent based model|The financial world is basically divided in two: on one hand there are the experts, on the other hand the uninitiated. And, very often, it is a system that works: in very few (and very crazy) decided in fact to heal themselves, while the majority supports this division between secular and experts or specialists, going to the doctor in case of an illness, and getting a diagnosis and a cure that will put out the profane state of malaise in exchange for a financial benefit. The strange thing is, though, that in the economy not doing so. To better present the matter experts and laymen will consider them for what they have in common, their basic human and what separates them, the knowledge of the object. I will try to evaluate the effect of a greater knowledge on how to manage risk, as it is called the unexpected in the economy, and decisions arising therefrom, profane than the alternative. Experts and laymen in this chapter represent two different ways of approaching complexity: a top-down approach, with its strategy of op-posing the complexity as much complexity in the form of an elaborate theoretical framework, and a bottom-up approach, with the respective strategy of managing complexity through simplicity (which is, basi-cally, the daughter of complexity, as we'll see). Using the concept of epistemic arrogance, stemming from econom-ic’s practice of a science in which the points of view and the currents are sufficiently numerous to very often force themselves to such arro-gance as a defense mechanism, we’ll see its effects as a dynamic of authority-power, laying on human docility. This paper is substantially to be understood as an attempt to adapt the ecological agent-based modeling to a field that has, in my opinion, all papers in order to show, at least in theory (but I will try to use, whenever I can be, practical research, based on Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman's research and sprung up in recent years in behavioral economics) the potential, from the philosophical point of view of epistemology of complexity, for a greater understanding and exploitation of the risk, providing major chances of comprehension and exploitation of risk intended as an effect of emergence, the main com-plex system’s feature. So I’ll see that there is, indeed, a constructive chance from the con-venience of the secular model of risk management, trying to re-evaluate the way it consciously ruling fallacious to proceed; this has been made trying to opposing, at the use of a highly complex knowledge making use of logical-mathematical sophistication to its progress, a hard-wired heuristic system, that is based on the principle of less-is-more, a source of transparency, robustness, and cognitive fluidity: characters whose importance is too often overlooked, especially in econometric’s research.
B49|Towards Full Employment Through Applied Algebra and Counter-Intuitive Behavior|It is common knowledge that neither Walrasians nor Keynesians nor Marxians nor Institutionialists nor Austrians nor Sraffaians came to grips with profit. The reason is a defective formal basis. In the present paper the formal foundations are first renewed. When the profit theory is false the rest of an approach is questionable. What is reexamined next because of its vital practical implications is the theory of employment. One remarkable result is that the popular recipe to eliminate unemployment, viz. downward wage rate flexibility, is self-defeating because it does not take the objective systemic properties of the monetary economy into account.
B49|The Three Fatal Mistakes of Yesterday Economics: Profit, I=S, Employment|Axiomatization is the prime task of theoretical economics. Without correct axioms,no correct theory. Without correct theory, no understanding of how the economy works. Without empirically corroborated understanding, no useful economic policy advice. Yet, much more important than any political reputation of economics is indeed: without correct axioms, no acceptance as science. There is no way around it, neither for Orthodoxy nor for Heterodoxy. The conceptual consequence of this paper is to discard the subjective-behavioral axioms and to take objective-structural axioms as the formal point of departure. This enables the rectification of the most fatal analytical mistakes of conventional economics.
B49|The Synthesis of Economic Law, Evolution, and History|It has long been criticized that history is almost entirely absent from orthodox economics. This deficiency is due to the fact that equilibrium and time make an odd couple. Because equilibrium is one of the crucial hard-core propositions of the research program it cannot be abandoned. This impedes the treatment of time in a methodologically acceptable manner. The orthodox approach is based on indefensible axioms which are in this paper replaced by objective structural axioms. This enables the synthesis of timeless economic laws, randomness, and goal-oriented human action, which are the essential elements of a formally consistent historical account.
B49|Nepal-Potential Projects in a New Model of Economy|Rising GDP level is aim of each economy in the world and in that respect Nepal doesn’t differ. Difficulties in obtaining better impulse in the growth creation shows signs of short and long term weaknesses in economic or political process. Some help in achieving better standards are presented by three projects as well as offering some new insight into possible model change. Building a new model or growing from existing one is not a matter of copy/ paste data from country to country, but necessity and recognition that numerous possibilities to improve exist by cooperation with region ,world but at the same time being aware of its own standards, limitations and strengths. This process is area of constant development, error recognition and correction what is also to be recognized and to further develop in a process of finding economic and social path to go.
B49|The Profit Theory is False Since Adam Smith. What About the True Distribution Theory?|All popular schools lack a consistent profit theory. Economists have no true conception of the most important phenomenon in their universe. This methodological defect persists since Adam Smith. Therefore, the theories of income and wealth distribution are wrong by logical implication. If the conclusions of a theory do not find any counterpart in reality the fault lies in the premises. In order to rectify distribution theory it is necessary to substitute the conventional subjective-behavioral axioms by objective-structural axioms. A major result of the present paper is that distribution is not governed by marginal productivity but by the distributed profit ratio.
B49|Economics for Economists|The characteristic capability of science – to turn whatever it might touch into knowledge – seems to have eluded economics. Currently, economists do not understand how the economy works. To get out of the cul-de-sac requires a paradigm shift. It consists in replacing behavioral axioms by structural axioms. The subject matter of theoretical economics is not human behavior but systemic behavior. From the structural analysis follows a new Law of Supply and Demand and a new Profit Law for the economy as a whole. The conventional supply-demand-equilibrium approach is refuted. This implies that the reliance on the spontaneous order metaphor is unfounded.
B49|The Contrast between Mainstream and Heterodox Economics: A Misleading Controversy—“Necessary” System versus “Natural” System|This article focuses on a broad distinction within economic thinking and the methodological misconceptions that are implied by it. We find today, on the one hand, mainstream economics, which uses both the method of abstract rationality typical of the logical-formal sciences and the method of the natural sciences—two methodologies that, as we shall prove, are inappropriate for the study of social reality. On the other hand we find the opponents of mainstream economics, primarily heterodox economics, who emphasize methodological pluralism and lend, in the extreme, their support to the relativist view that all views may be right in their own way. Such an unconstrained pluralist attitude to method obstructs interaction and reciprocal understanding among students, the scientific appreciation of theoretical contributions and the same fecundating role of pluralism. We shall see that methodological diffuseness is the primary factor explaining the failure of attacks against mainstream economics and we shall look for a solution to this embarrassing impotence by searching for general methodological procedure and rules fully appropriate to the scientific study of social reality.
B49|Onblog Economics Muddle Busting|The representative economist does not understand the two most important phenomena in the economic universe: profit and income. Because of this economists have nothing to offer in the way of a scientifically founded advice. Therefore, the contributions to economic blogs cannot claim to offer more than personal opinion. Of opinions, though, economics always had plenty. What is needed is knowledge – scientific knowledge, that is. With the outline of the correct economic paradigm at hand it is straightforward to refute obsolete approaches. For this purpose the economics blogs are ideal. A selection of recent comments is reproduced in the present paper.
B49|The system of indicators of estimation the economic efficiency in the production of goat milk|The analysis of economic efficiency is the main method of economic systems analysis. This concept is the most important qualitative indicator of the economic development, essential factor in accelerating the economic growth and is also one of the criteria for scientific substantiation of decisions. Applied in the milk production domain, represents the obtaining of maximum quantity of milk per animal, with minimal expenditure of manpower and materials. Regarding determining the economic efficiency of goat milk production, the most used indicators are: total physical production, average production, value of total production (total revenue), production costs, material costs, cost per unit, profit, rate of return, breakeven point etc. The paper presents the calculation method of indicators and their average values for 2014.
B49|Bad Practices in Unternehmen und die Mechanismen ihrer Etablierung. Der Fall Enron (Bad practices in companies and their underlying mechanisms. The case of Enron)|Das Management von Enron bediente sich moralisch fragwuerdiger Praktiken (‘Bad Practices’), die zu dem spektakulaeren Aufstieg und Fall des Unternehmens beitrugen. Wie konnten sich diese Bad Practices etablieren? Um diese Frage zu beantworten, betrachten wir vier Verhaltensmechanismen und veranschaulichen deren Wirksamkeit am konkreten Enron-Fall. Allerdings sind diese und aehnliche Mechanismen weit verbreitet und die an diesem Fall gewonnenen Erkenntnisse sollten sich auch fuer das Verstaendnis von Bad Practices in anderen Unternehmen als nuetzlich erweisen. Fuer unsere Analyse verwenden wir explizit die Mechanismus-Betrachtung, ein Ansatz, der selten genutzt wird, aber grosse Erklaerungskraft hat. Im Fokus stehen Manager, eine spezielle Mitarbeitergruppe mit Weisungsbefugnis, die fuer die Etablierung von Praktiken in Unternehmen letztlich die Verantwortung traegt. (The management of Enron incorporated bad practices that were partly responsible for the spectacular rise and fall of the company. How and why could these practices become established? To answer this question we examine four behavioral mechanisms and demonstrate their effect using Enron as an example. However, their presence is more widespread and the insights gained from analyzing this particular case are useful for understanding bad practices in other organizations. We focus on mechanisms, a methodological approach that has been used sparingly despite its high explanatory power. The article is concerned explicitly with managers as a social group with discretionary power. This group deserves scholarly attention when analyzing how practices become established in an organization.)
B49|Вовлеченность работников и система социально-трудовых отношений . Involvement of employees and the system of social and labor relations |В условиях глобализирующейся экономики, быстрого распространения знаний и технологий повышается роль и значимость работников. Успех предприятия во многом определяется степенью их вовлеченности. Повысить конкурентоспособность товаров и услуг и победить в конкурентной борьбе возможно только на основе использования современных методов управления. А они предполагают тотальную вовлеченность работников в процессы улучшения организации. Существуют различные представления о том, что ведет к повышению заинтересованности работников в результатах своего труда и в деятельности предприятия в целом. Как правило, исследователями изучается влияние одного или нескольких факторов на проблему. Данная статья имеет целью подчеркнуть, что вовлеченность работников – это системная проблема, обосновать идею о том, что система социально-трудовых отношений (СТО), как система согласования интересов всех участников СТО, является мощным организационным ресурсом для развития вовлеченности работников в процессы улучшения организации, а также предложить новый метод системной оценки СТО с акцентом на обратных связях, что позволит оценить гармоничность системы СТО и, как следствие, ее эффективность с позиции системного подхода, т. е. с учетом согласованности целей системы СТО и организации, временных процессов и обратных связей. In the conditions of a globalizing economy, with the rapid dissemination of knowledge and technologies, the role and importance of employees is increased. A company's success is largely deter- mined by the degree of their involvement. To improve the competitiveness of goods and services and to win in the competition, it is necessary to use modern management methods, which assume total involvement of employees in the process of improving the organization. Ideas vary about what leads to increased interest of employees in the results of their work and the activities of the enterprise as a whole. Typically, researchers have studied the effects of one or more factors on participation. This paper aims to (1) emphasize that the involvement of employees is a systemic problem, (2) suggest that a system of labor relations, as a system for coordinating the interests of all participants, is a powerful organizational resource for the development of employee involvement in improving the organization, and (3) propose a new method for systemic evaluation of social and labor relations with an emphasis on feedback. The proposed method permits evaluating the harmony of the system of social and labor relations and, consequently, its effectiveness from the perspective of a systemic approach, i.e. taking into account coherence of the objectives of the system of social and labor relations and organization, temporal processes, and feedback.
B49|Cost Effectiveness Analyses Models In The Defence System In Bulgaria|"The thesis resulting from the research on the ""costs - effects"" relation is the principle of economic efficiency of defence capabilities. At first glance, the arguments in this direction are well-known and popular in crisis situations of various nature, including the current financial and economic crisis in the country, the question about the cost of public welfare - security and defence is debatable. This cost is manifested through the defence capabilities of a country. In the new security environment the compilation of a National Defence Strategy is a priority of the Defence Ministry, which has more and more limited resources. This means that they should be treated as an economic activity. An economic activity is considered ""any purposeful activity, allocating and combining scarce resources among alternatives, making it possible to maximize the outcomes and minimize costs."" The ratio between the costs and benefits of a given resource or combination of resources to achieve a pre -defined objective is pushed to the forefront and the rationalization of management decisions is based on it. This necessitates a cost effectiveness analysis hence the evaluation of the outcomes (benefits) is manifested in the ""cost - effect (benefit)"" analyses.Defence as a product has the basic features of any commodity or service, i.e. it is designed for exchange, is useful and meets certain needs. But due to the fact that it meets very specific needs (preservation of the territorial integrity of the country and improving its national security), it is distinguished by certain features which may be summarized as follows:-collectivity of production and consumption of defence as a product necessary to the public, is expressed by its consumption indivisibility-lack of market valuation of the price of defence as a product upon its consumption (as a monetary expression of its value);-the usefulness of defence as a product is reflected in its capacity to meet the system?s needs for security and defence, which determines its conditional nature, expressed in reaching certain operational capabilities;-the realization of defence as a product, unlike the products of civil legal entities is not subject to a clearly formulated outcome of activity, such as profit, which makes implementation of the principle of economic efficiency and profitability of minor importance for the Armed Forces."
B49|Budget impact of parenteral iron treatment of iron deficiency: methodological issues raised by using real-life data|Treating iron deficiency involves substantial costs to the Swiss MHI which may be reduced by substituting iron sucrose with ferric carboxymaltose. The use of real-life data raises methodological questions about the fundamental compatibility of this data with the conceptual framework of BI analysis. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
B49|Incorporating Limited Rationality into Economics|Harstad and Selten (this forum) raise interesting questions about the relative promise of optimization models and bounded-rationality models in making progress in economics. This article builds from their analysis by indicating the potential for using neoclassical (broadly defined) optimization models to integrate insights from psychology on the limits to rationality into economics. I lay out an approach to making (imperfect and incremental) improvements over previous economic theory by incorporating greater realism while attempting to maintain the breadth of application, the precision of predictions, and the insights of neoclassical theory. I then discuss how many human limits to full rationality are, in fact, well understood in terms of optimization.
B49|Pesquisa Qualitativa: rigor metodológico no tratamento da teoria dos custos de transação em artigos apresentados nos congressos da Sober (2007-2011)| To exam how qualitative research is built in articles involving the Transaction Costs Theory (TCT), considering publications listed from 2007 to 2011 of the congress of Brazilian Society for Rural Economics, Administration and Sociology (Sober) is the aim of this paper. Therefore, it was considered, mainly, methodological aspects related to the research types, time frame, collection methods, data types and analysis methods used. For this purpose, it was carried a qualitative research, descriptive and exploratory type, with theoretical approach, cut cross-sectional and longitudinal perspective based on secondary data. The results showed that most of the articles analyzed involved qualitative research, exploratory type, with cross-cut and questionnaire, followed by structured interviews, as the predominate data collection methods. The primary data, along with the secondary data, were the most used. The analysis methods were not clear in any of the selected quality articles. Three situations were observed: a) they are not cited; b) they are cited, but not explained or observed in the analysis; c) they are quoted and explained, but not adopted in the analysis. It was concluded that the lack of methodological rigor, specifically in collecting and analyzing data, affected the results, reducing the possibility of the contribution of works for advances of knowledge involving the TCT.
B49|Reason-Based Rationalization|We introduce a “reason-based” way of rationalizing an agent’s choice behaviour, which explains choices by specifying which properties of the options or choice context the agent cares about (the “motivationally salient properties”) and how he or she cares about these properties (the “fundamental preference relation”). Reason-based rationalizations can explain non-classical choice behaviour, including boundedly rational and sophisticated rational behaviour, and predict choices in unobserved contexts, an issue neglected in standard choice theory. We characterize the behavioural implications of different reason-based models and distinguish two kinds of context-dependent motivation: “context-variant” motivation, where the agent cares about different properties in different contexts, and “context-regarding” motivation, where the agent cares not only about properties of the options, but also about properties relating to the context.
B49|intentional apple-choice behaviors: when amartya sen meets john searle|This paper suggests that Amartya Sen’s conception of rationality could benefit from insights borrowed to John Searle’s philosophy of mind. More precisely I argue that the work of Searle on intentionality provides a relevant conceptual apparatus to strengthen Sen’s conceptualization of context-dependent preferences in a way that suggests further analytical contributions to the latter’s line of research. The arguments developed in the paper are relevant for three interrelated issues on economic rationality that are currently discussed in economic methodology: (1) methodological dualism and intentionalitic explanations in economics, (2) the relationships between economics and philosophy, and (3) the recent rise of behavioral economics within the mainstream of economic theory.
B49|Epistémologie et méthodologie des CIFRE:Illustration par des thèses soutenues en Finance Contrôle Stratégie|(VF)Les CIFRE sont des dispositifs de plus en plus mobilisés dans les thèses en sciences de gestion. Elles sont particulièrement adaptées aux recherches en Finance Contrôle Stratégie préconisant une approche terrain. Or ce sont également des dispositifs qui suscitent la méfiance de certains chercheurs sur la validité et la fiabilité scientifiques des résultats qui en émanent. D’où la nécessité d’en éclaircir le cadre:les caractéristiques épistémologiques, la méthodologie d’accès au terrain, les conditions de scientificité et les apports dans la production de connaissances. Cette publication a une visée explicative mais également opératoire et démontre l’apport des CIFRE à la recherche en sciences de gestion.(VA)CIFRE (Industrial Contracts for Training through Research) are becoming more widely used in PhD theses in management. They propose an on-the-job practical training approach particularly suitable for research in Finance, Management Control and Corporate Strategy. However, some researchers remain wary about the scientific validity and reliability of the results. Consequently, there is a need to clarify certain elements such as the epistemological characteristics, the procedures for training, the conditions for research, the contribution of knowledge production. This article has both an explanatory and an operational approach aimed at both PhD students and directors of research interested in the CIFRE.
B49|Economic dynamics as a succession of equilibria: The path traveled by Morishima|In the paper I bring to the attention of the economists and historians of economic thought the idea of economic dynamics that can be found in the first book by Morishima published in 1950 but has been totally overlooked. It has a great interest not only because there it appears for the first time the application of new mathematical concepts (“structural stability”) but also because Morishima pursues a way of dynamizing general equilibrium theory that has been neglected in the postwar developments inspired by Samuelson's Foundations. The paper has three parts. In the first and second I outline the development of economic dynamics and its applications to general equilibrium elaborated by Morishima; in the third a comparison between the prevailing idea of economic dynamics as originally put forward by Samuelson and that elaborated by Morishima is advanced and discussed.
B49|Neoclassical economics: science or neoliberal ideology?|This paper calls for a new approach to economic theorising in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2007â€“2008. We examine two key theories which suggest that markets are stable self-correcting efficient systems. These theories, namely General Equilibrium Theory and the Efficient Markets Hypothesis, are at the heart of neoclassical economics and give neoliberal ideology much of its intellectual legitimacy. We demonstrate the flaws in these theories and the misleading prescriptions they provide for public policy. We suggest that these theories have survived, despite their inherent weaknesses, not as objective science but as ideology, and specifically allied to neoliberal ideology. We advocate a fundamental change of approach.
B49|Intentional Apple-choice Behaviors: When Amartya Sen Meets John Searle|This paper suggests that Amartya Sen's conception of rationality could benefit from insights borrowed to John Searle's philosophy of mind. More precisely, I argue that the work of Searle on intentionality provides a relevant conceptual apparatus to strengthen Sen's conceptualization of context-dependent preferences in a way that suggests further analytical contributions to the latter’s line of research. The arguments developed in the paper are relevant for three interrelated issues on economic rationality that are currently discussed in economic methodology: (1) methodological dualism and intentionalitic explanations in economics, (2) the relationships between economics and philosophy, and (3) the recent rise of behavioral economics within the mainstream of economic theory.
B49|Rotating the Necker cube: A bioeconomic approach to cooperation and the causal role of synergy in evolution|The paradox of widespread cooperation in an intensely competitive natural world has been a major focus of theory and research in evolutionary biology and related disciplines over the past several decades. While much of the earlier work in this vein was gene-centered and grounded in inclusive fitness (or kin selection) theory, more recent developments suggest that it might also be useful to view cooperation (and biological complexity) from a bioeconomic perspective. Here I will briefly explore the case for a paradigm shift, with special reference to the role of functional synergy as a distinct class of interdependent causal influences in evolution. I will argue that synergies of various kinds have been important drivers for cooperation in living systems at all levels. From this perspective, inclusive fitness and other factors may be enablers for cooperation, but the many exceptions show that genetic relatedness is neither necessary nor sufficient for the emergence of cooperative phenomena. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
B49|Sweet self-deception|People have a tendency to procrastinate when faced with aversive tasks—but they also procrastinate in relation to beneficial matters whose rewards are instantaneous. If agents value present anticipations of future consumption, revision of consumption plans may be viewed as a benign form of self-deception. We consider a minimal generalization of the Samuelson discounted utility model to allow for utility linked to next period consumption. Agents are assumed to vary with respect to their sophistication. In this context, commitment and self-control are obstacles to the pursuit of increased utility. We also examine different environments that are likely to facilitate repeated revisions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2013
B49|Is the economics of time and ignorance a “classic”?|A history of economic thought perspective on The Economics of Time and Ignorance reveals that the book rehabilitates some major themes in the Austrian tradition that were all but lost subsequent to the formalist revolution in economics that took place in the middle of the twentieth-century. The book also anticipates some important ideas that were extended and applied in Austrian economics after it was first published. Reviews have claimed that the book was a “classic” and also “original”. The book is too close in a temporal sense to judge whether or not future generations will canonize it as a “classic”. Using Stigler’s criteria as to what constitutes scientific “originality”, it is concluded that, taken as a whole, the book was not original. From the vantage point of the overall discipline of economics, it was a work advancing controversial ideas that would not easily change the beliefs, practices and interests of economists in general but it offered sound reasons for taking the Austrian thought-trajectory more seriously. It would be more fitting to view the authors as providers of many innovations contributing to the mature Austrian economics of the twenty-first century. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
B49|Transformation in the Nature of American Economics and Establishing Neoclassical Economic Technology|The study briefly focuses on the processes of gradual, though not linear, establishment of the dominance of Neoclassical view after interwar period, following the history of American economics. It is shown that by that (interwar) period there have already been present historically developed components, needed for the turn in the character of the economic theory and its application. This change is associated with converting effects of external determinants in the development of economics – and general aspects, or instruments, of the method of economics as a whole, into intrinsic features and specific tools of the advancing Neoclassical economics. Basically exploited is Mary Morgan’s (2001) conception of the natural interdependences in the processes of functioning of both sides of economics – the theoretical and the applied one – in the form of Economic technology. In this direction It is suggested, development of American, - and world, - economics from around 1930s-1940s through 2000s to be interpr ted through the prism of the formation and functioning (applying) of grand neoclassical economic technology, component (dominated) part of which appears to be the Keynesian economic technology.
B49|Private Returns to Tertiary Education - How Does New Zealand Compare to the OECD?|How do private returns to tertiary education in New Zealand compare internationally? According to the latest OECD measures, the private rate of return for New Zealand is 8.9%, compared to an OECD average of 12.4%, placing New Zealand toward the bottom of the OECD ranking. The aim of this study is to better understand the reasons for that gap and determine whether the low returns could be considered as problems amenable to policy interventions. We identify a number of measurement issues with the OECD standardisation. We develop a decomposition approach and provide a series of decompositions of the New Zealand-OECD gap. Our analysis shows that about half of the gap in New Zealand’s private returns can be explained by the way OECD private tertiary returns are measured (eg, old tax rates, New Zealand’s higher employment rates, and compositional issues which have not been controlled for in the OECD analysis such as the mix of degrees and graduates in New Zealand) rather than a “real” gap. However, once those factors are taken into account there remains a gap between New Zealand and the OECD average. We identify a number of endowment, policy, and decision-related contributing factors, and identify directions for future research.
B49|An Agent-based Model of Interdisciplinary Science and the Evolution of Scientific Research Networks|This study proposes an agent-based model of the impact of research success on the structure of scientific communities. In the model, heterogeneous scientists scattered about a ‘social landscape’ influence each other through networking. Peer networks are allowed to change based on the accumulated achievements (or prestige) of researchers. The dynamics of these networks are illustrated. The framework is then adjusted to allow for interdisciplinary practices (modelled as network links to more distant peers on the social landscape). Separate disciplines are shown to collapse into a single, large scientific network. Managing growing research networks, therefore, becomes a concern.
B49|Foundations of the economic and social history of the United States: Metaphysical|"""Oppositional Analysis"" - the name I give to the metaphysics presented in this volume - proposes a number of dichotomies through which one may analyze and understand systematically the structure of every level of reality. Macroeconomic theory, as well as social research, are two excellent stages upon which we may search for clues and insights to the interaction of oppositions. This is so particularly in connection with an analysis of the precepts of the ""Austrian School"" of macroeconomics as presented by Ludwig von Mises in his well-known and highly influential book Human Action. Based upon the circuit given for a musical note (see the Apologia and the Introduction to Volume 2, as well as the more extensive treatment herein) and the ""Circuit of Being"" which will be introduced in this final volume, I propose a model of economics which may correlate with a view of the physical universe of five dimensions as suggested by Theodor Kaluza. I suggest that these dichotomies may underlie the unity created by Kaluza’s work between General Relativity and Maxwell’s equations for electro-magnetism. If this is so, Oppositional Analysis and the economic and social history of the United States may provide a starting point from which we may learn important insights as to the inner workings of these economic and social oppositions as well oppositions of a more physical nature."
B49|Reason-Based Rationalization|"""Reason-based rationalizations"" explain an agent's choices by specifying which properties of the options or choice context he/she cares about (the ""motivationally salient properties"") and how he/she cares about these properties the ""fundamental preference relation""). We characterize the choice-behavioural implications of reason-based rationalizability and identify two kinds of context-dependent motivation in a reason-based agent: he/she may (i) care about different properties in different contexts and (ii) care not only about properties of the options, but also about properties relating to the context. Reason-based rationalizations can explain non-classical choice behaviour, including boundedly rational and sophisticated rational behaviour, and predict choices in unobserved contexts, an issue neglected in standard choice theory.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
B49|The Evaluation of Economic Recession Magnitude: Introduction and Application|We propose a new quantitative recession magnitude scale for measuring recessions´ magnitudes (´strength´) derived from GDP growth rates during a recession and its duration. Furthermore, we introduce a qualitative scale with four recession categories: minor, major, severe and ultra, where the categories are defined by the magnitude scale. We use both scales to evaluate several well known economic recessions of the 20th and the 21st centuries. We have found that the Great Depression in 1929-1933 and recessions in Russia and Ukraine in the 1990s belong to ultra recessions, while the recent 2007-2009 fi nancial crisis falls mainly into major (EU and Japan) and severe (USA) category.
B49|Исследование процессов трансформации социально-трудовых отношений на основе расширенного системного подхода. A study of change in social and labor relations based on an extended systems approach|Противоречивые результаты реформирования российской системы социально-трудовых отношений (СТО) показывают, что без учета особенностей национальной экономики, социально-экономической истории страны, истории развития трудовых отношений не удается добиться большого положительного эффекта. При выборе сценариев экономического развития рассмотрению должны подвергаться не только экономические, но и социокультурные факторы, такие как чувство справедливости, традиции в трудовой сфере, менталитет населения, система ценностей. Применение расширенного системного подхода к социально-трудовым отношениям позволяет включить в анализ их социокультурную составляющую и в дальнейшем разработать более жизнеспособную и нравственно обусловленную модель социально-трудовых отношений. В данной статье исследуются процессы трансформации социально-трудовых отношений на основе логического моделирования и расширенного системного подхода. The controversial results of the reforms of Russian social and labor relations indicate that attention needs to be paid to the peculiarities of the national economy and the social and economic history of the country, if changes in labor relations are to produce a positive effect. When selecting scenarios of economic development, consideration needs to be given not only to economic factors but also to cultural factors, such as the sense of justice, traditions in the workplace, general mentality, and the system of values. The use of an extended systems approach to the study of social and labor relations enables including a socio-cultural component in the analysis. Future work in this field will benefit from a more viable and moral model of social and labor relations. This paper investigates the processes of transformation of social and labor relations on the basis of logic modeling and an extended systems approach.
B49|Hegel’s “Objective Spirit”, extended mind, and the institutional nature of economic action|This paper explores the implications of the recent revival of Hegel studies for the philosophy of economics. We argue that Hegel’s theory of Objective Spirit anticipates many elements of modern approaches in cognitive sciences and of the philosophy of mind, which adopt an externalist framework. In particular, Hegel pre-empts the theories of social and distributed cognition. The pivotal elements of Hegelian social ontology are the continuity thesis, the performativity thesis, and the recognition thesis, which, when taken together, imply that all mental processes are essentially dependent on externalizations, with the underlying pattern of actions being performative. In turn, performative action is impossible without mutual recognition in an intersubjective domain. We demonstrate the implications for economic theory in sketching an externalist approach to institutions and preferences. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
B49|Issues And Epistemological Mutations In The Economic Field|"Knowledge in economics, as well as in other fields included in social sciences, can not be achieved upon the Galilean model, so customary in natural sciences. In time, its transfer conducted to the finding of some inconsistencies at the level of theory or between theory and practice. The subject-object discernibility, a possible simplification in natural science, becomes problematically in social sciences, where this delimitation operates only in theory, and, actually, the effects of the whole ""package"" are registered in. Also, the repeatability of initial conditions, possible in natural sciences through the control of the variables, becomes inoperative within social sciences that can not recreate the original context. All these lead to the idea that explanatory models and theories based on the causaltype determinism do not provide satisfactory answers. That is why the Aristotelian tradition is brought into attention, emphasizing the determinism of intelligibility type."
B49|Procrastination on long-term projects|We investigate naive procrastination on projects with multiple stages. In addition to classic procrastination in starting projects, naive people might undertake costly effort to begin projects but then never finish. Procrastination is more likely when the costs of completing different stages are more unequal, and it is when later stages are more costly that people start but do not finish projects. Moreover, if the cost structure is endogenous, people are prone to choose cost structures that lead them to start but not finish projects. Some extensions further illustrate how people may incur costs on projects they never complete.
B49|Una revisión a la investigación en responsabilidad social corporativa en el sector bancario|Este documento revisa los estudios de responsabilidad social corporativa (RSC) en el sector bancario. Busca identificar los principales problemas analizados al respecto en la literatura científica, así como las metodologías empleadas, a través de una revisión extensa de artículos de investigación, libros y capítulos de libros publicados en las bases de datos Scopus y Journal Citation Index (antes ISI) entre 1998 y 2011. Los resultados evidencian un alto interés por parte de los investigadores en estudiar la divulgación de la RSC del sector bancario empleando métodos cuantitativos y cualitativos; sin embargo, fenómenos como la percepción de los stakeholders al respecto del desempeño social y ambiental de las entidades bancarias, el impacto de las prácticas de RSC en el desarrollo local o nacional de países en vías de desarrollo (especialmente en Latinoamérica) y la responsabilidad del sector en la bancarización no se han abordado en profundidad.
B49|Experimental methods: Between-subject and within-subject design|In this article we explore the issues that surround within-subject and between-subject designs. We describe experiments in economics and in psychology that make comparisons using either of these designs (or both) that sometimes yield the same results and sometimes do not. The overall goal is to establish a framework for understanding which critical questions need to be asked about such experimental studies, what authors of such studies can do to ameliorate fears of confoundedness, and which scenarios are particularly susceptible to divergent results from the two approaches. Overall, we find that both designs have their merits, and the choice of designs should be carefully considered in the context of the question being studied and in terms of the practical implementation of the research study.
B49|Strong Evidence for Gender Differences in Risk Taking|Are men more willing to take financial risks than women? The answer to this question has immediate relevance for many economic issues. We assemble the data from 15 sets of experiments with one simple underlying investment game. Most of these experiments were not designed to investigate gender differences and were conducted by different researchers in different countries, with different instructions, durations, payments, subject pools, etc. The fact that all data come from the same basic investment game allows us to test the robustness of the findings. We find a very consistent result that women invest less, and thus appear to be more financially risk averse than men.
B49|Empresas Multinacionales y sus efectos en los Países Menos Desarrollados|En el presente artículo se da a conocer la dinámica de negociación entre una empresa multinacional y el gobierno de un país menos desarrollado, así como sus efectos en el país de acogida.
B49|Hegel’s “Objective Spirit” and its Contemporary Relevance for the Philosophy of Economics|This paper explores the implications of the recent revival of Hegel studies for the philosophy of economics. We argue that Hegel’s theory of Objective Spirit anticipates many elements of modern approaches in cognitive sciences and of the philosophy of mind, which adopt an externalist framework. In particular, Hegel pre-empts the theories of social and distributed cognition. The pivotal elements of Hegelian social ontology are the continuity thesis, the performativity thesis, and the recognition thesis, which, when taken together, imply that all mental processes are essentially dependent on externalizations, with the underlying pattern of actions being performative. In turn, performative action is impossible without mutual recognition in an intersubjective domain. We demonstrate the implications for economic theory in sketching an externalist approach to institutions and preferences.
B49|Decentralized planning in a market economy? On the nature of Coase’s research program|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|The silence of the archive: post-colonialism and the practice of historical reconstruction from archival evidence|History as a discipline has been accused of being a-theoretical. For business historians working at business schools, however, the issue of methodology looms larger, as it is hard to make contributions to social science debates without explicating one’s disciplinary methodology. This paper seeks to outline an important aspect of historical methodology, which is data collection from archives. In this area, postcolonialism has made significant methodological contributions not just for non-Western history, as it has emphasized the importance of considering how archives were created, and how one can legitimately use them despite their limitations.
B49|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
B49|Методологическая Концепция Анализа Социально-Экономических Систем<BR>[Methodological approach to the analysis of socio-economic systems]|"The purpose of the monography is to develop the methodology for analysis of socio-economic systems. To this end, we propose a holistic concept including the system of interrelated concepts and categories, exposing the underlying mechanisms, cause-and-effect relationships and regularities of socio-economic processes. All the more urgent problem is the control of socio-economic processes on the basis of a clear understanding of the hidden underlying mechanisms that give rise to social dynamics. But effective governance requires, firstly, a clear statement of purpose, secondly, the ""feedback"" from ""managed object"", ie the monitoring of social reality on the basis of a clear set of indicators characterizing the orientation of social dynamics. In this perspective, the main goal of regulation should be the social progress based on a economic growth subservient to first one. That brings to the fore the problem of accurate determination of the content of this concept. Monitoring the social reality suggests the formulation of key indicators for the ""feedback"". Thus, if the main purpose of the research is to seek for the way of increasing the controllability of the socio-economic processes, we should elucidate their underlying mechanisms and influencing factors, secondly, clearly identify key indicators, and third, formulate the basic principles of regulation."
B49|Dimensions of the research on capital structure and firm performance|The present paper seeks to examine the evolution of research on capital structure and firms’ performance. Dynamic analysis shows that the specialist literature has been enriched with theoretical and empirical wide-ranging debates; the existing body of research has provided analytical frameworks vital for grounding, understanding and implementing firms’ capital structure policies identify and for quantifying the impact of financial structure on firm performance; however, the analysis reveals that previous research have certain limitations, which pose challenges for further investigations. Based on a summary of (descriptive and critical) principles, stages and phases, methods, techniques and instruments related to the research and knowledge of the impact of capital structure on firm performance, the study suggests that we are witnessing progress in scientific research and, consequently, in the implementation of increasingly elaborate methodologies.
B49|Empirical validity of the evaluation of public policies: models of evaluation and quality of evidence|There is a wide range of evaluation methods. On the basis of which criteria should one method be chosen? On what scientific foundations are the results of numerous evaluations based? How can reliability and empirical validity be tested? The relevance of such questions is heightened in new fields of action such as agri-environmental policy. This paper aims to demonstrate that theoretical advances on level and types of evidence (existence, causality, effectiveness) can help resolve these issues. The main evaluation methods are classified into three main categories, according to their main goal (to learn, measure, understand) and linked to the debate on types of evidence. The analysis is illustrated by comparing evaluation methods in the field of agroenvironmental policies and farm advisory services. Attention is drawn to the shortcomings of each method with respect to corroborating facts as well as existing complementarities and trade-offs between methods in terms of empirical validity.
B49|Methodological Approaches in the Research of Organizational Culture|In the thirty-years-long research of organizational culture, two mutually opposed methodological approaches have emerged: objectivistic-quantitative and subjectivistic-qualitative. These two approaches are based on opposite ontological and epistemological assumptions: they include different types of research, and use opposite, quantitative vs. qualitative, methods of research. Each of the methodological approaches has its advantages and disadvantages. For this reason a hybrid approach emerges as a legitimate choice in organizational culture research methodology. It combines elements of both subjectivistic and objectivistic methodological approaches, according to the goals, content, and context of the research and preferences of the researcher himself/herself. Since it is possible to combine the two principal methodological approaches in various ways, there are several possible hybrid methodologies in organizational culture research. After the review of objectivistic-quantitative and subjectivistic-ualitative methodological approaches, one of possible hybrid approaches in the research of organizational culture is presented in this paper.
B49|Empirical validity of the evaluation of public policies: models of evaluation and quality of evidence| There is a wide range of evaluation methods. On the basis of which criteria should one method be chosen? On what scientific foundations are the results of numerous evaluations based? How can reliability and empirical validity be tested? The relevance of such questions is heightened in new fields of action such as agri-environmental policy. This paper aims to demonstrate that theoretical advances on level and types of evidence (existence, causality, effectiveness) can help resolve these issues. The main evaluation methods are classified into three main categories, according to their main goal (to learn, measure, understand) and linked to the debate on types of evidence. The analysis is illustrated by comparing evaluation methods in the field of agroenvironmental policies and farm advisory services. Attention is drawn to the shortcomings of each method with respect to corroborating facts as well as existing complementarities and trade-offs between methods in terms of empirical validity.
B49|Social entrepreneurship: the new narrative for the practice of the social economy|In recent years, the notion of social entrepreneurship and its manifest linkage with the economic development and social change has quickly gained prominence in the general discourse of academics and policymakers. A social justification or motive is a key issue in the account for its existence. In this sense, the expression “social entrepreneurship” is being utilized to describe what has been traditionally known as practices of social economy. However, differences in what is understood as “social” can be observed in both areas. The purpose of this article is to examine and compare the ideas that underlie and operate in the current narratives of social entrepreneurship with those implicit in the traditional rhetoric in the context of social economy. The main results show a wider conception of the term “social” within the discourse of social entrepreneurship than in the social economy area.
B49|‘But Can'T We Get The Same Thing With A Standard Model?’ Rationalizing Bounded-Rationality Models|This paper discusses a common criticism of economic models that depart from the standard rational-choice paradigm - namely, that the phenomena addressed by such models can be ‘rationalized’ by some standard model. I criticize this criterion for evaluating bounded-rationality models. Using a market model with boundedly rational consumers due to Spiegler (2006a) as a test case, I show that even when it initially appears that a bounded-rationality model can be rationalized by a standard model, rationalizing models tend to come with unwarranted ‘extra baggage’. I conclude that we should impose a greater burden of proof on rationalizations that are offered in refutation of bounded-rationality models.
B49|Correlation Neglect in Financial Decision-Making|"Good decision-making often requires people to perceive and handle a myriad of statistical correlations. Notably, optimal portfolio theory depends upon a sophisticated understanding of the correlation among financial assets. In this paper, we examine people's understanding of correlation using a sequence of portfolio-allocation problems and find it to be strongly imperfect. Our experiment uses pairs of portfolio-choice problems that have the same asset span - identical sets of attainable returns - and differ only in the assets' correlation. While any outcome-based theory of choice makes the same prediction across paired problems, subjects behave very differently across pairs. We find evidence for correlation neglect - treating correlated variables as uncorrelated - as well as for a form of ""1/N heuristic"" - investing half of wealth each of the two available assets."
B49|Optimal contracts with team production and hidden information: An experiment|We devise an experiment to explore optimal contracts in a hidden-information context. A principal offers one of three possible contract menus to a team of two agents of unknown skill levels, with both agents' participation needed for production. We observe numerous rejections of the more lopsided menus, and principals respond by offering more favorable menus. Apart from rejections, we see almost complete separation in agent choices according to the agent types. Behavior converges towards a consensus in which one of the more equitable menus is proposed and agents accept a contract. The consensus menu differs across two treatments in which we vary the payoffs resulting from a rejection. We find strong evidence of social learning by low-skill agents (but only for low-skilled agents), in that a low-skill agent is more likely to reject a contract menu if her teammate rejected a contract menu in the previous period. In addition, low-skilled agents have a particularly adverse reaction to reduced wage offers.
B49|Perspectivas de análisis institucional contemporáneo: enfoques, métodos y experimentos|The New Institutionalism incorporates several approaches of institutional analysis from several social sciences. Among these approaches, the New Institutional Economics has propelled several advances in contemporaneous institutional analysis. Methodological pluralism has characterized this approach, and the use of case studies, institutional and comparative historical analysis, econometric applications and experimental analysis explains the empirical success of the New Institutional Economics.
B49|Design Of Methodology For The Verification Of Load Distribution In A Container|The paper presents a sophisticated interactive tool supporting the decision-making of loading parties and vehicle operators – Methodology for the verification of load distribution in a container. The methodology allows us to standardize procedures used by loading parties, and ensures safe loading and transport of container units. Using a spreadsheet (table editor), it offers a simple, quick, affordable and universally applicable solution. The procedures featured in the Methodology are generalised and allow verifying load distribution in any ISO series 1 storage container. The procedures presented are generally algebraically described and accompanied by a calculation flow diagram. Safe handling and transport of a container unit is ensured by keeping the deviation of the actual centre of gravity from the optimum centre of gravity in acceptable limits. A model example of loading of one of the most commonly used containers – ISO 1 C – is also part of the Methodology.
B49|Hidden information, bargaining power, and efficiency: an experiment|We devise an experiment to explore the effect of different degrees of bargaining power on the design and the selection of contracts in a hidden-information context. In our benchmark case, each principal is matched with one agent of unknown type. In our second treatment, a principal can select one of three agents, while in a third treatment an agent may choose between the contract menus offered by two principals. We first show theoretically how different ratios of principals and agents affect outcomes and efficiency. Informational asymmetries generate inefficiency. In an environment where principals compete against each other to hire agents, these inefficiencies remain. In contrast, when agents compete to be hired, efficiency improves dramatically, and it increases in the relative number of agents because competition reduces the agents’ informational monopoly power. However, this environment also generates a high inequality level and is characterized by multiple equilibria. In general, there is a fairly high degree of correspondence between the theoretical predictions and the contract menus actually chosen in each treatment. There is, however, a tendency to choose more ‘generous’ (and more efficient) contract menus over time. We find that competition leads to a substantially higher probability of trade, and that, overall, competition between agents generates the most efficient outcomes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Conceptions of rationality in law and economics|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|The strategy versus the direct-response method: a first survey of experimental comparisons|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|A 4D natural selection model illuminates the enigma of altruism in the Shedao pit viper|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Letting Down the Team? Evidence of Social Effects of Team Incentives|This paper estimates social effects of incentivizing people in teams. In two field experiments featuring exogenous team formation and opportunities for repeated social interactions, we find large team effects that operate through social channels. The team compensation system induced agents to choose effort as if they valued a marginal dollar of compensation for their teammate from two-thirds as much (in one study) to twice as much as they valued a dollar of their own compensation (in the other study). We conclude that social effects of monetary team incentives exist and can induce effort at lower cost than through direct individual payment.
B49|The Process of Reform in Latin America: A Review Essay|"This paper contributes to literature on the process of reform in Latin America. We study political economy aspects and the policy making process of reforms in what we identify as the five critical steps through the ""life cycle"" of a policy reform: the Planning, Dialogue, Adoption, Implementation, and Sustainability stages. This paper illustrates that the most important actors involved and the major bottlenecks vary at different stages of the reform process. Explanations for successful or failed reform experiments must therefore adequately account for this temporal dimension of reforms. Similarly, policy makers may increase the chances of success of their reform platforms by paying due attention to this stylised pattern of actors and bottlenecks. We also consider in some detail the actors who interact during the reform cycle, and review their changing strength and capacity in recent decades in Latin America. Ce document contribue à la littérature sur le processus de réforme en Amérique latine. Nous étudions les aspects d'économie politique et le processus de formulation des politiques dans ce que nous identifions comme les cinq étapes critiques du « cycle de vie » d'une réforme: la Planification, le Dialogue, l'Adoption, l'Exécution et la Soutenabilité. Ce document étudie la variété des acteurs majeurs impliqués et des obstacles rencontrés à chaque étape du processus de réforme. Les explications quant à la réussite ou l’échec des expériences de réforme doivent donc rendre compte de la dimension temporelle des réformes. De même, les décideurs de politiques peuvent augmenter les chances de succès de leurs plates-formes de réforme en accordant attention à ce modèle stylisé d’acteurs et d’obstacles. Nous analysons également en détail les acteurs qui interagissent au cours du cycle de réformes, et examinons l’évolution de leur pouvoir et capacité au cours des dernières décennies en Amérique latine."
B49|Towns (and villages): definitions and implications in a historical setting|Abstract The measurement of urbanization rates and other uses of statistical information, for example the use of historical town growth to measure long-term economic growth, are usually based on an ad hoc population threshold to define and practically classify settlements as towns. The method, however, trades off accuracy and precision for convenience and simplicity. This paper proposes a new threshold that uses the town size distribution together with agricultural data to derive an appropriate cutoff value. The relevance of agricultural income is integrated into the classification scheme through the differential effect of local agricultural endowments on settlement size. The threshold is chosen such that the size of towns above the cutoff is statistically not influenced by local agricultural endowments, while the size of villages, which is below the threshold, is indeed shaped by them. This new approach is practically demonstrated with an application to the urban system of the nineteenth century in the German region of Saxony. This setting is used to investigate the relevance of a different classification for the development of urbanization over time and Gibrat’s law. The results demonstrate that the underlying classification scheme matters strongly for the conclusions drawn from historical urban data. They also indicate that the use of a common population threshold for a comparative analysis or temporal comparisons in a historical context increases the misclassifications of settlements.
B49|An Aristotelian View of Marx’s Method|A number of Marxist scholars have tied aspects of Marx’s thought to certain Aristotelian categories, yet remarkably little is said of Marx’s dialectical materialism in this literature. Here we attempt to lay a foundation for such an effort, paying particular attention to the way in which Aristotle’s mediated starting point resonates in Marx’s method. While Hegel is able to grasp man’s self-creation as a process, his dialectical method proceeds from an unmediated starting point, and impresses Idealism upon the Aristotelian categories. In rejecting the Idealist dimensions of Hegel’s dialectic, Marx implicitly reclaims the materialist dimensions of Aristotle’s system. It will be argued here that such an interpretation sheds important light on the nature of Marx’s departure from Hegel, and on his method in Capital.
B49|The return of vulgar economics: A Rejoinder to Colander, Holt and Rosser|This paper provides a rejoinder to Colander, Holt and Rosser (2010) strategy to win friends and influence mainstream economics. It is suggested that their strategy is counter-productive, and while it might gain them friends, it will not lead to increased influence of heterodox ideas within what they term the cutting edge of the profession. It is argued that their failure to understand the nature of heterodoxy, and the reason for the eclecticism of the mainstream, associated to the rise of vulgar economics, undermines their arguments.
B49|Measuring Of Ethnic Homogeneity Of The Population – One New Approach|The necessity of constructing a measure of ethnic homogeneity of the population of the different countries is founded. The advantages and shortcomings of different indices used for this purpose are discussed. The indicators according to which the different ethnic communities and groups are con-verging (respectively diverging) are also discussed. It is established that the language and territorial proximity are most important. Their definition does not cause special difficulties. For other types of proximity - religious, racial, economic, etc., considerable difficulties arise for their measurement. A coefficient of population ethnic homogeneity is proposed. It accounts for the number of the respective ethnic group and the degree of proximity to the basic (the most numerous) ethnic group in the country. For the definition of this proximity a range scale is applied. A classification of the coefficient of ethnic homogeneity is done. Examples for calculating the coefficient for different countries are given.
B49|Portfolio Choice And Risk Attitudes: An Experiment|Using financial incentives, we study how portfolio choice (how much to invest in a risky asset) depends on three well‐known behavioral phenomena: ambiguity aversion, the illusion of control, and myopic loss aversion. We find evidence that these phenomena are present and test how the level of investment is affected by these motivations; at the same time, we investigate whether participants are willing to explicitly pay a small sum of money to indulge preferences for less ambiguity, more control, or more frequent feedback/opportunities to choose the investment level. First, the observed preference for “control” did not affect investment behavior and in fact disappeared when participants were asked to actually pay to gain more control. Second, while people were indeed willing to pay for less ambiguity, the level of ambiguity did not influence investment levels. Finally, participants were willing to pay to have more frequent feedback opportunities to change their portfolio, even though prior research has shown that people invest less in risky assets (and earn less) in this case. (JEL B49, C91, D81, G11, G19)
B49|History of the Use and Abuse of Visual Metaphors in Social Science|Este artículo sigue el recorrido histórico del uso de metáforas visuales en las ciencias sociales y particularmente en la sociología. Se argumenta que el uso de este tipo de metáforas explica el discurso sobre la objetividad en las ciencias sociales.
B49|Do Emotions Improve Labor Market Outcomes?|This chapter argues that the neglect of emotion in economic models explains their inability to predict important aspects of the labor market. We focus on one example: firms frequently cut real wages, increasing nominal wages by less than the inflation rate, but they very seldom cut nominal wages. This pattern suggests that workers exhibit a special resistance to nominal wage cuts, which is hard to explain if they are purely rational as assumed in standard economic models. We argue that resistance to nominal wage cuts is best understood in terms of a model where salient features of a situation trigger emotional responses and sway judgment of the entire situation. Since a cut in the nominal wage leads to a very salient reduction in pay, we argue that the reaction of workers is dominated by emotions. On the other hand, an increase in the nominal wage may produce a more deliberative evaluation, because there is no immediately salient feature. The individual needs to compare the inflation rate to the wage change before it becomes clear whether the change increases or decreases utility, thus producing a more measured response. We present evidence from experiments showing that self-reported emotions respond strongly to nominal wage cuts, but not to decreases in the real wage achieved through increasing the nominal wage by less than the inflation rate. Although emotions may benefit individual workers, by strengthening their bargaining position and preventing wage cuts, they may also lead to worse outcomes, in the form of higher unemployment.
B49|Aproximações de um olhar foucauldiano sobre o institucionalismo de Thorstein Veblen|Thorstein Veblen (1857-1929), considered the first institutionalist author, tried to formulate, in the passage of the 19th century to the 20th, an original system of political economy that was alternative to classical, neoclassical, historicist and marxist thoughts. In this paper, this system of political economy is considered from the Michel Foucault’s (1926-1984) archeology of knowledge perspective. Hence, the paper has two more specific objectives. First, to expose how Foucault’s archeology of knowledge can be used to the study of an original system of political economy. Second, to show that the Veblenian system can be viewed as an instance, incipient and hesitant as it is, in the direction of a surpassing of what Foucault named modern episteme.
B49|Field and Online Experiments on Procrastination and Willpower|Self-control problems have recently received considerable attention from economic theorists. We conducted two studies to test the benefits of externally imposed deadlines and how willpower depletion affects behavior, providing some of the first data in these areas. Each study involved a behavioral intervention designed to affect performance. We find that for a lengthy task, regular deadlines neither reduce procrastination nor increase completion rates. Second, a willpower-depleting task reduces initial effort but increases overall task-completion rates. Our results help to inform ongoing efforts to understand and model procrastination, willpower and commitment mechanisms.
B49|Sense of Control Affects Investment Behavior|Preference for control affects investment behavior. Participants of laboratory experiments invest different amount of money in a risky asset when face with two different methods of control which have identical payoff structure and probability distribution, but provide different sense of control. Preference for controlling and not controlling are both observed. Participants increase their investment when their preferred method of control is used. Participants who prefer to control more reduce their investment more strongly when face with less control. Preference for control has larger effect on investment behavior when participants are induced to have a comparative mindset rather than non-comparative mindset.
B49|The evolution of cooperative hierarchies through natural selection processes|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Commodity-industry classificationproxy: A correspondence table between SITC revision 2 and ISIC revision 3|The correspondence table is one of the important tools in categorizing existing records into different perspective. It helps to understand the pattern of various economic activities from single source of data. Nevertheless, most of the existing correspondence tables have been focusing more on the latest classification and neglect the correspondence for the older version. Since some analysis would require longer series of data, therefore it is necessary to create a correspondence table for the earlier version of classification. This paper devoted to create a correspondence table between SITC Revision 2 and ISIC Revision 3 using a proxy method. The proxy is done using the SITC Rev.2 – SITC Rev.3 correspondence table and the SITC Rev.3 – ISIC Rev.3 correspondence table. This method has capable to directly find an industrial match for more than 98 percent of commodities under SITC Rev.3. For remaining commodities which industrial category cannot be matched directly, the identification was done automatically based on the closest code.
B49|Utility from anticipation and personal equilibrium|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Self-delusion in the pursuit of happiness|The paper explores how repeated revisions of consumption plans increase long-run utility. If agents value present anticipations of future consumption, some revisions may be viewed as a benign form of self-delusion. We consider a minimal generalization of the Samuelson discounted utility model to allow for utility linked to next period consumption. Agents are assumed to vary with respect to their sophistication. Different environments likely to facilitate repeated revisions are also considered.
B49|Do we need time series econometrics?| It is argued that whether the need for unit roots and cointegration-based econometric methods is a methodological issue. An alternative is the econometrics of the London School of Economics (LSE) and Hendry approach based on the simpler classical methods of estimation. This is known as the general to specific method (GETS). Like all other methodological issues this is also difficult to resolve, but we think that GETS is very useful.
B49|Promises & Partnership|We examine, experimentally and theoretically, how communication within a partnership may mitigate the problem (highlighted in contract theory) of hidden action. What is the form and content of the communication? Which model of decision-making can capture the impact of communication? We consider free-form communication, measure beliefs (about actions and beliefs), and examine which motivational forces influence subjects. We find they harbor belief-dependent preferences that can be captured using psychological game theory. In particular, agents are influenced by guilt aversion, which suggests a theory of why and how communication influences behavior in which statements of intent and resulting expectations play a special role. This has bearing on how to understand partnerships and contracts.
B49|Expressed preferences and behavior in experimental games|Participants in experimental games typically can only choose actions, without making comments about other participants’ future actions. In sequential two-person games, we allow first movers to express a preference between responder choices. We find that responder behavior differs substantially according to whether first movers express a hope for favorable or unfavorable treatment. Responders largely ignore first movers’ expressed preferences for favorable responses, however, when the first movers misbehave. As in earlier experiments without preference expression, subjects assign a high positive weight to another person’s payoffs when ahead and misbehavior elicits a strong negative response. Logit regressions estimate the weight placed on another (non-misbehaving) person’s payoffs to be positive, even when one is behind. There is suggestive evidence that positive reciprocity is enhanced when a preference for favorable treatment is expressed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Competition, hidden information, and efficiency : an experiment|We devise an experiment to explore the effect of different degrees of competition on optimal contracts in a hidden-information context. In our benchmark case, each principal is matched with one agent of unknown type. In our second treatment, a principal can select one of three agents, while in a third treatment an agent may choose between the contract menus offered by two principals. We first show theoretically how these different degrees of competition affect outcomes and efficiency. Informational asymmetries generate inefficiency. In an environment where principals compete against each other to hire agents, these inefficiencies remain. In contrast, when agents compete to be hired, efficiency improves dramatically, and it increases in the relative number of agents because competition reduces the agents’ informational monopoly power. However, this environment also generates a high inequality level and is characterized by multiple equilibria. In general, there is a fairly high degree of correspondence between the theoretical predictions and the contract menus actually chosen in each treatment. There is, however, a tendency to choose more ‘generous’ (and more efficient) contract menus over time. We find that competition leads to a substantially higher probability of trade, and that, overall, competition between agents generates the most efficient outcomes.
B49|An investment game with third-party intervention|This paper explores the effect of the possibility of third-party intervention on behavior in a variant of the Berg, Dickhaut, and McCabe (1995) “Investment Game”. A third-party’s material payoff is not affected by the decisions made by the other participants, but this person may choose to punish a responder who has been overly selfish. The concern over this possibility may serve to discipline potentially-selfish responders. We also explore a treatment in which the third party may also choose to reward a sender who has received a low net payoff as a result of the responder’s action. We find a strong and significant effect of third-party punishment, in both punishment regimes, as the amount sent by the first mover is more than 60% higher when there is the possibility of third-party punishment. We also find that responders return a higher proportion of the amount sent to them when there is the possibility of punishment, with this proportion slightly higher when reward is not feasible. Finally, third parties punish less when reward is feasible, but nevertheless spend more on the combination of reward and punishment when these are both permitted than on punishment when this is the only choice for redressing material outcomes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Rational and Naive Herding|In social-learning environments, we investigate implications of the assumption that people naively believe that each previous person's action reflects solely that person's private information, leading them to systematically imitate all predecessors even in the many circumstances where rational agents do not. Naive herders inadvertently over-weight early movers' private signals by neglecting that interim herders' actions also embed these signals. They herd with positive probability on incorrect actions across a broad array of rich-information settings where rational players never do, and---because they become fully confident even when wrong---can be harmed on average by observing others.
B49|Schätzung des Risikos der Bevölkerung durch Terroranschläge als Ergänzung für sicherheitsökonomische Betrachtungen|"To provide a foundation for political decisions regarding terrorism in Germany, this risk must be thoroughly analyzed. Therefore, an objective risk assessment has to be undertaken. This was done in a sub-project of ""Risk Map Germany"" (www.cedim.de). Such a spatial mapping of risks requires a precise definition and delineation of relevant risk components. This paper focuses on the terrorism-induced risk of the population. The regional magnitude of the threat and the distinctive vulnerability of different groups of people are analyzed. Following an explanation of the risk concept used and its components in chapter 2, we introduce our methodology of risk assessment in chapter 3. Chapter 4 contains exemplary applications. Chapter 5 concludes the paper with a short discussion of data needs, limitations of the methodology presented and further research potential. Um politische Entscheidungen zum Umgang mit dem Terrorismus in Deutschland treffen zu können, ist eine eingehende Analyse dieses Risikos in allen seinen Facetten vonnöten. Eine Grundlage dafür bildet die Schätzung des objektiven Risikos. Letzteres wurde im Teilprojekt ""manmade hazards"" der ""Risikokarte Deutschland"" (www.cedim.de) verfolgt. Die räumliche Abbildung von Risiken verlangt nach einer präzisen Abgrenzung und Definition relevanter Risikokomponenten. Im vorliegenden Beitrag steht das Risiko der Bevölkerung durch Terrorismus im Fokus. Hierzu werden das regionale Ausmaß der Gefährdung und die spezifische Vulnerabilität verschiedener Bevölkerungsgruppen analysiert. Nach einer Erläuterung des verwendeten Risikokonzepts und seiner Komponenten (Kapitel 2) wird das methodische Vorgehen zur Risikoschätzung in Kapitel 3 vorgestellt. Kapitel 4 enthält exemplarische Anwendungen der Methodik. Das abschließende Fazit im 5. Kapitel umfasst eine kurze Diskussion von Datenbedarf beziehungsweise Einsatzmöglichkeiten der vorgestellten Methodik und identifiziert weiteren Forschungsbedarf."
B49|Waterloo et les regard croisés de l'interprétation|The interpretations of the Waterloo campaign are numerous, diverse and constantly reworked, so they are part of history no less than the event itself. This article briefly reviews them before considering more carefully two selected interpreters, i.e., Clausewitz and Stendhal. It likens the former to a rational choice theorist who makes a step away from intelligible narrative in the direction of modelling, and it represents the latter, who expresses himself through his character Fabrice, as a theoretically informed critique of the inert categories of the historical discourse. Despite their opposing trends towards unification and dissolution, both examples testify to general features, which the end of this essay tries to bring out, of the concepts of interpretation and plurality of interpretations.
B49|Cooperation and Competition in Intergenerational Experiments in the Field and the Laboratory|There is economic pressure to postpone the retirement age, but employers are still reluctant to employ older workers. We investigate the comparative behavior of juniors and seniors in experiments conducted both onsite with the employees of two large firms and in a conventional laboratory environment with students and retirees. We show that seniors are no more risk averse than juniors and are typically more cooperative; both juniors and working seniors respond strongly to competition. The implication is that it may be beneficial to define additional incentives near the end of the career to motivate and retain older workers. (JEL C90, J14, J26, M12, M51)
B49|Prix fonciers et demande de sol à usage résidentiel en France (1975-2000)|This paper documents the increase in residential land prices in France over a twenty-five-years period. We estimate a land price function accounting for changes in urban size over time on a nation-wide sample. We take into account the concave relationship between lot price and lot surface and deal with the endogeneity of the latter. We also account for a potential selection bias. We are able to disentangle, in the land price increase, pure time effects from changes in location characteristics and in the location of newly built houses. We also provide estimates of income and price elasticity of residential land demand. Classification JEL : R11, R21, R31.
B49|Waterloo et les regard croisés de l'interprétation|The interpretations of the Waterloo campaign are numerous, diverse and constantly reworked, so they are part of history no less than the event itself. This article briefly reviews them before considering more carefully two selected interpreters, i.e., Clausewitz and Stendhal. It likens the former to a rational choice theorist who makes a step away from intelligible narrative in the direction of modelling, and it represents the latter, who expresses himself through his character Fabrice, as a theoretically informed critique of the inert categories of the historical discourse. Despite their opposing trends towards unification and dissolution, both examples testify to general features, which the end of this essay tries to bring out, of the concepts of interpretation and plurality of interpretations.
B49|Seemingly altruistic behavior: selfish genes or cooperative organisms?|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|The alert and creative entrepreneur: a clarification|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Incentives, Identity, and Organizational Forms|Abstract This paper studies the optimal organizational form and the optimal type of manager by considering the nonmaterial (psychological) payoff as well as the standard material payoff for agents. I compare two organizational forms: T-form, where all agents have the same job title so that they are in a single reference group; and H-form, where one agent is appointed to be the manager and the others are subordinates who form a reference group. I show that the principal should appoint a more (less) able agent to be the manager when the effects of peer pressure are more (less) critical. In addition, I find the conditions under which H-form is more likely to be preferred to T-form. Finally, I discuss the phenomenon of the proliferation of job titles in the context of this model.
B49|Perspective teoretice şi metodologice în modelarea agenţilor autonomi|The paper analyzes the way in which evolved the concept of autonomous agent in the cognition sciences [the functional and symbolic approach, the behavioural approach and morphodynamic approach.]
B49|Abordarea bioeconomică în contextul teoriei economice|The issue of innovation in the framework of economic theory is a challenge to which nobody has offered an adequate answer. Economic mainstream does not take into consideration this issue.
B49|Menschenrechte, Soziale Grundrechte, Sozialrecht – Versuch einer Näherung<BR>[Human Rights, Social Rights, Social Law - An Essay on their Rapprochement]|The essay proposes in a brief sketch a methodology that allows assessing human rights beyond absolutism of abstract rights and relativist views which usually end in meaningless of the concept.
B49|Les fondements philosophiques du concept de probabilité|La probabilité a un aspect à la fois mathématique et philosophique. Le contraste entre les deux est saisissant. Du point de vue mathématique, il existe un consensus presque complet sur la théorie des probabilités, c’est-à-dire, sur les axiomes et sur les théorèmes qui en découlent. Par contre, du point de vue philosophique, on recense actuellement quatre interprétations/théories majeures qui divergent fondamentalement sur la question du fondement du concept de probabilité :la théorie logique, la théorie subjective, la théorie fréquentielle et la théorie de la propension. Le but de ce travail est d’analyser en détail ces quatre théories :leurs origines, les enjeux qui s’en dégagent, et la manière dont elles se positionnent les unes par rapport aux autres. En outre, un accent particulier est mis sur le rôle et le statut de la théorie mathématique en regard des considérations philosophiques sur le fondement du concept de probabilité. En effet, la théorie mathématique constitue la toile de fond de tou s les débats actuels, sans pourtant jamais être véritablement considérée – d’un point de vue épistémologique, par exemple. Enfin, à travers l’analyse, philosophique, du concept de probabilité, c’est la question fondamentale de la différence entre le monde réel et le modèle scientifique de celui-ci qui est posée. En effet, l’équivocité de la probabilité, toujours partagée entre un concept abstrait (la probabilité a priori) et un phénomène empirique (la fréquence de répétition d’un événement), fait écho au problème de la relation entre la théorie et l’expérience.
B49|Economic Dynamics as a Succession of Equilibria: The Path Travelled by Morishima|"In the paper I bring to the attention of the economists and historians of economic thought the idea of economic dynamics that one can found in the first book by Morishima published in 1950 but totally overlooked. It has a great interest not only because there it appears for the first time the application of new mathematical concepts (""structural stability"") but also because he pursues a way of dynamizing general equilibrium theory that has been neglected in the postwar developments that appears to have been inspired by Samuelson. The paper has three parts. In the first and second parts I outline the development of economic dynamics and its applications to general equilibrium elaborated by Morishima; in the third part a comparison between the prevailing idea of economic dynamics as originally put forward by Samuelson and that elaborated by Morishima is developed and discussed."
B49|Social justice and different views of natural law among XIX century economis|The notion of ‘social justice’ emerged in political economy debates in the XIX century. This concept was developed particularly by Walras and by Catholic social economists. While Walras found inspiration in the view of natural law expressed by Quesnay, Catholic economists based their reflections on the Neo-Thomistic (or New Scholastic) philosophical thought developed by the Jesuits. We first study the main differences in the use of this concept among economists in the second half of the XIX century. Second, we analyse the connection between the notion of social justice and the ‘classical’ natural law from which it was derived. Then we highlight the debate which developed around this concept between the main currents of Roman Catholic social economics and the official adoption in encyclicals Quadragesimo Anno and Divini Redemptoris. This essay concludes by examining the impact that differing definitions of rights and the law have had on economic theory.
B49|Ex-ante Policy Assessment from an Institutional Perspective. A Procedure for Institutional Compatibility Assessment (PICA)| Ex-ante impact assessment of agricultural, environmental, and rural policies has become an integral part of political decision making processes in the EU. While there is a large variety of agri-environmental modelling tools available to analyse likely social, economic, and environmental impacts of these policies, scientifically well-founded ex-ante policy assessment tools capturing institutional dimensions are still missing. In this paper, we introduce a formalised procedure for modelling – ex-ante – institutional aspects for policy implementation: the ‘Procedure for Institutional Compatibility Assessment’ (PICA). It has recently been developed within the SEAMLESS project as a component of an integrative modelling framework for ex-ante assessment of policy impacts on sustainable development. PICA is based on the assumption that the effectiveness of a policy and the cost-effectiveness of its implementation largely depend on the degree of compatibility between this policy and the institutional context in the respective countries and regions. It has been designed as an explorative and flexible, yet formalised methodology that enables policy makers to identify at an early stage potential institutional incompatibilities. After providing a brief overview of relevant approaches for policy assessment we elaborate on the four distinct steps of PICA and use a core element of the EU Nitrate Directive to illustrate its function.
B49|Risk-Increasing and Risk-Reducing Practices in Human Resource Management: Focus Group Discussions with Livestock Managers| Historically, managers in livestock production have focused on production management; however, as operations have grown they have spent more time managing employees. Increased time spent overseeing employees brings additional risks and challenges, and, hence, a greater need for human resource management (HRM) skills. This study investigated HRM practices in pork production and analyzed their risk attributes through six focus group discussions with managers. Results were compared to existing data from four dairy focus groups and to other research. The results have been used to develop and adapt educational workshops for managers in pork production.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Risk-Increasing and Risk-Reducing Practices in Human Resource Management: Focus Group Discussions with Livestock Managers| Historically, managers in livestock production have focused on production management; however, as operations have grown they have spent more time managing employees. Increased time spent overseeing employees brings additional risks and challenges, and, hence, a greater need for human resource management (HRM) skills. This study investigated HRM practices in pork production and analyzed their risk attributes through six focus group discussions with managers. Results were compared to existing data from four dairy focus groups and to other research. The results have been used to develop and adapt educational workshops for managers in pork production.
B49|Testing Happiness Hypothesis among the Elderly|Se emplea un amplio conjunto de datos que permite evaluar de diferentes formas la hipótesis de la felicidad, empleando cuatro enfoques metodológicos. Se constata que las personas de mayor edad en Uruguay tienen una tendencia a reconocerse felices cuando están casadas, cuando tienen un buen estado de salud y si tienen altos ingresos monetarios o estiman que su ingreso es conveniente para su nivel de vida. Contrariamente, señalan niveles más bajos de felicidad cuando viven solos o cuando sunutrición es insuficiente. Se evidencia que la educación no tiene un impacto claro sobre su percepción de felicidad. Este trabajo es una contribución al estudio de los factores que pueden explicar la felicidad entre las personas de la tercera edad en los países de América Latina. El trabajo futuro seconcentrará sobre un análisis empírico mejorado y sobre la expansión del estudio a otros países.
B49|Improvements and Future Challenges in the Field of Genetically Sensitive Sample Designs|Understanding the sources of individual differences beyond social and economic effects has become a research area of growing interest in psychology, sociology, and economics. A quantitative genetic research design provides the necessary tools for this type of analysis. For a state-of-the-art approach, multigroup data is required. Household panel studies, such as BHPS (Understanding Society) in the UK or the SOEP in Germany, combined with an oversampling of twins, provide a powerful starting point since data from a reasonably large number of non-twin relatives is readily available. In addition to advances in our understanding of genetic and environmental influences on key variables in the social sciences, quantitative genetic analyses of target variables can guide molecular genetic research in the field of employment, earnings, health and satisfaction, as combined twin and sibling or parent data can help overcome serious caveats in molecular genetic research.
B49|Compatible beliefs and equilibrium|In this paper I investigate the nature of the beliefs which agents must hold (at least implicitly) in order to justify their considering various alternatives, in two distinct settings: the Walrasian model without production (with competitive equilibrium), and the sell-all version of the Shapley-Shubik market game (with Nash equilibrium). For this purpose I introduce a weak consistency requirement on behavior, one which I refer to as (having) compatible beliefs. My main conclusion is that, in this respect, these two versions of market allocation are essentially identical. For both, contemplating different choices requires varying the associated set of values of the variables defining compatible beliefs. And - though prima facie very different - it turns out that both equilibrium concepts can be recast entirely in terms of having compatible beliefs. My analysis also leads unequivocally to the interesting conclusion that, in the Walrasian model (even elaborated to encompass production, financial markets, and so on), budget constraints must hold, ab initio, with equality. This has one very important consequence: the First Basic Welfare Theorem, as usually stated, is false, as I demonstrate with two distinct counterexamples, the second of which is (in classical terms) unexceptional.
B49|Dynamic preferences, moral values and emotions in economical analysis (In French)|Our analysis is about the role of emotions and moral values in economical analysis. We use the theory of emotions of Livet (2002) in order to understand the behaviour of individuals alternatively in the Akerlof (1991)’s model of undue obedience and in a public good experiment. We argue that the emotional process permits us to reveal to ourselves our true preferences or values. We thus claim that recent economic analysis should take into account the role of emotion not only as a psychic cost or even a rational tool but also as a useful warning process.
B49|The Alert and Creative Entrepreneur: A Clarification|Israel M. Kirzner is the 2006 winner of The International Award for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Research (the FSF-Nutek Award). In this Prize Lecture he argues that a number of those who have commented on his work have misunderstood certain aspects of his theoretical system, and as a result the common distinction in the literature between “Schumpeterian” and “Kirznerian” entrepreneurs is flawed. He also argues that his understanding of the market process (set in motion by entrepreneurial decisions) provides a theoretical underpinning for public policy vis-à-vis entrepreneurship. Professor Kirzner’s main contributions to the economics of entrepreneurship were also presented and evaluated by Douhan, Eliasson and Henrekson (2007).
B49|The Economic Thought on Poverty Measurement: From the Nineteenth-Century to the Rediscovering Era|This essay describes the evolution of the Economics of Poverty from the seminal works of Charles Booth and Joseph Rowntree to the Rediscovering Era in the 1960’s. It shows how the leading objectives of its authors changed over the decades. The description is roughly exhaustive, pointing out the way how the leading concepts, many of them frequently used even nowadays, were developed by its authors.
B49|Poverty Measurement: The Development of Different Approaches and Its Techniques|This work concentrates in the fundamental ideas that constitute the existing theoretical framework of the poverty measurement from the 1960’s to the state-of-the-art, with an extended comment on the more relevant issues, the presentation of more influencing approaches and the probable path of future research in Poverty Economics
B49|To the Evolutionary Conceptions of Organization’s Management|This study has an object to suggest foundations of a possible contemporary methodological approach and methodical instruments for applying the evolutionary standpoint to the management science and practice. Various aspects in which that standpoint fins expression in classical management conceptions of the organizational changes are viewed. Fundamental formulations of the evolutionary transformations of the chaos philosophy and theory are represented. On that basis an attempt is made to formulate fundamental postulates of the management evolutionary conception and to interpret them by a methodological scheme of threats to the organizations localization, measurement and evaluation as well as of generation and evaluation versions of their limitation. Methods for the threats to organization measurement are elaborated that to provide first step to achievement of the primary organization aim of homeostasis/survival. The methods are described by its instruments, limiting conditions, stages and procedures and some results of their approbation. Basic instruments of the methods are method of focus groups, investigation method by questionnaires, paired comparison method and calculus by confidential intervals. The methods are approbated for the University of National and World Economy (UNWE). Results for the licensing institution “students” of the UNWE are represented in the study. These are aggression functions and present aggression evaluations of the licensing institution “students” as well as functions of threat to the UNWE and licensing table of threats of that licensing institution to the UNWE.
B49|Despre controversele metodologice din ştiinţa economică|The purpose of this paper is threefold: (1) to examine briefly the history and development of the major methodological controversies in economic science
B49|The Bayesian Fallacy: Distinguishing Four Kinds of Beliefs|This paper distinguishes among four kinds of beliefs: conviction, confidence, perception, conception. Conviction concerns self-ability:“I can build these stairs.” Confidence also concerns the self—ut focuses on the assertion of will in the face of weakness of will. Perception is about the environment such as weather prediction. Conception is also about the environment—but usually couched with context. While convictions are noncognitive and nonevidential beliefs, the other beliefs are either cognitive, evidential, or both. This paper uses the terms “cognition” and “evidentiality” as axes to distinguish the four beliefs. While “cognitive beliefs” are about one’s environment, “noncognitive beliefs” are about one’s self. While the cognitive/noncognitive divide is unconventional, it generates a payoff in light of the evidentiality axis. While “evidential beliefs” are correctable via Bayes’s rule, “nonevidential beliefs” are not. However, when the nonevidential belief is about the environment, the evidence can at least make the belief more (or less) warranted—where “warrantability” is a weaker criterion than “correctability.” And when the nonevidential belief is about the self, i.e., a conviction, the evidence cannot even make the belief more (or less) warranted. The evidence itself develops when one tries to test a conviction. This paper highlights that convictions are the basis of tenacity—crucial for entrepreneurship and economic growth. This paper further demonstrates how three major theories of action—standard rationality, normative theory, and procedural rationality—fail to distinguish the four kinds of beliefs. They, hence, commit, although in different ways, a set of confusions called here the “Bayesian fallacy.”
B49|Improvements and Future Challenges in the Field of Genetically Sensitive Sample Designs|Understanding the sources of individual differences beyond social and economic effects has become a research area of growing interest in psychology, sociology, and economics. A quantitative genetic research design provides the necessary tools for this type of analysis. For a state-of-the-art approach, multigroup data is required. Household panel studies, such as BHPS (Understanding Society) in the UK or the SOEP in Germany, combined with an oversampling of twins, provide a powerful starting point since data from a reasonably large number of non-twin relatives is readily available. In addition to advances in our understanding of genetic and environmental influences on key variables in the social sciences, quantitative genetic analyses of target variables can guide molecular genetic research in the field of employment, earnings, health and satisfaction, as combined twin and sibling or parent data can help overcome serious caveats in molecular genetic research.
B49|Economics research in Spain during the 1990s: a literature review|This paper is a review of the literature on the ranking of centers of excellence in economics according to the papers published in specialized journals that have an anonymous evaluation procedure. There are two objectives: (1) to examine the evolution during the 1990's of certain features of economic research, such as the gap that exists between the United States and the rest of the world, the dominant position of the United Kingdom within Europe, and the low productivity of economic scholars everywhere; and (2) to document the tremendous progress that Spanish research centers underwent during this period.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Corruption and Armed Conflicts: Some Stirring Around in the Governance Soup|The paper discusses the impact of corruption on the probability of violent conflict events and traces the shifts in the composition of corrupt transactions during and in the aftermath of violent conflicts in an informal way. So far there has been little interaction between empirical corruption research and the empirical research into civil wars. When the two strands of research are brought together and their results are combined, some patterns become apparent that would have been difficult to detect if the results within each field were analysed in isolation.
B49|A propósito de la relación economía y medio ambiente: un balance crítico sobre las convenciones y tensiones epistémicas de la disciplina|En este artículo, se intenta establecer el grado de influencia de algunas posturas epistemológicas discordantes, como aquellas que provienen de la ecología y de la estructura metodológica y conceptual de la ciencia económica que se ocupa de la problemática del medio ambiente. Desde esta perspectiva, el trabajo examina el sentido de las categorías analíticas a las que ha dado lugar la discusión disciplinar sobre el medio ambiente; expone la controversia de los alcances de la economía en el contexto de los estudios del desarrollo; analiza la economía ecológica como propuesta alternativa, soportada en la noción de paradigma; y señala el grado de avance de las posturas críticas de la corriente dominante.
B49|Publicación internacional de patentes por organizaciones e inventores de origen colombiano|Ante la cuestión de cómo podría Colombia hacer parte de la Socioeconomía del Conocimiento, es decir, ser capaz de competir globalmente, en red y con énfasis en productos y servicios intensivos en conocimiento, surge la necesidad de impulsar la solicitud de patentes y su posterior comercialización.El artículo presenta un análisis del registro de patentes por parte de instituciones o inventores colombianos, en las bases de datos de las Oficinas de Patentes de Estados Unidos y Europa, entre 1968 y 2007. Se observa que Colombia se encuentra muy distante de países desarrollados, e incluso de algunos de nuestro entorno, como México o Brasil.
B49|Validité interne et validité externe de l’étude de cas:principes et mise en oeuvre pour un renforcement mutuel|(VF)Les principes de validité externe et de validité interne de l’étude de cas sont souvent présentés comme deux dimensions indépendantes. Cet article ambitionne de dépasser ces approches dichotomiques pour étudier les rapprochements possibles entre validité interne et validité externe. Il s’appuie sur une analyse approfondie de ces concepts et des tactiques visant à les renforcer, au cours des différentes phases qui ponctuent le processus de recherche. Nous émettons l’hypothèse selon laquelle, si les principes de validité interne et externe se différencient aisément, la convergence de leurs tactiques conduit à leur renforcement mutuel.(VA)The principles of external validity and internal validity of case study research are often considered as two independent dimensions. This article aims at overcoming this opposition in order to study the possible links between internal and external validity. The paper is based on the analysis of these concepts and of the specific tactics to enforce them. We study these tactics during the various phases which punctuate the process of research. We make the assumption that the principles of internal and external validity are fundamentally different, but the convergence of their tactics leads to their mutual reinforcement.
B49|Three Analyses of Sour Grapes|The phenomenon of adaptive preferences - sometimes also known under the name of sour grapes - has long caused a stir in Social Theory. Among logicians, notably those in the dynamic logic or belief revision traditions, the question of preference change has recently seen a surge of interest. However, although the former question seems an instance of the latter, the theories of preference change proposed to date do not seem to give a firm handle on adaptive preferences, and certainly not the sort of deeper understanding which one might like. In this paper, the precise problem posed by adaptive preferences, as seen from the point of view of a theoretician who intends to model or understand the phenomenon, will be clarified, and three models of the phenomenon will be presented and compared. The general intention of the article is to sound out some of the wider consequences of the phenomenon for the project of modelling and understanding the relationship between decisions taken in different situations. Difficulties which arise when several decisions and several situations are involved shall be discussed, and an approach to these difficulties shall be suggested. This approach places particular demands on would-be models of the sour grapes phenomenon; these demands will shed light on the adequacy of the models proposed.
B49|Cooperation, Competition, and Risk Attitudes: An Intergenerational Field and Laboratory Experiment|The population of most developed societies is ‘graying’. As life expectancy increases and the large baby-boom generation approaches retirement age, this has critical consequences for maintaining a high standard of living and the sustainability of pension systems. In the light of these labor-force and social concerns, we consider experimentally the comparative behavior of juniors (under 30) and seniors (over 50) in both experiments conducted onsite with the employees of two large firms and in a conventional laboratory environment with students and retirees. Our results are compelling. First, seniors are not more risk-averse, as opposed to the conventional stereotype. Second, both juniors and seniors react to the competitiveness of the environment and there is no significant difference in performance in the real-effort task across the generations when they are competing. Third, seniors are typically more cooperative than juniors in a team-production game. Cooperation is highest in groups in which there is a mix of juniors and seniors, suggesting that there are indeed benefits in maintaining a work force with diversity in age. Overall, the implication is that it is beneficial to define additional short-term incentives near the end of the workers’ career to motivate and to retain older workers. A secondary, but important, issue is the external validity of conventional laboratory experiments. In general we do not find strong differences in behavior between workers and non-workers, indicating that laboratory experiments may not be such a bad approximation for the field environment.
B49|Three analyses of sour grapes|The phenomenon of adaptive preferences – sometimes also known under the name of sour grapes – has long caused a stir in Social Theory. In this paper, the precise problem posed by adaptive preferences, as seen from the point of view of a theoretician who intends to model or understand the phenomenon, will be clarified, and three models of the phenomenon will be presented and compared. The general intention of the article is to sound out some of the wider consequences of the phenomenon for the project of modelling and understanding the relationship between decisions taken in different situations. Difficulties which arise when several decisions and several situations are involved shall be discussed, and an approach to these difficulties shall be suggested.
B49|Cooperation, Competition, and Risk Attitudes: An Intergenerational Field and Laboratory Experiment|The population of most developed societies is ‘graying'. As life expectancy increases and the large baby-boom generation approaches retirement age, this has critical consequences for maintaining a high standard of living and the sustainability of pension systems. In the light of these labor-force and social concerns, we consider experimentally the comparative behavior of juniors (under 30) and seniors (over 50) in both experiments conducted onsite with the employees of two large firms and in a conventional laboratory environment with students and retirees. Our results are compelling. First, seniors are not more risk-averse, as opposed to the conventional stereotype. Second, both juniors and seniors react to the competitiveness of the environment and there is no significant difference in performance in the real-effort task across the generations when they are competing. Third, seniors are typically more cooperative than juniors in a team-production game. Cooperation is highest in groups in which there is a mix of juniors and seniors, suggesting that there are indeed benefits in maintaining a work force with diversity in age. Overall, the implication is that it is beneficial to define additional short-term incentives near the end of the workers' career to motivate and to retain older workers. A secondary, but important, issue is the external validity of conventional laboratory experiments. In general we do not find strong differences in behavior between workers and non-workers, indicating that laboratory experiments may not be such a bad approximation for the field environment.
B49|Narrow Bracketing and Dominated Choices|"We show that any decision maker who ""narrowly brackets"" (evaluates decisions separately) and does not have constant-absolute-risk-averse preferences will make a first-order stochastically dominated combined choice in some simple pair of independent binary decisions. We also characterize the preference-contingent monetary cost from this mistake. Empirically, in a real-stakes laboratory experiment that replicates Tversky and Kahneman's (1981) experiment, 28 percent of participants choose dominated combinations. In a representative survey eliciting hypothetical large-stakes choices, higher proportions do so. Violation rates vary little with personal characteristics. Average preferences are prospect-theoretic, with an estimated 89 percent of people bracketing narrowly. (JEL D12, D81)"
B49|A Test of Two Skew Models to Explain Cooperative Breeding|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Israel M. Kirzner: An Outstanding Austrian Contributor to the Economics of Entrepreneurship|Israel M. Kirzner is the 2006 winner of The International Award for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Research. In this essay, we present and evaluate his main contributions to the economics of entrepreneurship. The focus is on how Kirzner defines the entrepreneurial function. In order to better understand his theory, we posit Kirzner’s notion of an entrepreneur in the Austrian tradition. In so doing we emphasize that this concept opens up different perspectives as compared to the neoclassical theoretical framework. The three areas of economic policy, justice and freedom, and economic growth are discussed. We also show why the Kirznerian entrepreneur makes these issues relevant. Perhaps most importantly, Kirzner has made the Austrian School intelligible for non-Austrians. By bridging the chasm between Austrian and mainstream thinking, the crucial role of entrepreneurship and the individual entrepreneur has become visible to a much broader audience. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2007
B49|The Pygmalion and Galatea Effects: An Agency Model with Reference-Dependent Preferences and Applications to Self-Fulfilling Prophecy|We attempt to formulate and explain two types of self-fulfilling prophecy, called the Pygmalion effect (if a supervisor thinks her subordinates will succeed, they are more likely to succeed) and the Galatea effect (if a person thinks he will succeed, he is more likely to succeed). To this purpose, we extend a simple agency model with moral hazard and limited liability by introducing a model of reference-dependent preferences (RDP) by K˝oszegi and Rabin (2004). We show that the agent with high expectations about his performance can be induced to choose high effort with low-powered incentives. We then argue that the principal’s expectation has an important role as an equilibrium selection device.
B49|Despre controversele metodologice din ştiinţa economică|The purpose of this paper is threefold
B49|A Discussion on Empirical Micro-Bases of Hayek’s Methodological Individualism|There are essential differences in ‘methodological individualism(MI)’ between neoclassic economics and Hayek’s theory. On basis of The Sensory Order, this paper shows relations between Hayek’s MI and it, the micro-bases of Hayek’s MI from contemporarily empirical disciplines, and some viewpoints verified by succeeding ones; then points out some questions that need to be answered henceforth between Hayek’s theory and interdisciplinary studies in modern economics. It is concluded that Hayek’s MI has its empirical micro-bases, and that his interdisciplinary exploration in the youth can help advance modern economics.
B49|John Maynard Keynes and Ludwig von Mises on Probability|The economic paradigms of Ludwig von Mises on the one hand and of John Maynard Keynes on the other have been correctly recognized as antithetical at the theoretical level, and as antagonistic with respect to their practical and public policy implications. Characteristically they have also been vindicated by opposing sides of the political spectrum. Nevertheless the respective views of these authors with respect to the meaning and interpretation of probability exhibit a closer conceptual affinity than has been acknowledged in the literature. In particular it is argued that in some relevant respects Ludwig von Mises´ interpretation of the concept of probability exhibits a closer affinity with the interpretation of probability developed by his opponent John Maynard Keynes than with the views on probability espoused by his brother Richard von Mises. Nevertheless there also exist significant differences between the views of Ludwig von Mises and those of John Maynard Keynes with respect to probability. One of these is highlighted more particularly: where John Maynard Keynes advocated a monist view of probability, Ludwig von Mises embraced a dualist view of probability, according to which the concept of probability has two different meanings each of which is valid in a particular area or context. It is concluded that both John Maynard Keynes and Ludwig von Mises presented highly nuanced views with respect to the meaning and interpretation of probability.
B49|Ideas and beliefs in the economic policy (1989-1993): A theoretical and methodological approach|The aim of the present paper is to examine the economic policy encouraged by the second term of Carlos Andrés Pérez (1989-1993), from the philosophical perspective of Ortega y Gasset and Karl Popper that deals with the distinction between ideas and beliefs. It is a theoretical and methodological approach that allows analyzing the extent to which beliefs and ideas play an important role in justifying economic policies, in particular, between 1989 and 1993 in Venezuela.
B49|Human Resource Management Risks: Sources and Control Strategies Based on Dairy Farmer Focus Groups| Human resource management in agriculture and associated risks are under-researched topics. To identify the sources of human resource management risks confronting dairy farms, gain insights into how dairy farmers perceive the impacts of these risks, and identify control strategies, four focus group discussions were held with dairy farm managers. Managers’ perceptions served to develop a framework for the analysis of human resource management risks in agriculture and derive recommendations for reducing these risks. Results of this study have been used to tailor educational programs for farmers and suggest strategies for future research.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Human Resource Management Risks: Sources and Control Strategies Based on Dairy Farmer Focus Groups| Human resource management in agriculture and associated risks are under-researched topics. To identify the sources of human resource management risks confronting dairy farms, gain insights into how dairy farmers perceive the impacts of these risks, and identify control strategies, four focus group discussions were held with dairy farm managers. Managers’ perceptions served to develop a framework for the analysis of human resource management risks in agriculture and derive recommendations for reducing these risks. Results of this study have been used to tailor educational programs for farmers and suggest strategies for future research.
B49|El Mercado De Función Empresarial|This work starts from the conceptual and theoretical world developed by Schumpeter, to advance in the study of the financing of innovations, i.e. the relationship between capital and the entrepreneur. It establishes the fundamental proposition that the function of the entrepreneur is susceptible to being commercialised, and agreement on its price is much more complex than the fixing of interest rates. This fundamental proposition guides our steps towards other propositions naturally derived from it and relating to corporate entrepreneurship, strategic management, venture capital, the agency theory and family companies, in order to demonstrate its possible utility as a new theoretical tool for the understanding of the complex phenomena around these and other research issues. This allows us to bring together areas of study that are not usually considered together, i.e. the above areas in the broad area of business organisation, and economic history, in short business history.
B49|La investigación en contabilidad de cooperativas: una aproximación empírica|Since the last decade of the 20th century, a great deal of research has been carried out into accounting in Spain. It has therefore been the object of various studies, based on either a certain area within accounting or a certain branch of research. However, research on cooperative accounting has neither been studied by accounting researchers or by researchers concerned with cooperatives and the social economy. This empirical study therefore proposes to fill this gap by: -Outlining the contents of the research. -Comparing its situation with research in other areas of accounting. -It will thus be possible to identify lacking research areas by exploring a number of subject matters justified a priori as being of interest and comparing these with the outlined contents as mentioned above.
B49|Competition, Hidden Information and Efficiency: An Experiment|We devise an experiment to explore the effect of different degrees of competition on optimal contracts in a hidden-information context. In our benchmark case, each principal is matched with one agent of unknown type. In our second treatment, a principal can select one of three agents, while in a third treatment an agent may choose between the contract menus offered by two principals. We first show theoretically how these different degrees of competition affect outcomes and efficiency. Informational asymmetries generate inefficiency. In an environment where principals compete against each other to hire agents, these inefficiencies remain. In contrast, when agents compete to be hired, efficiency improves dramatically, and it increases in the relative number of agents because competition reduces the agents' informational monopoly power. However, this environment also generates a high inequality level and is characterized by multiple equilibria. In general, there is a fairly high degree of correspondence between the theoretical predictions and the contract menus actually chosen in each treatment. There is, however, a tendency to choose more ‘generous' (and more efficient) contract menus over time. Competition leads to a substantially higher probability of trade, and that, overall, competition between agents generates the most efficient outcomes.
B49|Marriage Matters: Spousal Similarity in Life Satisfaction|Examined the concurrent and cross-lagged spousal similarity in life satisfaction over a 21-year period. Analyses were based on married couples (N = 847) in the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). Concurrent spousal similarity was considerably higher than one-year retest similarity, revealing spousal similarity in the variable component of life satisfac-tion. Spousal similarity systematically decreased with length of retest interval, revealing simi-larity in the changing component of life satisfaction. Finally, there was considerable spousal similarity in the stable component of life satisfaction over 20-years. The implications of these findings for causal theories of life satisfaction and studies in line with behavioural genetics are discussed
B49|Conocimiento y acción en el desarrollo de las familias. Las dimensiones teóricas y políticas en el caso de Colombia|Family Development is focused from two parallel lines: On one side, as a social field subject, supplied by the University of Caldas (Colombia). Secondly, as a social practice by professionals who are interested in working with families and thus with the engaging of social and economic policies directly affecting those groups. The relationship among social aspects includes the thoughts generally held upon national states Governments responsibilities, which, transversally runs from education roll (specially, superior education) to pedagogical interaction between men and women in the quotidian life facing the standard of living of each.
B49|Intercambio Desigual y Tasa de Cambio: ¿Saqueo o Explotación? El Aporte de Gernot Köhler|Unequal Exchange is initially focused on Latin-American experiences and reflections around the topic. Second part of the essay presents the quantitative method of Gernot Köhler, results and tendencies during the last four decades of the XXth. Century. They show --against conventional wisdom-- that Third World currencies are not overvalued, but on the contrary, they are heavily undervalued with respect to the exchange rate measured in Power Parity Prices (PPP). The result is an enormous and increasing transfer of resources from Periphery to Center, stimulated by the triangle over devaluation-debt-dependence. The proposal to overcome this adverse effect on Periphery is explicit and open to academic and political debate between Central and Peripheral nations.
B49|Differences between Inequalities and Unequal Exchange: Comments on the Papers by Chaves and Köhler|"Köhler's critique of global wages, where he presents the concept of productivity with great clarity, combines very well with Chaves' presentation of Köhler's model of Unequal Exchange (UE). A brief and solid common position emerges. As I wrote that ""the dimension of non-equivalence in a strict, logical sense"" can only be shown by comparing real wages, I fully second Köhler's use of Purchase Power Parity (PPP)-data. In the 1980s, I explicitly referred to the research on PPP comparisons. Therefore I am glad he taps the progress made by PPP-research. Nevertheless, Köhler's model does not explain UE."
B49|Incentives and the Allocation of Effort Over Time: The Joint Role of Affective and Cognitive Decision Making|We use natural experiments – plausibly exogenous, anticipated increases in the piece rate – to study how effort responds to incentives. Our first finding, like some previous studies, lends little support to the view that incentives increase effort: raising the piece rate has zero effect on total daily effort. Previous studies have speculated that changes in motivation over the course of the workday, caused by the increase in the piece rate, may lead to this result, but have relied on data aggregated to the day. Our data allow us to look within the workday. We find that workers do respond to incentives within the day: they work significantly harder in early hours of work, but significantly less hard later on, with a net effect of zero on total daily effort. We consider different possible explanations for this behavior. The most parsimonious explanation is a model in the spirit of Loewenstein and O'Donoghue (2005), in which a cognitive system, assumed to behave like the standard economic model predicts, is in conflict with the affective system. We review evidence from psychology and neuroscience to argue that the affective system may be strongly influenced by within-day changes in earnings, relative to an earnings goal. The affective system cares less about income once the goal is surpassed, providing an explanation for a drop in effort later in the day, and for the findings of earlier studies.
B49|Why Skew Selection, a Model of Parental Exploitation, Should Replace Kin Selection|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|A Model of Reference-Dependent Preferences|"We develop a model of reference-dependent preferences and loss aversion where ""gain-loss utility"" is derived from standard ""consumption utility"" and the reference point is determined endogenously by the economic environment. We assume that a person's reference point is her rational expectations held in the recent past about outcomes, which are determined in a personal equilibrium by the requirement that they must be consistent with optimal behavior given expectations. In deterministic environments, choices maximize consumption utility, but gain-loss utility influences behavior when there is uncertainty. Applying the model to consumer behavior, we show that willingness to pay for a good is increasing in the expected probability of purchase and in the expected prices conditional on purchase. In within-day labor-supply decisions, a worker is less likely to continue work if income earned thus far is unexpectedly high, but more likely to show up as well as continue work if expected income is high."
B49|Формирование И Развитие Социальных Систем<BR>[Formation and development of social systems]|An article about the dialectical laws of the genesis of social organization and social systems. The author suggests using a new classification of social relations for the methodological study of the evolution of social systems. The work is based on the methodology of general systems theory and the theory of I.R. Prigogine.
B49|Determinants of Economic Interaction: Behavior or Structure|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Exploring Horticultural Employees' Attitudes Toward Their Jobs: A Qualitative Analysis Based on Herzberg's Theory of Job Satisfaction| Job satisfaction is likely the most studied work-related attitude and is assumed to influence a variety of behaviors. This study analyzes the job satisfaction of agricultural employees using Herzberg’s theory, which is broadly employed in management. Fourteen horticultural businesses participated in case studies of labor-management practices. Fifteen nonsupervisory employee interviews were analyzed regarding job satisfaction. Components of job satisfaction relevant to horticultural employees were family-business values, achievement, recognition, work itself, involvement, personal life, interpersonal relationships, job security, supervision, working conditions, organization, safety, compensation, and information. While support for Herzberg’s theory is weak, it is useful for classifying employees’ attitudes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Exploring Horticultural Employees' Attitudes Toward Their Jobs: A Qualitative Analysis Based on Herzberg's Theory of Job Satisfaction| Job satisfaction is likely the most studied work-related attitude and is assumed to influence a variety of behaviors. This study analyzes the job satisfaction of agricultural employees using Herzberg’s theory, which is broadly employed in management. Fourteen horticultural businesses participated in case studies of labor-management practices. Fifteen nonsupervisory employee interviews were analyzed regarding job satisfaction. Components of job satisfaction relevant to horticultural employees were family-business values, achievement, recognition, work itself, involvement, personal life, interpersonal relationships, job security, supervision, working conditions, organization, safety, compensation, and information. While support for Herzberg’s theory is weak, it is useful for classifying employees’ attitudes.
B49|El estudio de caso como metodología de investigación: teoría, mecanismos causales, validación|"Este trabajo presenta el método del caso como herramienta de investigación en las ciencias sociales. Desde el diseño hasta la presentación de sus resultados, el método está estrechamente vinculado con la teoría. Una teoría es una respuesta a una pregunta del tipo ""por qué"" o ""cómo"", y encierra generalmente un mecanismo causal. El caso permite indagar detalladamente en este mecanismo, con mayor profundidad que los estudios estadísticos. Su ámbito de aplicación está bien definido: estudia temas contemporáneos sobre los cuales el investigador no tiene control y responde a preguntas de tipo ""cómo"" y ""por qué"". Después de comparar el caso de investigación con el de enseñanza, el artículo realiza algunas consideraciones epistemológicas y explica la lógica - propia del estudio de casos - de la generalización hacia la teoría. También presenta la perspectiva convencional de la validación de los estudios empíricos, junto a una concepción heterodoxa de la validación. El trabajo es una invitación a aplicar el método del caso en la creación de teorías para la administración de empresas. Para facilitar esta tarea, incluye una serie de recomendaciones sobre cómo facilitar la construcción de teorías. Además, los apéndices presentan los pasos de un estudio, describen los tipos de diseño más usuales, y tratan el concepto de causalidad - central a la comprensión de los mecanismos explicativos incorporados en una teoría - desde distintas perspectivas."
B49|La gestión HOSHIN: Modelos, aplicaciones, características distintivas|La gestión hoshin es una versión madura de la administración por objetivos (APO), desarrollada por el management japonés. A través de una aplicación generalizada del ciclo de la mejora continua, la organización despliega una serie de objetivos anuales, llamados hoshin, para producir el alineamiento de todos sus niveles y adaptarse rápidamente a un entorno cambiante. El método se ha aplicado con éxito en muchas empresas japonesas - como Hokuriku Kogyo, Kobayashi Kosei y Komatsu - y occidentales - de la talla de Hewlett-Packard, Procter & Gamble, Intel, Florida Power & Light, Texas Instruments, AT&T, Dow Chemical y Xerox. Presentamos la gestión hoshin comparándola con la APO y describimos un modelo genérico, basado en la forma de trabajo de un astillero japonés de gran escala. A continuación, ofrecemos una aplicación detallada de la gestión hoshin en una empresa industrial. Discutimos luego tres características distintivas que la separan de otros estilos administrativos, a saber: (1) el uso de un estilo efectivo de negociación llamado catchball; (2) su íntima vinculación con el Total Quality Management (TQM); y (3) la integración que produce entre la estrategia global de la empresa y el trabajo cotidiano. Finalmente, analizamos la relevancia del concepto de gestión hoshin - también llamada planificación hoshin, hoshin kanri, policy deployment, policy management, entre otros nombres - y lo comparamos con otros enfoques de dirección.
B49|A Model of Reference-Dependent Preferences|No abstract is available for this item.
B49|Technological knowledge, institutions and property rights in Thorstein Veblen's thought|The article suggests an interpretation of Veblen's approach of technological knowledge, which aims at identifying its foundations, nature and implications. In doing so, the article shows that the Veblenian approach of technological knowledge lies within a global framework that cannot fit into the frame of orthodox economics, as it built up at the beginning of the XXth century. This acknowledgement impedes the very possibility of a thorough dialogue between Veblen's system of thought and the contemporay developments of early neoclassical economics.
B49|Micro Evidence on the Adjustment of Sticky-Price Goods: It's How Often, not How Much|We use a unique panel data set to analyze price setting in restaurants in Switzerland 1977-93, for items known to have sticky prices. The macroeconomic environment during this time period allows us to examine how firms adjust prices at low (0%) and fairly high (7%) inflation. Our results indicate that firms strongly react to inflation in the timing of their price adjustment: hazard of price changes is increasing with time and becomes steeper at higher inflation rates. However, we find little evidence that the amount by which they change the price responds to the inflation rate.
B49|Economics: the next physical science?|We review an emerging body of work by physicists addressing questions of economic organization and function. We suggest that, beyond simply employing models familiar from physics to economic observables, remarkable regularities in economic data may suggest parts of social order that can usefully be incorporated into, and in turn can broaden, the conceptual structure of physics.
B49|Cursed Equilibrium| There is evidence that people do not fully take into account how other people's actions depend on these other people's information. This paper defines and applies a new equilibrium concept in games with private information, cursed equilibrium, which assumes that each player correctly predicts the distribution of other players' actions, but underestimates the degree to which these actions are correlated with other players' information. We apply the concept to common-values auctions, where cursed equilibrium captures the widely observed phenomenon of the winner's curse, and to bilateral trade, where cursedness predicts trade in adverse-selections settings for which conventional analysis predicts no trade. We also apply cursed equilibrium to voting and signalling models. We test a single-parameter variant of our model that embeds Bayesian Nash equilibrium as a special case and find that parameter values that correspond to cursedness fit a broad range of experimental datasets better than the parameter value that corresponds to Bayesian Nash equilibrium. Copyright The Econometric Society 2005.
B49|Altruism and fairness in experimental decisions|Experimental evidence from dictator games and simple choice situations indicates concerns for fairness and social welfare in human decision making. At the same time, models of inequality averse agents fail to explain the experimental data of individuals who reduce their payoff below a fair split in order to maximize social welfare. This paper presents a linear model of altruism and inequality aversion which reconciles inequality aversion with departures from distributional fairness if welfare is thereby gained. It also establishes a unique link between altruism and interest in social welfare in the proposed model.
B49|Affect as a Source of Motivation in the Workplace: A New Model of Labor Supply, and New Field Evidence on Income Targeting and the Goal Gradient|In this chapter we propose a new, dual-process model of labor supply, which incorporates both cognitive and affective aspects of decision-making. Consistent with evidence from neuroscience, the worker may experience conflicting cognitive and affective motivations during the workday. In particular, the affective system values effort more highly as long the worker's performance is below a personal goal, or income target, and becomes increasingly aroused as the goal approaches. As a result, affect can distort effort decisions relative to a fully cognitive benchmark, in a way that is consistent with evidence on loss aversion, and with the so-called goal-gradient effect, a tendency for animals and humans to increase effort as a goal approaches. In contrast to a standard model of labor supply, our model can predict a goal gradient, and predicts that workers may actually lower total daily effort in response to a temporary increase in the wage. Also, within-day windfall gains may have an impact on a worker’s effort profile over the workday. The second part of the chapter tests this latter prediction using data from two bicycle messenger firms. At both firms, a windfall gain in the morning has the predicted impact. A lucky messenger works harder than other messengers over the first part of the afternoon, and the difference is increasing, consistent with a goal gradient. Later in the afternoon, a lucky messenger works significantly less hard than the others, consistent with having surpassed a personal earnings goal earlier in the day and having less affective motivation.
B49|Micro Evidence on the Adjustment of Sticky-Price Goods: It's How Often, Not How Much|We use a unique panel data set to analyse price setting in restaurants in Switzerland 1977-93, for items known to have sticky prices. The macroeconomic environment during this time period allows us to examine how firms adjust prices at low (0%) and fairly high (7%) inflation. Our results indicate that firms strongly react to inflation in the timing of their price adjustment: hazard of price changes is increasing with time and becomes steeper at higher inflation rates. However, we find little evidence that the amount by which they change the price responds to the inflation rate.
B49|Rethinking the Culture - Economy Dialectic|"The culture - economy dialectic (CED), the opposition of the concepts and phenomena of culture and economy, is one of the most important notions in the modern history of ideas. Both the disciplinary boundaries and much theoretical thought in social science are strongly influenced or even determined by the CED. Hence, a thorough analysis and evaluation of the CED might be useful to better understand the history of ideas in social science and the currently fashionable research on the cultural influences on economic differences between countries and regions. This book, my PhD thesis, attempts to do just that. The concepts of ""culture"" and ""economy"" (and related concepts) and the (assumed) relationships therebetween are compared and analysed. Empirical results from earlier studies are summarised and some new test are presented. These new tests are partly based on a measurement of Dutch regional culture. However, it appeared that most theories of the CED are (nearly) impossible to (empirically) verify. There seems to be some influence of wealth on specific cultural phenomena (such individualism and post-materialism), but the often assumed influence of culture on entrepreneurship and economic growth remains unconfirmed. Moreover, from an analysis of the theories themselves, it appears that most of these cannot be falsified and are, therefore, hardly 'scientific'. Many of the theories of the CED and, in fact, many theories of social science in general are of a conceptual rather than a causal nature. These theories cannot easily be falsified by empirical means alone, but must be studied by means of conceptual analysis. In the final conclusions, this book, therefore, argues for conceptual analysis in, and a more anarchist approach to, social science."
B49|Family evolution and contemporary social transformations|In the first place, this paper intends to analyze the kind of relationships existing inside the family. In order to do that, the author makes an effort to reconsider its historical forming process applying the classical anthropological texts. At this stage, the analysis proposes two different types of relationships between human beings, the primal, which arose from the most elementary feelings of love, protection, accompaniment, and the strictly social, risen from the needs of cooperation and collective work. The family is the expression of both kinds of relationships. In the second place, this work analyzes the nuclear family as a result of a historical process associated to the development of capital and the social conditions that make possible its consolidation. And in the third place, the author proposes the discussion on the crisis of the nuclear family under the perspective of the contemporary global transformation of the accumulation of capital. As a conclusion: some reflections on the perspectives that these transformations offer to the role of the family.
B49|Dialéctica en la argumentación económica|This paper presents a group of argument models with the purpose of highlighting which debate characteristics should be kept in mind when analyzing written texts or oral speeches in different activities of daily life. It describes the importance of controversies in conceptual change and epistemology illustrated with a typical case of the debate on the challenges of free trade. The authors elaborate an interpretation of the explanation/understanding dualism in the social sciences through argumentation models and controversies.
B49|Proxies for Economic Freedom: A Critique of the Hanson Critique|Economic freedom indicators have become quite popular recently as a useful tool to quantify the relationship between a country's institutions and its prosperity. In a recent article, Hanson (2003) criticizes these types of studies for: (i) failing to adequately distinguish between different proxies for economic freedom, (ii) not considering the potential for endogeneity, and (iii) accepting significance of economic freedom's ability to promote prosperity even though regression analysis generates “nonsensical” results. Closer inspection reveals that most of his arguments are questionable, do not apply to much of the literature, or are not original, and that he is guilty of misinterpreting his own econometric evidence relating freedom to the level of GDP.
B49|Meta-analysis of the impact of age structure on fertility|The paper uses a meta-analysis to comparatively evaluate the literature addressing the aggregate relationship between a population’s age structure and fertility, as hypothesized by Richard Easterlin. The analysis is based on 334 estimated effects retrieved from 19 studies. The results suggest that several factors undermine the empirical support of the Easterlinian age structure/fertility link. These include the neglect of income, the use of relative cohort size to characterize the age structure, mis-specifications of the relevant age-cohorts, as well as the functional form and estimation technique. The results also suggest that the sample of published estimates possibly suffers from two types of publication bias, an under-representation of insignificant effects for small samples, and bias towards supportive effects in the earlier years followed by a bias towards negative effects as the literature matured. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2005
B49|Labor Risk Attributes in the Green Industry: Business Owners' and Managers' Perspectives| Managers of greenhouses, nurseries, and landscape contractors participated in five focus group discussions on labor-related risks. Managers conceptualize labor risks along the human resource management process: (1) recruitment and selection, (2) training and development, (3) performance evaluation and discipline, (4) careers and relationships, and (5) compensation packages. In addition, they identified (6) immigrant employees and (7) labor laws and regulations as sources of risk. They recognized a large number of risk-increasing attributes, but also a number of mediating strategies to reduce these risks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
B49|Labor Risk Attributes in the Green Industry: Business Owners' and Managers' Perspectives| Managers of greenhouses, nurseries, and landscape contractors participated in five focus group discussions on labor-related risks. Managers conceptualize labor risks along the human resource management process: (1) recruitment and selection, (2) training and development, (3) performance evaluation and discipline, (4) careers and relationships, and (5) compensation packages. In addition, they identified (6) immigrant employees and (7) labor laws and regulations as sources of risk. They recognized a large number of risk-increasing attributes, but also a number of mediating strategies to reduce these risks.
B49|Rethinking democracy in economics. The importance of political economy founders legacy|How do economists defme democracy? Such is the question this paper tries to deal with. We contrast two economists' views on democracy. First, we show how, within the framework of public choice theory, the use of the tools and methodology of mainstream economic analysis, the focus put upon rational choices impose a purely positivist and technical view on democracy. No room can be made to discussion and deliberation. Public choice theory evacuates deliberation from democracy. However, this should not lead to the conclusion that economists are not able to develop a consistent and useful approach of democratic institutions. It is possible to envisage an alternative economic approach to democracy based on the theory of human nature proposed by the founders of political economy, Hume and Smith. From their perspective, the limited rationality of human beings and their benevolence, the role of sympathy makes room for a theory of democracy different, richer and more subtle than that envisaged by the public choice theory.
