C19|Mitigating misleading implications for policy: Treatment of outliers in a difference-indifferences framework|Applications of the difference-in-differences estimator in economics, banking and finance, and management commonly treat outliers using the winsorize method. However, failure to winsorize outliers in both the treatment and controls groups introduces volatility in estimated coefficients, significance levels, and standard errors. A faulty process can lead to an exogenous event realising a significant effect that proper process would fail to detect. In demonstration, we randomly generate placebo interventions in bank-level data and discuss how to detect and limit the problem.
C19|Does Scientific Progress Affect Culture? A Digital Text Analysis|We study the interplay between scientific progress and culture through text analysis on a corpus of about eight million books, with the use of techniques and algorithms from machine learning. We focus on a specific scientific breakthrough, the theory of evolution through natural selection by Charles Darwin, and examine the diffusion of certain key concepts that characterized this theory in the broader cultural discourse and social imaginary. We find that some concepts in Darwin’s theory, such as Evolution, Survival, Natural Selection and Competition diffused in the cultural discourse immediately after the publication of On the Origins of Species. Other concepts such as Selection and Adaptation were already present in the cultural dialogue. Moreover, we document semantic changes for most of these concepts over time. Our findings thus show a complex relation between two key factors of long-term economic growth – science and culture. Considering the evolution of these two factors jointly can offer new insights to the study of the determinants of economic development, and machine learning is a promising tool to explore these relationships.
C19|On the construction of confidence intervals for ratios of expectations|In econometrics, many parameters of interest can be written as ratios of expectations. The main approach to construct confidence intervals for such parameters is the delta method. However, this asymptotic procedure yields intervals that may not be relevant for small sample sizes or, more generally, in a sequence-of-model framework that allows the expectation in the denominator to decrease to 0 with the sample size. In this setting, we prove a generalization of the delta method for ratios of expectations and the consistency of the nonparametric percentile bootstrap. We also investigate finite-sample inference and show a partial impossibility result: nonasymptotic uniform confidence intervals can be built for ratios of expectations but not at every level. Based on this, we propose an easy-to-compute index to appraise the reliability of the intervals based on the delta method. Simulations and an application illustrate our results and the practical usefulness of our rule of thumb.
C19|Fake news and propaganda: Trump's Democratic America and Hitler's National Socialist (Nazi) Germany|This paper features an analysis of President Trump's two State of the Union addresses, which are analysed by means of various data mining techniques including sentiment analysis. The intention is to explore the contents and sentiments of the messages contained, the degree to which they differ, and their potential implications for the national mood and state of the economy. In order to provide a contrast and some parallel context, analyses are also undertaken of President Obama's last State of the Union address and Hitler's 1933 Berlin Proclamation. The structure of these four political addresses is remarkably similar. The three US Presidential speeches are more positive emotionally than Hitler's relatively shorter address, which is characterized by a prevalence of negative emotions. However, it should be said that the economic circumstances in contemporary America and Germany in the 1930s are vastly different.
C19|A Generalized Approach to Indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations Models|We propose a novel approach to deal with the problem of indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations models. The method consists of augmenting the original state space with a set of auxiliary exogenous equations to provide the adequate number of explosive roots in presence of indeterminacy. The solution in this expanded state space, if it exists, is always determinate, and is identical to the indeterminate solution of the original model. The proposed approach accommodates determinacy and any degree of indeterminacy, and it can be implemented even when the boundaries of the determinacy region are unknown. Thus, the researcher can estimate the model using standard packages without restricting the estimates to the determinacy region. We apply our method to estimate the New-Keynesian model with rational bubbles by Galí (2017) over the period 1982:Q4 until 2007:Q3. We find that the data support the presence of two degrees of indeterminacy, implying that the central bank was not reacting strongly enough to the bubble component.
C19|Errors in the Dependent Variable of Quantile Regression Models|The popular quantile regression estimator of Koenker and Bassett (1978) is biased if there is an additive error term. Approaching this problem as an errors-in-variables problem where the dependent variable suffers from classical measurement error, we present a sieve maximum-likelihood approach that is robust to left-hand side measurement error. After providing sufficient conditions for identification, we demonstrate that when the number of knots in the quantile grid is chosen to grow at an adequate speed, the sieve maximum-likelihood estimator is consistent and asymptotically normal, permitting inference via bootstrapping. We verify our theoretical results with Monte Carlo simulations and illustrate our estimator with an application to the returns to education highlighting changes over time in the returns to education that have previously been masked by measurement-error bias.
C19|Multilateral index number systems for international price comparisons: Properties, existence and uniqueness|Over the past five decades a number of multilateral index number systems have been proposed for spatial and cross-country price comparisons. These multilateral indexes are usually expressed as solutions to systems of linear or nonlinear equations. In this paper, we provide general theorems that can be used to establish necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence and uniqueness of the Geary–Khamis, IDB, Neary and Rao indexes as well as potential new systems including two generalized systems of index numbers. One of our main results is that the necessary and sufficient conditions for existence and uniqueness of solutions can often be stated in terms of graph-theoretic concepts and a verifiable condition based on observed quantities of commodities.
C19|Denoised Inflation: A New Measure of Core Inflation|Existing measures of core inflation ignore a part of ‘should be’ the core inflation. Exclusion based measures ‘exclude’ a part of persistent inflation inherently existing in the excluded part whereas filter based measures ‘filter-out’ the cyclical part also rather than the irregular component only. This study proposes a new idea to define and measure core inflation – noise free inflation or denoised inflation. As against considering only trend to define core inflation, this study proposes using cyclical component also to be part of core inflation. If core inflation is to be useful, for monetary policy making, as an indicator of underlying inflation, it has to include demand related component of inflation associated with current economic cycle. By using wavelet analysis approach to decompose seasonally adjusted price index into noise, cyclical component and trend, we estimate a denoised inflation series for Pakistan for the period July 1992 to June 2017. Since denoised inflation passes ‘statistical’ as well as ‘theoretical’ tests necessary for a series to be core inflation, we think it can be used as a new core inflation measure for Pakistan. This can also be estimated and tested for any country.
C19|Dana Desa on clean water and sanitation access in Indonesia: Does Cash-for-work (PKT) matter?|This paper estimates the impact of Dana Desa as a form of the community-driven development program (CDD) on clean water and sanitation improvement in Indonesia. The data used is Indonesian National Socioeconomic Survey (SUSENAS) from Statistics Indonesia (BPS) and the amount of Dana Desa?s money transfer in districts level from Ministry of Village, Development of Disadvantaged Regions And Transmigration (KEMENDESA) in 2015. The baseline data used is SUSENAS in 2014, and SUSENAS in 2016 as the data of post-intervention. The study used is quantitative analysis named difference-in-difference estimation (DID) which compare the outcome before (2014) and after (2016) the program using fixed-effect regressions. The analysis involves 405 districts and 810 observations of rural area. The study aims to assess the impact of Dana Desa on clean water and sanitation. The findings show that Dana Desa gives a positive and significant impact on sanitation access and clean water access in the districts where more people are working in informal sectors. Because they have more time to participate on supporting the program by joining cash-for-work (Padat Karya Tunai). This research is important to evaluate Dana Desa program as the biggest CDD program under President Joko Widodo?s era.
C19|The Cross-sectional Distribution of Completed Lifetimes: Some New Inferences from Survival Analysis|The cross-sectional distribution of completed lifetimes (DCL) is a new estimator defined and derived by Dixon (2012) in the general Taylor price model (GTE). DCL can be known as the cross-sectional weighted estimator summing to 1. It is a new statistics applying to describe the data. This paper focuses on the cross-sectional distribution in the survival analysis. The delta method is applied to derive the variance of the of three cumulative distribution functions: the distribution of duration, cross-sectional distribution of age, distribution of duration across rms. The Monte Carlo experiment is applied to do the simulation study. The empirical results show that the asymptotic variance formula of the DCL and distribution of duration performs well when the sample size above 25. With the increasing of the sample size, the bias of the variance is reduced.
C19|Die Scrabble-Score-Methode zur Messung sprachlicher Komplexität – Ein Test anhand von 90.000 Rufnamen aus dem SOEP|For several years, American studies of different disciplines have established the so-called Scrabble score method as a measure of the linguistic complexity of names. This method scores each name according to defined rules, similar to the popular board game Scrabble, in which each word receives a score defined by the sum of the numerical values of their characters. The numerical Scrabble scores allow comparing and analyzing names in flexible and quantitative ways. In this study, we apply the Scrabble score method to given names in Germany for the first time, to test the value of such scores to understanding the linguistic complexity of names in Germany. The corpus for these analyses contains 90.000 given names based on the SOEP data (1984–2016). We calculated the Scrabble score for all given names following the German Scrabble rules and analyzed different aspects. The results demonstrate that it is possible to also gain interesting insights about names in Germany using the Scrabble score method. For instance, we show that the frequencies of letters in given names differs (more vowels, more like vowels sounding consonants) from that in the other lexicon of the German language. Likewise, the method reveals gender-specific characteristics of male and female names. In addition, high Scrabble scores indicate non-German given names. These three aspects of our study on names from the SOEP data illustrate that the Scrabble score method is suitable and productive for different questions about the linguistic complexity of given names in Germany.
C19|GEL-based inference with unconditional moment inequality restrictions| This paper studies the properties of generalised empirical likelihood (GEL) methods for the estimation of and inference on partially identifi ed parameters in models specifi ed by unconditional moment inequality constraints. The central result is, as in moment equality condition models, a large sample equivalence between the scaled optimised GEL objective function and that for generalised method of moments (GMM) with weight matrix equal to the inverse of the efficient GMM metric for moment equality restrictions. Consequently, the paper provides a generalisation of results in the extant literature for GMM for the non-diagonal GMM weight matrix setting. The paper demonstrates that GMM in such circumstances delivers a consistent estimator of the identi fied set, i.e., those parameter values that satisfy the moment inequalities, and derives the corresponding rate of convergence. Based on these results the consistency of and rate of convergence for the GEL estimator of the identifi ed set are obtained. A number of alternative equivalent GEL criteria are also considered and discussed. The paper proposes simple conservative consistent confi dence regions for the identi fied set and the true parameter vector based on both GMM with a non-diagonal weight matrix and GEL. A simulation study examines the efficacy of the non-diagonal GMM and GEL procedures proposed in the paper and compares them with the standard diagonal GMM method.
C19|Credit Risk Analysis using Machine and Deep learning models|Due to the hyper technology associated to Big Data, data availability and computing power, most banks or lending financial institutions are renewing their business models. Credit risk predictions, monitoring, model reliability and effective loan processing are key to decision making and transparency. In this work, we build binary classifiers based on machine and deep learning models on real data in predicting loan default probability. The top 10 important features from these models are selected and then used in the modelling process to test the stability of binary classifiers by comparing performance on separate data. We observe that tree-based models are more stable than models based on multilayer artificial neural networks. This opens several questions relative to the intensive used of deep learning systems in the enterprises
C19|The Effects of Temporal Aggregation on Search Engine Data|Using structured machine learning, this paper examines the effect that temporal aggregation has on big data from Google Analytics and Google Trends. Specifically, daily and weekly data from the Charleston Area Convention and Visitors Bureau (CACVB) website from January 2008 to March 2009 via Google Analytics and weekly, monthly, and quarterly data from Google Trends for seven economic variables from 2004 to 2011 are examined. Taking into account the different levels of aggregation, the CDFs and the estimated regression results are examined. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test rejects the null of equivalent data distributions in the vast majority of cases for the CACVB data, but this is not the case for the economic variable. Through data mining, this paper also finds that aggregation has the potential of affecting the level of integration and the regression results for both the CACVB data and the seven economic variables.
C19|Managing Strategic Change and ERP Implementation under Distinctive Learning Styles: Quantitative case of Burberry PLC|This paper examines the effective strategic change management and Enterprise Resource Planning implementation under distinctive learning styles namely; diverging, converging, assembling, and accommodating learning styles through case of Burberry brand at Bicester Village, Cheshire Oaks, and Chatham Place. Additionally, paper investigates the strategic changes and organizational factors in relation with the ability to adopt change and successful ERP implementation. Total 87 respondents were approached through snowball, purposive, and convenience sampling. Findings revealed that accommodating learning style is the most influential learning style that significant positively affects the ERP implementation process. Interestingly, all learning styles (diverging, converging, assimilating, and accommodating) have statistically significant correlation with organizational change process. Additionally, complexity is the most critical organizational component affecting employees' ability to accept changes.
C19|Macroeconomic variables and current account balance in Namibia|This paper investigates macroeconomic determinants of the current account balance in Namibia. The results show that there is evidence of twin deficit hypothesis in Namibia. Evidence of twin deficit hypothesis suggest that it is important for Namibia to have fiscal discipline in order to improve its current account. Increase in capital flows, real GDP or per capita, results in a deterioration of the current account. Increase in interest rate, commodity prices and population cause the current account balance to improve. This suggest that contractionary monetary policy contributed to reduction of unproductive imports and improved the current account balance.
C19|Endogenous constraints, coefficients of economic distance, and economic performance of African countries – An exploratory essay|Existing literature has overstressed the importance of exogenous constraints in the economic performance of African countries at the expense of endogenous constraints, although the latter are longer-lasting and more self-propagating than the former. In this exploratory essay I put endogenous factors upfront, and introduce and define the concept of economic distance. I argue that the coefficient of economic distance is a better measure of what is going on than things like the Africa dummy, for example. The evidence I consider suggests that policy and future research will benefit from focused studies of endogenous constraints on economic performance. The essay is incomplete without its empirical complement, but it succeeds in holding up a mirror in front of these countries. The implication is that continued emphasis on exogenous constraints is a misallocation of scarce policy and research resources.
C19|Statistical Literacy and Attitudes Towards Statistics of Romanian Undergraduate Students|Statistical literacy is the capacity to challenge statistics encountered in everyday life (Gal, 2002) and has become a key competence for the entire work-force in today’s data-driven society. However, teaching statistics to non-economists has some particularities determined by their anxiety towards the subject. In order to have a better approach in teaching Statistics to this type of audience, the paper provides an analysis regarding students’ initial level of statistical literacy, the attitudes and beliefs towards Statistics, in the case of undergraduate students of the “Applied Modern Language” program under Bucharest University of Economic Studies. Using the models developed by Gal (2002) and Watson (2003), the results prove that basic statistical literacy skills like graph analysis or table reading are sound, while mathematical level is well below average, correlated with a high anxiety regrading mathematics and preconceptions about complexity of statistics.
C19|Can Western African countries catch up with Nigeria? Evidence from Smooth Nonlinearity method in Fractional Unit root framework|West African countries have long advocated efforts to promote economic integration and income convergence. In recent trends, Nigeria records the highest GDP in nominal value, yet its neighbouring countries are yet to catch up in terms of both GDP growth rate and GDP per capita growth rate. The general objective of this paper is to examine the convergence of Western African countries to catch up with Nigeria in terms of real per capita income. For the estimation, the paper employs fractional unit root approach to model simultaneously smooth breaks by means of flexible Fourier function in time. The approach adopted is novel, where it is still lacking in the application of economic convergence across countries. The findings show that, while some West African countries do converge among themselves, only Ghana is likely to catch up with Nigeria. As a policy implication, the West-African countries would increase further education level and technology transfers to promote income convergence at different stages of economic development.
C19|Natural Resources from Curse to a Blessing : conjuring the curse|"Many countries are blessed with natural resources which logically have the power to transform their economies, so that the development of the natural resource could produce wealth for that nation, but actually it leads to become overly dependent on one resource, to the detriment of the rest of the economy. In fact, the discovery of natural resources is very often followed by economic instability in many of those countries. Moreover, the volatile resource prices have especially negative impacts on weak-state economies and cause growth to be unstable, so the resource-rich countries often do not pursue sustainable growth strategies. They fail to recognize that if they do not reinvest their resource wealth into productive investments above ground, they are actually becoming poorer. Given this very sad picture, one can ask if the curse of natural resources is a fatality, can anything be done? The main point for our purpose is to explore if the improvement of the governance, education sector , and high institutional quality with more transparency can be the antidotes and will help to conjure the spell and turn to ""resource blessing"".Using the L S method we estimated the regression whose dependent on GDP variable for the period from 1986 to 2017, which is a function of a vector of explanatory variables, including the variable that measures the abundance of natural resources, those measuring institutional quality, as well as other control variables. We chose two ways to measure the abundance of natural resources to ensure that our results are unbiased: The first measure is the percentage of oil, gas and ores rent from GDP. The second measure is the logarithm of one plus the value of per capita oil production. We used as measure of institutional quality : Rule of law that represents the credibility rate of the population in state institutions , regulatory quality which reflects the ability of the public authorities to put in place sound policies and regulations that allow the development of the private sector. Government Effectiveness which reflects the perception of the quality of public services, the quality of the public service and its degree of independence from political pressures, the quality of policy formulation and implementation, and credibility of the government?s commitment to these policies. And we used: degree of openness, gross fixed capital formation, life expectancy at birth, and number average years of schooling at the age of 15 as control variables."
C19|An analysis of systematic risk in worldwide econonomic sentiment indices|"In this paper, we investigate the temporal dynamics of correlations between sentiment indices worldwide. Employing the tools of Random Matrix Theory (RMT) and Principal Component Analysis (PCA), our paper aims to extract latent information embedded in the interactions between economic and business sentiment indices around the world. We find that: (i) The dynamics of the sentiment indices across countries can be well explained by the evolution of a single factor (the ""market mode""), (ii) during most periods, some groups of countries exhibit sentiment dynamics less associated with (or divergent from) the market mode, while (iii) during the financial crisis, no country or group of countries has been able to escape the market mode, which accounts for almost all movements in the indices. We argue that strong ""global"" information signals, like the collapse of the US housing market in 2007, can lead to a homogenization of the expectation structure around the world, as such information can provide a coordination signal for a global phase of low confidence."
C19|A Large-Scale Field Experiment to Evaluate the Effectiveness of Paid Search Advertising|Companies spend billions of dollars online for paid links to branded search terms. Measuring the effectiveness of this marketing spending is hard. Blake, Nosko and Tadelis (2015) ran an experiment with eBay, showing that when the company suspended paid search, most of the traffic still ended up on its website. Can findings from one of the largest companies in the world be generalized? We conducted a similar experiment with Edmunds.com, arguably a more representative company, and found starkly different results. More than half of the paid traffic is lost when we shut off paid-links search. These results suggest money spent on search-engine marketing may be more effective than previously documented
C19|A Generalized Approach to Indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations Models|Modern empirical macroeconomics frequently tests for equilibrium determinacy in linear rational expectations (LRE) models. We propose an augmented representation to solve and estimate LRE models over the entire parameter space, even when the researcher does not know the region of determinacy. The novel approach does not impose restrictions on the parameter space over which the model is estimated and therefore exploits the full informational content of the data. Our methodology tests for determinacy in the wide class of medium- and large-scale models as well as small-scale models for which the region of determinacy is non-trivial. Importantly, the approach is implementable in standard software packages, such as Dynare. We apply our findings by simulating the canonical New-Keynesian model when the Taylor principle is both satisfied and not. We show that our method successfully recovers the true parameter values under the assumption that the researcher does not know the Taylor principle.
C19|Spontaneous recognition: an unnecessary control on data access?|Social scientists increasingly expect to have access to detailed data for research purposes. As the level of detail increases, data providers worry about “spontaneous recognition”, the likelihood that a microdata user believes that he or she has accidentally identified one of the data subjects in the dataset, and may share that information. This concern, particularly in respect of microdata on businesses, leads to excessive restrictions on data use. We argue that spontaneous recognition presents no meaningful risk to confidentiality. The standard models of deliberate attack on the data cover re-identification risk to an acceptable standard under most current legislation. If spontaneous recognition did occur, the user is very unlikely to be in breach of any law or condition of access. Any breach would only occur as a result of further actions by the user to confirm or assert identity, and these should be seen as a managerial problem. Nevertheless, a consideration of spontaneous recognition does highlight some of the implicit assumptions made in data access decisions. It also shows the importance of the data provider’s culture and attitude. For data providers focused on users, spontaneous recognition is a useful check on whether all relevant risks have been addressed. For data providers primarily concerned with the risks of release, it provides a way to place insurmountable barriers in front of those wanting to increase data access. We present a case study on a business dataset to show how rejecting the concept of spontaneous recognition led to a substantial change in research outcomes. JEL Classification: C19, C81
C19|Partial identification of functionals of the joint distribution of “potential outcomes”|In this paper, we present a systematic study of partial identification of two general classes of functionals of the joint distribution of two “potential outcomes” when a bivariate sample from the joint distribution is not available to the econometrician. Assuming the identification of the conditional marginal distributions of potential outcomes and the distribution of the covariate vector, we show that the identified sets for functionals in both classes are intervals and provide conditions under which the identified sets point identify the true value of the functionals. In addition, we establish sufficient and necessary conditions for the covariate information to be informative in the sense of shrinking the identified sets. We focus on the application of our general results to evaluating distributional treatment effects of a binary treatment in two commonly used frameworks in the literature for evaluating average treatment effects: the selection on observables framework and a latent threshold-crossing model. We characterize the role of the propensity score in the selection-on-observables framework and the role of endogenous selection in the latent threshold-crossing model. Examples of policy parameters that our results apply include the correlation coefficient between the potential outcomes, many inequality measures of the distribution of treatment effects, and median of the distribution of the individual treatment effect.
C19|Does the Literature Support a High Willingness to Pay for Green Label Buildings? An Answer with Treatment of Publication Bias|Increasing attention is being paid to the building sector due to its importance in the climate change debate. In recent years, a growing literature on the price premium paid by consumers to access more energy efficient and sustainable buildings has emerged as a common topic in hedonic model estimations. In this paper, we aim to provide a summary of this literature by conducting a meta-analysis of more than 50 studies from around the world. In this way, based on a random effects models and weighted OLS robust clustering estimations, we offer an average estimation of the price premium accepted by economic agents (in terms of sale prices) in order to enjoy energy efficient and sustainable buildings. This supports the argument that investing in building refurbishment is worthwhile and economically relevant. However, our data seem to show a major publication bias. Correcting for this bias leads us to halve the original estimation (from 8 % to 4 %). In addition, we analyze the sources of result dispersion by performing a meta-regression using different moderators (type of publication, bibliometric variables, sample analysis period, econometric method, etc.). We also carry out different statistical tests and use alternative selection criteria in order to check whether our estimations are robust. Finally, we make recommendations for future hedonic studies as well as for upcoming meta-analyses of the green building premium.
C19|Strategic Positioning for Soft Drinks in the Algerian Market|The aim of this research is to identify the positioning of Algerian soft drink product compared with foreign competitor products by applying a survey to determine the image and prestige of the Algerian product in the consumer's perspective compared to foreign products. The study has touched a random sample consisting of 601 consumers from all of Algeria. We result from the research that soft drinks local institutions recorded vulnerable and a deterioration in its competitive positioning compared to positioning perceived of soft drinks to foreign institutions, as they do not bother to focus more on the dimensions of which are of paramount importance to customers, as opposed to foreign products which differentiate it in line with the wishes and expectations of the Algerian customer.
C19|Autocorrelation of spatial allocation of funds at the municipality level of Slaskie Voivodship|Research background: Local development is a harmonized and systematic activity of the local community, local authorities and other entities operating in a municipality, aimed at creating and improving the usability of existing municipalities. The primary factor in the local development is investments undertaken by the municipality. The financial reflection of these activities is the amount of investment expenditure. The amount of a municipality's income, its development strategy and the expectations of the local communities influence both the level of investment expenditure and structure, which is diversified both in terms of time and space. Purpose of the article: The aim of the study was to determine the spatial distribution of total funds allocated for investment, and investments in transport and communications in the municipalities of Slaskie Voivodship. Spatial relationship was also determined with the Moran's I statistic. The scope of work included creating a spatial database of the examined region at the level of basic local government units, i.e. 167 municipalities. The data were obtained from the studies of official statistics for the years 2008, 2011 and 2014. Methodology/methods: Based on information contained in attribute data sheets, along with the postal codes of municipalities, a spatial database was created in the program ArcView. The analyzed maps were prepared in the GIS program ArcView. For better illustration and reading of detailed data from the prepared maps, the attribute variables were divided into groups using the Jenks method. With it, classes could be determined by comparing the sum of the squares of the differences. The developed classes can also be called a natural border of the division. Based on the prepared spatial database, an analysis was performed with the program R-cran, using Moran's I statistics. Moran's I statistic determines the differences and similarities between the two objects, and allows analyzing the researched area.Findings: With relation to the analysis of the total funds allocated for investment, the least among the investment periods studied was the year 2008. Noticeable in this period is the largest number of municipalities included in class I (142 municipalities), with the investment range 0 - 6,510,016.26 zloty. The developed spatial distribution shows that municipalities concentrated in the central part of the voivodship make up an island of high investment funds. These communes are located in the Upper Silesia Agglomeration, with a high population density. High values are also noticeable in large urban centers such as Czestochowa in the north of the voivodship, and Bielsko-Biala in the south.
C19|The key factors of export intensity in Tunisia: A Logistic regression with random effect model|Given the growing international competition and globalization being characterized by the massive reduction of institutional barriers, opening new markets for consumer goods, the birth of many trade agreements and the establishment of the World Trade Organization, it is imperative for companies wishing to grow, the possibility to internationalize. Consequently, one of the first modes of internationalization of a firm is export. Indeed, the success of export can be measured by various factors that depend on company's goal against the use of export strategy. Such factors are grouped into two categories namely: external and internal factors to the company. This paper will focus on exploring and analyzing the key factors that affect the export intensity of Tunisian companies. Thus, our study was conducted at the micro-economic level. Indeed, as the available data, we will try to find out the factors of export activity for a sample of Tunisian companies and this through a Logit model with random effects applied to panel data from 1997 to 2003. Indeed, the main factors that positively affect the probability of exporting in Tunisia are: Capital intensity; the company age and size. Furthermore, among the main factors that negatively affect the probability of exporting, we state labor cost.
C19|Bifurcation theory of a square lattice economy: Racetrack economy analogy in an economic geography model|Bifurcation theory for an economic agglomeration in a square lattice economy is presented in comparison with that in a racetrack economy. The existence of a series of equilibria with characteristic agglomeration patterns is elucidated. A spatial period doubling bifurcation cascade between these equilibria is advanced as a common mechanism to engender fewer and larger agglomerations in both economies. Analytical formulas for a break point, at which the uniformity is broken under reduced transport costs, are proposed for an economic geography model by synthetically encompassing both economies.
C19|On periodic ergodicity of a general periodic mixed Poisson autoregression|We propose a general class of non-linear mixed Poisson autoregressions whose form and parameters are periodic over time. Under a periodic contraction condition on the forms of the conditional mean, we show the existence of a unique nonanticipative solution to the model, which is strictly periodically stationary, periodically ergodic and periodically weakly dependent having in the pure Poisson case finite higher-order moments. Applications to some well-known integer-valued time series models are considered.
C19|Improving Drinking Quality in South Korea: A Choice Experiment|Increased pollution leads to a constant decrease of drinking water quality worldwide. Due to safety concerns, unpleasant taste and odour only about 3% of the population in South Korea is drinking untreated tap water. The present study uses choice experiments and cost-benefit analysis to investigate the feasibility of installing advanced water treatments in Cheongju waterworks in South Korea. The waterworks is situated in the middle of the country and is providing more than half a million people with drinking water. The study shows that the lower bound of the median WTP for installing a new advanced water treatment system is about $2 US/month, which is similar to the average expenditures for bottled water per household in South Korea. Scenarios under which the instalment of the advanced water treatments is feasible are discussed together with environmental solutions in the long-run.
C19|Towards a pragmatic approach to compositional data analysis|Compositional data are nonnegative data with the property of closure: that is, each set of values on their components, or so-called parts, has a fixed sum, usually 1 or 100%. The approach to compositional data analysis originated by John Aitchison uses ratios of parts as the fundamental starting point for description and modeling. I show that a compositional data set can be effectively replaced by a set of ratios, one less than the number of parts, and that these ratios describe an acyclic connected graph of all the parts. Contrary to recent literature, I show that the additive log-ratio transformation can be an excellent substitute for the original data set, as shown in an archaeological data set as well as in three other examples. I propose further that a smaller set of ratios of parts can be determined, either by expert choice or by automatic selection, which explains as much variance as required for all practical purposes. These part ratios can then be validly summarized and analyzed by conventional univariate methods, as well as multivariate methods, where the ratios are preferably log-transformed.
C19|Data reporting and visualization in ecology|The reporting and graphing of ecological data and statistical results often leave a lot to be desired. One reason can be a misunderstanding or confusion of some basic concepts in statistics such as standard deviation, standard error, margin of error, confidence interval, skewness of distribution and correlation. The implications of having small sample sizes are also often glossed over. In several situations, statistics and associated graphical representations are made for comparing groups of samples, where the issues become even more complex. Here, I aim to clarify these basic concepts and ways of reporting and visualizing summaries of variables in ecological research, both for single variables as well as pairs of variables. Specific recommendations about better practice are made, for example describing precision of the mean by the margin of error and bootstrapping to obtain confidence intervals. The role of the logarithmic transformation of positive data is described, as well as its implications in the reporting of results in multiplicative rather than additive form. Comments are also made about ordination plots derived from multivariate analyses, such as principal component analysis and canonical correspondence analysis, with suggested improvements. Some data sets from this Kongsfjord special issue are amongst those used as examples.
C19|Economic vulnerabilities in Italy: A network analysis using similarities in sectoral employment|This article presents an original spatial methodology based on a network analysis approach in order to identify and to track spatial similarities among economic activities as well as to analyse their interdependence. Traditionally, such interdependence is analysed using input-output matrices (IO) that track economic flows across sectors. However, models based on IO do not allow to analyse spatial interdependence. In our approach, instead, we make use of local employment patterns. In particular, using sectoral employment of 8091 Italian municipalities across 18 economic activities, our approach allows to identify spatial inter-linkages in terms of employment patterns. By comparing such local employment patterns, our methodology shows inter-linkages among activities, which are important for understanding the transmission of exogenous shocks. Our analysis highlights similarities among economic activities, and allows to identify central activities (hubs) and their relationship with each other. Moreover, simulating the spread of an exogenous shock through the economic structure allows us to identify important activities not only in economic terms but also in terms of centrality and connectivity.
C19|Beyond wishful thinking: Explorative Qualitative Modeling (EQM) as a tool for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)|The UN's Sustainable Development Goals in their generalized form need to be further reflected in order to identify synergies and trade-offs between their (sub-)targets, and to apply them to concrete nations and regions. Explorative, qualitative cause and effect modeling could serve as a tool for adding crucial factors and enabling a better understanding of the interrelations between the goals, eventually leading to more informed concrete measures better able to cope with their inherent obstacles. This work provides and describes a model that could serve as a template for concrete application. The generalized model already points to some potential ambivalences as well as synergies that can be reflected on using some of the latest theories and concepts from economics and transition research, among other fields. Its first analyses cautiously raise doubts that some possible assumptions behind the original Sustainable Development Goals might overlook some systemic boundaries. For example, an undifferentiated increase of productivity contradicts a lessened environmental impact and need for resources in light of potential planetary boundaries.
C19|Regionale Erreichbarkeit von ausgewählten Fachärzten, Apotheken, ambulanten Pflegediensten und weiteren ausgewählten Medizindienstleistungen in Deutschland: Abschätzung auf Basis des Thünen-Erreichbarkeitsmodells|Die Erreichbarkeit von Infrastrukturen der Daseinsvorsorge spielt sowohl für Standort-entscheidungen als auch für die individuelle Lebenssituation der Bürger eine wichtige Rolle, denn Erreichbarkeitsverhältnisse bestimmen neben der Qualität des Infrastrukturangebots den regionalen Versorgungsgrad mit Infrastruktur. Damit sind sie ein wichtiger Faktor der regionalen Entwicklung. Auch für die Diskussion über die Sicherung der Daseinsvorsorge sind aktuelle Informationen über die Erreichbarkeit von Einrichtungen der Daseinsvorsorge notwendig, um sich vor dem Hintergrund des normativen Anspruches der Aufrechterhaltung gleichwertiger Lebensverhältnisse im Bundesgebiet ein realistisches Bild über die derzeitige Situation als Ausgangsbasis für ggf. notwendige Politikinterventionen machen zu können. Vor diesem Hintergrund befasst sich die vorliegende Studie mit der Abschätzung der regionalen Erreichbarkeit von Ärzten, Krankenhäusern, Apotheken und ambulanten Pflegediensten nach Sozialgesetzbuch Elftes Buch (SGB XI) in Deutschland als - insbesondere in ländlichen Räumen - wichtige Schlüsseldienstleistungen für die Versorgung der Bürger. Dazu wird auf Basis eines rasterbasierten GIS-Erreichbarkeitsmodells ein einfacher generischer Erreichbarkeitsindikator ermittelt, der Rückschlüsse auf die Grundversorgungssituation flächendeckend für Deutschland ermöglicht.
C19|Disparities, Discrepancies and Specific Concentration – Diversification Trends in the Group of Central and East European Ex-Socialist Countries|The paper identifies some major disparities and quantifies some discrepancies and gaps, as well as specific trends of concentration-diversification in today’s group of the 11 former socialist economies of Central and Eastern Europe (CEEC). After a brief introduction describing the approach based on multiplied research focused on the ex-socialist economies in CEEC that have already acceded to the European Union (EU), a special section is devoted to the statistical concepts that are measurable and applied in this paper, i.e. disparity and gap or discrepancy, finally detailing an original research method that capitalizes on these statistical tools with matrices and econometric models (including those focused on associations, correlations and concentration-diversification coefficients). A set of major variables are analyse and discussed in parallel with some trends that have already been presented in the international literature, outlining the specifics of CEEC economies in the context of their real convergence to the EU average level (EU-28 and EU-16). A few final remarks identify some paradoxes of the economies analysed.
C19|Development, Climate Change Adaptation, and Maladaptation: Some Econometric Evidence|This paper examines the determinants of climate related disasters and attempts to estimate the presence of adaptive capacity in terms of per capita income and population density elasticities. We find evidence of adaptive capacity in a “weak” form both in terms of income and population density elasticities over our entire sample. That is, damages are in fact increasing with income and population, but less than proportionally. There is also evidence of countries improving their adaptive capacity over the long run, but of maladaptation occurring in the short run. Repeating the analysis splitting the sample by per-capita income levels, we find that higher income countries show adaptive capacity in a “strong form”, i.e. damages decrease with GDP, while lower income countries highlight exactly the opposite behavior. Finally, using Granger causality tests for panel data, we find evidence of increase in GDP per capita Granger causing climate related damages for lower income countries, but not in higher income countries.
C19|Information sources used by European tourists: A cross-cultural study|This study investigates which information sources European tourists use when making decisions about their travel/ holiday plans. Using survey data based on national representative samples of tourists from 27 member countries of the European Union allows generalizable conclusions to be drawn. The data were analysed using correspondence analysis of overall country data. The findings indicate that there are systematic differences in how information sources are related to one another and that the various national cultures within the European Union have influence on tourists' use of information sources. Six segments of information source behaviour are revealed. These segments reflect economic development and the national cultures of European nations. Management implications are highlighted. The findings of this study can be used to segment tourists' use of information sources according to economic development and national culture.
C19|¿Son las aerolíneas latinoamericanas más ineficientes? Estimaciones con fronteras estocásticas|Este trabajo se propone responder las siguientes preguntas: ¿cuál es el nivel medio de eficiencia en el transporte de pasajeros de una muestra de aerolíneas que operan en el Hemisferio Occidental? ¿Cómo se posicionan aerolíneas latinoamericanas puestas en perspectiva con otras de países desarrollados que operan en las Américas? ¿Hay diferencias de eficiencia así definida entre las aerolíneas de la muestra? ¿A qué se deben? Para contestarlas, se emplean técnicas de frontera estocástica. Son novedades a estudios preexistentes el uso de una amplia gama de alternativas de estimación y el estudio específico de las aerolíneas latinoamericanas junto con las norteamericanas. This study aims to answer the following questions: which is the average efficiency level in passenger transportation of an airline sample operating in the Western Hemisphere? How do Latin American airlines perform in comparison with American ones? Are there technical efficiency differences between airlines of the sample? Why? To answer, we employ stochastic frontier methods and we add to precedent studies the usage of an ample set of alternative techniques and the specific consideration to Latin American airlines.
C19|Salud y el uso de Internet: Un estudio de la relación médico-paciente|La relación médico-paciente en los últimos años se ha visto afectada por el uso de internet en pacientes crónicos. A partir de un modelo de ecuaciones estructurales, este documento analiza la relación entre las decisiones relacionadas con el uso de internet para temas de salud y su efecto en la relación entre el paciente y su médico. Para ello se utilizan los resultados de una encuesta aplicada a una muestra representativa de pacientes que usan internet para su tratamiento realizada en Bogotá (Colombia) en 2010. La evidencia aportada en este artículo sugiere que, desde la perspectiva del paciente, existe una relación entre el uso de internet en las decisiones tomadas para mejorar el cuidado de su salud, y el uso de internet en la interacción entre el paciente y su médico. Esta relación está mediada por el uso del internet para obtener información general sobre su salud.
C19|Machine Learning Techniques For Stock Market Prediction.Acase Study Of Omv Petrom|The research reported in the paper focuses on the stock market prediction problem, the main aim being the development of a methodology to forecast the OMV Petrom stock closing price. The methodology is based on some novel variable selection methods and an analysis of neural network and support vector machines based prediction models. Also, a hybrid approach which combines the use of the variables derived from technical and fundamental analysis of stock market indicators in order to improve prediction results of the proposed approaches is reported in this paper. Two novel variable selection methods are used to optimize the performance of prediction models. In order to identify the most informative time series to predict a stock price, both methods are essentially based on the general forecasting error minimization when a certain stock price is expressed exclusively in terms of other indicators. After the variable selection is over, the forecasting is performed in terms of the historical values of the given stock price and selected variables respectively. The performance of the proposed methodology is evaluated by a long series of tests, the results being very encouraging as compared to similar developments.
C19|Anadolu Üniversitesi Akademik Personelinin Bireysel Emeklilik Sistemine Bakýþý|Sosyal güvenlik, kiþilere çeþitli mesleki, fizyolojik ve sosyo-ekonomik riskler karþýsýnda gelir garantisi ve saðlýk hizmetleri saðlayan kurum ve kurumlar topluluðudur. Bir ülkedeki sosyal güvenlik sisteminin yapýsý, o ülkenin ekonomik ve sosyal koþullarý ile doðrudan iliþkilidir. Bireysel emeklilik de, bireylerin düzenli olarak tasarrufta bulunmalarý, birikim yapmalarý ve emeklilikte ek gelir elde etmeleri üzerine kurulmuþ bir özel emeklilik sistemidir. Devlet katkýsý teþviki gibi yeni düzenlemelerle deðiþen ve geliþen sistem, uzun vadeli fonlarýn ülke ekonomisine kazandýrýlmasý ve iç tasarruf oranlarýnýn artýrýlmasý bakýmýndan önem arz etmektedir. Çalýþmada Anadolu Üniversitesi akademik personelinin bireysel emeklilik sistemine bakýþý deðerlendirilmiþtir. Bu amaçla Ýktisadi ve Ýdari Bilimler Fakültesi’nde görev yapan akademik personele bireysel emeklilik sisteminin deðerlendirmesiyle ilgili anket daðýtýlmýþtýr. Elde edilen veriler çoklu uygunluk analizi ile incelenmiþ ve iliþkili deðiþken ve düzeyleri yorumlanmýþtýr
C19|Patrones de co-localización espacial de la industria aeroespacial en México|Mexico's aerospace industry (IA) is considered strategic due to the possibilities offered to national business to be inserted into supply chain; by its productive characteristics involves the development of suppliers by externalities, which requires business co-location. This document applies the Co-location Quotient (CLQ) statistic in five Mexican entities in order to detect spatial co-location patterns in clusters related to the IA. The results indicate its spatial attraction to aerospace business, as well as electronics, machinery and equipment. Additionally, it can be identified differences in regards co-location patters with respect to the productive capacities by entity; this suggests inputs for the design of industrial policy.
C19|Working Paper 04-16 - La modélisation de l’impôt des personnes physiques dans les modèles macroéconomiques de court et moyen terme du BFP - Adaptation des modèles suite à la 6e réforme de l’État et au SEC2010|Within the framework of the sixth state reform, part of the personal income tax has been regionalised. What's more, in ESA2010, certain tax expenditures which were partly recorded as negative revenue in ESA95 are now recorded as general government expenditure. These changes motivate a revision of the personal income tax model which is used both for the short and medium term projections made by the FPB and for variant analyses. The new model makes a distinction between the “prepayment” tax (payroll tax and advance payments) and the “enrolment” tax (which fixes the amounts due under regional and local additional levies). It provides a better link to the macroeconomy and explicitly takes into account the schedule of tax enrolment.
C19|Dynamic Topic Modelling for Cryptocurrency Community Forums|Cryptocurrencies are more and more used in ocial cash ows and exchange of goods. Bitcoin and the underlying blockchain technology have been looked at by big companies that are adopting and investing in this technology. The CRIX Index of cryptocurrencies hu.berlin/CRIX indicates a wider acceptance of cryptos. One reason for its prosperity certainly being a security aspect, since the underlying network of cryptos is decentralized. It is also unregulated and highly volatile, making the risk assessment at any given moment dicult. In message boards one nds a huge source of information in the form of unstructured text written by e.g. Bitcoin developers and investors. We collect from a popular crypto currency message board texts, user information and associated time stamps. We then provide an indicator for fraudulent schemes. This indicator is constructed using dynamic topic modelling, text mining and unsupervised machine learning. We study how opinions and the evolution of topics are connected with big events in the cryptocurrency universe. Furthermore, the predictive power of these techniques are investigated, comparing the results to known events in the cryptocurrency space. We also test hypothesis of self-fulling prophecies and herding behaviour using the results.
C19|Training & Development Barometer for Effective Transformation of Organizational Commitment and Overall Performance in Banking Sectors of KPK, Pakistan: Qualitative study of Workforce of Bank of Khyber|This research paper investigates the impact of T&D program on the level of employees' organizational commitment and overall performances in the Banking sector of KPK by considering Bank of Khyber as a case study. Study aims to critically examine all three attributes of organizational commitment (affective, normative, and continuance commitment respectively) and its impact on the job satisfaction in banking sector of KPK, Pakistan. The notions of Guest et.al, (2003) and Wall & Wood (2005) are taken as a foundation to explore the linkage between organisational commitment and T&D program, however both these studies had not investigated all three attributes in equal manner. The focus of these previous studies were more on affective and continuance commitment and did not investigate the causes and consequences that make these attributes to create an impact on the overall performances. Thus this study is significant because it attempts to explain in exploratory manner the reasons behind impact created by training. Inductive approach in a cross-sectional design following interpretive research philosophy research is carried out. The bank of Khyber, KPK is case study selected with 15 regional and branch managers as participants for interviews and 277 employees participated in the survey questionnaire, selected through stratified, convenience, and random sampling technique. Results of present study indicates that to retain skilled workforce, organization has to work on their continuance commitment by offering them promotion and salary increment because these are two factors that enable firms to retain skilled workers. Training increases employees' affective and normative commitment more in general as compare to continuance commitment. This paper contributes to the field of management and administrative sciences by investigating the relationship between T&D program and employees' performance and organisational commitment by exploring workforce and management's perspective through financial institution. It adds to the managerial literature related to T&D in relation with organisational commitment and overall performance in developing country's context.
C19|Conditions Sufficient to Infer Causal Relationships Using Instrumental Variables and Observational Data|Abstract Econometritions frequently believe that standard instrumental variables (IV) methods can prove causal relationships. We review the relevant formal causal inference literature, and we demonstrate that this belief is not justified. Couching the problem in terms of falsification, we describe the more stringent conditions that are sufficient to reject a null hypothesis concerning observed, but not deliberately manipulated, variables of the form $$H_{0}$$ H 0 : $$A\not \rightarrow B$$ A ↛ B in favor of an alternative hypothesis $$H_{A}$$ H A : $$A\rightarrow B$$ A → B , even given the possibility of causally related unobserved variables. Rejection of such an $$H_{0}$$ H 0 can rely on the availability of two observed and appropriately related instruments. We also characterize, using Monte Carlo simulations, the confidence that can be placed on such judgments for linearly-related, jointly normal random variables. While the researcher will have limited control over the confidence level of such tests, type I errors occur with a probability of less than 0.15 (often substantially less) across a wide range of circumstances. The power of the test is limited if there are but few observations available and the strength of correspondence among the variables is weak. We demonstrate the method by testing a hypothesis with critically important policy implications relating to a possible cause of childhood malnourishment.
C19|New Tests for Richness and Poorness:A Stochastic Dominance Analysis of Income Distributions in Hong Kong|In this paper, we develop the theory of descending stochastic dominance for application to income distribution analysis. We show that conclusions of dominance obtained using our new tests of richness and poorness offer more accurate and more in-depth characterization of welfare inequality in any population. The empirical application of our proposed approach shows that, for Hong Kong, the distribution of total incomes in 2001 has less proportion of poor units in relatively lower income levels compared to that of 2006 at the same time that the distribution of total incomes in 2006 has a higher proportion of rich units in relatively higher income levels. Our analysis also suggests that there exist lower levels of household welfare in 2011 compared to both 2001 and 2006. In terms of age groups, the application of our new methods showed that the younger age cohorts tended to have lesser proportions of poor units in relatively lower income levels compared to those in the 65+ age group, while at the same time, those in the 65+ age group tended to have a higher proportion of rich units in the relatively higher income levels. These extreme concentrations of income units at the ‘bottom end’ for the younger households and at the ‘top end’ for the older households may help explain the overall high inequality level that has persisted in Hong Kong for several years now.
C19|Combining risk measures to overcome their limitations - spectrum representation of the sub-additivity issue, distortion requirement and added-value of the Spatial VaR solution: An application to Regulatory Requirement for Financial Institutions|To measure the major risks experienced by financial institutions, for instance Market, Credit and Operational, regarding the risk measures, the distributions used to model them and the level of confidence, the regulation either offers a limited choice or demands the implementation of a particular approach. In this paper, we highlight and illustrate the paradoxes and issues observed when implementing an approach over another, the inconsistencies between the methodologies suggested and the problems related to their interpretation. Starting from the notion of coherence, we discuss their properties, we propose alternative solutions, new risk measures like spectrum and spatial approaches, and we provide practitioners and supervisor with some recommendations to assess, manage and control risks in a financial institution
C19|Analysis of average value of a Fourier series using z-transform: comparison with Hodrick-Prescott filter|This paper develops a method of analyzing average value of a complex-valued function that can be represented as a Fourier series satisfying a few realistic restrictions. This method may be useful when Discrete Fourier transform is highly inefficient, and comparison with Hodrick-Prescott filter is made.
C19|Forecasting 2016 US Presidential Elections Using Factor Analysis and Regression Model|The paper categorizes factors responsible for forecasting the outcome of U.S. presidential election 2016 using factor analysis, which groups the various economic and non-economic parameters based on the correlation among them. The major economic factor significant in 2016 US presidential election is the growth of the economy, and the ‘anti-incumbency factor that signifies how long the incumbent party has been controlling the White House is found to be an important non-economic factor likely to play a dominant role in the election. The dependent variables considered are the vote shares of the nominees of the incumbent and the non-incumbent majority party candidates. The forecast is calculated by running a regression of the significant factors, obtained through factor analysis technique, on the incumbent party vote share as well as on the non-incumbent party vote share. The proposed models forecast the vote share of Democrat candidate Mrs. Hillary Clinton to be 45.59% with a standard error of ±2.32% and that of Republican candidate Mr. Donald Trump to be 39.51% with a standard error of ±3.87%. Hence, the models built in the paper signal a comfortable margin of victory for the Presidential nominee of the incumbent party, Hillary Clinton. The study re-establishes the notion that the non-economic factors have a greater influence on the outcomes of election as compared to the economic factors, as some of the important economic factors such as inflation and unemployment rate failed to establish their significance.
C19|Policy Evaluation In Presence Of Interferences: A Spatial Multilevel Did Approach|"During the last decades SUTVA has represented the ""gold standard"" for the identification and evaluation of causal effects. However, the presence of interferences in causal analysis requires a substantial review of the SUTVA hypothesis. This paper proposes a framework for causal inference in presence of spatial interactions within a new spatial hierarchical Difference-in-Differences model (SH-DID). The novel approach decomposes the ATE (Average Treatment Effect), allowing the identification of direct (ADTE) and indirect treatment effects. In addition, our approach permits the identification of different indirect causal impact both on treated (AITET) and on controls (AITENT). The performance of the SH-DID are evaluated by a Montecarlo Simulation. The results confirm how omitting the presence of interferences produces biased parameters of direct and indirect effects, even though the estimates of the ATE in the traditional model are correct. Conversely, the SH-DID provides unbiased estimates of both total, direct and indirect effects. In addition, this model is the more efficient compared both to the traditional and a Spatial modified Difference-in-Differences estimator."
C19|Bank Failure Prediction Model for Zimbabwe|Probability of Default (PD) is a financial term describing the likelihood of default over a particular time horizon. This concept has attracted a lot of interest ever since the late 1960¡¯s and has been extended to the banking sector to predict probability of failure as well as bank performance ratings. We derive the probability of bankruptcy and bank ratings in a Zimbabwean context based on data between 2009 and 2013, inclusive. We build a model to predict the probability of bank failure twelve months in advance for Zimbabwean banks based on twelve micro factors. Further, we build the corresponding rating model. The empirical analysis revealed that the warning signal so developed produced a robust result with a high prediction accuracy of 92.31% compared to 60% of the Altman¡¯s Z Score model.
C19|Model Estimates Of Gross Domestic Product In Relation to Export And Import Of Fuels, Focused on the Elasticity and Determination Of Directly and Indirectly Associated Rates|The article is based on several interrogative assumptions related to the positive impact of the crises and the recession on determinations in the econometric models of Romania’s GDP as a variable dependent in relation to the export and import of fuels. After a short introductory section, which details, in a relative manner, the overall goal and the objectives of the paper, a first section makes use of elasticity and the modern solutions of building the coefficient of elasticity, proposing an original alternative to existing variants, and afterwards the next section builds on these statistical tools in the econometric modeling of Romania’s GDP, starting from the ratios and value indicators and offering a few original models where the export and import of fuels are the key initial explanatory factors. The final remarks reinterpret the role of the energy resources, as well as that of the related flows, in enhancing statistical connections, and especially the role of crises and recessions in validating econometric models, by raising their degree of predictability.
C19|Crime and Divorce. Can one Lead to the other? Using Multilevel Mixed Models|Cross-sectional and time-series studies of the influence of divorce on crime and the opposite are few in both developing and developed countries. Question is raised whether the divorce causes the crime, the opposite, or both effects are exist in Jordan.The objectives are: Investigating the causal direction of the relationship between the divorce and crime, determining whether the clustering in the divorce and crime within-governorates is exist, and whether the divorce and crime are increased or decreased over time? The study design was cross-sectional time-series analysis. The data of 12 governorates over 14 years (2000-2013) were obtained from several Jordanian Statistical Yearbooks and surveys issued by the Jordanian Statistics Department. The divorce rate (DR) and the crime rate (CR) were calculated. Multilevel mixed-effects linear regression was carried out. Three models for each of divorce and crime were estimated. Comparison between these models was explained in terms of the intra-class correlation (ICC), the proportional change in the variance of the response variable, and the deviance. The p
C19|Identifying Regime Shifts in South African Exchange rates|Linear time series models are not able to capture the behaviour of many financial time series, as in the cases of inflation rates, exchange rates and stock prices data. To overcome this problem, nonlinear time series models are typically designed to capture these nonlinear features in the data. In this paper, we use portmanteau test and likelihood ratio test (LR) test to detect nonlinear feature and to justify the use of 2-regime Markov switching autoregressive model (MS-AR) in South Africa exchange rate between 1995 and 2013. For model selection criteria (AIC and SBC) were used and for identifying best model error matrix such as MEA and MSE were used. The study compared the in-sample fitting between linear model and Markov switching model. From the error matrix (MEA and MSE) values, it is found that the MS ?AR(3) model is the best fitted model for exchange rate. In addition, the regime switching model also found to perform better than simple autoregressive model in in-sample fitting. This result justified that nonlinear model give better in-sample fitting than linear model.
C19|Financial impact of certifications to management system standards: Evidence from Tunisian listed companies|Certifications to management system standards (ISO 9000, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, etc.) are a widespread benchmark for thousands of organizations around the world. A number of studies have been carried out in order to analyze the impact of these certifications over companies? performance. However, conclusions reached so far have been of a contradictory nature. The real benefits of these certifications continue to raise the debates and the different results show that the effect of certifications to management system standards on firms? performance remains to be explored specially in terms of financial improvement. The purpose of this research is to investigate the association between certifications to management system standards and Tunisian companies? financial performance covering the period 2010-2014. Such a study is likely to provide a useful insight to managers since the process of achieving and maintaining these certifications involves costs and time. The results find that there is no evidence that improvements in performance follow certifications and certified firms do not present higher performance than those that are not certified.
C19|Recent advances in cyclic perturbation of frequency tables|Im Zuge der Bereitstellung vertraulicher Einzel- und Tabellendaten müssen sich Datenhalter einerseits an der bestehenden Gesetzgebung und andererseits an den Bedürfnissen ihrer Datennutzer orientieren. Im Falle von Fallzahltabellen werden traditionell so genannte prä- und posttabulare Geheimhaltungsstrategien zur bestmöglichen Erfüllung beider gegenläufigen Zielkriterien verfolgt. Bei letzteren wird eine auf den originalen Mikrodaten erzeugte Tabelle vor der Weitergabe durch spezielle Methoden der Sperrung, Rundung oder Überlagerung von Zellwerten modifiziert. Als vielversprechend hat sich die in (Duncan und Roehrig, Database Technologies: concepts, methodologies, tools and applications, pp 1823–1843, 2007) vorgeschlagene Verfahrensgruppe der zyklischen Überlagerung herausgestellt. Basierend auf Zufallszahlen wird hier eine Folge von Überlagerungsmustern, die Basiszyklen genannt werden, sukzessive zu einer Originaltabelle addiert. Im vorliegenden Beitrag werden verschiedene Varianten der zyklischen Überlagerung vorgestellt und anhand des klassischen Zielkonfliktes, der Minimierung des Informationsverlustes bei gleichzeitiger Gewährung einer ausreichenden Datensicherheit, bewertet. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
C19|Weighted Euclidean Biplots|Abstract We construct a weighted Euclidean distance that approximates any distance or dissimilarity measure between individuals that is based on a rectangular cases-by-variables data matrix. In contrast to regular multidimensional scaling methods for dissimilarity data, our approach leads to biplots of individuals and variables while preserving all the good properties of dimension-reduction methods that are based on the singular-value decomposition. The main benefits are the decomposition of variance into components along principal axes, which provide the numerical diagnostics known as contributions, and the estimation of nonnegative weights for each variable. The idea is inspired by the distance functions used in correspondence analysis and in principal component analysis of standardized data, where the normalizations inherent in the distances can be considered as differential weighting of the variables. In weighted Euclidean biplots, we allow these weights to be unknown parameters, which are estimated from the data to maximize the fit to the chosen distances or dissimilarities. These weights are estimated using a majorization algorithm. Once this extra weight-estimation step is accomplished, the procedure follows the classical path in decomposing the matrix and displaying its rows and columns in biplots.
C19|Endogenous Second Moments: A Unified Approach to Fluctuations in Risk, Dispersion, and Uncertainty|Many important statistics in macroeconomics and finance—such as cross-sectional dispersions, risk, volatility, or uncertainty—are second moments. In this paper, we explore a mechanism by which second moments naturally and endogenously fluctuate over time as nonlinear transformations of fundamentals. Specifically, we provide general results that characterize second moments of transformed random variables when the underlying fundamentals are subject to distributional shifts that affect their means, but not their variances. We illustrate the usefulness of our results with a series of applications to (1) the cyclicality of the cross-sectional dispersions of macroeconomic variables, (2) the dispersion of MRPKs, (3) security pricing, and (4) endogenous uncertainty in Bayesian inference problems.
C19|Contratos públicos adjudicados a sociedades cooperativas en el País Vasco entre 2010 y 2012<BR>[Public contracts awarded to cooperative societies in the Basque Country betweem 2010 and 1020]|La Contratación Pública constituye una fuente muy importante de la demanda de bienes y servicios, especialmente en la Comunidad Autónoma del País Vasco en donde el Gobierno Autonómico, también llamado la Administración General Vasca, desarrolla un papel capital como impulsor de dicha contratación pública. Por otro lado, la Economía Social, y especialmente el movimiento cooperativo, tiene en ese mismo ámbito geográfico un papel de gran peso en el conjunto de la Economía Vasca, por sus cifras de empleo y aportación al PIB, así como por tradición y arraigo social. Cabe preguntarse en tal caso, cuál es el papel que desempeñan las cooperativas en la Contratación Pública en aquella Comunidad Autónoma, cómo y cuáles son los contratos de los que resultan adjudicatarias, qué importes suponen esos contratos para las cuentas públicas y, en definitiva, si su papel de adjudicatarias se corresponde con el que desempeñan en el conjunto de la Economía Vasca. Del examen de los contratos publicados en el Perfil del Contratante del Gobierno Vasco, se obtienen datos suficientes que, una vez procesados y analizados, se visualizan en tablas y porcentajes que constituyen la base de un diagnóstico que responde a las preguntas planteadas y evidencia la situación de debilidad de las cooperativas en el campo de la contratación pública vasca.
C19|Predicción del fracaso empresarial. Una contribución a la síntesis de una teoría mediante el análisis comparativo de distintas técnicas de predicción|Este artículo ofrece un análisis comparativo de la eficacia de ocho métodos de pronóstico populares: univariante, regresiones lineal, discriminante y logit, particionamiento recursivo, rough sets, redes neuronales artificiales, y DEA. Nuestros objetivos son: aclarar el equilibrio complejidad-efectividad de cada metodología; identificar un subconjunto de variables como predictores significativos independientemente de la metodología; y discutir y relacionar estos hallazgos con la teoría financiera, para ayudar a consolidar las bases de una teoría del fallo financiero. Nuestros resultados indican que, cualquiera que sea la metodología, se pueden emitir predicciones fiables usando cuatro variables, que contienen información acerca de rentabilidad, estructura financiera, rotación, y flujos de caja.
C19|Information Sources Used by European Tourists: A Cross-Cultural Study|This study investigates which information sources European tourists use when making decisions about their travel/ holiday plans. Using survey data based on national representative samples of tourists from 27 member countries of the European Union allows generalizable conclusions to be drawn. The data were analysed using correspondence analysis of overall country data. The findings indicate that there are systematic differences in how information sources are related to one another and that the various national cultures within the European Union have influence on tourists' use of information sources. Six segments of information source behaviour are revealed. These segments reflect economic development and the national cultures of European nations. Management implications are highlighted. The findings of this study can be used to segment tourists' use of information sources according to economic development and national culture.
C19|The causal factors of international inequality in co2 emissions per capita: a regression-based inequality decomposition analysis|This paper uses the possibilities provided by the regression-based inequality decomposition (Fields, 2003) to explore the contribution of different explanatory factors to international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita. In contrast to previous emissions inequality decompositions, which were based on identity relationships (Duro and Padilla, 2006), this methodology does not impose any a priori specific relationship. Thus, it allows an assessment of the contribution to inequality of different relevant variables. In short, the paper appraises the relative contributions of affluence, sectoral composition, demographic factors and climate. The analysis is applied to selected years of the period 1993–2007. The results show the important (though decreasing) share of the contribution of demographic factors, as well as a significant contribution of affluence and sectoral composition.
C19|Longitudinal statistical matching: transferring consumption expenditure from HBS to SILC panel survey|The aim of this study is to look for an appropriate procedure to conduct statistical matching for longitudinal data sets. To our knowledge, among the studies, which are associated to statistical matching with longitudinal data, no such issue has been specifically covered or identified in literature. The longitudinal data set, which is used in this study, involves a longitudinal weight at individual level, which requires further procedures before the matching application. The study will discuss and propose ways to deal with the statistical matching issue for such data sets. In the process, a four-year longitudinal data set is used and data from each year is matched with a cross-sectional data set for the corresponding year. The matching procedure is comprised of two steps, respectively the Renssen (1998) method followed by nearest neighbor distance hot deck matching, proposed by D’Orazio (2016) and Donatiello et al. (2015). The application is undertaken on Turkish data to impute consumption expenditure variable from Household Budget Survey (HBS) to Statistics on Income, and Living Conditions (SILC) Survey. A synthetic longitudinal data set is created by using these two survey data sets. The two data sets have many variables in common including income variable, which enables Conditional Independence Assumption (CIA) to be more likely. The study also carries out validation analyses to determine the quality of the matching procedures and the findings achieved with the proposed itinerary, indicate that the distribution of consumption expenditure estimate in synthetic data set is well preserved with all estimates. The poverty indicators in general and at household level is also looked for and the results indicate a good quality match
C19|Differential item functioning in the EQ-5D: An exploratory analysis using anchoring vignettes|Inter-group comparisons using the EQ-5D, or any self-reported measure of health, rely on the measure being an accurate reflection of the true health of the groups or individuals concerned. However, responses to questions on subjective scales, such as those used in the EQ-5D, will be inaccurate if groups of individuals systematically differ in their use of the response categories, a phenomenon known as differential item functioning(DIF). This paper reports on an exploratory analysis involving the use of anchoring vignettes to identify differential item functioning (DIF) in the EQ-5D-5L. We demonstrate that using vignettes to appropriately identify DIF in EQ-5D reporting is possible, at least in certain age groups. We find that the EQ-5D is indeed subject to DIF, and that failure to account for DIF can lead to conclusions that are misleading when using the instrument to compare health or quality of life across heterogeneous groups. For instance, when adjusting for DIF in a sample aged 55-65 years, we found that differences between the highest and lowest education groups doubled in value afteradjusting for DIF, and increased from quantities that would not have had relevance in a clinical settings to ones that would (based on a suggested minimally important difference). Thus, our research provides evidence that the EQ-5D should be used with caution when comparing health or quality of life across heterogeneous groups. We also provide several important insights in terms of the identifying assumptions of response consistency and vignette equivalence.
C19|ASEAN Long-Run Tourism Elasticity Demand in Thailand|This paper developed a model of the long-run demand for tourism in Thailand from nine countries in ASEAN. The aggregate tourism demand model was developed, and the elasticities were estimated using appropriate econometric methods based on characteristics and limitation of the available data in each country. The results show that, ASEAN tourist markets are more important than Europe markets in terms of number and growth of receipts, and each market have difference price elasticities. The economic growth of ASEAN countries in the last 2-3 decades helped stimulated the expansion of ASEAN tourist market in Thailand. Most tourists from ASEAN countries to Thailand were more sensitive to Thai price than cheaper prices from competing destinations resulting in higher own price elasticities that cross price elasticities. Moreover, it was observed that for the countries bordered by Thailand such as Lao PDR., Malaysia and Myanmar, their price elasticities were higher than other countries. That is because people from these countries often traveled to Thailand on weekend for shopping, relaxing and enjoying night entertainment, hence the greater flexibility to change plan if price rises. This study suggests that Thailand should develop a specialized marketing plan to accommodate each individual countries based on their elasticities. Moreover, Thailand should seize the opportunity of growing ASEAN tourists markets, propelled by rising economic growth and liberalization of ASEAN in 2015, in screening and specializing in high-end market.
C19|Forecasting Urban Water Demand in California: Rethinking Model Evaluation| Urban water managers rely heavily on forecasts of water consumption to determine management decisions and investment choices. Typical forecasts rely on simple models whose criteria for selection has little to do with their performance in predicting out-of-sample consumption levels. We demonstrate this issue by comparing forecast models selected on the basis of their ability to perform well in-sample versus out-of-sample. Our results highlight the benefits of developing out-of-sample evaluation criteria to ascertain model performance. Using annual data on single-family residential water consumption in Southern California we illustrate how prediction ability varies according to model evaluation method. Using a training dataset, this analysis finds that models ranking highly on in-sample performance significantly over-estimated consumption (10% − 25%) five years out from the end of the training dataset relative to observed demands five years out from the end of the training dataset. Whereas, the top models selected using our out-of-sample criteria, came within 1% of the actual total consumption. Notably, projections of future demand for the in-sample models indicate increasing aggregate water consumption over a 25-year period, which contrasts against the downward trend predicted by the out-of-sample models.
C19|Identifying inliers|The problem of outliers is well-known in statistics: an outlier is a value that is far from the general distribution of the other observed values, and can often perturb the results of a statistical analysis. Various procedures exist for identifying outliers, in case they need to receive special treatment, which in some cases can be exclusion from consideration. An inlier, by contrast, is an observation lying within the general distribution of other observed values, generally does not perturb the results but is nevertheless non-conforming and unusual. For single variables, an inlier is practically impossible to identify, but in the multivariate case, thanks to interrelationships between variables, values can be identified that are observed to be more central in a distribution but would be expected, based on the other information in the data matrix, to be more outlying. We propose an approach to identify inliers in a data matrix, based on the singular value decomposition. An application is presented using a table of economic indicators for the 27 member countries of the European Union in 2011, where inlying values are identified for some countries such as Estonia and Luxembourg.
C19|An Empirical Study of the Relationship between Money Market Interest Rates and Stock Market Performance: Evidence from Zimbabwe (2009-2013)|The research examines the long run relationship between money market interest rates and stock market returns in Zimbabwe from April 2009 to December 2013. The estimation model controls for money supply growth rate, inflation, volume of manufacturing index, crude oil price and political stability. All the variables were tested for unit root using augmented Dickey-Fuller test before Johansen cointegration tests. Based on vector error correlation Granger causality tests, findings show evidence of strong and statistically significant inverse causal relationship between money market interest and stock market returns. Findings also show existence of short run causality that runs from stock market returns to money market interest rates. This is believed to be caused by the passive nature of money market in Zimbabwe and non-functionality of Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe in controlling interest rates through monetary policy. There is therefore need to implement robust and pragmatic macroeconomic policies like the repo market to reactivate the money market.
C19|Solving and estimating indeterminate DSGE models|We propose a method for solving and estimating linear rational expectations models that exhibit indeterminacy and we provide step-by-step guidelines for implementing this method in the Matlab-based packages Dynare and Gensys. Our method redefines a subset of expectational errors as new fundamentals. This redefinition allows us to treat indeterminate models as determinate and to apply standard solution algorithms. We prove that our method is equivalent to the solution method proposed by Lubik and Schorfheide (2003, 2004), and using the New-Keynesian model described in Lubik and Schorfheide (2004), we demonstrate how to apply our theoretical results with a practical exercise.
C19|Educational attainment in the OECD, 1960–2010. Updated series and a comparison with other sources|This paper describes the construction of updated series on the educational attainment of the adult population for a sample of 22 OECD countries covering the period 1960–2010. These series are then compared with (the OECD subsample of) the latest available version of other cross-country data sets on average years of schooling that are commonly used in the literature. Finally, statistical measures of the information content of the different series are constructed using the procedure developed by Krueger and Lindhal (K&L, 2001) and de la Fuente and Doménech (D&D, 2006). The exercise shows that there are important differences in quality across data sets and suggests that successive revisions have succeeded in increasing their signal to noise ratios.
C19|Performance evaluation of bankruptcy prediction models: An orientation-free super-efficiency DEA-based framework|Prediction of corporate failure is one of the major activities in auditing firms risks and uncertainties. The design of reliable models to predict bankruptcy is crucial for many decision making processes. Although a large number of models have been designed to predict bankruptcy, the relative performance evaluation of competing prediction models remains an exercise that is unidimensional in nature, which often leads to reporting conflicting results. In this research, we overcome this methodological issue by proposing an orientation-free super-efficiency data envelopment analysis model as a multi-criteria assessment framework. Furthermore, we perform an exhaustive comparative analysis of the most popular bankruptcy modeling frameworks for UK data including our own models. In addition, we address two important research questions; namely, do some modeling frameworks perform better than others by design? and to what extent the choice and/or the design of explanatory variables and their nature affect the performance of modeling frameworks?, and report on our findings.
C19|Estimating direct and indirect effects of foreign direct investment on firm productivity in the presence of interactions between firms|We implement a method to estimate the direct effects of foreign-ownership on foreign firms’ productivity and the indirect effects (or spillovers) from the presence of foreign-owned firms on other foreign and domestic firms’ productivity in a unifying framework, taking interactions between firms into account. To do so,we relax a fundamental assumption made in empirical studies examining a direct casual effect of foreign ownership on firm productivity, namely that of no interactions between firms. Based on our approach, we have able to combine direct and indirect effects of foreign ownership and calculate the total effect of foreign firms on local productivity. Our results show that all these effects vary with the level of foreign presence within a cluster, an important findIng for the academic literature and policy debate on the benefits of attracting foreign owned firms.
C19|Estimating direct and indirect effects of foreign direct investment on firm productivity in the presence of interactions between firms|We implement a method to estimate the direct effects of foreign-ownership on foreign firms' productivity and the indirect effects (or spillovers) from the presence of foreign-owned firms on other foreign and domestic firms' productivity in a unifying framework, taking interactions between firms into account. To do so, we relax a fundamental assumption made in empirical studies examining a direct causal effect of foreign ownership on firm productivity, namely that of no interactions between firms. Based on our approach, we are able to combine direct and indirect effects of foreign ownership and calculate the total effect of foreign firms on local productivity. Our results show that all these effects vary with the level of foreign presence within a cluster, an important finding for the academic literature and policy debate on the benefits of attracting foreign owned firms.
C19|A measure of technological capabilities for developing countries|The study was conducted to develop an index as a new measurement tool analyzing the innovativeness of developing countries. The role of science and technology in enhancing the rate of innovation is also investigated. The index is estimated for 61 countries observed during 2003–2008. The countries are classified into three groups based on their innovation level. The highest rate of innovation was noticed in China, followed by Estonia and Malaysia. The lowest innovation rate was reported in Iran, Bangladesh, Tadzhikistan, and Cambodia. It is recommended that governments (1) to allocate significant share of their budgets to the factors that enhance technological capability such as the science education, gross education enrollment rate and internet connectivity, (2) to promote policies of national awards for scientists and researchers who make sound breakthroughs in science and technology, (3) to develop international relations in the social, economic, cultural, and scientific spheres, (4) to modify school curriculum and syllabus, so that higher emphasis is given to the creativity and spontaneity of the children, (5) to relax portion of corporate taxes for developing an innovative way of product and production processes, which are environmentally friendly and economically viable. Finally, (6) the special focus must be given to the encouragement of local organizations to conduct the specialized training programs to promote innovation activities.
C19|Marginal Analysis to Improve the Efficiency of Companies and Improve the Management of Its Level|The article is devoted to study theoretical and methodological bases of use of marginal analysis as effective tools for optimizing the scale of production in order to increase the efficiency of companies and improving the management of its level. There is defined the etymological vector of gradual transformation and development of marginal analysis. There is profound the substantive content of conceptual apparatus of margin doctrine in the context of justification of strategic regulations of the analytical procedures organization. There is offered the additional directions of plane extension of further improvement of analytical procedures by developing quality informational and analytical control system. According to the authors, the results of marginal analysis of cost and marginal revenue make it possible to improve the validity of management decisions by improving the ongoing algorithms and considering impact of various factors on the formation of values of economic results of the company.
C19|Domestic tourism â€“ a way to Romania's travel industry recovery|The tourism industry has an important contribution to the GDP of a country, both through domestic consumption of tourist services and receipts from international tourism. According to data provided by the National Statistics Institute, domestic tourist movement in 2014 slightly exceeded the 6.5 million residents. Underlining the importance to supporting domestic tourism, we propose to identify the perception of Romanian tourists on internal tourism offer and determine the reasons behind the choice of holiday destination. The specific objectives of the research were: determining Romanian tourist satisfaction in its internal holidays, assessment and classification of the determinant factors in choosing holiday destinations, respectively analysis of tourists satisfaction in relation with these determinants, based on the personal experiences of traveling into the country and abroad. To achieve the objectives was conducted a direct quantitative research, based on a statistical survey, having self-administered questionnaire as instrument, during the period March-May 2015.
C19|Surprised by the Gambler’s and Hot Hand Fallacies? A Truth in the Law of Small Numbers|We prove that a subtle but substantial bias exists in a standard measure of the conditional dependence of present outcomes on streaks of past outcomes in sequential data. The magnitude of this novel form of selection bias generally decreases as the sequence gets longer, but increases in streak length, and remains substantial for a range of sequence lengths often used in empirical work. The bias has important implications for the literature that investigates incorrect beliefs in sequential decision making - most notably the Hot Hand Fallacy and the Gambler's Fallacy. Upon correcting for the bias, the conclusions of prominent studies in the hot hand fallacy literature are reversed. The bias also provides a novel structural explanation for how belief in the law of small numbers can persist in the face of experience. JEL Classification Numbers: C12; C14; C18;C19; C91; D03; G02. Keywords: Law of Small Numbers; Alternation Bias; Negative Recency Bias; Gambler's Fallacy; Hot Hand Fallacy; Hot Hand Effect; Sequential Decision Making; Sequential Data; Selection Bias; Finite Sample Bias; Small Sample Bias.
C19|Time-Varying Beta Risk and Its Modeling Techniques for Turkish Industry Portfolios|This paper aims to investigate time-varying beta risk for twenty Turkish industry portfolios. Using weekly data over the period 2002-2013, five different modeling techniques in addition to standard OLS model are employed. The general conclusion here clearly indicates that the systematic risk of each sector, which is summarized by the sector beta, is not stable over time. Based on the in-sample and out-of-sample forecasting results of alternative modeling techniques, the random walk process estimated by the Kalman filter is the most preferred in describing and forecasting the time-varying behavior of sector betas in Turkey. The study finds that, although forecasting performance of stochastic volatility model is higher than the EGARCH and the benchmark OLS model, it is inferior to the Kalman filter approach.
C19|The Impact of Solvency II Directive upon the Perspectives of the Horizon 2020 Programme|This paper focuses on analyzing the characteristics and recent evolution of the Romanian insurance market. Comparisons between Romania and other European countries will be performed and the relationship between the development of the insurance market and the economic development will be investigated. The causal relationships and the degree of interdependence between these phenomena will be described using quantitative techniques. The results obtained will enable us to assess the expected performance and impact of Solvency II Directive from the perspective of Horizon 2020 Programme in Romania and in the broader context of the European Union countries.
C19|Development of a Multidimensional Sustainable Livelihoods Model for Rural Bangladesh|This paper offers a multidimensional livelihoods asset model customized to local priorities in rural Bangladesh, and so advances the DFID’s livelihoods model. The model enables measurement of relative livelihoods asset achievements of poor men and women living in ameliorating poverty. The study is based on primary data collected from 30 villages in Bangladesh. It has been observed that women have better record in achieving social capital (such as vote casting, decision making at jobs, etc.) whereas, men are better off in gaining financial capital (such as higher savings). Significantly less achievement in the indicators of human capital (such as more sick days, and high morbidity) in the rural areas is alarming.
C19|Finding similar places using the observation-to-generalization place model|In this article, a novel observation-to-generalization place model is proposed. It is shown how this model can be used to formally define the problem of finding geographically similar places. The observation-to-generalization model differentiates between observations of phenomena in the environment at a specific location and time, and generalizations about places that are inferred from these observations. A suite of operations is defined to find similar places based on the invariance of generalized place properties, and it is demonstrated how these functions can be applied to the problem of finding similar places based on the topics that people write about in place descriptions. One use for similar-place search is for exploratory research that will enable investigators to perform case–control studies on place data. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C19|Analyzing the health status of the population using ordinal data|We intend to estimate the health status of the people using a Gini kind index GO for measuring the inequality and a polarization indicator PO too. The both indices were applied for ordinal health data which were selected from three national representative samplings designed in the period 2003 - 2010 in Romania. The results evaluate the evolution level of the polarization and inequality phenomena in the health domain.
C19|Unified quasi-maximum likelihood estimation theory for stable and unstable Markov bilinear processes|A unified quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) estimation theory for stationary and nonstationary simple Markov bilinear (SMBL) models is proposed. Such models may be seen as generalized random coefficient autoregressions (GRCA) in which the innovation and the random coefficient processes are fully correlated. It is shown that the QML estimate (QMLE) for the SMBL model is always asymptotically Gaussian without assuming strict stationarity, meaning that there is no knife edge effect. The asymptotic variance of the QMLE is different in the stationary and nonstationary cases but is consistently estimated using the same estimator. A perhaps surprising result is that in the nonstationary domain, all SMBL parameters are consistently estimated in contrast with unstable GARCH and GRCA models where the QMLE of the conditional variance intercept is inconsistent. As a result, strict stationarity testing for the SMBL is studied. Simulation experiments and a real application to strict stationarity testing for some financial stock returns illustrate the theory in finite samples.
C19|Inflation by Producer Price Index – predictive factor for Inflation by Consumer Price Index? The case of Romania|Assessment of the Consumer Price Index in time is one of the most used methods for the analysis of inflation, which population have it and perceive with ease about the evolution of prices of goods and services from the consumption basket. According to the theory of the production chain, part of the inflation through Production Price Indices could be transmitted to inflation through Consumer Price Indices, given that consumer prices are calculated based on the prices of production. This is the start hypothesis for the case study undertaken. The material explores the relationship between inflation through producer prices and inflation through consumer prices in our country. The analysis will be applied to monthly data series in the period 2007-2013 in Romania. The aim of the research is to verify in what degree inflation by producer prices can be a predictive factor for inflation by consumer price in the analyzed period. After analyzing the relationship between Consumer Price inflation and Producer Price inflation through statistical and econometric methods (Johansen test, Engle-Granger test and Granger Causality) wasn’t identified any long-term equilibrium relationship between time series analysed.
C19|A Brief Analysis Of Seasonality in the Romanian Car Market|This article presents a brief seasonality analysis based on monthly statistics of some variables specific to the total sales of home-produced and imported cars focusing on the data series of the domestic market over the last three years, distinctly structured on three significant subpopulations (supply and delivery of car running on petrol, supply and delivery of diesel cars, and delivery of the leading car makes/brands). The statistical analysis of seasonality is focused on the faster assessment of the average structure, generating more interesting information regarding the data processed, which is specific to the complex type of thinking of statistics, and the aggregate and subsequently structured study, giving original indicators (absolute and relative gap of structural coefficients of seasonality), which the authors consider an interesting investigation solution providing a higher degree of overall simplicity and accessibility. The article also used the E-Views software package to reveal seasonality through special econometric graphs, which becomes a second proof of originality, comparable to the classical statistical charting, as in modern econometric modeling, immortalized in a mean dynamics (the moving average method).
C19|Selected Techniques Of Detecting Structural Breaks In Financial Volatility|We investigate several promising algorithms, proposed in literature, devised to detect sudden changes (structural breaks) in the volatility of financial time series. Comparative study of three techniques: ICSS, NPCPM and Cheng’s algorithm is carried out via numerical simulation in the case of simulated T-GARCH models and two real series, namely German and US stock indices. Simulations show that the NPCPM algorithm is superior to ICSS because is not over-sensitive either to heavy tails of market returns or to their serial dependence. Some signals generated by ICSS are falsely classified as structural breaks in volatility, while Cheng’s technique works well only when a single break occurs.
C19|Statistical Analysis of Educational System of Georgia|Creation and formation of the high quality educational system, eradication of which should contribute strengthening the Political and Economic power of Georgia, growth of the prosperity of population, and creation of reliable conditions of intrepidity of the country. In spite of the problems the reforms of the systems in the country are still going. The significance of transition to the standard international educational classification is emphasized.The specifics of the Knowledge Economics in Georgia, which is considered as unifier and appraiser of scientific, educational, and technical progress, is impossible to be evaluated with just one value. One of the specifics is that there are no enough investments in the country to make educational inventions successful.It is designated that educational and economic staff in Georgia is evaluated only by qualitative indices. Realization of educational qualification system inside the population reserves of our country and stirring up the process of exchanging the knowledge between the generations is left without attention. The science is almost removed from the direct responsibility of taking care and controlling the educational system. Here are some statistics on education: 90.8% of Georgian pupils at the beginning of the school year 2013-2014 were involved in Public schools while the remaining 9.2% attended private schools. In comparison, in 2000-2001, 98.3% were enrolled in Public schools and only 1.7% were private school pupils.In Georgia there is no gender differentiation while entering a school. Out of 553,016 pupils enrolled in secondary school at the beginning 2013-2014 school year, 47.4% were female and 52.6% were male. In 2013-2014, there were 19 Public Higher Educational Institutions with 83.3 thousand students. Approximately 27% or 34.5 thousand students were enrolled in private institutions. From 2000-2001 to 2012-2013, the quantity of public institutions decreased by 27%, while the number of students decreased by 21.3%. Government expenditure of Georgia on education as percentage of GDP was about 2% in 2012 and expenditure on education as percentage of total government expenditure - about 7%. While in Argentina total government expenditure was 15% in the same year, in Armenia 14%, in Belarus and Barbados 13%, in Chile ?19%.Lastly, I would like to mention that the household?s expenditures share on education in 2013 equaled 2.7% of the total amount. It is very important because private education institutions are paid. This cost is heavier for pupils/students coming from low-income families, where current earnings are crucial to their immediate well-being.
C19|Business Dynamics In The European Union And Macroeconomic Determinants Of Business Failure|Entrepreneurial activity represents a great asset for the European Union economy, and encouraging entrepreneurship poses a great challenge in the context of the recent economic crisis. Considering this and the Europe 2020 strategy, entrepreneurship plays an important role for economic recovery, as it is considered to generate jobs, economic growth and progress. In this context, the aim of this paper is to explore the business dynamics in the European Union over a 5 year period from 2008 to 2012, first by trying to identify, from the perspective of business demography indicators, if disparities are evidenced among EU member states, and secondly, by conducting panel data analysis, to identify the extent to which macroeconomic determinants have an influence on business dynamics in the European Union, in particular on the death rate of enterprises. The results show that there are considerable variations in business dynamics within EU member states and that the macroeconomic environment has an important role in shaping entrepreneurial activity and achieving economic recovery.
C19|Financial Stock Market Co-movement and Correlation: Evidence in the European Union (EU) Area Before and After the October 2008 Financial Crisis|This paper investigates the effect that the financial stock market had on co-movement and correlation when modeling and forecasting individual financial stock market. According to both the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) (Sharpe-Linter-Mossin, 1960?s) and portfolio theory (Markowitz, 1952), the likely presence of correlations between various financial stock markets is an important issue for stock market portfolio managers; for example, in terms of portfolio diversification, it could reduce overall portfolio risk. Hence, we propose a multivariate extension of the conditional CAPM with a time-varying beta using the state space model; this, in turn, would allow the correlation between financial stock markets to be utilized during the estimation process. This paper presents evidence based on monthly data generated by several EU area financial stock markets before and after the October 2008 financial crisis and forecasting 1 year into the future. The empirical results overwhelmingly support one?s considering the financial stock market co-movement and correlation structure when modeling and forecasting individual EU area financial stock markets.
C19|The Performance of Conditional CAPMs based on Evidence from the European Union?s (EU) Financial Stock Markets before and after the Eurozone Financial Crisis|This paper focuses on identifying the stochastic behavior of financial stock markets for the purpose of making profitable investment decisions. A time-varying version of the Linear Market Model (consistent with a conditional Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)) which allows only for the time-varying beta risk parameter is the benchmark market model for this research. To validate and extend the time-varying Linear Market Model, two related extensions are defined. These are newly formulated forms of the time-varying Higher order Market Models (consistent with their equivalent conditional Higher order CAPMs (Neslihanoglu, 2014)) and are simple polynomial extensions of the time-varying Linear Market Model; namely, the time-varying Quadratic Market Model (which allows for the time-varying beta and time-varying co-skewness risk parameters) and the time-varying Cubic Market Model (which allows for the time-varying beta, time-varying co-skewness, and time-varying co-kurtosis risk parameters). Here, the time-varying risk parameters are estimated using the state space model. The data is based on several EU area financial stock markets before and after the Eurozone financial crisis as well as on forecasting made 2 years into the future. The empirical results found support the time-varying Linear Market Model which allows only for the time-varying beta risk parameter when modeling and forecasting EU area financial stock markets.
C19|Forecasting South African Gold Sales: The Box-Jenkins Methodology|The study deals with Box-Jenkins Methodology to forecast South African gold sales. For a resource economy like South Africa where metals and minerals account for a high proportion of GDP and export earnings, the decline in gold sales is very disturbing. Box-Jenkins time series technique was used to perform time series analysis of monthly gold sales for the period January 2000 to June 2013 with the following steps: model identification, model estimation, diagnostic checking and forecasting. Furthermore, the prediction accuracy is tested using mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). From the analysis, a seasonal ARIMA(4,1,4)×(0,1,1)12 was found to be the ?best fit model? with an MAPE value of 11% indicating that the model is fit to be used to predict or forecast future gold sales for South Africa. In addition, the forecast values show that there will be a decrease in the overall gold sales for the first six months of 2014. It is hoped that the study will help the public and private sectors to understand the gold sales or output scenario and later plan the gold mining activities in South Africa. Furthermore, it is hoped that this research paper has demonstrated the significance of Box-Jenkins technique for this area of research and that they will be applied in the future.
C19|An Estimation of Natural Gas Demand in Household Sector of Iran; the Structural Time Series Approach|Natural gas is one of the most important energy for household sector in entire the world. Iran has rich gas reserves and after Russia, Iran has the largest natural gas reserves in entire the world. A study of natural gas demand is very important and crucial for policy makers of energy sources in Iran. With a good estimation of natural gas demand as a result a good forecasting of natural gas demand, policy makers of energy sources can to plan an accurate energy planning. The aim of this paper is analyzing the effective factors on natural gas demand in household sector of Iran. For do it, we have used structural time series method with Kalman Filter algorithm during 1974-2010 period. Results indicate that time trend as a proxy for technology and non-economic factors is non-linear process and the elasticity of demand to price of natural gas is -0.50. Also, the elasticity of natural gas demand to price of electricity as a substitute commodity for natural gas is 0.48. The elasticity of gas demand to gas splits and real GDP per capita is 2.37 and 0.72 respectively. Conclusion: The elasticity of demand to price of natural gas is -0.50 that it shows that natural gas is an essential commodity for household sector in Iran.
C19|Linear and Non-linear Market Model Specifications for Developed and Emerging Markets|The way various linear and non-linear qualifications of the market model will be compared in this paper in order to appraise the success of the linear market model when it only permits of the constant beta risk parameter?. A number of time-varying market models using state space model are proffered in order to take into consideration the time-varying systematic risk components of co-kurtosis, co-skewness, and beta. This framework's theoretical underpinnings rely Sharpe-Linter-Mossin (1960's) proposition that these models should maximize the investors' expected utility. This paper analyses weekly data from the stock indices of several emerging and developed markets from 2002 to 2012. The findings suggest that time-varying market model approaches, which surpass linear market model qualifications both in terms of in-sample modelling and out-of-sample forecasting procedure for both emerging and developed stock markets, should be favoured.
C19|Time-varying Multivariate Extension of the Linear Market Model for Developed and Emerging Markets|This paper aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a Linear Market Model (consistent with the Two-moment CAPM) which permits beta risk. This evaluation leads to our positing two extensions. The first extension is a time-varying Linear Market Model using state space model which permits for time-varying beta risk. The second is a multivariate extension of the time-varying Linear Market Model permitting the between country stock market correlation structure to be constant over time. The analysis utilises weekly data from several emerging and developed markets for periods both before and after the October 2008 financial crisis. The findings lend great credence to the hypothesis that utilising the multivariate time-varying Linear Market Model is better in terms of in-sample modelling and out-of-sample forecasting procedure for both emerging and developed markets.
C19|On Reverse Stress Testing for Worst Case Scenarios: An Application to Credit Risk Modeling of Tunisian Economic Sectors|In Tunisia substantial economic and financial vulnerability are mainly caused by the civil unrest and the subsequent regime change after the Tunisian revolution in 2011. In order to quantify this fragility, in this paper, we use reverse stress testing (RST) based on combination of relevant risk factors that lead to the worst case in which the bank becomes unviable and insolvent. Given the financial stress testing scenarios shortcomings (i.e. plausibility, subjectivity), the use of RST methodology is explained by the fact that it identify the probability of realization of such scenarios. We apply this new methodology on Tunisian banks which are the core for financial stability; more specifically, we focus on credit risk RST. We choose the upper bound for value at risk (VaR) in order to identify worst VaR at probability of realization a. Our proposed framework relies on the logistic regression to identify stress probability and the linear regression of financial stress index output gap versus macroeconomic risk factors in order to search for scenarios at 1%, 3% and 5% levels of plausibility. Empirical results show that Tunisian banks have likely to reach the WVaR in 2012 at 5% level. Besides the more extreme the scenarios which are considered the less plausible they become. Our reverse FST is a complement, and never a substitute for risk manager and what matters most is the mindset of those employing it.
C19|Spatial fragmentation of industries by functions|We show that key functions are spatially clustered with, or dispersed from, each other even within manufacturing industries in West Germany, and that these clustering or dispersion patterns have changed significantly during recent decades. Estimating levels and changes (1992–2007) of localizations and colocalizations of selected functions (production, headquarter services, R&D) within 27 West German industries by means of $$K$$ K densities, we identify two broad groups of industries. In “fragmenting” industries, which account for half of manufacturing employment, functions were more clustered with each other than the industry as a whole after the fall of the Iron Curtain but have, in accordance with regional theories of spatial fragmentation, been unbundled spatially from each other subsequently. In “integrating” industries, by contrast, which account for one-third of manufacturing employment, functions were initially dispersed from each other but have subsequently been rebundled spatially with each other. This spatial rebundling may be a consequence of offshoring, i.e., international fragmentation. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C19|‘‘Beyond GDP’’ ten years after the first OECD World Forum. Where do we stand?|Over the last ten years, the ‘‘Beyond GDP’’ agenda made a lot of progress, especially from a statistical point of view. The expected adoption, in September 2015, of the universal agenda on the ‘‘Sustainable Development Goals’’ will further foster the development of statistics on economic, social and environmental dimensions of well-being, as well as its distribution among different population groups and its sustainability over time. This paper describes the key processes that led to this progress and highlights some of the remaining challenges of the measurement agenda. It also discusses the opportunities to significantly change the way in which the European Union design its policies in order to better meet the expectations of the European citizens.
C19|Interdependencies of Markets in Southeastern Europe and Buyback of Shares on Shallow Capital Markets: The Application of Cointegration and Causality Tests|Due to the global financial crisis the stock exchange indices of Southeastern European (SEE) countries are stagnating or are slowly recovering. The issuers of securities, namely banks that achieve good business results, may be in a dilemma whether to buy back their shares so as to slow down the share price decrease and manage capital. In this paper, the cointegration tests, Granger causality test and equilibrium error correction model were applied to examine: 1) interdependencies of stock exchange indexes in SEE countries (Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Republic of Srpska, Macedonia - FYROM and Bulgaria); 2) interdependencies of most actively traded shares in Serbia and the representative index. The main conclusion is that it is not possible to successfully use the share buyback to stop or reduce the share price fall on a shallow capital market of SEE countries. This is opposite to what successful banks can do on deep capital markets. In interpreting quantitative results it is necessary to be cautious because of a small number of banks from SEE which were able to use share repurchase.
C19|SME?s cluster identification in Russia|Russia inherited pattern of economic activity location from the Soviet Union, where the main forms of industry organization were territorial-production complexes (TPC) - networks of industrial organizations united by a single technological process or the chain of raw materials processing. In a market economy in the 90s, economic ties within the TPC were destroyed, leading to a drop in the level of production, fragmentation of large enterprises and the formation of a set of independent and often competing firms. Some scientists believe that this situation over the last 20 years could serve as a necessary foundation for the formation of industrial clusters (in interpretation of modern regional science). Today, interest in clusters in Russia rises again due to the need to find new mechanisms to support production and innovation in a stagnant economy. Ministry of Economic Development of Russia has developed a project to support the pilot territorial innovative clusters by providing funding for infrastructure formation. The selection of cluster initiatives was based on applications from regional governments, interested in attracting of additional investment. Most of the clusters, formed in Russia, are not in innovative sectors, as shown by studies of the Russian Cluster Observatory. But a lot of potential clusters in Russia is not formed due to the high level of distrust between firms, due to lack of understanding of the potential benefits, etc., although these clusters can develop due to geographical proximity (high concentration) of firms. The aim of our work is to identify clusters as areas of geographical concentration of small and medium businesses (SME). We also wanted to check whether the existing cluster initiatives correspond to the concentration of economic activity and whether there is potential for increasing the cluster initiatives. In our work, we use the analysis based on the localization index, but on three geographical levels for verification reasons: regions, districts and cities. Most of the data were collected from RUSLANA database, consisting information of Russian firms. After identifying a high degree of localization of a particular industry or a group of industries, we analyze the location of enterprises, based on distance-oriented methods in specific regions or between regions. The result is a map of the high concentration and localization of small and medium businesses in certain areas in a number of industries. The authors confirmed the existence of traditional and well-known clusters and identified previously unknown concentration of firms that did not declare their interaction. In the last step, the authors conducted field research - a survey of firms in areas of concentration, where clusters today are not formed, for determining the reasons for the lack of interaction.
C19|On bootstrap validity for specification tests with weak instruments| We study the asymptotic validity of the bootstrap for Durbin–Wu–Hausman tests of exogeneity, with or without identification. We provide an analysis of the limiting distributions of the proposed bootstrap statistics under both the null hypothesis of exogeneity (size) and the alternative hypothesis of endogeneity (power). We show that when identification is strong, the bootstrap provides a high‐order approximation of the null limiting distributions of the statistics and is consistent under the alternative hypothesis if the endogeneity parameter is fixed. However, the bootstrap only provides a first‐order approximation when instruments are weak. Moreover, we provide the necessary and sufficient condition under which the proposed bootstrap tests exhibit power under (fixed) endogeneity and weak instruments. The latter condition may still hold over a wide range of cases as long as at least one instrument is relevant. Nevertheless, all bootstrap tests have low power when all instruments are irrelevant, a case of little interest in empirical work. We present a Monte Carlo experiment that confirms our theoretical findings.
C19|Lokale Verteilung Ambulanter Pflegedienste nach SGB XI in Deutschland auf Basis eines rasterbasierten GIS-Erreichbarkeitsmodells|Die Erreichbarkeit von Einrichtungen der Grundversorgung spielt sowohl für Wohnstandortent-scheidungen als auch für die individuelle Lebenssituation der in einer Region lebenden Bürger eine wichtige Rolle. Erreichbarkeitsverhältnisse bestimmen neben der Qualität des Infrastruktur-angebots den regionalen Versorgungsgrad mit Infrastruktur und sind daher ein wichtiger Faktor der regionalen Entwicklung. Auch für die Diskussion über die Sicherung der Daseinsvorsorge sind aktuelle Informationen über deren Erreichbarkeit notwendig, um sich vor dem Hintergrund des normativen Anspruches gleichwertiger Lebensbedingungen in allen Landesteilen ein sachliches und realistisches Bild über die derzeitige Situation als Ausgangsbasis für ggf. notwendige Politik-maßnahmen/-interventionen machen zu können. Vor diesem Hintergrund befasst sich die vorlie-gende Studie mit Ambulanten Pflegediensten, die Leistungen nach dem Sozialgesetzbuch Elftes Buch (SGB XI) anbieten als eine - insbesondere in ländlichen Räumen - wichtige Schlüsseldienst-leistung für die Bürger. Dazu wird anhand der Analyse der lokalen Verteilung Ambulanter Pflege-dienste in Deutschland, die Leistungen nach SGB XI anbieten, auf Basis eines rasterbasierten GIS-Erreichbarkeitsmodells ein einfacher generischer Erreichbarkeitsindikator ermittelt, der flächen-deckend für Deutschland Rückschlüsse auf die lokale Verteilung Ambulanter Pflegedienste nach SGB XI ermöglicht. Als Ergebnis lässt sich festhalten, dass in Deutschland ein Ambulanter Pflege-dienst im Durchschnitt bei 50 km/h 5,8 Minuten zurücklegt um seine Kunden zu erreichen. Aller-dings zeigt eine regionalisierte Betrachtung, dass vor allem in ländlichen Räumen größere Entfer-nungen zurückgelegt werden müssen. Nichtsdestotrotz können 94 % der Bürger bei einer durch-schnittlichen Geschwindigkeit von 50 km/h innerhalb längstens 10 Minuten Fahrzeit durch einen Ambulanten Pflegedienst erreicht werden. Dies entspricht ca. 95 % der pflegebedürftigen Perso-nen, die Ambulante Pflegedienstleistungen nach SGB XI in Anspruch nehmen.
C19|Gender Demographic Disparities In Bacau County|Gender demographic disparities existing in Bacau County were determined by means of some demographic indicators such as: population, natural growth, live births, marriages, divorces, indicators which have been broken down by gender. The assessment of the disparities between men and women from the point of view of the demographic phenomena emphasize the fact that on the level of Bacau County there is a surplus of female population, as during the whole period subjected to the analysis, the positive and respectively the negative natural growth for the male population were lower and higher respectively than the one registered in the case of the female population. The birth rate, marriage rate and divorce rate phenomena also changed significantly after 1990 ; thus, the average age of marriage increased, and the gender difference also had a certain growth, which caused a shift in the fertility intensity from the age group 20-24 to the very next one - the 25-29 age group.
C19|Educational Attainment in the OECD, 1960-2010|This paper describes the construction of series of educational attainment of the adult population in a sample of 21 OECD countries covering the period 1960-2010. These series are a revised version of the data set described in de la Fuente and Doménech (2002).
C19|Trade Openness, Financial Development, and Economic Growth in Turkey: Linear and Nonlinear Causality Analysis|This paper aims at empirically investigating the direction of causality among trade liberalization, financial development, and economic growth in Turkey. By employing monthly data for the period January, 1989- November, 2007, both linear and nonlinear causality approaches indicate that (i) there is bi-directional causality between economic growth and trade openness, (ii) economic growth causes financial development, and (iii) financial development leads to trade liberalization. Thereby, linear and nonlinear approaches confirm strong causal linkages among financial development, trade openness, and economic growth in Turkey. These results partially imply that economic growth depends upon trade liberalization through external finance in Turkey which has been experiencing capital account liberalization since 1989
C19|Fragilidad bancaria en Colombia: un análisis basado en las hojas de balance|Desde la crisis financiera de 2007 los temas asociados con la estabilidad financiera han recobrado importancia, especialmente para el diseño de las políticas macroprudenciales. La comprensión de la estructura de fondeo de los préstamos bancarios, los riesgos asociados, el papel del apalancamiento y la identificación temprana de los auges de crédito y sus determinantes, por ejemplo, son cruciales para las autoridades económicas, cuando intentan anticipar episodios de fragilidad y crisis financieras. Para las economías emergentes estos temas son en particular relevantes, entre otras cosas por su mayor integración a los mercados globales.
C19|A derivation of the optimal answer-copying index and some applications|Multiple choice exams are frequently used as an efficient and objective instrument to evaluate knowledge. Nevertheless, they are more vulnerable to answer-copying than tests based on open questions. Several statistical tests (known as indices) have been proposed to detect cheating but to the best of our knowledge they all lack a mathematical support that guarantees optimality in any sense. This work aims at filling this void by deriving the uniform most powerful (UMP) test assuming the response distribution is known. In practice we must estimate a behavioral model that yields a response distribution for each question. We calculate the empirical type-I and type-II error rates for several indices, that assume different behavioral models, using simulations based on real data from twelve nation wide multiple choice exams taken by 5th and 9th graders in Colombia. We find that the index with the highest power among those studied, subject to the restriction of preserving the type-I error, is the one that uses a nominal response model for item answering, conditions on the answers of the individual suspected of being the source of copy and calculates critical values via a normal approximation. This index was first studied by Wollack (1997) and later by W. Van der Linden and Sotaridona (2006) and is superior to the indices studied and developed by Wesolowsky (2000) and Frary, Tideman, and Watts (1977). Furthermore, we compare the performance of the indices on examination rooms with different levels of proctoring and find that increasing the level of proctoring can reduce copying by as much as 50% and that simple strategies such as having different students answer different portions of the test at different times canal so reduce cheating by over 50%. Finally, a Bonferroni type false discovery rate procedure is used to detect massive cheating. The application is straightforward and we believe it could be use to make entire examination rooms retake an exam under stricter surveillance conditions.
C19|Professional Skills Declared by Poles - Analysis Based on Non-Metric Survey Data|Professional activities demand possessing certain skills. The purpose of this article is to analyze the self-assessment of competences made by the respondents of the survey Study of Human Capital in Poland - 2012. Interdependence of skills is assessed using categorical principal components analysis. The evaluation of the relationships between the declared level of skills and motivation to use them at work is carried out on the basis of contingency tables analyses.
C19|Real output costs of financial crises: A loss distribution approach|We study cross-country GDP losses due to financial crises in terms of frequency (number of loss events per period) and severity (loss per occurrence). We perform the Loss Distribution Approach (LDA) to estimate a multi-country aggregate GDP loss probability density function and the percentiles associated to extreme events due to financial crises. We find that output losses arising from financial crises are strongly heterogeneous and that currency crises lead to smaller output losses than debt and banking crises. Extreme global financial crises episodes, occurring with a one percent probability every five years, lead to losses between 2.95 and 4.54% of world GDP.
C19|Vorausberechnung regionaler Altersarmut: Zunahme in Ballungsräumen und in Ostdeutschland|Until recently, old-age poverty in Germany has been no central subject in the socio-political discussion. By this discussion, only the social help to elderly people is taken into account. Besides, only half of the old-age poverty is monitored and does not consider that the housing subsidy (rent subsidies) is another financial support for the old people. If both social benefits are added up, the quantity of the poor old people doubles. Only the consideration of social help to elderly people and housing subsidy proves the true magnitude of the old-age poverty in Germany. On an average four percent of the old people need one of both social benefits. There are, however, greater regional differences. A new method has been developed to provide a forecast about old-age poverty in future which also makes regional investigations possible. The initial year of the forecast is in 2011, between 2011 and 2021 the old-age poverty rises strongly and the regional differences have strongly grown. Altersarmut wird in der sozialpolitischen Diskussion in Deutschland vor allem mit Blick auf die Grundsicherung im Alter diskutiert, zumindest darauf fokussiert ist Altersarmut bisher kein zentrales Thema. Mit der Grundsicherung wird allerdings nur die Hälfte der Altersarmut gesehen. Vergessen wird das Wohngeld, eine weitere finanzielle Unterstützung für Ältere. Wird auch dieses berücksichtigt, verdoppelt sich die Quote der von Einkommensarmut betroffenen Älteren. Ost- und Westdeutschland liegen dabei mit jeweils etwa vier Prozent gleichauf. Es gibt aber durchaus größere regionale Unterschiede. Eine Abschätzung der Altersarmut nach Regionen ausgehend von 2011 für das Jahr 2021 auf der Grundlage eines regionalen Prognosemodells zeigt, dass sich die Altersarmut sehr zuungunsten Ostdeutschlands verändern wird. Ballungsräume, die Stadtstaaten sowie einzelne ostdeutsche Landkreise werden in Zukunft die höchsten Armutsquoten aufweisen.
C19|Nonparametric inference for counterfactual means: Bias-correction, confidence sets, and weak IV|This paper supplements Manski (1990) and Manski and Pepper (2000) and contributes to the literature by introducing the concept of weak IV for the partially identified mean counterfactual outcomes when an instrumental variable (IV) or a monotone instrumental variable (MIV) is available (IV or MIV assumption respectively); developing asymptotically uniformly valid confidence sets for the counterfactual mean outcomes and average treatment effects under the assumptions; correcting biases of estimates of bounds on the counterfactual mean outcomes under the assumptions. We apply the confidence sets to further examining the effect of family intactness on a child’s high school graduation originally studied in Manski et al. (1992).
C19|Nonparametric estimation and inference for conditional density based Granger causality measures|We propose a nonparametric estimation and inference for conditional density based Granger causality measures that quantify linear and nonlinear Granger causalities. We first show how to write the causality measures in terms of copula densities. Thereafter, we suggest consistent estimators for these measures based on a consistent nonparametric estimator of copula densities. Furthermore, we establish the asymptotic normality of these nonparametric estimators and discuss the validity of a local smoothed bootstrap that we use in finite sample settings to compute a bootstrap bias-corrected estimator and to perform statistical tests. A Monte Carlo simulation study reveals that the bootstrap bias-corrected estimator behaves well and the corresponding test has quite good finite sample size and power properties for a variety of typical data generating processes and different sample sizes. Finally, two empirical applications are considered to illustrate the practical relevance of nonparametric causality measures.
C19|Le preferenze dei consumatori della provincia di Trieste per l’olio extra vergine di oliva d’alta gamma|"Food quality is made up of a set of both intrinsic and extrinsic characteristics, including how these characteristics are guaranteed and communicated to end consumers. As a result, purchase choices are affected not only by elements such as taste and price, but also by the level of food safety, production process characteristics, nutritional aspects, origin and organic certification. In this paper we present the results of an analysis of consumer preferences for ""Tergeste"" dop extra virgin olive oil produced in the province of Trieste. The conjoint analysis method was used to assess the importance attached by consumers to the different attributes of the extra virgin oil olive. A cluster analysis was carried out on the utility scores estimated in the conjoint analysis to classify consumers into homogeneous groups (or segments) for whom different attributes were more important. A proposal for consumer segmentation and the definition of ""ideal product"" is therefore, presented in the study. The paper concludes with some reflections and suggestions for the valorization of ""Tergeste"" dop in which it is shown that the characteristics of demand are such as to make the policy of high prices, related to the quality policy of the product, practicable. Finally, through analysis of identified consumer segments, the possibility for producers to implement new strategies to improve sales development are reported."
C19|Cross-country data on the quantity of schooling: a selective survey and some quality measures|We survey a number of papers that have focused on the construction of cross-country data sets on average years of schooling. We discuss the construction of the different series, compare their profiles and construct indicators of their information content. The discussion focuses on a sample of OECD countries but we also provide some results for a large non-OECD sample.
C19|A Multilevel Analysis of Unemployment in Egypt|Despite its recent economic development, Egypt employment inequalities among gender and between different age cohorts are still an unresolved issue. In this work we apply a Multilevel Generalized Linear Mixed Model to the Egyptian Labor Market Panel Survey 2006 (ELMPS 2006) and 2012 (ELMPS 2012). By exploiting the hierarchical structure of the survey data, we investigate how the interplay between individual characteristics and regional context conditions Egyptians' individual probability of being unemployed. Moreover, we attempt to check \textit{if} and \textit{how} these same characteristics have changed between 2006 and 2012, that is, before and after the 2008 global financial crisis and the 2011 Revolution of the Arab world.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C19|Social Capital and Firm’s Productivity in Italy: a Multilevel Approach|Matching and merging different databases, we study how firm’s productivity is affected by individual characteristics and provincial context conditions in Italy. Mainly, we focus on the relation between social capital, in its different forms and dimensions and calculated at provincial level and firms’ productivity, calculated using the non-parametric DEA approach. We find that exporting, self-financing firms, and firms belonging to groups, are more productive. In particular, Cooperative firms are more productive than limited company. Moreover, the variables capturing the social capital show strong positive correlation with firms’ productivity, indicating that a widespread civism intended as pro-social behavior independent of specific interpersonal bounds, seems to create an economic environment which is more favorable to entrepreneurship and collaboration among firms, since it increases interpersonal trust, lowers transaction costs, enhances the compliance of formal or informal rules of fairness and fosters a more transparent, impartial and efficient working of the public administration.
C19|The causal factors of international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita: A regression-based inequality decomposition analysis|This paper uses the possibilities provided by the regression-based inequality decomposition (Fields, 2003) to explore the contribution of different explanatory factors to international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita. In contrast to previous emissions inequality decompositions, which were based on identity relationships (Duro and Padilla, 2006), this methodology does not impose any a priori specific relationship. Thus, it allows an assessment of the contribution to inequality of different relevant variables. In short, the paper appraises the relative contributions of affluence, sectoral composition, demographic factors and climate. The analysis is applied to selected years of the period 1993–2007. The results show the important (though decreasing) share of the contribution of demographic factors, as well as a significant contribution of affluence and sectoral composition.
C19|The Venezuelan Financial System. What Compromises its Performance?|The objective of this paper is to empirically test the deleveraging of the Venezuelan financial system at the event of two contractive shocks, a monetary and an oil shock, and to characterize the types of risks that arise in each case. Although these shocks have similar effects on interest rates and deposits, the adverse consequences and implicit risks for the oil are greater, due to its shriveling effect on real activity and public finances.
C19|Does evidence challenge the DSGE model|DSGE are for a time the favorite models in the simulation of monetary policies at the central banks. Two of its basic assumptions are discussed in this paper: (a) the absence of endogenous nonlinearities and the exogenous nature of shocks and (b) the persistence of or the return to equilibrium after a shock, or the absence of dynamics. Our analysis of complex financial markets, using historical data of S&P500, suggests otherwise that financial regimes endogenously change and that equilibrium is an artifact.
C19|A Simple, Positive Semi-definite, Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent Covariance Matrix|This paper describes a simple method of calculating a heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix that is positive semi-definite by construction. It also establishes consistency of the estimated covariance matrix under fairly general conditions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C19|On the Identification of Fractionally Cointegrated VAR Models With the Condition| This article discusses identification problems in the fractionally cointegrated system of Johansen and Johansen and Nielsen. It is shown that several equivalent reparametrizations of the model associated with different fractional integration and cointegration parameters may exist for any choice of the lag-length when the true cointegration rank is known. The properties of these multiple nonidentified models are studied and a necessary and sufficient condition for the identification of the fractional parameters of the system is provided. The condition is named F(d)$\mathcal {F}(d)$. This is a generalization of the well-known I(1) condition to the fractional case. Imposing a proper restriction on the fractional integration parameter, d, is sufficient to guarantee identification of all model parameters and the validity of the F(d)$\mathcal {F}(d)$ condition. The article also illustrates the indeterminacy between the cointegration rank and the lag-length. It is also proved that the model with rank zero and k lags may be an equivalent reparameterization of the model with full rank and k − 1 lags. This precludes the possibility to test for the cointegration rank unless a proper restriction on the fractional integration parameter is imposed.
C19|Polarized Preferences in Homegrown Value Auctions| Homegrown value-auction experiments are useful for exploring preferences for controversial product attributes. These auctions have emphasized estimating the effect of the attribute on the willingness to pay (WTP) for a product. The likelihood that individuals are willing to purchase any products with the attribute has received less attention, even though this could also be useful to researchers, marketers, and policy makers. This article shows how simultaneous, single-unit auctions can be used to estimate not just WTPs, but also the likelihood that individuals are willing to purchase any products with a controversial attribute.
C19|Cross-Country Data on the Quantity of Schooling: a Selective Survey and Some Quality Measures|We survey a number of papers that have focused on the construction of cross-country data sets on average years of schooling. We discuss the construction of the different series, compare their profiles and construct indicators of their information content. The discussion focuses on a sample of OECD countries but we also provide some results for a large non-OECD sample.
C19|The Influence of Visitors’ Satisfaction on Expenditure Behaviour|This study analyses spending behaviour of international visitors to Italy. In specific it focuses on the impact that visitors’ satisfaction with different attributes of the trip exerts on expenditure among different service categories. Despite a general recognition by the economic literature that customer satisfaction exerts a positive effect on both economic returns and brand loyalty, very few academic studies explored the relationship between tourists’ satisfaction with a destination and spending behaviour. This study focuses on the 1,030 visitors who travelled to the provinces Bolzano, Trento, and Belluno (Northern Italy), an area around the Dolomites. The Double-hurdle model with the Heien and Wessells estimator is applied. Discussion of the empirical evidence is aimed at highlighting the main relations between expenditure behaviour and satisfaction. Policy implications and managerial issues for tourism destinations are also presented.
C19|Social Effects in the Diffusion of solar Photovoltaic Technology in the UK|The main research question in this paper is whether the installation rate of solar pv technology is affected by social spillovers from spatially close households. The installed base, defined as the cumulative number of solar v installations within a neighbourhood by the end of a particular month, serves as a measure for the social effects of interest. Motivated by the technology-specific time lag between the decision to adopt a solar Pv panel and the completion of the installation, the third lag of the installed base serves as main regressor of interest in the panel data model employed. The results suggest small, but positive and significant social effects that can be exploited to promote adoption: at the average installation rate of 0.7 installations per 1,000 owner-occupied households, one more solar PV panel in the postcode district increases the installation rate three months later by one percent. At the average number of 6,629 owner—occupied households within a postcode district, this implies an increase in the number of new installations in the neighbourhood by 0.005. Projects involving a high number of installations could hence promote diffusion. A major limitation of the model is that social spillovers are assumed to spread within defined neighbourhoods, only. spatial econometric methods could allow for social effects across these borders.
C19|Dinámica inflacionaria, persistencia y formación de precios y salarios|"Los artículos de este libro están dividos en tres temas: dinámica y persitencia de la inflación; formación de precios; y rigideces salariales. Estos fueron realizados en el contexto de la investigacion conjunta ""Dinámica inflacionaria, persistencia y formación de precios y salarios"". El adecuado conocimiento de la dinamica inflacionaria es esencial para la modelación y formulación de la política monetaria. La primera parte del libro se enfoca en identificar cambios generales en la tendencia de la inflación y en el grado de persistencia inflacionaria. La segunda parte, en la formación de precios desde una perspectiva macroeconómica entre otros, utilizando microdatos de consumo. Finalmente, la tercera parte estudia las rigideces de precios, también desde la visión macroecoómica, con microdatos de una serie de encuestas."
C19|Análisis de los factores que influencian el gasto de los turistas culturales: el caso de los visitantes de museos de Medellín|El presente trabajo analiza los determinantes del gasto que realizan los turistas culturales, considerando el caso particular de los visitantes de tres diferentes museos de la ciudad de Medellín, Colombia. Con base en 434 cuestionarios recolectados entre los visitantes de los museos al finalizar su visita durante el periodo junio-octubre 2011 y utilizando un modelo econométrico doble-valla (double-hurdle), el trabajo estima el efecto de distintas variables en el monto y la probabilidad de gasto de los visitantes a un nivel microeconómico. Los resultados muestran que el gasto realizado en diversos rubros de la actividad turística eleva la probabilidad de gastar, así como la del monto a gastar en los rubros alojamiento, alimentos y bebidas. Particularmente se observa un incremento proporcional en el conjunto de los componentes principales dentro del gasto turístico, esto es, transporte, alojamiento y alimentación.
C19|Assessing portfolio credit risk changes in a sample of EU large and complex banking groups in reaction to macroeconomic shocks|In terms of regulatory and economic capital, credit risk is the most significant risk faced by banks. We implement a credit risk model - based on publicly available information - with the aim of developing a tool to monitor credit risk in a sample of large and complex banking groups (LCBGs) in the EU. The results indicate varying credit risk profiles across these LCBGs and over time. Furthermore, the results show that large negative shocks to real GDP have the largest impact on the credit risk profiles of banks in the sample. Notwithstanding some caveats, the results demonstrate the potential value of this approach for monitoring financial stability. JEL Classification: C02, C19, C52, C61, E32
C19|An empirical study of the information premium on electricity markets|Due to the non-storability of electricity and the resulting lack of arbitrage-based arguments to price electricity forward contracts, a significant time-varying risk premium is exhibited. Using EEX data during the introduction of emission certificates and the German “Atom Moratorium” we show that a significant part of the risk premium in electricity forwards is due to different information sets in spot and forward markets. In order to show the existence of the resulting information premium and to analyse its size we design an empirical method based on techniques relating to enlargement of filtrations and the structure of Hilbert spaces.
C19|Location patterns of service industries in France: A distance-based approach|We study the location patterns of business-oriented service and manufacturing industries in France. We develop a new test of localization considering space as continuous. Our test relies on a measure of divergence in the space of density distributions that allows us to assess whether or not the density distribution of bilateral distances between all pairs of plants within an industry significantly departs from randomness. We improve the test proposed by Duranton and Overman (2005), which proves to be biased with respect to the number of plants in the industry under scrutiny. Our test does not suffer from such a bias. This property is crucial for the French case where industrial concentrations of service and manufacturing industries drastically differ. With this distance-based method, we highlight some distinctive locational features of service industries that have not been mentioned in the literature so far. We show that: 1/service industries diverge more often from randomness than manufacturing industries, 2/a majority of diverging service industries are localized at very short distances (less than 4km) whereas a majority of manufacturing industries are localized at longer distances or even dispersed, 3/within a majority of service industries, the largest plants appear localized at shorter distances than other plants, 4/within most service industries, incoming plants reduce localization whereas exiting plants reinforce it over the period 1996–2005.
C19|Are Happier People Less Judgmental of Other People's Selfish Behaviors? Laboratory Evidence from Trust and Gift Exchange Games|What determines people's moral judgments of selfish behaviors? Here we study whether people's normative views in trust and gift exchange games, which underlie many situations of economic and social significance, are themselves functions of positive emotions. We used experimental survey methods to investigate people's moral judgments empirically, and explored whether we could influence subsequent judgments by deliberately making some individuals happier. We found that moral judgments of selfish behaviors in the economic context depend strongly on other people's behaviors, but their relationships are significantly moderated by an increase in happiness for the person making the judgment.
C19|Trasmisión de choques macroeconómicos en Venezuela. Un enfoque estructural del modelo factorial|This paper identifies and analyses the fundamental structural shocks that have explained the short run fluctuations of the Venezuelan economy in its recent history. For this purpose, we estimate a dynamic factor model (GDFM) with a panel of 115 variables and evaluate the effects of a monetary policy, a fiscal policy and an oil shock on their common component. These shocks are identified with the sign restriction methodology recently developed in the Structural VAR literature. We find that a monetary policy shock is not effective to modify economic activity, while an expansionary fiscal shock, financed with domestic debt, can increase household consumption and construction services, without affecting the aggregate production of the economy. Finally, an expansionary oil shock behaves identically as a positive aggregate supply shock.// Este trabajo identifica y analiza los choques estructurales fundamentales que explican las fluctuaciones de corto plazo de la economía venezolana en su historia reciente. Para ello, se realiza la estimación de un modelo aproximado de factores dinámicos (MAFD), el cual sirve de base para captar el efecto de los choques de política monetaria, política fiscal y choque petrolero en el componente común de un panel de 115 variables macroeconómicas. Estos choques estructurales son identificados por medio de la técnica de restricciones de signo desarrollada recientemente en la bibliografía. Los principales resultados indican que un choque de política monetaria no es efectivo para modificar la actividad económica, mientras que un choque expansivo de política fiscal financiado con endeudamiento interno logra incrementar el consumo privado y la construcción, pero sin afectar la producción agregada de la economía. Finalmente, un choque petrolero expansivo se comporta de manera idéntica a un choque de oferta agregada.
C19|Potential Currency Areas in East Asia using United States, Japan, or China as the Monetary Anchor|This paper applies fuzzy clustering techniques to developed and emerging economies in East Asia, in order to arrive at an identification of potential subgroups of economies for monetary union. The statistical criteria employed is the one suggested by the Optimal Currency Areas theory, and the period examined includes the recent global crisis. Three alternative monetary anchor countries are proposed, namely the United States, Japan and China, and hence, to an extent, the analysis does indicate the relative importance of the three world’s largest economies to East Asia. Due to the endogeneity of the convergence criteria in the eurozone, founding member states of EMU are used as a point of reference for East Asia to indicate the level of preparedness for monetary union in this region. Findings indicate that Singapore and Hong Kong are relatively prepared for integration. In addition, results do also signify the dominance of Japan despite the prevalence of the dollar standard in the region.
C19|Ten Things You Should Know about the Dynamic Conditional Correlation Representation|The purpose of the paper is to discuss ten things potential users should know about the limits of the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) representation for estimating and forecasting time-varying conditional correlations. The reasons given for caution about the use of DCC include the following: DCC represents the dynamic conditional covariances of the standardized residuals, and hence does not yield dynamic conditional correlations; DCC is stated rather than derived; DCC has no moments; DCC does not have testable regularity conditions; DCC yields inconsistent two step estimators; DCC has no asymptotic properties; DCC is not a special case of Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Correlation (GARCC), which has testable regularity conditions and standard asymptotic properties; DCC is not dynamic empirically as the effect of news is typically extremely small; DCC cannot be distinguished empirically from diagonal Baba, Engle, Kraft and Kroner (BEKK) in small systems; and DCC may be a useful filter or a diagnostic check, but it is not a model.
C19|Social Effects in the Diffusion of Solar Photovoltaic Technology in the UK|No abstract is available for this item.
C19|Analysis and forecast of employees’ mobility on the labor market in Romania using Markov chains|The mobility of labor, defined as responsiveness and adaptation of persons or groups of persons on the challenges of the social and economic environment is therefore a social phenomenon depending on time and space. A high mobility increases opportunities for workers to find a job and employers to find persons with an adequate level of skills, thus boosting employment and economic growth. In recent years, in Romania there has been an accentuation of existing gaps, compared with the European Union countries, as regards the occupational structure of employment. In this context, the paper proposes an analysis of the evolution of labor mobility in the main sectors of the Romanian economy. Also, it was pursued the Markovian modeling of employees’ mobility on the labor market and its forecast in Romania, under the impact of rapid and profound social and economic changes, and the correlation between them as well, with a view to make forecasts of the Romanian economy evolution in the short term.
C19|Impact Of Education On Economic Growth In Mexico, 1990-2008, Impacto De La Educacion En El Crecimiento Economico En Mexico, 1990-2008|A fundamental goal of any economy is to procure and use the factors of production effectively. These factors include human capital, investment, and other factors. The Solow model attempts to identify other key factors of production necessary for economies. This model emphasizes the human capital. To goal of this research is answer questions such as: What is the relationship between human capital and economic growth? What is the relationship between human capital, investment and economic growth?
C19|Somewhere over the Rainbow: How to Make Effective Use of Colors in Meteorological Visualizations|"Results of many atmospheric science applications are processed graphically using colors to encode certain parts of the information. Colors should (1) allow humans to process more information, (2) guide the viewer to the most important information, (3) represent the data appropriately without misleading distortion, and (4) be appealing. The second requirement necessitates tailoring the visualization and the use of color to the viewer for whom the graphics is intended. A standard way of deriving color palettes is via transitions trough a certain color space. Most of the common software packages still provide palettes derived in the RGB color model or ""simple"" transformations thereof as default. Confounding perceptual properties such as hue and brightness make RGB-based palettes more prone to misinterpretation. Additionally, they are often highly saturated, which makes looking at them for a longer period strenuous. Switching to a color model corresponding to the perceptual dimensions of human color vision avoids these problems. We show several practically relevant examples using such a model, the HCL color model, to explain how it works and what its advantages are. Moreover, the paper contains several tips on how to easily integrate this knowledge into software commonly used by the community, which should help readers to switch over to the new concept. The switch will result in a greatly improved quality and readability of visualized atmospheric science data for research, teaching, and communication of results to society."
C19|What do we Really Know about Food Security?|Many discussions following the 2007/08 food price crisis have revolved around the magnitude of the negative impacts that it may have had on food security worldwide. Analysts have been asked to provide timely assessments, often based on partial data and information. The variety of opinions and the ranges of reported estimated impacts that have followed have revealed how shaky the informational ground on which they move is. This paper deals with two issues related to the way in which the state of food insecurity in the world can be assessed from the perspectives of the availability of and the access to food, dimensions for which the economic lenses conceivably are the most adequate. The two issues are: the quality and coverage of available data and the methods through which the relevant information is filtered from the data to draw inference on food security. The conclusion we reach is that, for policies to be informed by solid evidence and to be sure that monitoring and evaluation is based on firm empirical grounds, much remains to be achieved, both in terms of data quality and coverage and regarding methods, standards and tools for assessment. However, we do not have to start from zero. A wealth of data has accumulated in the past that, if properly analyzed, may allow shading light on the way in which food markets work and how households behave with respect to food consumption. The combination of the two should allow better understanding the determinants and impacts of food price volatility on food security. Once key data conveying information on those determinants have been identified, a comprehensive food security information system can be devised based on a key set of core indicators. Such a system would require the use of common standards in the collection, validation and dissemination of data on agricultural prices, production, trade and uses, and on food consumption patterns.
C19|A Tale Of Two Cycles In Developing And Advanced Economies: A Country Case Study Comparison|This research aims at performing an econometric analysis on the credit cycle and business cycle from a comparative perspective, with a focus on ten developing and advanced economies from the area of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, in order to better understand their behaviour and the impact of the interactions between them. To achieve this aim, the study focuses on two strategic objectives: a) on the one hand, it analyzes the short-term dynamics (from one quarter to the other) of the relationships between credit expansion and economic growth in order to better grasp which variable influences the other; and b) on the other hand, the research investigates the cyclical components of the data sets (after extracting them from the real GDP and the total volume of credits given by the banking system to the non-governmental sector), i.e. it performs statistical analysis on the medium-term relationships between the business cycle and the credit cycle for each of the ten European economies. The findings revealed in the first phase of the investigation that we cannot speak of a relation of unidirectional causality between credit expansion and economic growth across countries (not even across geographical regions). In Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia, economic growth had an important influence over the crediting activity, thus â€œguidingâ€ it, whereas in the case of Poland, Romania and Slovakia, Granger-type causality relations were registered from the crediting expansion process towards economic growth. The second part of the investigation revealed that sometimes the credit cycle seems to be independent from the business cycle, manifesting an amplitude, a synchronicity and a volatility that is different from and superior to that of business cycle in all the analyzed countries (â€œhaving a mind of its ownâ€ ). Moreover, there is evidence of important spill-over effects of the credit activity across banking systems at national and regional level thus confirming the international feature of the credit cycle.
C19|Does “Okun’s Law” state a Pi:1 ratio? Toward a harmonic interpretation of why Okun’s Law works|In Albers & Albers (Spring, 2013) we demonstrated that the historic development of U.S. real GNP, 1869-present, may be structured in recurring 14-year periods. A steady-state rate of growth of 3.4969% is thereby calculated, generating an increase in real GNP proportional to the famous “Golden Mean” (1:phi or 1:1.6180) every fourteen years on average. Building on this foundation we show herein that “Okun’s Law,” a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment, is actually a pi:1 proportion, created through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. The resulting model of economics in the United States is thereby aligned with geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis, rather than purely statistical methods.
C19|The distance-based approach to the quantification of the world convergences and imbalances - comparisons across countries and factors|The paper presents a general empirical method of distance-based multifaceted systematic identifying of the positions of countries in relation to inequalities and imbalances. In order to understand the world economic relations in their entirety, we decided to analyze twelve most populous countries and eleven macroeconomic, environmental and demographic indicators relevant to them. Our analysis covering the period 1992-2008 attempts to identify core parts of the global economic system and countries that pose a potential risk of instability.
C19|Okun’s Law as a Pi-to-1 ratio: A harmonic / trigonometric theory as to why Okun’s Law works|“Okun’s Law” states a 3:1 proportion between percent growth in U. S. real GNP and percent decrease in the rate of unemployment. This paper argues that this ratio is actually a Pi:1 proportion, heretofore unrecognized because it is displayed through a form of mathematic / harmonic inverse. In Part One the Cartesian coordinate system is merged with the legal doctrines of actus reus (x-axis, actions) and mens rea (y-axis, thoughts). A unit circle of personal choice – including economic choice (trading vs. keeping) – may thereby be devised. This unit circle is then aggregated into a torus, half the circumference of which represents U.S. real GNP (Pi), the antipodal half-circumference its monetary value (Pi) and the radius the rate of employment necessary to its production (R = 1). Mainstream econometric analysis appears to support this theory of inverses with proximities of within 1.3%, 1.0%, 0.35%, 0.00105% and less than half a degree. In Part Two this model of Okun’s Law is connected closely to an analysis of the well-known Kondratiev Wave, a 56-year “Long Wave” of evolving social and economic relationships. This approach to macroeconomics is thereby aligned with a geometric, harmonic and trigonometric analysis of empirical data, rather than purely statistical methods.
C19|Pauvreté et microfinance au Congo Kinshasa : une approche par l’analyse factorielle discriminante<BR>[Poverty and microfinance in Congo Kinshasa: a canonical discriminant analysis]|The objective of fight against poverty was at the origin of the creation of the institutions of microfinance (IMF) which thus drained public financings and created strong waitings, as well for their customers as at the macro-economic level. Today, certain authors underline the limits of the microfinance and question its impact on the development. What happens really? What do the impact studies learn on the contribution from the microfinance to the poverty reduction in the developing countries? The first impact waited of the microfinance, taking into account its objectives, is on the level of its customers. This article proposes a combination of the multivaried statistics’ approach with the use of the most usual measurements as regards poverty approach on the whole of the units (recipients and not recipients of the financial services) and of the decompositions analysis according to sub-groups' of interest (recipient or not, men/women) for the poverty analysis and the role of the institutions of microfinance (IMF) in a poor and precarious congolese environment.
C19|Investigation of Iterative Algorithms for Evaluation of Capital Structure and Cost|Determination of structure and correct calculation of a company’s capital value is an essential; theoretical and practical problem for corporate finance. The proportion between the company’s equity and borrowed capital determines the risk and profitability of the company and, consequently, the welfare of its owners. The most common recommendation is to evaluate the stricture of capital based on market proportions between indebtedness and equity. However, market proportions most often deviate from values obtained through analytical calculations. This means that weak efficiency of the market brings about inconsistency between the input data and the results, which are calculated from them. Second, not all companies have a representative market quotation. There is a question, then: how can we correctly evaluate capital and its market structure for individual projects and companies in general? The work presented below is dedicated to the iterative method for evaluation of fair structure of capital as suggested in (Limitovsky M.A., Minasyan V.B. 2010), and to the proving of consistency of this method for a very large number of companies.
C19|The Analysis of the Correlation Intensity Between Emerging Market During Economic Crisis|Within the study we focused on an analysis of any dependence that may connect some emerging countries aiming mainly to emphasize the intensity of correlations between different financial markets. For this purpose we took into consideration two emerging markets, i.e. Romania and Turkey, due to the fact that they are two countries with common history which goes back long time, with similar approach of facts and working, negotiating or investing capacities. It is acknowledged that Turkey is a country which has not faced the world’s economic crisis and had one of the most dynamic economic growth during the last years and now Istanbul Stock Exchange records economic growth with two figures, acting like a magnet for foreign investments and specially, portfolio investments. Furthermore, almost half of the turnover belongs to foreign investors. The main idea of our analysis is to outline how much the Turkish Stock Exchange impacts the Romanian financial market.
C19|Spatial Analysis of Oil Spills from Marine Accidents in Greek Waters|Greek marine spatial area is located in the Mediterranean Sea with semi-enclosed characteristics. Thus the maritime traffic is undoubtfully significant for political and economic reasons, arousing particular interest unceasingly, because of its specific geographical location, the increasing improvements of freight services and port infrastructure and, the upcoming regional drillings. Marine incidents and accidents that often happen, vary from rather insignificant to serious ones, affecting both humans and environment. This research aims to examine the implementation of a framework analysis of shipping-based oil pollution (accidental and operational) by using spatial analysis and geographical information system. It makes use of data gathered from marine accidents that occurred from 2001 to 2011 in the Greek marine waters. The analysis of the thematic maps introduces firstly marine accidents’ data as points in a dot map. Then, the implementation of spatial analysis approach to mapping these accidents, including the identification of hot spot areas, is elaborated, so that frequency and density might appear versus time over a limited geographical area. This study presents the oil-spills distribution in Greek marine waters through thematic maps and proposes both a methodological and analytical framework for marine accidents evolving into oil spills and combining GIS techniques and spatial analysis.
C19|Using wiki to build an e-learning system in statistics in the Arabic language|E-learning plays an important role in education as it supports online teaching via computer networks and provides educational services by utilising information technologies. This paper presents a case study describing the development of an Arabic language e-learning course in statistics. Under discussion are problems concerning e-learning in Arab countries with special focus on the difficulties of the application of e-learning in the Arabic world as well as designing an Arabic platform with its language and technical challenges. For the platform we have chosen a wiki that supports L A T E X for formulas and R to generate tables and figures as well as some interactivity. Our system, Arabic MM*Stat, can be found at http://mars.wiwi.hu-berlin.de/mediawiki/mmstat_ar . Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
C19|Inflation/unemployment regimes and the instability of the Phillips curve| Using the statistical technique of fuzzy clustering, regimes of inflation and unemployment are explored for the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany between 1871 and 2009. We identify for each country three distinct regimes in inflation/unemployment space. Similarities exist across countries in both the regimes and the timings of the transitions between regimes. However, the typical rates of inflation and unemployment experienced in the regimes are substantially different. Further, even within a given regime, the results from the cluster analysis reveal persistent fluctuations in the degree of attachment to that regime of inflation/unemployment observations over time. The economic implications of this are that, first, the inflation/unemployment relationship or Phillips curve experiences from time to time major shifts. Second, that it is also inherently unstable even in the short run. It is likely that the factors which govern the inflation/unemployment trade-off are so multi-dimensional that it is hard to identify periods of short-run Phillips curves which can be assigned to particular historical periods with any degree of accuracy or predictability. The analysis shows that reliance on a trade-off between inflation and unemployment for policy purposes is misplaced even in the short run.
C19|Reliability Level of in the Production Schedule Design in the Construction Company|A reliable production schedule is an important prerequisite for the achievement of good economic results on the part of the construction enterprise and for ensuring rhythmical and effective work in its functioning. In this respect in the present article there are considered the peculiarities of the production schedule, which we believe it is necessary to consider during its development. Taking into consideration the characteristics of construction production there is made an attempt at proposing an economic and mathematical model for assessing the level of reliability in the formation of a production schedule for the construction enterprise.
C19|Attributes Determining Condominium Prices in Bangkok (in Thai)|The housing market, particularly the condominium sector in Bangkok has been rapidly expanding. In this paper, the hedonic price model is used to analyze the housing attributes that determine the price of condominiums in Bangkok. The Box-Cox technique is used to find an appropriate functional form of the model. The data of condominium prices and 20 attributes of 146 condominium units were collected from 42 sales offices during 1-31 January 2011. The results indicate that the attributes determining the price of condominium in Bangkok were: project location, proximity to sky train and subway, unit location, unit size, furniture, total number of units in a project, land size, waiting duration before construction is completed, reputation of developers, parking space, common fee for maintenance and services, and number of bedrooms. The estimated coefficients indicate relative prices of the attributes which can be used as reference prices for buyers, developers and banks.
C19|Volatility in US and Italian agricultural markets, interactions and policy evaluation| The aim of this paper is to analyse the volatility and interactions among prices of agricultural commodities in Italy and US using the time series analysis. The cross market interactions are examined to test the hypothesis that the increased volatility of agricultural prices has been caused by crude oil price, then the cointegration and causality among different markets is also tested. For this analysis the spot prices of wheat, corn, soybeans in US and Italy and crude oil prices spanning from 2002 to 2010 are used. The results suggest the following considerations: i) the existence of causality in US markets with exogeneity of the oil on the US agricultural commodities, ii) evidence of cointegration between US and Italian commodities, suggesting a condition of market efficiency, iii) no evidence of cointegration between oil and Italian agri-commodities. The conclusion is that the oil volatility is transmitted to the US Ag- markets while US Ag- markets have influenced the volatility of the Italian agricultural markets.
C19|Stochastic Models For Credit Risk|Risk is a fundamental factor of business because of any activity you can not get profit without risk. Therefore, any economic entity trying to maximize profits by managing risk specific field of activity and by avoiding or transferring risk that it does not want to take. It is evident that an efficient banking strategy should include both programs and bank risk management procedures designed to actually minimize the likelihood of such risks and potential exposure of the bank. The paper presents some of the stochastic models used in the literature to determine and quantify the credit risk.
C19|Fuzzy coding in constrained ordinations|Canonical correspondence analysis and redundancy analysis are two methods of constrained ordination regularly used in the analysis of ecological data when several response variables (for example, species abundances) are related linearly to several explanatory variables (for example, environmental variables, spatial positions of samples). In this report I demonstrate the advantages of the fuzzy coding of explanatory variables: first, nonlinear relationships can be diagnosed; second, more variance in the responses can be explained; and third, in the presence of categorical explanatory variables (for example, years, regions) the interpretation of the resulting triplot ordination is unified because all explanatory variables are measured at a categorical level.
C19|Optimal Weight For Realized Variance Based On Intermittent High-Frequency Data|In Japanese stock markets, there are two kinds of breaks, i.e., nighttime and lunch break, where we have no trading, entailing inevitable increase of variance in estimating daily volatility via naive realized variance (RV). In order to perform a much more stabilized estimation, we are concerned here with a modification of the weighting technique of Hansen and Lunde (2005). As an empirical study, we estimate optimal weights in a certain sense for Japanese stock data listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We found that, in most stocks appropriate use of the optimally weighted RV can lead to remarkably smaller estimation variance compared with naive RV, hence substantially to more accurate forecasting of daily volatility.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C19|Nonparametric estimation and inference for Granger causality measures|We propose a nonparametric estimator and a nonparametric test for Granger causality measures that quantify linear and nonlinear Granger causality in distribution between random variables. We first show how to write the Granger causality measures in terms of copula densities. We suggest a consistent estimator for these causality measures based on nonparametric estimators of copula densities. Further, we prove that the nonparametric estimators are asymptotically normally distributed and we discuss the validity of a local smoothed bootstrap that we use in finite sample settings to compute a bootstrap bias-corrected estimator and test for our causality measures. A simulation study reveals that the bias-corrected bootstrap estimator of causality measures behaves well and the corresponding test has quite good finite sample size and power properties for a variety of typical data generating processes and different sample sizes. Finally, we illustrate the practical relevance of nonparametric causality measures by quantifying the Granger causality between S&P500 Index returns and many exchange rates (US/Canada, US/UK and US/Japen exchange rates).
C19|Nonparametric tests for conditional independence using conditional distributions| The concept of causality is naturally defined in terms of conditional distribution, however almost all the empirical works focus on causality in mean. This paper aims to propose a nonparametric statistic to test the conditional independence and Granger non-causality between two variables conditionally on another one. The test statistic is based on the comparison of conditional distribution functions using an L 2 metric. We use Nadaraya-Watson method to estimate the conditional distribution functions. We establish the asymptotic size and power properties of the test statistic and we motivate the validity of the local bootstrap. We ran a simulation experiment to investigate the finite sample properties of the test and we illustrate its practical relevance by examining the Granger non-causality between S&P 500 Index returns and VIX volatility index. Contrary to the conventional t -test which is based on a linear mean-regression, we find that VIX index predicts excess returns both at short and long horizons.
C19|A Graphical and Statistical Analysis of the Judgment of Princeton Wine Tasting|The wine ratings from the a wine tasting comparing wines from a young wine region, New Jersey, to wines from Bordeaux was held June 8, 2012 in Princeton, NJ. Graphical analysis revealed substantial differences in the use of the rating scale between judges, both in the centroids of their scores and the variability in their scores. Analysis of variance failed to detect any significant differences in the white wines regardless of data transformation or statistical model. Analysis of raw data from the red wines suggested significant differences, but severely violated ANOVA model assumptions and was invalid. Rank transformation, standardization, a model with heterogeneous variances, and Friedman's test all indicated no significant differences among red wines. Based on the confidence interval on the difference between all New Jersey and all Bordeaux wines in each flight it was estimated that differences larger than 1.5 on the 20-point scale would have been declared significantly different for either white or red wines. Therefore, the tasting was powerful enough that any meaningful differences between the wines from the two origins would have been detected. (JEL Classification: C19, Q19)
C19|The Multidimensional Approach to Poverty Measurement: Case of Morocco|This work aims to understand the poverty phenomenon in Morocco. It is based on the multidimensional poverty assessment and analysis, through the Alkire and Foster approach to poverty measurement (2007). It is also based on the indicators which will allow us to measure the incidence of poverty by constructing a Wellbeing Composite Index (WCI) and by adopting the statistical methodology of step-by-step for Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA). This is done by using the DHS database. In our work, the attributes of this approach are classified into the three categories: housing, consumer durable goods and educational level. Our findings show that the incidence of poverty has increased over the past two decades, especially for those households having at least two dimensions. However, it is important to note that disparities between urban and rural areas are larger. This allows us to conclude that poverty has remained a rural phenomenon.
C19|On general periodic time-varying bilinear processes|We study in this note the class of bilinear processes with periodic time-varying coefficients. We give necessary and sufficient conditions ensuring the existence of strict and second order stationary solutions (in periodic sense) and for the existence of higher order moments. The given conditions can be applied to periodic ARMA or periodic GARCH models. The central limit theorem and the law of iterated logarithm (LIL) for higher order sample moments are showed.
C19|Confidence intervals for the quantile of treatment effects in randomized experiments|In this paper, we explore partial identification and inference for the quantile of treatment effects for randomized experiments. First, we propose nonparametric estimators of sharp bounds on the quantile of treatment effects and establish their asymptotic properties under general conditions. Second, we construct confidence intervals for the bounds and the true quantile by using the approach in Chernozhukov et al. (2009). Third, under additional conditions, we develop a new approach to construct confidence intervals for the bounds and the true quantile and refer to it as the order statistic approach. A simulation study is conducted to investigate the finite sample performance of both approaches.
C19|Choosing an optimal investment strategy: The role of robust pair-copulas based portfolios|This paper is concerned with the efficient allocation of a set of financial assets and its successful management. Efficient diversification of investments is achieved by inputing robust pair-copulas based estimates of the expected return and covariances in the mean-variance analysis of Markowitz. Although the whole point of diversifying a portfolio is to avoid rebalancing, very often one needs to rebalance to restore the portfolio to its original balance or target. But when and why to rebalance is a critical issue, and this paper investigates several managers' strategies to keep the allocations optimal. Findings for an emerging market target return and minimum risk investments are highly significant and convincing. Although the best strategy depends on the investor risk profile, it is empirically shown that the proposed robust portfolios always outperform the classical versions based on the sample estimates, yielding higher gains in the long run and requiring a smaller number of updates. We found that the pair-copulas based robust minimum risk portfolio monitored by a manager which checks its composition twice a year provides the best long run investment.
C19|Homogeneity bias in models of discrete choice with bounded rationality|Quantal response equilibrium captures bounded rationality in a strategic game by adopting a stochastic model of discrete choice along with the traditional rational expectation framework. We examine the use of a single-agent, homogeneous parametric quantal response model (e.g., logit response) to describe the aggregate behavior of heterogeneous agents sharing the same parametric form for their quantal response functions, but having individual rationality parameters, in a symmetric population game. For any parametric quantal response function arising from a unimodal distribution of exchangeable payoff disturbances, we find that a mis-specified homogeneous rationality parameter will have downward bias. Logit response is one such specification. This result implies that empirical work that disregards heterogeneity underestimates subjects’ rationality.
C19|Assessment of multidimensional poverty and effectiveness of microfinance-driven government and NGO projects in the rural Bangladesh|This paper has developed a multidimensional model usable in assessing economic, social, political and cultural dimensions of poverty by utilizing primary data collected from 78 villages in Bangladesh using a participatory approach. Employing the developed model, a comparative analysis has been performed between microfinance-driven government (GO) and NGO (non-government organization) projects to explore their relative effectiveness in enhancing wellbeing of the poor in rural Bangladesh. It is observed that GO agencies are more effective in enhancing ‘economic wellbeing’ of the poor, whereas NGOs are contributing more in the ‘social’ aspects of wellbeing. Findings also revealed that, as whole, GO agencies perform 42% better than NGOs in improving living standards of the rural poor which contradicts with the existing literature of poverty reduction projects in developing countries.
C19|Spatial Agglomeration of Firms in a Traditional Business Center. A K-function Analysis|We compare two of the most robust spatial statistics reported in the contemporary literature to analyze locational patterns of firms: the K-planar and the K-network functions. These functions generate values that, under certain conditions, provide insights into the basic spatial structure of the location of the variables under analysis. Both functions are able to incorporate measures of statistical significance on the agglomeration/dispersion/randomness of locational patterns. The K-planar function does it in Euclidian spaces while the K-network function does it in network spaces. Both functions consider space as continuous territories, not as the arbitrary addition of discrete geographical units (i.e. municipalities, states). To our knowledge, there are no published studies in the international literature that explore the differences and similarities of the K-planar and K-network functions in characterizing basic spatial patterns of tertiary firms in the intra-urban space. This paper seeks to fill this gap in the literature.
C19|Entre permanence et (r)évolution : les finalités sociétales de la recherche française en marketing|Cet article explore les finalités poursuivies par la recherche française en marketing. Une analyse scientométrique des communications de cinq Congrès de l'AFM révèle la permanence d'un puissant paradigme managérial et le développement récent de travaux plus sociétaux. Ces résultats sont discutés dans une perspective historique et critique.
C19|Algunas herramientas matemáticas para la economía y las finanzas: el movimiento Browniano y la integral de Wiener|El objetivo de este artículo es mostrar algunos de los aspectos matemáticos que se encuentran detrás de los modelos realizados para describir fenómenos económicos y financieros.Nos concentraremos en particular en las dos herramientas de base que son elmovimiento Browniano y la integral deWiener, ymostraremos algunas de sus principales propiedades y características.
C19|Capacidad de predicción de los modelos GARCH simétricos aplicados a variables financieras de México 2001-2011|Este documento presenta los resultados de la evaluación de la capacidad de pronóstico de los modelos garch simétricos aplicados al ipc, el embi, la tasa de fondeo gubernamental, el tipo de cambio fix y la mezcla mexicana de petróleo, como elementos característicos del comportamiento del mercado financiero mexicano y como variables fundamentales para la toma de decisiones de inversión. Se analizan las aportaciones relevantes que incorporan la volatilidad y sus efectos en los procesos de pronóstico que se agrupan en los modelos garch simétricos y se extiende su aplicación a las variables mencionadas./ This document presents the results of the evaluation of the forecast capacity of the symmetric garch models of the following financial variables: ipc, embi, interest rate, exchange rate and Mexican oil mix, as core elements of the economical behavior and basic foundations with regard to investment decisions. This document includes an analysis of the volatility and its effects in forecast processes related to garch models and its application is extended to the above mentioned financial variables.
C19|1.5 Sigma Kaymanin Ýstatistiksel Kaymasi Nedenleri Uzerine Bir Arastirma|Six Sigma whose aim is perfect the processes was first introduced to the world by Motorola in the 1980s. Since then, those who follow the philosophy of Six Sigma has questioned why a specific shift must be added to process mean before estimating the capability of process. According to the Six Sigma literature, the value that must be added to the process mean is between 1.4 and 1.6 sigma, and generally 1.5 sigma is used for most processes. This study aims to seek answers to the questions which are why this correction is needed and why not any value but 1.5 sigma must be added to the process mean.
C19|Faktor Analizi ile Universiteye Giris Sinavlarindaki Basari Durumuna Gore Illerin Siralanmasi|In this study, in 2012, High School, Science High School, Plain High School and Special Science High School students who have graduated from the last class or studying, they had taken YGS and LYS Numerical, Verbal and Equal Weight Points provincial averages were used for the ranking of the cities. This is due to the high number of variable order factor analysis of the relationship between the structure and the variables studied and observed variables are collected under the factors which may be significant. Standings between the cities and the resulting factor scores in the order according to the positions of the cities are interpreted.
C19|Measurement of causal effects|No abstract is available for this item.
C19|"Un problema de consenso para problemas de toma de decisiones multicriterio en grupo mediante relaciones de preferencia intervalares difusas lingüísticas || A Consensus Model for Group Multicriteria Decision Making Problems with Interval Fuzzy Preference Relations"|"En el contexto de toma de decisiones multicriterio y bajo ciertas circunstancias, puede ocurrir que no se pueda expresar una cierta valoración mediante una única etiqueta lingüística, ya que puede haber duda en esa valoración. En este trabajo, presentamos un modelo de consenso para problemas de toma de decisiones en grupo con relaciones de preferencia intervalares lingüísticas. Este modelo está basado en dos criterios de consenso, una medida de consenso y una de proximidad, y en el concepto de coincidencia entre preferencias. Calcularemos ambos criterios en los tres niveles de representación de una relación de preferencia y diseñaremos un mecanismo de realimentación automático para guiar a los expertos en el proceso para alcanzar el consenso. || In some circumstances a decision maker, expert, in a group decision making problem cannot express his/her preferences with a unique linguistic fuzzy preference because he/she is dubious into some preferences. In this paper, we present a consensus model for group decision making problems with interval fuzzy preference relations. This model is based on two consensus criteria, a consensus measure and a proximity measure, and on the concept of co- incidence among preferences. We compute both consensus criteria in the three representation levels of a preference relation and design an automatic feedback mechanism to guide experts in the consensus reaching process."
C19|Análisis de los factores que afectan la repetición de la visita a una atracción cultural: una aplicación al museo de Antioquia<BR>[Analysis of factors affecting repeat visit to a cultural attraction: an application to the Museum of Antioquia]|This study analyzes the behavior of repeat visitors to a cultural resource, in this case the Museum of Antioquia in Medellin (Colombia), by estimating travel cost model. The empirical results highlight issues such as women are more likely to re-visit the museum that age is also an important variable as is the employment status of visitors and income level. These results are a key tool to the strategic positioning of the museum and cultural tourism. A brief discussion is presented as well as management actions are recommended.
C19|Estimation des élasticités du modèle de recherche d'emploi sur données françaises<BR>[Estimation of the elasticities of the model of job search on French data]|This article exploits a sub-sample of the French employment survey data of 2009 of the Insee (National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies) to deduct in the style of Lancaster and Chesher (1983) the additional stylized parameters of the model of job search, that is the reservation wage and the elasticities. The necessary information to implement this approach is minimal. The elasticities and the reservation wage are calculated on the whole reserved sample as well as on the strata built on the sex and the educational level of the individuals.
C19|Visitors of two types of museums: do expenditure patterns differ?|This study aims at estimating and comparing the determinants of expenditure behaviour of visitors in two types of museums. An ad-hoc survey was conducted between June and September 2011 among the visitors of the principal museums of the two provinces of Bolzano and Trento: the South Tyrol Museum of Archeology (Bolzano), hosting the permanent exhibition of the “Iceman” Ötzi, and the Museum of Modern and Contemporaneous Art of Trento and Rovereto (MART). The double-hurdle procedure of Heien and Wessels (1999) is used in order to obtain consistent estimates and split the process of spending decision into the stages of ‘activation’ and ‘outcome’. Results highlight two distinct profiles of visitors. Spending of the modern art museum visitor was positively related to her cultural interest, whereas the expenditure profile of the archaeological museum guest was more ‘generalist’.
C19|Methodological Mistakes and Econometric Consequences|Econometric Methodology is based on logical positivist principles. Since logical positivism has collapsed, it is necessary to re-think these foundations. We show that positivist methodology has led econometricians to a meaningless search for patterns in the data. An alternative methodology which relates observed patterns to real causal structures is proposed.
C19|Diseguaglianza, conflitto sociale e sindacati in America<BR>[Inequality, social conflict and unions in America]|A comparison of the 2007-08 crisis with that of 1929 showed its extreme gravity, but it also may have implied that the old harmful mistakes would not be repeated. After four years, the crisis has not been solved and it even threatens to worsen. Neo-conservative Republicans claim that this is proof of the failure of Keynesian policies. Yet, there is something structurally distorted in the institutions and policies of American industrial relations. The fall of the ‘social contract’ is the basic element of the crisis of the American social and economic model. In comparison with the crisis of the Thirties and its aftermath, what initially was supposed to possibly evolve toward a new New Deal of the Twenty-first century has evolved just in its opposite.
C19|Measures and Motivations: U.S. National Income and Product Estimates During the Great Depression and World War II|This paper explains the early U.S. Department of Commerce estimates of national income and product during the 1930s and 1940s, focusing on how both economic theory and the needs of policymakers influenced the methods and concepts used. The paper explores the debate between Simon Kuznets, author of Commerce’s first estimates of national income during the Great Depression, and Milton Gilbert, author of Commerce’s first estimates of gross national product (GNP) during World War II, over the meaning and measurement of the nation’s final product.
C19|Spillover Effect in the MENA Area: Case of Four Financial Markets|In this paper, we studied the spillover effect among four financial markets from MENA area during a period that was characterized by political instability. The countries chosen are also signatories of an agreement of free trade in order to liberalize the movement flowing of their capitals. As the linear correlation is unable to capture nonlinear relation between variables, it also suffers from many shortcomings. Reason why, we used copula functions to understand better the dependence structure between markets and to be able to detect spillover effect in that period. The results show that Egyptian Exchange and Casablanca Stock Exchange are highly correlated. We observed the same thing between Amman Stock Exchange and Egyptian Exchange. It seems that Egyptian market transmitted its volatility to the Moroccan and Jordanian markets.
C19|The Evaluation of an Economic Distance Among Countries: A Novel Approach|The aim of the article is to propose a new measure of a relative economic distance between two countries (RED) or among a group of countries (GRED). Both measures enable to evaluate ´proximity´ between national economies through time series of selected variables, and are related to the concept of the sigma (beta) convergence introduced by Barro and Sala-i Martin (1995). In the empirical part of the paper, the RED of Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Germany, the USA and Japan with regard to the Czech Republic are estimated, as well as the time evolution of the GRED of the Czech Republic and its neighbours. The main finding is the strong convergence among these countries after the outbreak of the financial crisis which persists to this day.
C19|Interval estimation of the parameter of the exponential growth in the short time series: Dynamics of the tumor marker|We consider the problem of interval estimation of the parameter of the exponential growth in the short time series, with additional parameters. The result can be used in predicting the course of cancer on the basis of the dynamics of the tumor marker.
C19|Basics of copula’s theory|The most important properties of p-variate distributions on the hypercube whose univariate marginals are uniformly distributed on [0; 1] are discussed. These distributions, also called p-copulas, have become a popular tool in order to study financial markets, macroeconomics and other fields. The study of Russian articles shows that in most cases these articles contain a list of several typical copulas and techniques of their using but they hold no discussions about meaning of acts over copulas. The review is an attempt to change for the better this situation, even if it were a little.
C19|Validity of Fama-French Three-Factor Model In Asset Pricing: An Application In Istanbul Stock Exchange|The traditional Capital Asset Pricing Model stating that the risk premium of a financial asset is positively related to its market risk, was found to be insufficient in explaining the expected returns of stocks. Fama and French (1993) introduced the “Three-Factor Asset Pricing Model” via inserting the size and book-to-market factors to the standard Capital Asset Pricing Model. In this study, the validity of the Three-Factor Model in Istanbul Stock Exchange within 1999-2011 period is investigated. The model is tested on ISE-100 Index non-financial companies monthly data by utilizing panel data analysis. The findings reveal that Three-Factor Model gives statistically significant results in Istanbul Stock Exchange. In the forecast of the cost of capital, Three-Factor Model can be used instead of one-factor Capital Asset Pricing Model by the investors in Turkey. Our findings are consistent with most of the studies that suggested the validity of the Three-Factor Model in developed and emerging markets.
C19|The Intangible Wealth and the Sustainability of Romania’s Development in the World Context|The intangible capital of a country not only represents the main component of the national wealth but also the most important source of development competitiveness and sustainability. The intensity of the intangible capital accumulation constitutes itself an indication of the success of the development strategies. The impact of the formation rhythm and of the national wealth structure on the sustainability degree of the development may be outlined with the help of the genuine saving indicator.
C19|A New Index Measure of Technological Capabilities for Developing Countries|This study is conducted to develop a new measurement tool to analyze the extent of innovation by developing nations. The role of science and technology in enhancing the rate of innovation is also investigated. The existing methods for measuring innovation such as Technology Index (WEF), Technology Achievement Index (UNDP), Industrial Development Scorecard (UNIDO), ArCo (Archibugi and Coco) and Science and Technology Index (RAND Corporation) are compared and based on their limitations a new tool with higher advantage is developed. The new index labeled as Technology Creation Index (TC-index) is decomposed into six distinct components. The index is estimated for 61 developing countries from Asia, North and South America and Africa. The countries are classified into three groups based on their extent of innovation derived from principal component analysis to assess the country group heterogeneity. The results suggest that in construction of the TC-index patents granted, human development index, local availability of specialized training and resources, foreign direct investment inflows, number of citations per science and education articles, secondary gross enrollment rate and science and education journals are identified as the main contributors to the higher rate of innovation in developing nations.
C19|Generalized cointegration: a new concept with an application to health expenditure and health outcomes|We propose a new generalization of the concept of cointegration that allows for the possibility that a set of variables are involved in an unknown nonlinear relationship. Although these variables may be unit-root non-stationary, there exists a nonlinear combination of them that takes account of such non-stationarity. We then introduce an estimation technique that allows us to test for the presence of this generalized cointegration in the absence of knowledge as to the true nonlinear functional form and the full set of regressors. We outline the basic stages of the technique and discuss how the issue of unit-root non-stationarity and cointegration affects each stage of the estimation procedure. We then apply this technique to the relationship between health expenditure and health outcomes, which is an important but controversial issue. A number of studies have found very little or no relationship between the level of health expenditure and outcomes. In econometric terms, if there is such a relationship then there should exist a cointegrating relationship between these two variables and possibly many others. The problem that arises is that we may be either unable to measure these other variables or that we do not know about them, in which case we may incorrectly find no relationship between health expenditures and outcomes. We then apply the concept of generalized cointegration; we obtain a highly significant relationship between health expenditure and health outcomes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C19|On the four types of weight functions for spatial contiguity matrix|No abstract is available for this item.
C19|Innovative Features in Conditional Cash Transfers: An impact evaluation of Chile Solidario on households and children|Social protection represents an important tool to mitigate poverty and to promote adequate living standards and conditions. In Latin America social protection has largely taken the form of large scale implementation of conditional cash transfers (CCTs). These transfers have proven successful in combating poverty and inequality across the continent, while facilitating empowerment by increasing access to services and supporting investment in education, health and nutrition. Chile Solidario is an avant garde CCT in the Latin American context, introducing innovative features which are aimed at specifically addressing the multidimensional nature of poverty, considered not only as a consequence of the lack of income, but also as a result of low levels of human and social capital, and the vulnerability of a household to shocks.
C19|Comparison of Venezuela´s minimum wage purchasing power with that in four Latin-American countries in 2008|This paper compares Venezuela´s minimum wage purchasing power with those in Argentina, Colombia, Chile and Peru, using data mining. Using Bayesian networks, it was found that the consumption pattern for the 108 goods considered is similar in these countries. The order of countries according to their minimum wage purchasing power from highest to lowest was found to be Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru. Results obtained by means of variance analysis pointed out that the variables that influenced the observed price difference between Venezuela and each other country are: type, origin and degree of necessity of each good, gender and, in particular, goods for infants and the elderly.
C19|Fuzzy Coding in Constrained Ordinations|Canonical correspondence analysis and redundancy analysis are two methods of constrained ordination regularly used in the analysis of ecological data when several response variables (for example, species abundances) are related linearly to several explanatory variables (for example, environmental variables, spatial positions of samples). In this report we demonstrate the advantages of the fuzzy coding of explanatory variables: first, nonlinear relationships can be diagnosed; second, more variance in the responses can be explained; and third, in the presence of categorical explanatory variables (for example, years, regions) the interpretation of the resulting triplot ordinations is unified because all explanatory variables are measured at a categorical level.
C19|Evaluation Of Dependence Of Occurrence Of Risk Events In Logistics On Risk Factors By Means Of Somers' D Coefficient|The objective of this article is an empirical measurement of the dependencies of selected ordinal variables in order to obtain incentives for risk management in logistics. The article is aimed at assessing an asymmetric dependency of two variables, namely the dependence of occurrence of risk events in logistics on risk factors. Somers' d coefficient was used to measure the dependence, as it is the only one allowing unilateral dependence measurement. The article provides detailed explanation of the procedure used to calculate the Somers' d coefficient (calculated using partial calculations of the number of concordant and discordant pairs etc.) and its subsequent evaluation in terms of reliability (using significance level 1%, 5% and 10%). The resulting values are presented in several tables, depending on the used evaluation criteria - risk factors in logistics with the greatest dependence with the significance level of 1%, the most important groups of risk factors and risk factors with repetition for at least four risk events. The testing was performed using data collected through the medium of a questionnaire survey conducted in 2010 within the scope of SGS in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
C19|Employment of Disabled People According to Law 68/1999. A Multidimensional Analysis at Regional Level|Law 68/1999, whose aim is the regulation and promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, delegates to regions the management of the labour market. However, its successful implementation does not depend exclusively on the regions’ actions but also on the environmental context. We propose a two-step analysis focusing on Italian regions for the year 2005. In the first phase, we use multidimensional scaling in order to identify different socio-economic contexts. Then, cluster analysis is used in order to test for the presence of subsets among Italian regions. The results show that an environment featuring a large number of profit-making firms, and providing support services for disabled people, provides most opportunities for the employment of disabled people. On the contrary, large public sector organizations and a rather closed social environment do not seem to have a positive impact on the employment process.
C19|Impacts of Crisis Events on International Tourism Demand in Thailand (in Thai)|This study assesses the impacts of nine major crisis events during 2001-2009 on the declining number of foreign tourists in Thailand. The SARIMA with intervention models and X-12-ARIMA are applied. The results show that each of the crises gave different effects on the number of tourists depending on the duration of situation, type of crisis, and country of origin. The impacts from the disease outbreaks were greater than those from other crises, but the degrees of impacts are likely to decrease if the similar outbreaks occur. In contrast, the impact from the internal political chaos was relatively small for its first time crisis, but it will be greater if it happens again. The Tsunami gave a big impact but the recovery rate was faster than that of other crises. The 9/11 event had made a minimal impact on Thai tourism. Based on the results, it is suggested that solving the internal politics should be the first priority if it aims to enhance Thailand’s tourism industry. In addition, the measures used for solving crises should be designed to fit with each of foreign tourist markets’ diverse responsiveness.
C19|Captive Supply Impact On The U.S. Fed Cattle Price: An Application Of Nonparametric Analysis| Conventional regression technique is restrictive because it assumes a specific functional form for the model and the constancy of parameters. Nonparametric method, however, is flexible and supplementary to parametric analysis. In this study, impact of captive supply on the U.S. fed cattle cash market price is investigated via nonparametric analysis. Results indicate that the price effect of captive supply does not appear until its share reaches about 20% of the total cattle procurement. Beyond this point, the U.S. fed cattle price decreases approximately $0.20/cwt ~ $0.40/cwt for each percent increase in the captive supply share.
C19|Human Capital and Productivity|This paper surveys the empirical literature on human capital and productivity and summarizes the results of my own work on the subject. On balance, the available evidence suggests that investment in education has a positive, significant and sizable effect on productivity growth. According to my estimates, moreover, the social returns to investment in human capital are higher than those on physical capital in most EU countries and in many regions of Spain.
C19|Human capital and productivity|This paper surveys the empirical literature on human capital and productivity and summarizes the results of my own work on the subject. On balance, the available evidence suggests that investment in education has a positive, significant and sizable effect on productivity growth. According to my estimates, moreover, the social returns to investment in human capital are higher than those on physical capital in most EU countries and in many regions of Spain.
C19|Human capital and productivity|This paper surveys the empirical literature on human capital and productivity and summarizes the results of my own work on the subject. On balance, the available evidence suggests that investment in education has a positive, significant and sizable effect on productivity growth.According to my estimates, moreover, the social returns to investment in human capital are higher than those on physical capital in most EU countries and in many regions of Spain.
