C20|Macroeconomic Responses to Fiscal Shocks in Portugal|This study analyses the impact of fiscal shocks on GDP, inflation and interest rates in Portugal over 1995-2017. In line with the relevant literature, we estimate multipliers using a structural VAR a' la Blanchard and Perotti (2002) based on OECD elasticities. As fiscal shocks, we include changes in direct and indirect taxes on the revenue side, and, on the expenditure side, changes in public consumption, investment and transfers. We find small tax multipliers and larger government consumption multipliers for growth, while short-term responses to shocks in transfer and investment spending are found to be negligible. We find an ambiguous impact of fiscal shocks on inflation, with both indirect and direct taxes having an inflationary impact but government consumption having the contrary impact. Fiscal shocks of an expansionary nature are found to trigger declines in real interest rates, possibly through the inflation channel. The results are robust to different orderings of the variables used in the structural VAR and to the selection of alternative time periods. Overall, the analysis of output multipliers compares well with some other studies conducted on the Portuguese economy and confirms the importance of the disposable income channel in the transmission of fiscal shocks to the rest of the economy.
C20|Are Sufficient Statistics Necessary? Nonparametric Measurement of Deadweight Loss from Unemployment Insurance|Central to the welfare analysis of income transfer programs is the deadweight loss associated with possible reforms. To aid analytical tractability, its measurement typically requires specifying a simplified model of behavior. We employ a complementary “decomposition” approach that compares the behavioral and mechanical components of a policy’s total impact on the government budget to study the deadweight loss of two unemployment insurance policies. Experimental and quasi-experimental estimates using state administrative data show that increasing the weekly benefit is more efficient (with a fiscal externality of 53 cents per dollar of mechanical transferred income) than reducing the program’s implicit earnings tax.
C20|Are Sufficient Statistics Necessary? Nonparametric Measurement of Deadweight Loss from Unemployment Insurance|"Central to the welfare analysis of income transfer programs is the deadweight loss associated with possible reforms. To aid analytical tractability, its measurement typically requires specifying a simplified model of behavior. We employ a complementary ""decomposition"" approach that compares the behavioral and mechanical components of a policy's total impact on the government budget to study the deadweight loss of two unemployment insurance policies. Experimental and quasi-experimental estimates using state administrative data show that increasing the weekly benefit is more efficient (with a fiscal externality of 53 cents per dollar of mechanical transferred income) than reducing the program's implicit earnings tax."
C20|On Testing Continuity and the Detection of Failures|Estimation of discontinuities is pervasive in applied economics: from the study of sheepskin effects to prospect theory and “bunching” of reported income on tax returns, models that predict discontinuities in outcomes are uniquely attractive for empirical testing. However, existing empirical methods often rely on assumptions about the number of discontinuities, the type, the location, or the underlying functional form of the model. We develop a nonparametric approach to the study of arbitrary discontinuities — point discontinuities as well as jump discontinuities in the nth derivative, where n = 0,1,... — that does not require such assumptions. Our approach exploits the development of false discovery rate control methods for lasso regression as proposed by G’Sell et al. (2015). This framework affords us the ability to construct valid tests for both the null of continuity as well as the significance of any particular discontinuity without the computation of nonstandard distributions. We illustrate the method with a series of Monte Carlo examples and by replicating prior work detecting and measuring discontinuities, in particular Lee (2008), Card et al. (2008), Reinhart and Rogoff (2010), and Backus et al. (2018b).
C20|Empresas granulares y desagregación regional: un análisis del caso español<BR>[Granular firms and regional disaggregation: an analysis of the Spanish case]|Following the approach proposed by Gabaix (2011), this paper aims to assess the existence of granularity in the business cycle fluctuations of the following Spanish regions: the Community of Madrid, Catalonia, the Basque Country and the Valencian Community. Granular firms are those that represent a marginal proportion of the total number of firms in an economy, but nevertheless have a significant impact on fluctuations in the GDP growth rate. We find that the Basque Country and the Valencian Community are granular economies. The Community of Madrid and Catalonia, however, do not show granular behaviour. Therefore, our work provides evidence of granular behaviour at the regional level.
C20|On the determination of the granular size of the economy|Introducing the granular hypothesis, Gabaix (2011) shows that the idiosyncratic shocks of a few “granular” firms account for a significant fraction of aggregate fluctuations of the US business cycle. In the literature, however, the question of how many are the granular firms in an economy is left unanswered. Using Spanish data, in this paper we propose a novel methodology to calibrate the granular size of the economy, i.e. the number of granular firms.
C20|Explaining Differences In Efficiency: A Meta‐Study On Local Government Literature|This paper reviews the literature on local government efficiency by meta‐reviewing 360 observations retrieved from 54 papers published from 1993 to 2016. The meta‐regression is based on a random‐effects model estimated with the two‐step random‐effects maximum likelihood (REML) technique proposed by Gallet and Doucouliagos. Results indicate that the study design matters when estimating a frontier in local government. We find that studies focusing on technical efficiency provide higher efficiency scores than works evaluating cost efficiency. The same applies when using panel data instead of cross‐section data. Interestingly, studies that use the Free Disposal Hull (FDH) approach yield, on average, higher efficiency scores than papers employing the data envelopment analysis (DEA) method, thereby suggesting that in this literature the convexity hypothesis of the production set is a matter. Finally, the efficiency of local government increases with the level of development of the analysed countries and is positively related to the national integrity of the legal system. The opposite holds when considering the corruption.
C20|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
C20|"Comment on ""Model Confidence Bounds for Variable Selection"" by Yang Li, Yuetian Luo, Davide Ferrari, Xiaonan Hu, and Yichen Qin"|This is a comment on the article mentioned in the title
C20|Growing Potential Business opportunity for Climate Friendly Goods and Technologies in Asia since 1997|This paper examines empirical relationships, analyses determinants of CFGT trade in the pre-crisis period and predict bilateral trade flows using the gravity model in Asia. Income level, geographical distance, and developmental position of both trading partners, and country characteristics, economic policy reforms and available infrastructure are important determinants of CFGT trade and its sub-categories. Through trade gap, this paper estimates the value of trade opportunity of CFGT in Asia, identifies potential trading partners, and also suggests CFGT trade among the trade partners.
C20|Officials and Home Advantage|Home advantage is the observed regularity that teams in sporting events win more often than their relative quality would suggest when playing at home. We review the literature and illustrate a number of the potential explanations using a novel and huge dataset of cricket matches. Explanations for the home advantage can be summarised into four headings: crowd, familiarity, travel and rules. Evidence increasingly points towards the role that officials play, yet other explanations cannot necessarily be ruled out.
C20|Financial Stability as a Public Policy Goal to Increase Local Economic Development: an Empirical Investigation from Italian Labour Market Areas|Financial stability is a prerequisite for sustainable economic development. Assuming that financial stability is a public good, with a negative effect on social welfare and on economic development when risks are not properly controlled, will make regulators ensuring the smooth functioning of the system, promoting regional development and making the health of the financial institutions. This paper contributes to the literature on the relationship between financial stability and growth within the regions of one country, implying that institutional, legal and cultural factors are more adequately controlled and financial markets more accurately bounded. Using a rich sample of Italian banks over the 2001–2012 period, the paper addresses whether different measures of financial distress affect economic development of labour market areas in Italy. Results show that financial stability has a positive effect on local economic development mainly explained by the bank’s return on average assets.
C20|Optimizing The Method Of Sawmill By-Product Management: Selected Methodological Issues|This paper presents a valuation method for sawmill by-products processed into energy. The method includes a set of indexes enabling entrepreneurs who own sawmill by-products to assess the economic viability of processing them into biofuels and energy. The indexes include: the threshold margin, maximum processing costs, maximum purchase price of by-products intended for processing, and minimum sales price of the product acceptable to the producer. A multidimensional analysis of above indexes was performed, and may provide a basis for assessing the economic viability of various methods of wood by-product management as an alternative to selling by-products in an unprocessed condition. As regards energy production, the method takes into account both the use of energy for own purposes and sale of energy to external customers.
C20|Regional disparities and migration in member states EU|Certainly, the spatial distribution of economic activities is far from uniform in many countries European Union and significant differences at national and at regional level are still persistent. The aim of this study is to investigate and compare regional disparities in member states of European Union and estimate the effect of regional migration flows on convergence of regions. This study focuses on income and employment, these two factors are considered as major determinants of migration and on the contrary, migration can contribute to reducing income and employment disparity between regions. The econometric analysis uses panel data primarily from Eurostat Database.
C20|The Impact of Internships on Job Attainment: an Applied Analysis<BR>[El impacto de las prácticas en empresas en la inserción laboral: un análisis aplicado]|Las prácticas en empresas que realizan los estudiantes a lo largo de sus estudios universitarios han sido prácticamente inexploradas en la investigación académica, sobre todo en el ámbito español. El objetivo de este artículo es analizar qué características de las prácticas en empresas y qué competencias adquiridas en las mismas determinan la empleabilidad actual y la calidad salarial de aquellos estudiantes que las han realizado. Adicionalmente, se examina el grado de satisfacción y de utilidad percibido con la realización de las prácticas. La investigación se basa en información recopilada por medio de una encuesta realizada a estudiantes de Ciencias Económicas y Empresariales de la Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM) que han realizado prácticas entre 2012-2013 y 2015-2016. En base a la estimación de modelos lineales de probabilidad y probit, encontramos que aquellas prácticas en empresas que permiten desarrollar las competencias de comunicación y de gestión de problemas mejoran, respectivamente, la probabilidad de estar empleado y la de situarse en tramos salariales elevados. Asimismo, el uso de nuevas tecnologías de comunicación e información (TICs) emerge como la competencia adquirida más importante, tanto en lo relativo a la satisfacción de los estudiantes con las PAE como a la utilidad de las mismas como medio de inserción laboral.
C20|Do institutional blockholders influence corporate investment? Evidence from emerging markets|This paper examines the relationship between firm investment ratios and institutional blockholders for a sample of 6300 publicly traded firms in 16 large emerging markets for the 2004–2016 period. Results show that independent, long-term, and local institutional investors boost investment ratios, and this is consistent with the monitoring role and blockholder voice intervention hypotheses. The presence of institutional blockholders, regardless of their monitoring involvement, reduces firm cash flow sensitivity ratios and thus, firms' financial constraints. Minority institutional investors complement the positive effect of blockholder investors. However, the effect on financial constraints decreases as the quality of the country's institutions increases.
C20|When Can We Determine the Direction of Omitted Variable Bias of OLS Estimators?|Omitted variable bias (OVB) of OLS estimators is a serious and ubiquitous problem in social science research. Often researchers use the direction of the bias in substantive arguments or to motivate estimation methods to deal with the bias. This paper offers a geometric interpretation of OVB that highlights the difficulty in ascertaining its sign in any realistic setting and cautions against the use of direction-of-bias arguments. This analysis has implications for comparison of OLS and IV estimators too.
C20|Bias of OLS Estimators due to Exclusion of Relevant Variables and Inclusion of Irrelevant Variables|In this paper I discuss three issues related to bias of OLS estimators in a general multivariate setting. First, I discuss the bias that arises from omitting relevant variables. I offer a geometric interpretation of such bias and derive su
C20|Inference for nonlinear state space models: A comparison of different methods applied to Markov-switching multifractal models|Nonlinear, non-Gaussian state space models have found wide applications in many areas. Since such models usually do not allow for an analytical representation of their likelihood function, sequential Monte Carlo or particle filter methods are mostly applied to estimate their parameters. Since such stochastic approximations lead to non-smooth likelihood functions, finding the best-fitting parameters of a model is a non-trivial task. In this paper, we compare recently proposed iterative filtering algorithms developed for this purpose with simpler online filters and more traditional methods of inference. We use a highly nonlinear class of Markov-switching models, the so called Markov-switching multifractal model (MSM), as our workhorse in the comparison of different optimisation routines. Besides the well-established univariate discrete-time MSM, we introduce univariate and multivariate continuous-time versions of MSM. Monte Carlo simulation experiments indicate that across a variety of MSM specifications, the classical Nelder-Mead or simplex algorithm appears still as more efficient and robust compared to a number of online and iterated filters. A very close competitor is the iterated filter recently proposed by Ionides et al. (2006) while other alternatives are mostly dominated by these two algorithms. An empirical application of both discrete and continuous-time MSM to seven financial time series shows that both models dominate GARCH and FIGARCH models in terms of in-sample goodness-of-fit. Out-of-sample forecast comparisons show in the majority of cases a clear dominance of the continuous-time MSM under a mean absolute error criterion, and less conclusive results under a mean squared error criterion.
C20|Bayesian Averaging of Classical Estimates (BACE) for gretl|This paper presents a software package that implements Bayesian Averaging of Classical Estimates BACE ver. 1.1 for gretl (the GNU regression, econometrics and time-series library).
C20|Evaluating regulatory reform of network industries: a survey of empirical models based on categorical proxies|Proxies for regulatory reforms based on categorical variables are increasingly used in empirical evaluation models. We surveyed 63 studies that rely on such indices to analyze the effects of entry liberalization, privatization, unbundling, and independent regulation of the electricity, natural gas, and telecommunications sectors. We highlight methodological issues related to the use of these proxies. Next, taking stock of the literature, we provide practical advice for the design of the empirical strategy and discuss the selection of control and instrumental variables to attenuate endogeneity problems undermining identification of the effects of regulatory reforms.
C20|Oil prices and inflation expectations|In line with other recent studies, we find that oil price changes have had a statistically significant impact on long-term inflation expectations in the euro area since the global financial crisis. However, over the same period, (i) oil prices have shifted together with economic indicators, such as stock prices, and (ii) the correlation between short- and long-term expectations has increased. Once these factors are taken into account, the effect of oil prices on long-term inflation expectations is no longer significant. This suggests that the link between oil prices and long-term inflation expectations is not direct, but rather the result of underlying factors: the prolonged feeble economic conditions and the possible de-anchoring of long-term inflation expectations from the objective of price stability.
C20|Elasticidad del ingreso corporativo gravable en Colombia|En este documento se estima la elasticidad de la utilidad de las empresas con respecto a la tasa efectiva marginal de tributación neta, en un contexto de frecuentes reformas tributarias. Esta medición es relevante, dado el amplio margen de maniobra que tienen las firmas para responder ante cambios en los impuestos, y por la importancia del impuesto de renta corporativo sobre la actividad económica y el balance fiscal. El análisis se realiza para las reformas tributarias implementadas en Colombia, durante el periodo 2008-2014, utilizando Mínimos Cuadrados en dos etapas y la Regresión por Cuantiles Edógena con Datos Panel. Los cálculos de las tasas efectivas marginales de tributación muestran que la carga tributaria que recae sobre las empresas es inferior a la tasa estatutaria definida por la ley, debido a las deducciones establecidas en el estatuto tributario. Por su parte, los resultados de las elasticidades señalan que las respuestas de las firmas dependen de la reforma evaluada y de las características de las empresas. **** In this paper, we estimate the elasticity of profits before taxes with respect to the net-off marginal effective tax rate in a context of frequent tax reforms. This measurement is relevant, given the wide margin of maneuver that firms have to respond to changes in taxes, and the importance of corporate income taxes on economic activity and the fiscal balance. The analysis is carried out for the tax reforms implemented in Colombia, during the period 2008-2014, using Least Squares in two stages and Endogenous Quantile Regression for Panel Data. The marginal effective tax rates used in the estimations shows that the corporate tax burden of firms is lower than the statutory tax rate defined by law, due to tax deductions and tax exemptions established by Law. In turn, the results of the elasticities show that the firms' responses depend on the specific tax reform and on the companies' characteristics.
C20|Does gentrification displace poor households? An ‘identification-via-interaction’ approach|My theoretical model motivates an ‘identification-via-interaction’ (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991–2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
C20|Risk management-driven policy rate gap|We employ real-time data available to the US monetary policy makers to estimate a Taylor rule augmented with a measure of financial uncertainty over the period 1969–2008. We find evidence in favor of a systematic response to financial uncertainty over and above that to expected inflation, output gap, and output growth. However, this evidence regards the Greenspan–Bernanke period only. Focusing on this period, the ”risk-management” approach is found to be responsible for monetary policy easings for up to 75 basis points of the federal funds rate.
C20|Using Supervised Learning to Select Audit Targets in Performance-Based Financing in Health: An Example from Zambia|Independent verification is a critical component of performance-based financing (PBF) in health care, in which facilities are offered incentives to increase the volume of specific services but the same incentives may lead them to over-report. We examine alternative strategies for targeted sampling of health clinics for independent verification. Specifically, we empirically compare several methods of random sampling and predictive modeling on data from a Zambian PBF pilot that contains reported and verified performance for quantity indicators of 140 clinics. Our results indicate that machine learning methods, particularly Random Forest, outperform other approaches and can increase the cost-effectiveness of verification activities.
C20|Does Gentrification Displace Poor Households? An 'Identification-Via-Interaction' Approach|My theoretical model motivates an 'identification-via-interaction' (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991-2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
C20|Effects of contract governance on public private partnership (PPP) performance|Using the basic instruments of governance as highlighted in the transaction cost economics literature, this paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns. Moreover, the results demonstrate that changes in administrative controls also influence outcomes. Stricter the control, better is the efficiency in the desired outcomes. The empirical findings could be useful to the policymakers for designing better contracts for the road as well as other infrastructure related sectors.
C20|On the power of indicators: how the choice of the fuel poverty measure affects the identification of the target population|We propose a critical analysis of fuel poverty indicators and demonstrate that choosing a given fuel poverty indicator and, in particular, its threshold level, is central to the identification of the fuel-poor population. First, we conducted an inter-indicator analysis to show how profiles of fuel-poor households vary depending on the indicator selected. More specifically, after identifying groups of affected house- holds using a set of objective and subjective measures, we designed a multidimensional approach based on a combination of complementary methods, namely, a multiple correspondence analysis and a hierarchical and partitioning clustering analysis to analyse their characteristics. Through this framework, we highlight the difficulty of identifying a “typical profile” for fuel-poor households because of the significant variability in their characteristics and we show that the composition of the population depends on the choice of the indicator. Second, we applied an intra-indicator analysis using two objective expenditure-based indicators with thresholds. In particular, we conducted a sensitivity analysis based on a logit model including variables describing household and dwelling characteristics. We show that the profiles of fuel-poor households as well as the drivers of fuel poverty vary considerably with the chosen threshold level. Given these findings, we stress the need to review how we currently rely on conventional fuel poverty indicators to identify affected groups and give some recommendations.
C20|Explaining the structure of collaboration networks: from firm-level strategies to global network structure|The aim of this paper is to show how firm-level partner selection strategies impact the structure a of collaboration network. The analysis is performed in three stages. A first stage identifies how partners select their collaborators, a second stage shows how these decisions result in clusters, and a final stage studies the global network structure that emerges from the interconnection of these clusters. In order to highlight the importance of the sectors’ influence, the analysis is performed on the French Aerospace and the French Biotech collaboration networks. Results show that the firm-level strategies are the same in both sectors while the resulting global network structure is different (core-periphery structure with small-world characteristics for the aerospace network and no particular structure for the biotech sector). The difference in the global network structure can be explained by sectorial characteristics. These differences define the manner in which knowledge flows through the network.
C20|Can a Taylor rule better explain the Fed’s monetary policy through the 1920s and 1930s? A nonlinear cliometric analysis|This paper investigates whether a variant of a Taylor rule applied to historical monetary data of the interwar period is useful to gain a better understanding of the Fed’s conduct of monetary policy over the period 1920–1940. To this end, we considered a standard Taylor rule (using two drivers: output gap and inflation gap) and proxied them differently for robustness. Further, we extended this Taylor rule to a nonlinear framework while enabling its coefficient to be time-varying and to change with regard to the phases in business cycle, in order to better capture any further asymmetry in the data and the structural break induced by the Great Depression. Accordingly, we showed two important findings. First, the linearity hypothesis was rejected, and we found that an On/Off Taylor Rule is appropriate to reproduce the conduct of monetary policy during the interwar period more effectively (the activation of drivers only occurs per regime). Second, unlike Field [Field, A. 2015. “The Taylor Rule in the 1920s.” Working Paper], we validated the use of a Taylor rule to explain the conduct of monetary policy in history more effectively. Consequently, this nonlinear Taylor rule specification provides interesting results for a better understanding of monetary regimes during the interwar period, and offers useful complements to narrative monetary history.
C20|Effects of Contract Governance on Public Private Partnership (PPP) Performance|This paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns.
C20|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues|Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
C20|Regulation, Institutions, and Productivity: New Macroeconomic Evidence from OECD Countries|This paper seeks to understand the drivers of country-level multi-factor productivity (MFP) with a special emphasis on product and labour market policies and the quality of institutions. For a panel of OECD countries, we find that anticompetitive product market regulations reduce MFP levels and that higher innovation intensity and greater openness result in higher MFP. We also find that the impact of product market regulations on MFP may depend on the level of labour market regulations. Better institutions, a more business friendly environment and lower barriers to trade and investment amplify the positive impact of R&D spending on MFP. Finally, we also show that cross-country MFP variations can be explained to a considerable extent by cross-country variation in labour market regulations, barriers to trade and investment and institutions.
C20|Regulation, Institutions and Aggregate Investment: New Evidence from OECD Countries|Abstract This paper investigate the relationship linking investment (capital stock) and structural policies. Using a panel of 32 OECD countries from 1985 to 2013, we show that more stringent product and labour market regulations are associated with less investment (lower capital stock). The paper also sheds light on the existence of non-linear effects of employment protection legislation (EPL) on the capital stock. Several alternative testing methods show that the negative influence of EPL is considerably stronger at higher levels. Finally, and importantly, the paper uncovers important policy interactions between product and labour market policies. Higher levels of product market regulations (covering state control, barriers to entrepreneurship and barriers to trade and investment) tend to amplify the negative relationships between EPL and the capital stock and ETCR and the capital stock. Equally important is the finding that the rule of law and the quality of (legal) institutions alters the overall impact of regulations on capital deepening: better institutions reduce the negative effect of more stringent product and labour market regulations on the capital stock, possibly through the reduction of uncertainty as regards the protection of property rights. This result also implies that the benefit from product and labour market reforms may be smaller in countries with weaker institutions.
C20|Human Capital, Signaling, and Employer Learning: What Insights Do We Gain from Regression Discontinuity Designs?|Several recent papers employ the regression discontinuity design (RDD) to estimate the causal effect of a diploma (or similar credentials) on wages. Using a simple model of asymmetric information, I show that RDD estimates the information value of a diploma. A positive information value arises if employers, unable to observe the test score that determines diploma receipt, infer that workers with a diploma have higher average productivity than those without. Crucially, a diploma can have information value regardless of whether workers' productivity is solely determined by acquisition of knowledge and skills through studying (the pure human capital model) or whether studying has no effect on productivity (the pure signaling model). Thus, while RDD estimates of diploma effects are evidence for information frictions and statistical discrimination, they do not help to distinguish between human capital and signaling. However, with longitudinal data, RDD can be used to estimate the speed of employer learning, since RDD coefficients are direct estimates of (differences in) expectation errors.
C20|On the Worst-case Complexity of the Gradient Method with Exact Line Search for Smooth Strongly Convex Functions|We consider the gradient (or steepest) descent method with exact line search applied to a strongly convex function with Lipschitz continuous gradient. We establish the exact worst-case rate of convergence of this scheme, and show that this worst-case behavior is exhibited by a certain convex quadratic function. We also extend the result to a noisy variant of gradient descent method, where exact line-search is performed in a search direction that differs from negative gradient by at most a prescribed relative tolerance. The proof is computer-assisted, and relies on the resolution of semidefinite programming performance estimation problems as introduced in the paper [Y. Drori and M. Teboulle. Performance of first-order methods for smooth convex minimization: a novel approach. Mathematical Programming, 145(1-2):451-482, 2014].
C20|Identification And Inference On Regressions With Missing Covariate Data|This paper examines the problem of identification and inference on a conditional moment condition model with missing data, with special focus on the case when the conditioning covariates are missing. We impose no assumption on the distribution of the missing data and we confront the missing data problem by using a worst case scenario approach. We characterize the sharp identified set and argue that this set is usually too complex to compute or to use for inference. Given this difficulty, we consider the construction of outer identified sets (i.e. supersets of the identified set) that are easier to compute and can still characterize the parameter of interest. Two different outer identification strategies are proposed. Both of these strategies are shown to have non-trivial identifying power and are relatively easy to use and combine for inferential purposes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Nonstationary Z-Score measures|In this work we develop advanced techniques for measuring bank insolvency risk. More specifically, we contribute to the existing body of research on the Z-Score. We develop bias reduction strategies for state-of-the-art Z-Score measures in the literature. We introduce novel estimators whose aim is to effectively capture nonstationary returns; for these estimators, as well as for existing ones in the literature, we discuss analytical confidence regions. We exploit moment-based error measures to assess the effectiveness of these estimators. We carry out an extensive empirical study that contrasts state-of-the-art estimators to our novel ones on over ten thousand banks. Finally, we contrast results obtained by using Z-Score estimators against business news on the banking sector obtained from Factiva. Our work has important implications for researchers and practitioners. First, accounting for nonstationarity in returns yields a more accurate quantification of the degree of solvency. Second, our measure allows researchers to factor in the degree of uncertainty in the estimation due to the availability of data.
C20|Residential energy consumption: A convergence analysis across Chinese regions|The process of urbanization and the raise of living standards in China have led an increasing trend in the patterns of residential consumption. Projections for the population growth rate in urban areas do not paint a very optimistic picture for energy conservation policies. In addition, the concentration of economic activities around coastal areas calls for new prospects to be formulated for energy policy. In this context, the objective of this paper is twofold. First, we analyse the effect of the urbanization process of the Chinese economy in terms of the long-run patterns of residential energy consumption at national level. By using the concept of club convergence, we examine whether electricity and coal consumption in rural and urban areas converge to the same long-run equilibrium or whether in fact they diverge. Second, the impact of the regional concentration of the economic activity on energy consumption patterns is also assessed by source of energy across Chinese regions from 1995 to 2011. Our results suggest that the process of urbanization has led to coal being replaced by electricity in urban residential energy consumption. In rural areas, the evidence is mixed. The club convergence analysis confirms that rural and urban residential energy consumption converge to different steady-states. At the regional level, we also confirm the effect of the regional concentration of economic activity on residential energy consumption. The existence of these regional clusters converging to different equilibrium levels is indicative of the need of regional-tailored set of energy policies in China.
C20|Optimal investment strategies for participating contracts|Participating contracts are popular insurance policies, in which the payoff to a policyholder is linked to the performance of a portfolio managed by the insurer. We consider the portfolio selection problem of an insurer that offers participating contracts and has an S-shaped utility function. Applying the martingale approach, closed-form solutions are obtained. The resulting optimal strategies are compared with portfolio insurance hedging strategies (CPPI and OBPI). We also study numerical solutions of the portfolio selection problem with constraints on the portfolio weights.
C20|Do investors pay a premium for going green? Evidence from alternative energy mutual funds|We studied the financial performance of alternative energy mutual funds using multifactor models and propensity score matching techniques. For a sample of alternative energy mutual funds quoted in EUR and in USD for the period 2010–2016, we found that alternative energy funds underperformed corporate and socially responsible mutual funds in terms of returns and downside risk protection. Our results are consistent with the idea that investors are paying a premium for going green via renewable energies.
C20|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues| Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
C20|Regular Variation of Popular GARCH Processes Allowing for Distributional Asymmetry|Linear GARCH(1,1) and threshold GARCH(1,1) processes are established as regularly varying, meaning their heavy tails are Pareto like, under conditions that allow the innovations from the, respective, processes to be skewed. Skewness is considered a stylized fact for many financial returns assumed to follow GARCH-type processes. The result in this note aids in establishing the asymptotic properties of certain GARCH estimators proposed in the literature.
C20|The behavior of uncertainty and disagreement and their roles in economic prediction: a panel analysis|This paper examines point and density forecasts from the European Central Bank’s Survey of Professional Forecasters. We derive individual uncertainty measures along with individual point- and density-based measures of disagreement. We also explore the relationship between uncertainty and disagreement, as well as their roles in respondents’ forecast performance and forecast revisions. We observe substantial heterogeneity in respondents’ uncertainty and disagreement. In addition, there is little co-movement between uncertainty and disagreement, and forecast performance shows a more robust inverse relationship with disagreement than with uncertainty. Further, forecast revisions display a more meaningful association with disagreement than with uncertainty: Those respondents displaying higher levels of disagreement revise their point and density forecasts by a larger amount.
C20|Penalized Adaptive Method in Forecasting with Large Information Set and Structure Change|In the present paper we propose a new method, the Penalized Adaptive Method (PAM), for a data driven detection of structure changes in sparse linear models. The method is able to allocate the longest homogeneous intervals over the data sample and simultaneously choose the most proper variables with help of penalized regression models. The method is simple yet exible and can be safely applied in high-dimensional cases with di erent sources of parameter changes. Comparing with the adaptive method in linear models, its combination with dimension reduction yields a method which selects proper signi cant variables and detects structure breaks while steadily reduces the forecast error in high-dimensional data. When applying PAM to bond risk premia modelling, the locally selected variables and their estimated coecient loadings identi ed in the longest stable subsamples over time align with the true structure changes observed throughout the market.
C20|Spatial functional principal component analysis with applications to brain image data|This paper considers a fast and effective algorithm for conducting functional principal component analysis with multivariate factors. Compared with the univariate case, our approach could be more powerful in revealing spatial connections or extracting important features in images. To facilitate fast computation, we connect singular value decomposition with penalized smoothing and avoid estimating a covariance operator in very high dimension. Under regularity assumptions, the results indicate that we may enjoy the optimal convergence rate by employing the smoothness assumption inherent to functional objects. We apply our method to the analysis of brain image data. Our extracted factors provide excellent recovery of the risk related regions of interest in the human brain and the estimated loadings are very informative in revealing individual risk attitude.
C20|The influence function of semiparametric estimators| There are many economic parameters that depend on nonparametric first steps. Examples include games, dynamic discrete choice, average consumer surplus, and treatment effects. Often estimators of these parameters are asymptotically equivalent to a sample average of an object referred to as the influence function. The influence function is useful in formulating regularity conditions for asymptotic normality, for bias reduction, in efficiency comparisons, and for analyzing robustness. We show that the influence function of a semiparametric estimator is the limit of a Gateaux derivative with respect to a smooth deviation as the deviation approaches a point mass. This result generalizes the classic Von Mises (1947) and Hampel (1974) calculation to apply to estimators that depend on smooth nonparametic first steps. We characterize the influence function of M and GMM-estimators.We apply the Gateaux derivative to derive the influence function with a first step nonparametric two stage least squares estimator based on orthogonality conditions. We also use the influence function to analyze high level and primitive regularity conditions for asymptotic normality. We give primitive regularity conditions for linear functionals of series regression that are the weakest known, except for a log term, when the regression function is smooth enough.
C20|Individual counterfactuals with multidimensional unobserved heterogeneity| New nonparametric methods that identify and estimate counterfactuals for individuals, when each is characterized by a vector of unobserved characteristics, are developed and applied to estimate systems of individual consumer demand and welfare measures. The unobserved characteristics are allowed to enter in unrestricted ways. Identification is delivered through two fundamental assumptions: First, the system is invertible in the vector of unobserved heterogeneity. Second, there exist external, individual-specific, covariates that are related to the unobserved heterogeneity and do not enter directly into the system of interest. The observed external variables can be either discrete or continuously distributed. Estimators based on the identifying restrictions are developed and their asymptotic properties derived. Using UK micro data on consumer demand, we apply the methods to estimate individual demand counterfactuals subject to revealed preference inequalities.
C20|Poverty’s Deconstruction: Beyond the Visible|In contrast to his contribution to other areas, Shubhashis Gangopadhyay’s contributions to our understanding of poverty are often thought of as indirect consequences of the main themes of his work. Yet in more than 15 published papers Gangopadhyay directly takes on poverty, including its estimate and understanding its sources. Our contribution honours Gangopadhyay’s work in this area by outlining an approach useful in deconstructing the changes and differences in the likelihood of poverty incidence. We highlight how far it can take us, and how it still leaves us far short of understanding much of what drives poverty.
C20|Debt crisis and 10-year sovereign yields in Ireland and in Portugal| We assess the determinants of the 10-year sovereign yield for the period 2000–2015, in Portugal and in Ireland. Results show that the long-term Portuguese sovereign yield increased with the rise of the 10-year Bund yield and during the Securities Markets Programme, but decreased due to financial integration. Additionally, during the period of the economic and financial adjustment programme, there was evidence of additional rises (decreases) due to increases (decreases) in the 3-month Euribor rate, and the level of public debt. EU/IMF funding reduced sovereign yield.
C20|Effects of euro area monetary policy on institutional sectors: the case of Portugal|We study the effects of the euro area monetary policy on the institutional sectors in Portugal during the period 2000:4-2015:4. Our results show that the single monetary policy affected some variables that are proxies for the funding of each institutional sector of the economy: general government, other monetary financial institutions, non-financial corporations, households and the external sector. The period of the economic and financial adjustment programme influenced all institutional sectors, and financial integration in the euro area had an effect on the funding for the economy: there was a reduction of long term-to-GDP ratio, external funding to the Portuguese other MFIs, and new loans to households Key Words: monetary policy, euro area, Portugal, non-conventional instruments, institutional sectors, financial integration
C20|HOW Biased is the Behavior of the Individual Investor in Warrants?|Based on the actual trading behavior of individual investors in the Portuguese financial market during almost ten years this paper examines the socio-demographic characteristics of retail investors in warrants, and discusses the hypothesis that some behavioral biases do have an impact on the investors’ predisposition to invest and trade in warrants, a complex financial instrument. One finds that there is a profile of investors in warrants: younger and less educated men are more likely to invest in warrants and that overconfident, disposition-prone and investors exhibiting a gambling attitude are more likely to invest and trade in warrants. Secondly, the gambling motive seems to be a distinguishing characteristic of investors in warrants. In other words, when investors are driven to trade in financial markets for pleasure/fun they tend to trade complex products more and to trade simple and easier to understand financial instruments less. Finally, the higher the intensity of trading the more relevant are the disposition and the gambler’s biases. Key Words: Warrants, overconfidence, disposition effect, gambling effect, individual investor behavior
C20|Class Size in Early Grades, Student Grit and Later School Outcomes|The increasing recognition of non-cognitive skills in economics has led many researchers to investigate how educational practices enhance these skills. In this paper, we focus on the non-cognitive skill known as 'grit', and we study the causal relation between class size and grit. Using data from follow-up surveys of Project STAR, we show that fourth-grade pupils who experienced small classes during early grades are 0.12 standard deviations higher in grit than their peers in regular classes. We also show that grit matters, because nearly half of the effect of smaller classes on test scores operates through grit. The effects of grit are far-reaching: students with higher grit have better grades at the end of compulsory schooling, are more likely to graduate from high school on time and are more likely to take a college entrance exam.
C20|Using linear regression to establish empirical relationships|Linear regression is a powerful tool for investigating the relationships between multiple variables by relating one variable to a set of variables. It can identify the effect of one variable while adjusting for other observable differences. For example, it can analyze how wages relate to gender, after controlling for differences in background characteristics such as education and experience. A linear regression model is typically estimated by ordinary least squares, which minimizes the differences between the observed sample values and the fitted values from the model. Multiple tools are available to evaluate the model.
C20|An alternative class of distortion operators alternative tools to generate asymmetrical multimodal distributions|The distortion operator proposed by Wang (2000) has been developed in the actuarial literature and that are now part of the risk measurement tools inventory available for practitioners in finance and insurance. In this article, we propose an alternative class of distortion operators with explicit analytical inverse mapping. The distortion operators are based on tangent function allowing to transform a symmetrical unimodal distribution to an asymmetrical multimodal distribution
C20|Model Averaging and its Use in Economics|The method of model averaging has become an important tool to deal with model uncertainty, for example in situations where a large amount of different theories exist, as are common in economics. Model averaging is a natural and formal response to model uncertainty in a Bayesian framework, and most of the paper deals with Bayesian model averaging. The important role of the prior assumptions in these Bayesian procedures is highlighted. In addition, frequentist model averaging methods are also discussed. Numerical methods to implement these methods are explained, and I point the reader to some freely available computational resources. The main focus is on uncertainty regarding the choice of covariates in normal linear regression models, but the paper also covers other, more challenging, settings, with particular emphasis on sampling models commonly used in economics. Applications of model averaging in economics are reviewed and discussed in a wide range of areas, among which growth economics, production modelling, finance and forecasting macroeconomic quantities.
C20|Investigating Predictors of Inflation in Nigeria: BMA and WALS Techniques|The recent economic conundrum arising from the fall in the international oil price has threatened the maintenance of price stability, a key function of the central bank, therefore the need to investigate predictors of inflationary measures arises. The model averaging method considers uncertainty as part of the model selection, and include information from all candidate models. We analysed a wide spectrum of inflation predictors and all the possible models for Nigeria CPI inflation using the Bayesian Model Averaging and Weighted Average Least Squares. The study uses fifty-nine (59) predictor variables cutting across all sectors of the Nigerian economy and three (3) measures of inflation, namely; all items consumer price index, core consumer price index and food consumer price index. The results from both model averaging techniques showed that maximum lending rate, world food price index and Bureau de change exchange rate are the significant drivers of inflationary measures among focus variables, while foreign assets, credit to private sectors, net credit to government and real effective exchange rate are the drivers of inflationary measures, for the auxiliary variables, strongly supporting the monetarist and open economy views on inflation. The structuralist view is reported to be relatively weaker because government expenditure is only significant at 10.0 per cent..
C20|Model Averaging and its Use in Economics|The method of model averaging has become an important tool to deal with model uncertainty, in particular in empirical settings with large numbers of potential models and relatively limited numbers of observations, as are common in economics. Model averaging is a natural response to model uncertainty in a Bayesian framework, so most of the paper deals with Bayesian model averaging. In addition, frequentist model averaging methods are also discussed. Numerical methods to implement these methods are explained, and I point the reader to some freely available computational resources. The main focus is on the problem of variable selection in linear regression models, but the paper also discusses other, more challenging, settings. Some of the applied literature is reviewed with particular emphasis on applications in economics. The role of the prior assumptions in Bayesian procedures is highlighted, and some recommendations for applied users are provided
C20|An Investigation of Economic Factors Affecting Output Gap in the Iranian Economy|Due to the importance of production in economy, its volatility affect economic sectors and agents significantly. Therefore, understanding the causes of business cycles is very important. Thus, this study extracted business cycles and investigated the effects of aggregate demand variables cycles in business cycle and the size of this effects in Iran’s economy over 1959-2014. For this purpose, first Hodrick-Prescott filter and then Markov-switching model are used to extract and examine the business cycles. The results showed asymmetry in the production cycles in Iran’s economy. The results of the regime of recession and expansion probability also revealed that although with less intensity, cycles of recession are more probable compared to expansion cycles, and have happened in longer period. Then, using the relevant indicators and Hsiao's causality tests, we focused on the relationship of demand side variables cycle with business cycles. The results indicated that the three variables including consumption, investment and government spending were all leading and coincident to business cycles. There was a two-way causality relationship between all three variables and the business cycles. However, balance of trade was found to be lagging and non-coincident to business cycles. It was also found that the causality runs only from balance of trade to business cycles.
C20|Analyzing of Oil Revenues Shocks Asymmetric Effects on Misery index in Iran Using Vector Error Correction Model|Since the major part of oil revenues are control by government and it forms government’s expenditures; therefore, recognition of oil revenues growth shocks and their impacts intensity on macroeconomic variables such as inflation and unemployment is very important for economic policymakers. This study examines the asymmetric effects of oil revenues shocks on misery index in Iran’s economy by using vector error correction method. For this purpose, we use annual macroeconomic data during 1971-2014 periods. The result shows that both positive and negative shocks have a significant and negative effect on misery index and also long-term trend in oil revenues have a positive and significant relationship with misery index. On the other hand, population growth rate, government expenditure and trade openness index as well as influencing variables on misery index in the model were brought that have a positive and significant relationship with misery index. Also according to the Wald test results, the hypothesis of symmetric effects of positive and negative shocks of oil revenues is rejected.
C20|Impactul factorului de inflamare a erorilor (VIF) asupra valorilor calculate ale testului Student în cazul regresiilor lineare multiple|This paper demonstrates that if we deal with multiple regressions the Student Test statistics are sensibly influenced by VIF (Variance Inflation Factor). The author brings arguments in favour of the idea that the study of (multi) collinearity, has to consider not only critical values of VIF, but also the interactions of VIF with the other modeling factors of coefficients of collinear refraction (Tnk), especially the coefficients of correlation mediated by dependent variable of the explanatory variables (rjk), which emphasize the differentiation of the absolute values of Pearson coefficients of correlation of explanatory variables and the dependent variable. This way, it is possible to reveal the role of different factors in the occurrence of harmful collinearity and the advantages of use of a Transformed Form of Student Test Statistics (TFST). Also, a re-grouping of the modeling factors TFST is proposed, in line with the assumptions related to premises of harmful (multi) collinearity occurrence, presented in Glauber and Farrar (1967), and with the comments of Belsey (1991) related to consequences of (multi) collinearity on Student Test statistics. A numerical example, related to the estimation of the index of the fixed capital formation in Romania, during the period 1991-2009, as been modelated by four explanatory, confirms the assumptions made upon the major impact of VIF on Student Test statistics in case of a multiple linear regression. The respective example shows also that harmful collinearity may occurs even in conditions of relatively low values of VIF, if the differentiation of the coefficients rjk is very high.
C20|On the Inconsistency of Instrumental Variables Estimators for the Coefficients of Certain Dummy Variables|Abstract In this paper we consider the asymptotic properties of the Instrumental Variables (IV) estimator of the parameters in a linear regression model with some random regressors, and other regressors that are dummy variables. The latter have the special property that the number of non-zero values is fixed, and does not increase with the sample size. We prove that the IV estimator of the coefficient vector for the dummy variables is inconsistent, while that for the other regressors is weakly consistent under standard assumptions. However, the usual estimator for the asymptotic covariance matrix of the I.V. estimator for all of the coefficients retains its usual consistency. The t-test statistics for the dummy variable coefficients are still asymptotically standard normal, despite the inconsistency of the associated IV coefficient estimator. These results extend the earlier results of Hendry and Santos (Oxf Bull Econ Stat 67:571–595, 2005), which relate to a fixed-regressor model, in which the dummy variables are non-zero for just a single observation, and OLS estimation is used.
C20|Creating impact in the digital space: digital practice dependency in communities of digital scientific innovations|Abstract Modern science has become collaborative and digital. The Internet has supported the emergence of scientific digital platforms that globally connect programmers and users of novel digital scientific products such as scientific interactive software tools. These digital scientific innovations complement traditional text-based products like journal publications. This article is focused on the scientific impact of a platform’s programming community that produces these digital scientific innovations. The article’s main theoretical argument is that beyond an individual’s contribution efforts to these innovations, a new social structure affects his scientific recognition through citations of his tools in text-based publications. Taking a practice theory lens, we introduce the concept of a digital practice structure that emerges from the digital innovation work practice, performed by programmers who jointly work on a tool. This digital practice creates dependence forces among the community members in an analogy to Newton’s gravity concept. Our model represents such dependencies in a spatial autocorrelative model. We empirically estimate this model using data of the programming community of nanoHUB in which 477 nanotechnology tool programmers have contributed more than 715 million lines of code. Our results show that a programmer’s contributions to digital innovations may have positive effects, while the digital practice structure creates negative dependency effects. Colloquially speaking, being surrounded by star performers can be harmful. Our findings suggest that modeling scientific impact needs to account for a scientist’s contribution to programming communities that produce digital scientific innovations and the digital work structures in which these contributions are embedded.
C20|Quantile Treatment Effects in Difference in Differences Models with Panel Data|This paper considers identification and estimation of the Quantile Treatment Effect on the Treated (QTT) under a straightforward distributional extension of the most commonly invoked Mean Difference in Differences assumption used for identifying the Average Treatment Effect on the Treated (ATT). Identification of the QTT is more complicated than the ATT though because it depends on the unknown dependence between the change in untreated potential outcomes and the initial level of untreated potential outcomes for the treated group. To address this issue, we introduce a new Copula Stability Assumption that says that the missing dependence is constant over time. Under this assumption and when panel data is available, the missing dependence can be recovered, and the QTT is identified. Second, we allow for identification to hold only after conditioning on covariates and provide very simple estimators based on propensity score re-weighting for this case. We use our method to estimate the effect of increasing the minimum wage on quantiles of local labor markets' unemployment rates and find significant heterogeneity.
C20|Finite Sample Optimality of Score-Driven Volatility Models|We study optimality properties in finite samples for time-varying volatility models driven by the score of the predictive likelihood function. Available optimality results for this class of models suffer from two drawbacks. First, they are only asymptotically valid when evaluated at the pseudo-true parameter. Second, they only provide an optimality result `on average' and do not provide conditions under which such optimality prevails. We show in a finite sample setting that score-driven volatility models have optimality properties when they matter most. Score-driven models perform best when the data is fat-tailed and robustness is important. Moreover, they perform better when filtered volatilities differ most across alternative models, such as in periods of financial distress. These results are confirmed by an empirical application based on U.S. stock returns.
C20|Poverty's Deconstruction: Beyond the Visible|In contrast to his contribution to other areas, Shubhashis Gangopadhyay's contributions to our understanding of poverty are often thought of as indirect consequences of the main themes of his work. Yet in more than 15 published papers Gangopadhyay directly takes on poverty, including its estimate and understanding its sources. Our contribution honours Gangopadhyay's work in this area by outlining an approach useful in deconstructing the changes and differences in the likelihood of poverty incidence. We highlight how far it can take us, and how it still leaves us far short of understanding much of what drives poverty.
C20|Financial frictions and regime switching: The role of collateral asset in emerging stock market|"This paper examines empirically the nonlinear business cycle dynamics due to the presence of financial frictions. Using a threshold vector auto regression, the authors estimate the behavior of interest rate shocks in which a regime change occurs if the two respective threshold variables namely asset price and exchange rate cross their critical threshold value. The authors find evidence that non linearity is strongly directed by regime-dependency; in fact the results suggest that output growth response is bigger when the economy is initially an appreciation regime.In addition, the empirical findings prove the presence of asymmetric responses to interest rate shocks however this reaction is recognized via asset price ""debt-deflation mechanism"" rather than shocks stemming from ""exchange rate depreciation spirals"". The results also show that a response to large shocks to interest rate shows disproportionate effects compared with responses to small shocks."
C20|A New Class of Tests for Overidentifying Restrictions in Moment Condition Models|In this paper, we propose a new class of tests for overidentifying restrictions in moment condition models. The tests in this new class are quite easy to com- pute. They avoid the complicated saddle point problem in generalized empirical likelihood (GEL) estimation, only a √n consistent estimator, where n is the sample size, is needed. In addition to discussing their first-order properties, we establish that under some regularity conditions these tests share the same higher order properties as GEL overidentifying tests, given proper consistent estimators. Monte Carlo simulation study shows that the new class of tests of overidentifying restrictions has better finite sample performance than the two-step GMM overidentification test, and compares well to several potential alternatives in terms of overall performance.
C20|Foreign exchange risk premia: from traditional to state-space analyses|This paper examines foreign exchange risk premia from simple univariate regressions to the state-space method. The adjusted traditional regressions properly figure out the existence and time-evolving property of the risk premia. Successively, the state-space estimations overall are quite rationally competent in examining the essence of time variability of the unobservable risk premia. To be more precise, the coefficients on the lagged estimated time-series are significant and the disturbance combined from the observation and transition equations in the state-space system, rational and premium errors, respectively, is statistically white noise. Such the two residuals are discovered to move oppositely with their covariance approaching zero suggested by the empirics. Besides, foreign exchange risk premia are projected and found significantly stationary at level and relatively volatile throughout time with some clustering. This volatility is however not quite dominant in the deviations of forward prediction errors.
C20|Understanding intergenerational economic mobility by decomposing joint distributions|We propose a simple and generalizable decomposition method to evaluate intergenerational economic mobility. The method decomposes the difference between the empirical parent-offspring joint distribution of incomes and a hypothetical independent parent-offspring joint distribution of incomes. The difference is attributed to (1) a portion due to a link between parental income and offspring characteristics (a composition effect) and (2) a portion due to a link between parental income and the returns to characteristics (a structure effect). The method is based on the estimation of counterfactual joint distributions consistent with (actual and counterfactual) conditional distributions estimated via distributional regression and (actual and counterfactual) distributions of covariates. The counterfactual joint distributions are then caste into common measures of mobility found in the literature: intergenerational elasticities of incomes and their quantile regression counterparts, transition matrices, summary indices of transition matrices, and upward mobility probabilities. These counterfactual measures are used to assign portions of measured (im)mobility to composition and structure effects. We apply the method to U.S. intergenerational economic mobility of white males born between 1957 and 1964. Across multiple mobility measures and using two different counterfactuals, we find that the composition effect (i.e., differences in the distribution of characteristics) generally accounts for about 60-70% of the measured mobility gap. Further, we find evidence of a safety-net effect of parental income which appears to be primarily compositional in nature.
C20|Decomposing Joint Distributions via Reweighting Functions: An Application to Intergenerational Economic Mobility|We propose a decomposition method that extends the traditional Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition to a continuous group membership setting that can be applied to any distributional measure of interest. This is achieved by reframing the problem as a decomposition of joint distributions: we decompose the difference between an empirical and a (hypothetical) independent joint distribution of membership index and an outcome of interest. Differences are divided into a composition effect and a structure effect. The method is based on the estimation of a counterfactual joint distribution via reweighting functions that can be caste into various distributional measures to investigate the drivers of the empirical relationship. We apply the method to U.S. intergenerational economic mobility and investigate multiple versions of the intergenerational elasticity of income (IGE): the traditional linear IGE, quantile regression counterparts, and a nonparametric IGE. Quantile results reveal a U-shaped effect which is primarily compositional in nature; nonparametric results indicate the composition effect is the main driver of the mean parental-offspring link at low levels of parental income while the structural effect is the main driver at high levels of parental income. Both of these effects are masked by the traditional IGE which implies an even 50-50 split between the composition and structure effect.
C20|Singularities in Global Hyperbolic Space-time Manifold|If a space-time is timelike or null geodesically incomplete but cannot be embedded in a larger space-time, then we say that it has a singularity. There are two types of singularities in the space-time manifold. First one is called the Big Bang singularity. This type of singularity must be interpreted as the catastrophic event from which the entire universe emerged, where all the known laws of physics and mathematics breakdown in such a way that we cannot know what was happened during and before the big bang singularity. The second type is Schwarzschild singularity, which is considered as the end state of the gravitational collapse of a massive star which has exhausted its nuclear fuel providing the pressure gradient against the inwards pull of gravity. Global hyperbolicity is the most important condition on causal structure space-time, which is involved in problems as cosmic censorship, predictability, etc. Here both types of singularities in global hyperbolic space-time manifold are discussed in some details.
C20|The Czech Crown Money Market as the Source for Pricing Customer Cash Products|The paper examines the Czech crown money market in terms of products and volumes traded. The interest rate time series for the last 10 years are surveyed, and a parsimonious model is used to investigate to what extent the marketplace serves as the starting point for pricing customer cash products. Although satisfactory long-term relationships are observed, market disruptions are breaking up the assumed coherence. Special attention has to be paid to the decoupling of official fixing rates (PRIBOR) and real market rates in the current low interest rate environment.
C20|Electric power generation and GDP in Russia: Cointegration analysis|We consider the problem of cointegration of the macro indices of Russian economy (GDP, money aggregate M2, budget expenses, real effective exchange rate) and electric power generation. It is assumed that on time interval (1999–2015) under consideration a structural change (regime shift) is allowed, and as a result the cointegration relationship may be changed. The existence of cointegration is established and the moment of the structural change is estimated.
C20|Optimal Provincial Budget Allocation: A Goal Programing Approach|This study, offers a Goal Programming model for optimal allocation of provincial budget resources in order to achieve macroeconomic and social goals of country include unemployment and income inequalities reduction and production and employment and social capital increasing. The designed model determines optimum proportion of provinces in budgetary resources in order to achieve goals. Empirical results based on ten provincial indicators include the unemployment rate, GINI coefficient, literacy rate, internet penetration rate, economic participation rate, the province proportion of domestic production and the province proportion of industrial, mining, services and agricultural value added, show that, there is relative convergence in distribution of proportion in public budget resources, and also achieving goals in the more developed provinces needy higher levels of the budget proportion of the province of the less-developed. Therefore, in order to achieve more balanced development and regional convergence and the elimination of inequalities and spatial heterogeneity and financial recommended the allocation of budgetary resources to less developed provinces must be increase and the budget proportion of the provinces converges.
C20|Will the oil price change damage the stock market in a bull market? A re-examination of their conditional relationships|Abstract This paper applies Markov-switching method to identify bear and bull market regimes and adopts interactive double-dummy variable approach to re-investigate the conditional relationship between the real oil price return and the international real stock return in 15 OECD countries when the sample is split into bear markets and bull markets. The empirical results indicate that, once the stock index is in the bull trend, an increase in oil price cannot affect the real stock return, while a decrease in oil price can lead to higher stock returns. On the contrary, if the stock market is in the bear era, the oil price growth cannot significantly affect the stock returns. Remarkably, oil price shocks cannot always damage the broad stock index, especially in a bull market era. Furthermore, regardless of the oil price shock, long-term investors need not adopt any policy and strategy to reduce the impact of the oil price on the stock market because the effect of a bull stock market will weaken the negative effect of an oil price shock. On the other hand, regardless of oil price shocks, when the stock market exhibits a bear trend, investors should adopt coping policies and strategies to avoid the impact of other non-oil factors shock, such as declines in real GDP to the stock market in the 15 selected countries. Clearly, regardless of whether the stock market exhibits a bear trend or a bull trend, the stock market trend will surpass the effect of an oil price shock.
C20|Cross-County Poverty Comparisons In Chad: The Impact Of The Oil Revenues Redistribution Policy|This paper analyses the determinants of cross-county poverty disparities in Chad within the context of oil exploitation. Data is provided from the last Chad Household Consumption and Informal Sector Survey (ECOSIT 3) and from the College for Control and Monitoring of Oil Revenues (CCSRP). The incidence of poverty is separately estimated for two groups of counties, according to the amount of oil revenues received with respect to their demographic weights. The difference between the poverty estimates is decomposed into characteristics and coefficients effects following the generalization of Oaxaca-type decomposition for poverty analysis. Results highlight the existence of a highly significant poverty disparity between the two groups of counties. The county-group with a relatively low share of oil revenues has a higher poverty rate than the other group. The effect of county characteristics explains 78.3% of this difference in poverty, while 21.7% is explained by the return effect due to the differential impact of the characteristics over counties. It is expected that to better promote economic inclusion in Chad, the oil revenues redistribution policy should fit the specific local development needs.
C20|Banking competition and firm-level financial constraints in Latin America|Prior literature argues that, given the existence of information asymmetries and agency costs, higher competition may increase financial constraints by reducing banks' incentives to build lending relationships. Using a sample of listed firms for six Latin American countries, we analyze the relation between banking competition and financial constraints. We find evidence in line with prior research that banking competition increases financial constraints. This result is robust and heterogeneous. We include other country-specific variables and check the robustness of our findings; the main results hold. Our results show that the effect of competition differs across firms and industries. Specifically, consistent with the information hypothesis, the negative impact of competition is higher for small quoted firms and for low-assets tangibility industries. Also, as expected, we find evidence that firms are more affected by financial constraints during the last crisis. This negative effect is larger for firms in more competitive banking industries.
C20|A web tool-based equal gender pay analysis for a competitive Europe (equal pacE): Overview, elements and lessons learned|The project equal pacE aimed to provide and promote a web tool by which companies can voluntarily analyse their pay structures and detect a potentially existing gender pay gap and its causes. The equal pacE web tool has been made available in five languages: Dutch, English, Finnish, French, and Polish. Its use is free of charge. The equal pacE web tool is based on the well-established web tool Logib-D that has been funded by the German Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. It was adjusted for the country-specific requirements in Flemish-Belgium and the Netherlands, as well as in Finland, France, Poland, and the United Kingdom.
C20|Foreign exchange risk premia: from traditional to state-space analyses|This paper examines foreign exchange risk premia from simple univariate regressions to the state-space method. The adjusted traditional regressions properly figure out the existence and time-evolving property of the risk premia. Successively, the state-space estimations overall are quite rationally competent in examining the essence of time variability of the unobservable risk premia. To be more precise, the coefficients on the lagged estimated time-series are significant and the disturbance combined from the observation and transition equations in the state-space system, rational and premium errors, respectively, is statistically white noise. Such the two residuals are discovered to move oppositely with their covariance approaching zero suggested by the empirics. Besides, foreign exchange risk premia are projected and found significantly stationary at level and relatively volatile throughout time with some clustering. This volatility is however not quite dominant in the deviations of forward prediction errors.
C20|House prices and monetary policy|This paper analyzes global dynamics in an overlapping generations general equilibrium model with housing-wealth effects. It demonstrates that monetary policy cannot burst rational bubbles in the housing market. Under monetary policy rules of the Taylor-type, there exist global self-fulfilling paths of house prices along a heteroclinic orbit connecting multiple equilibria. From bifurcation analysis, the orbit features a boom (bust) in house prices when monetary policy is more (less) active. The paper also proves that booms or busts cannot be ruled out by interest-rate feedback rules responding to both inflation and house prices.
C20|Changement d’enseigne sur le marché français des carburants : effets sur la concurrence locale d’une baisse des prix|Between 2011 and 2014, an oil company has developped a discount strategy by creating a new brand from its network of gas stations and a price decrease of 10?euro cents per liter.?Using weekly diesel prices of thousands of retailers and a difference-in-differences method, we highlight a weakness of the aggregated response of prices, less than one euro cent, from close competitors.?It conceals the increases and decreases in equivalent proportions for the 40% of the stations that react over one cent.?The decreases are mainly implemented by the retail stations of supermarkets, whereas the stations of oil groups and independent companies are responsible for the increases.?These reactions highlight the important market segmentation, beyond the apparent homogeneity of the product. Classification JEL?: C20, C55, L81.
C20|¿Qué explica el precio del vino? Análisis hedónico del mercado de alta calidad|Se establece una relación entre precios de vinos de alta gama y sus determinantes. Se responde a las preguntas ¿Qué explica el precio de los vinos de alta calidad? ¿Cómo influyen en el precio elementos que están (en buena parte, aproximadamente o escasamente) en manos de los productores? Para ello, se construye una base de datos de trece años de los 100 mejores vinos que anualmente selecciona la publicación Wine Spectator. Con ella se estima una regresión de precios hedónicos. Se identifican bodegas, orígenes y un país, cuyos vinos están “sobrevalorados” o “subvalorados” respecto a lo que el modelo indica. We determine a relationship between high quality wines and its drivers. We answer the questions: What variables explain high-quality wine prices? How do certain factors (highly, slightly or scarcely) under control of the suppliers, influence prices? To respond, we build a database with thirteen years of the best 100 wines annually ranked in Wine Spectator magazine. With the database we estimate a hedonic price regression. We also identify wineries, origins and a country whose wines are “overvalued” or “undervalued” with respect to model’s predictions.
C20|Understanding Firms' Inflation Expectations Using the Bank of Canada's Business Outlook Survey|Inflation expectations are a key determinant of actual and future inflation and thus matter for the conduct of monetary policy. We study how firms form their inflation expectations using quarterly firm-level data from the Bank of Canada’s Business Outlook Survey, spanning the 2001 to 2015 period. The data are aggregated to construct an inflation expectations index. Results based on the index suggest that expectations are not consistent with the rationality assumption but are, still, more complex than purely adaptive expectations. Firms’ own unique experiences, such as the dynamics of the prices they expect to pay (wages/inputs), significantly influence aggregate expectations. Expectations are also found to be significantly and positively correlated with movements in oil prices. Most of the preceding results hold at the firm level. The estimation of structural shift specifications suggests that inflation expectations in Canada have drifted downward since the Great Recession. However, the data do not suggest that Canadian businesses’ expectations have become unanchored.
C20|Statistical Approximation of High-Dimensional Climate Models|In many studies involving complex representation of the Earth's climate, the number of runs for the particular model is highly restricted and the designed set of input scenarios has to be reduced correspondingly. Furthermore, many integrated assessment models, in particular those focusing on intrinsic uncertainty in social decision-making, suffer from poor representations of the climate system ue to computational constraints.In this study, using emission scenarios as input and the temperature anomaly as a predicted response variable, we construct low-dimensional approximations of high-dimensional climate models, as represented by MAGICC. In order to extract as much explanatory power as possible from the high-dimensional climate models, we construct orthogonal emissions scenarios that carry minimum repetitive information. Our method is especially useful when there is pressure to keep the number of scenarios as low as possible. We demonstrate that temperature levels can be inferred immediately from the CO2 emissions data within a one-line model that performs very well on conventional scenarios. Furthermore, we provide a system of equations that is ready to be deployed in macroeconomic optimization models. Thus, our study enhances the methodology applied in the emulation of complex climate models and facilitates the use of more realistic climate representations in economic integrated assessment models.
C20|Do institutional investors unbind firm financial constraints? Evidence from emerging markets|Using firm-level information for 11 large emerging economies for the 2003-2014 period, this article analyses the impact of firm investment ratio depending on the presence of institutional ownership and the effects of institutional investor heterogeneity on firm financial constraints. Results show that the presence of institutional ownership reduces firm cash flow sensitivity for restricted samples using size and the Kaplan and Zingales index. Investor heterogeneity regressions show that independent and foreign institutional investors reduce firm financial constraints explained by direct investor activism, lower monitoring costs and better corporate governance in particular across small and medium-size firms.
C20|On Size And Power Of Heteroskedasticity And Autocorrelation Robust Tests|Testing restrictions on regression coefficients in linear models often requires correcting the conventional F-test for potential heteroscedasticity or autocorrelation amongst the disturbances, leading to so-called heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation robust test procedures. These procedures have been developed with the purpose of attenuating size distortions and power deficiencies present for the uncorrected F-test. We develop a general theory to establish positive as well as negative finite-sample results concerning the size and power properties of a large class of heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation robust tests. Using these results we show that nonparametrically as well as parametrically corrected F-type tests in time series regression models with stationary disturbances have either size equal to one or nuisance-infimal power equal to zero under very weak assumptions on the covariance model and under generic conditions on the design matrix. In addition we suggest an adjustment procedure based on artificial regressors. This adjustment resolves the problem in many cases in that the so-adjusted tests do not suffer from size distortions. At the same time their power function is bounded away from zero. As a second application we discuss the case of heteroscedastic disturbances.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Estimating the Impact of Feed-in Tariff Adoption: Similarities and Divergences among Countries through a Propensity-score Matching Method|Feed-in tariff (FiT) is one of the most popular policy measures for supporting the generation from renewable energy sources. In this paper we individuate the determinants driving a country’s choice of adopting FiT and investigate the reasons at the bottom of their distinctions in the choice of energy policies. The novelty of the paper relates to the methodology used to obtain the second aim that is based on the comparison and cross-checking (matching) between national heterogeneous data of several nature among which the country-effects drawn from a panel analysis conducted, at national level, on a dataset of 54 countries. The results allow us to identify some specific features related to the energy choices of the countries
C20|Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Development: An Analysis of Financial Reliability in Energy Service Companies Industry|The aim of this study is twofold: (i) At first, the authors would like to analyze the financial reliability of Energy Service Companies (ESCO) industry in Italy by using the Z” - score model by Altman et al. (1995) and (ii) secondly, observing the trend of Z’’ values from the year 2010 to the year 2014, they would try to connect these changes to specific business behaviors. An empirical research on a sample of 68 Italian ESCOs has been carried out. By analyzing balance sheet indicators, the authors identify the causes that entail the transition of firms from a specific solvency situation to another. Findings show that in most cases Z’’ - score increased over the years thanks to the acquisition of White Certificates, that represents an efficient instrument to promote energy saving. Research results allow to hope in a future development of ESCO industry
C20|House price cycles in Australia’s four largest capital cities|The aims of this paper are twofold. First, we propose a threshold cube equation, augmented with the optimal number of autoregressive terms, to model the likely future path of house prices in Australia’s four major capital cities. The proposed framework can be adopted to simulate house prices in other cities experiencing similar price cycles (spirals) such as London and Vancouver. Second, using a proprietary dataset not publicly available (1995m12–2015m10), we use the proposed model to simulate house prices in Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney, which have been on a steep upward trajectory since 2013. To check the sensitivity and robustness of our results, we evaluate the model in terms of the out-of-sample accuracy for two separate 12-month periods. We find that the forecasting performance of the model appears to be reasonable. Then we use the model to provide the ex ante future path of house prices during the next twelve months (2015m11–2016m10). Although we do not seek to forecast all see-saw changes in property prices, based on the historical length of boom and bust cycles in the past, some interesting overall price paths are detected. It is observed that during the next year house prices in all capital cities will start plateauing with some likely moderate falls. This downward price adjustment is particularly more noticeable in Perth.
C20|Identification in nonseparable models with measurement errors and endogeneity|Economic variables are often measured with errors and may be endogenous. This paper extends Chesher (2003) and gives new identification results for the ratio of partial effects in a class of nonseparable index models with measurement error and endogeneity. The identification restrictions include a triangular system and the derivative of some conditional mean functions being nonzero. An example that motivates the paper is identification of the labor supply elasticity.
C20|S-values: Conventional context-minimal measures of the sturdiness of regression coefficients|This paper proposes a context-minimal range of alternative regression models that is used to generate a range of alternative estimates. A prior distribution is assumed with a zero mean but an ambiguous covariance matrix. The choice of the prior covariance matrix is facilitated by transformation to standardized variables which makes the prior expected R2 equal to the sum of the prior variances. Three different ranges of the prior expected R2 are used to define three different intervals of prior covariance matrices which are used to produce three different sets of s-values.
C20|Measuring volatility persistence for conventional and Islamic banks: An FI-EGARCH approach|This paper studies the volatility dynamics of conventional and Islamic banks from the Gulf Cooperation Council (G.C.C) countries during calm and crisis periods, providing a dual comparison in time and space. In particular, it proposes an empirical measure of volatility persistence using the FIEGARCH (Fractionally Integrated Exponential Generalized Auto-Regressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity) model. This specification is useful for reproducing further asymmetry in volatility dynamics and provides a direct measure of long-term volatility dependence. Our findings point to three interesting findings. First, volatility exhibits asymmetry as bad news has a significantly higher impact on volatility than positive news. Second, bad news affects the volatility of conventional banks more strongly than that of Islamic banks. Third, it seems that following a shock, volatility is more persistent in conventional banks than in Islamic Banks. Accordingly, Islamic banks are more resilient than conventional banks, but the degree of resilience is somewhat heterogeneous and sample dependent. Thus, while this may appear to suggest that we could regulate the conventional bank system using the industry rules of Islamic banks, it is worth noting that Islamic banks in Saudi Arabia tend to provide the most resilient Islamic Bank benchmark model.
C20|The effect of political communication on European financial markets during the sovereign debt crisis|We quantify all statements by major European politicians reported by Reuters during the August 2011 to December 2011 period and show that political communication significantly affects the EUR–USD exchange rate as well as European stock and bond markets. Communication with respect to Italy induces the strongest market reactions. Financial markets consider the German bond market a safe haven.
C20|Sugarcane industry's socioeconomic impact in São Paulo, Brazil: A spatial dynamic panel approach|This study assesses the socioeconomic development impacts of the recent sugarcane industry expansion on municipalities in the Brazilian state of São Paulo over seven years, from 2005 through 2011. It was used as socioeconomic development indicator the Index of Municipal Development (IFDM), provided by the Federation of the State of Rio de Janeiro Industries (FIRJAN). A dynamic spatial panel model was built using the System Generalized Method of Moments (GMM-SYS) to assess the impacts of the sugarcane industry, caused by the expansion of both the cultivated area and the presence of ethanol and sugar processing plants. We found that the presence of a processing plant has a positive effect in the socioeconomic development of the municipality where the plant is located and in neighboring municipalities. Besides, we found a small negative relationship between increases in the amount of area devoted to sugarcane cultivation in a municipality and the IFDM value for that municipality, which can be explained by job losses in the farming sector, most likely by the recent mechanization process of sugarcane harvesting.
C20|Designing incentive schemes for promoting energy-efficient appliances: A new methodology and a case study for Spain|The energy-efficiency gap has been high on research and policy agendas for several decades. Incentive schemes such as subsidies, taxes and bonus-malus schemes are widely used to promote energy-efficient appliances. Most research, however, considers instruments in isolation, and only rarely in the context of political constraints on instrument use, or for alternative policy goals. This paper presents a methodology for the optimal design of incentive schemes based on the minimisation of Dead Weight Loss for different policy goals and policy restrictions. The use of the methodology is illustrated by designing optimal combinations of taxes and subsidies in Spain for three types of appliance: dishwashers, refrigerators and washing machines. The optimal policies are designed subject to different policy goals such as achieving a fixed reduction in emissions or a certain increased market share for efficient appliances, and for policy constraints such as budget neutrality. The methodology developed here can also be used to evaluate past and current incentive schemes.
C20|CO2 emission and economic growth in Algeria|Algeria is one of the most important CO2 emitters among developing countries and the third among African countries. It pledged to curb carbon emissions by at least 7% by 2030. However, complying with this target may be a difficult task without compromising economic growth. The aim of this paper is to analyze the relationship between CO2 emissions and economic growth in Algeria, taking into account energy use, electricity consumption, exports and imports. The validity of the EKC hypothesis, throughout the period from 1970 to 2010, is tested by using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model extended to introduce the break points. Results confirm the EKC for Algeria. Nevertheless, the turning point is reached for a very high GDP per capita value, indicating that economic growth in Algeria will continue to increase emissions. Results also indicate that an increase in energy use and electricity consumption increase CO2 emissions, and that exports and imports affect them negatively and positively, respectively. Therefore, it is necessary to promote renewable energies and energy efficiency policies. Regulatory reforms are needed to facilitate foreign investments with which to carry out these policies. Likewise, it may be appropriate to decrease subsides in energy prices to encourage energy efficiency.
C20|Great ratios and international openness|The great ratios have been regularly used to calibrate the long-run properties of theoretical macroeconomic models; yet their stationarity is not supported by empirical studies unequivocally. This paper empirically tests whether the international openness governs the stationarity of the great ratios. By considering 21 OECD countries, our results show that the countries with relatively high openness are less likely to exhibit a balanced-growth-path equilibrium. By controlling for a potential endogeneity problem, the great ratios are less likely to be stationary if the economy runs a surplus trade balance.
C20|Trade, growth and growth volatility: New panel evidence|This paper examines the relationships of trade with economic growth and growth volatility using the Chudik and Pesaran (2013) cross-sectionally augmented autoregressive distributed lag (CS-ARDL) panel data approach to account for the potential dynamic heterogeneity and cross-section dependency in the effects of trade. Some important results emerge. First, greater international trade, on average, promotes economic growth and amplifies growth volatility in the long run, and hence induces a positive long-run association between growth and growth volatility. Second, greater international trade stimulates economic activities and mitigates economic fluctuations, on average, in the short run, and therefore causes a negative short-run correlation between growth and growth volatility. And third, there is large heterogeneity in the effects of trade, depending upon a country's development level, financial system, macroeconomic policies, human capital, corruption, and labor regulation.
C20|A useful framework for linking labor and goods markets: Okun's law and its stability revisited|This paper introduces a useful framework for linking labor and goods markets. This framework enables us to provide a reasonable theoretical background to Okun's law and hence facilitates the decomposition of Okun's coefficient into several quantifiable and interpretable components that incorporate the main insights of Arthur Okun's original analysis and the traditional Keynesian view. The empirical decomposition exercise indicates that Okun's law has an inherent tendency to vary substantially over time and this provides a potential explanation to the empirical studies that have shed doubt on the stability of Okun's law.
C20|The French Aerospace Sector Collaboration Network : Structural Dynamics And Firm Performance|The focus of this paper is on the link between network structure and the financial performance of the individual firm. Under the hypothesis that firms access diverse and valuable knowledge through collaboration we analyse how firms pick their collaborators and how knowledge flows impact the financial performance of the firm. \r\nFirst, the evolution of the structure of the collaboration network of the French aerospace sector is analysed between 1980 and 2013. The global structure is identified and, using an ERGM and clustering identification, the structure of the network is explained. Second, a panel regression identifies a link between the position of the individual firm inside the network and their financial performance.
C20|Pollution or Crime: The Effect of Driving Restrictions on Criminal Activity|No abstract is available for this item.
C20|Performance Of Chilean Pension Funds Investments Abroad 2010-2014|Considering the high volatility generated from the financial crisis of 2008 and low returns in the years 2011, 2013 and 2014, we analyzed the performance of the Chilean Pension Funds. We use Jensen, Sharpe and Treynor indices to evaluate the funds. The comparison is made on a monthly basis for the period 2010 - 2014. We conclude that diversification of pension funds in foreign equities generated a performance similar to global Morgan Stanley All Country World Index, but failed to deliver a return per unit of risk above the average yield on US Treasury bonds. When total risk is segregated into systematic and idiosyncratic components, the difficulty to eliminate unsystematic risk is confirmed. Conclusions suggest that restrictions imposed by the regulations in Chile allow them to achieve a return similar to a passive portfolio, but with a substantial increase in overall risk.
C20|Pollution or crime: The effect of driving restrictions on criminal activity|Driving restriction programs have been implemented in many cities around the world to alleviate pollution and congestion problems. Enforcement of such programs is costly and can potentially displace policing resources used for crime prevention and crime detection. Hence, driving restrictions may increase crime. To test this hypothesis, we exploit both temporal and spatial variation in the implementation of Quito, Ecuador's Pico y Placa program, and evaluate its effect on crime. Both difference-in-differences and spatial regression discontinuity estimates provide credible evidence that driving restrictions have increased crime rates.
C20|Machine Learning Methods for Demand Estimation|We survey and apply several techniques from the statistical and computer science literature to the problem of demand estimation. To improve out-of-sample prediction accuracy, we propose a method of combining the underlying models via linear regression. Our method is robust to a large number of regressors; scales easily to very large data sets; combines model selection and estimation; and can flexibly approximate arbitrary non-linear functions. We illustrate our method using a standard scanner panel data set and find that our estimates are considerably more accurate in out-of-sample predictions of demand than some commonly used alternatives.
C20|Oil Price Forecasts For The Long Term: Expert Outlooks, Models, Or Both?|Expert outlooks on the future path of oil prices are often relied on by industry participants and policymaking bodies for their forecasting needs. Yet little attention has been paid to the extent to which these are accurate. Using the regular publications by the Energy Information Administration (EIA), we examine the accuracy of annual recursive oil price forecasts generated by the National Energy Modeling System model of the Agency for forecast horizons of up to 15 years. Our results reveal that the EIA model is quite successful at beating the benchmark random walk model, but only at either end of the forecast horizons. We also show that, for the longer horizons, simple econometric forecasting models often produce similar if not better accuracy than the EIA model. Among these, time-varying specifications generally also exhibit stability in their forecast performance. Finally, while combining forecasts does not change the overall patterns, some additional accuracy gains are obtained at intermediate horizons, and in some cases forecast performance stability is also achieved.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Real Exchange Rates and Real Interest Rates Differential: Evidence from Nigeria|The theoretical relationship of the long-run equilibrium between real exchange rates and interest rate differentials is essentially derived from the Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) and the uncovered interest parity. However, empirical evidence on this long-run relationship has rather been inconclusive. While several authors are able to establish the long-run relationship between real exchange rates and interest rate differentials other could not found this relationship. The reason for lack of relationship in some of the studies is as a result of omitted variables (Meese and Rogoff, 1988). Therefore, attempt is made in this study to evaluate this relationship between real exchange rate and interest rate differential for the case of Nigeria by controlling for foreign exchange reserves. The paper uses monthly data for the period 1993:1-2012:12 and applies Autoregressive Distributed Lags (ARDL) model. The estimates suggest the existence of long-run relationship between real exchange rate, interest rate differential and foreign exchange reserves. In the long run, the exchange rate coefficient has a positive effect on the foreign reserves. However, the effect of interest rate differential is negative and statistically significant. On the short run dynamics, the finding indicates a non-monotonic relationship between real exchange rate, interest rate differential and foreign exchange reserves. The out-of-sample forecast indicates a better forecast using ARMA model as all Theil coefficients are close zero for all the horizons used in the model.
C20|Identification of structural models in the presence of measurement error due to rounding in survey responses|Distortions in the elicitation of economic variables arise frequently. A common problem in household surveys is that reported values exhibit a significant degree of rounding. We interpret rounding as a filter that allows limited information about the relationship of interest to pass. We argue that rounding is an active decision of the survey respondent, and propose a general structural model that helps to explain some of the typical distortions that arise out of this active decision. Specifically, we assume that there is insufficient ability of individuals to acquire, process and recall information, and that rational individuals aim at using the scarce resources they devote to a survey in an optimal fashion. This model implies selection and places some structure on the selection equation. We use the formal model to correct for some of the distorting effects of rounding on the relationship of interest, using all the data available. Finally, we show how the concepts developed in this paper can be applied in consumer demand analysis by exploiting a controlled survey experiment, and obtain plausible results.
C20|The Estimation of Multi-dimensional Fixed Effects Panel Data Models|The paper introduces for the most frequently used three-dimensional fixed effects panel data models the appropriate within estimators. It analyzes the behaviour of these estimators in the case of no-self-flow data, unbalanced data and dynamic autoregressive models. Then the main results are generalised for higher dimensional panel data sets as well.
C20|Value Stream Mappingin The Romanian Footwear Industry|Cost reduction, productivity increase and creating value for the client are just a few of the arguments that managers use when they adopt Lean philosophy. Businesses’ concern is to create products that have value in the eyes of the client, continuously analyzing the existing value stream in order to improve it. Value stream mapping (VSM) is a technique used to visually present the chain of processes, within the company, necessary to obtain the product. Due to the many advantages and to the ease of use experienced by Toyota since the ’80, VSM use has constantly increased as this activity improvement technique was discovered by managers. The article presents a case study of the application of VSM in footwear industry.
C20|Relación entre exportaciones y tasa de cambio real en Colombia entre 1995 y 2014|En este trabajo se analiza la relación existente entre la tasa de cambio real (TCR) y las exportaciones de la economía colombiana, con el objeto de observar las variaciones que se pueden presentar en las exportaciones dada un choque en la TCR. Para tal efecto se aplica un modelo de vectores autorregresivos (VAR), a través de la causalidad de Granger, la función impulso respuesta se observa cómo una variable puede afectar a otra contemporáneamente. Se encuentra entonces, que hay una relación de causalidad entre la TCR y las exportaciones, sin embargo en sentido inverso no se observa alguna relación de causalidad.
C20|Estimación del beta para el sector inmobiliario a partir del desempeño de fondos de inversión inmobiliaria en Colombia|RESUMEN La creación de fondos de inversión inmobiliaria en Colombia ha abierto posibilidades de diversificación de portafolio a agentes que deseen invertir en el sector inmobiliario sin tener que comprar y administrar finca raíz de forma directa. El comportamiento de estos fondos ha mostrado una rentabilidad promedio superior y una volatilidad menor que la del mercado durante los últimos años. Este artículo aplica el modelo de valoración de activos de capital (CAPM) y estima varios modelos autorregresivos y de heterocedasticidad condicional, con el fin de calcular el beta de estos fondos como una aproximación a la sensibilidad al riesgo sistemático del sector inmobiliario. Los resultados de las estimaciones muestran que el nivel de riesgo del sector inmobiliario se encuentra muy por debajo del riesgo de mercado, lo cual sugiere que los proyectos inmobiliarios tienen un costo de capital mucho menor que el de determinados proyectos en otros sectores.******The creation of property investment funds in Colombia has made portfolio diversification possible by allowing parties to invest in the property sector without buying and managing real estate directly. In recent years, the behavior of these funds has shown higher average profits and lower volatility than that of the market. This study applies the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and estimates various autoregressive models and models of conditional heteroscedasticity, in order to calculate the beta of these funds as an estimate of the property sector’s sensitivity to systematic risk. Results show that the risk level of the property sector is far lower than that of the market, suggesting that real estate projects have much lower capital costs than projects in other sectors.
C20|Does the CAMEL bank ratings system follow a procyclical pattern?|The financial crisis which erupted in 2007-8 has illustrated the disruptive effects of procyclicality. The phenomenon of procyclicality refers to the mutually reinforcing interactions between the financial system and the real economy that tend to amplify business cycle fluctuations. These fluctuations can cause or exacerbate turbulences in the financial system and this explains why supervisory and regulatory authorities are so much concerned in mitigating the degree of procyclicality. In this study, we focus on the ratings system of the U.S. banking institutions and test how these are linked to the phenomenon of procyclicality. More concretely, we empirically investigate the sensitivity of CAMEL ratings system, which is used by the U.S. authorities to monitor the conditions in the banking market, to the fluctuations of economic cycle. Our results reveal that the overall state of the U.S. economy and CAMEL ratings are positively correlated. We find that CAMEL ratings largely depend on the course of the business cycle as they are lower during economic upturns and higher during economic downturns. This is to say that the performance and risk-taking behaviour of banks is rated higher when the conditions in the economy are favourable and lower when the economic environment is weak. This very important and rather unknown source of procyclicality should be taken into serious consideration by authorities.
C20|‘Modern’ Phillips curves and the implications for the statistical process of inflation| ‘Modern’ theories of the Phillips curve imply that inflation is an integrated, or near integrated’ process. This article explains this implication and why these ‘modern’ theories are logically inconsistent with what is commonly known about the statistical process of inflation.
C20|A detailed decomposition of synthetic cohort analysis|We present a detailed decomposition method and provide a Stata estimator to assess relative changes between two groups over time in a synthetic cohort analysis. Using the convergence of black–white wage gap between 1960 and 1970 as an example, we show that education accounts for 73% of the value of change in characteristics while experience explains only 3%.
C20|Robust score and portmanteau tests of volatility spillover|This paper presents a variety of tests of volatility spillover that are robust to heavy tails generated by large errors or GARCH-type feedback. The tests are couched in a general conditional heteroskedasticity framework with idiosyncratic shocks that are only required to have a finite variance if they are independent. We negligibly trim test equations, or components of the equations, and construct heavy tail robust score and portmanteau statistics. Trimming is either simple based on an indicator function, or smoothed. In particular, we develop the tail-trimmed sample correlation coefficient for robust inference, and prove that its Gaussian limit under the null hypothesis of no spillover has the same standardization irrespective of tail thickness. Further, if spillover occurs within a specified horizon, our test statistics obtain power of one asymptotically. We discuss the choice of trimming portion, including a smoothed p-value over a window of extreme observations. A Monte Carlo study shows our tests provide significant improvements over extant GARCH-based tests of spillover, and we apply the tests to financial returns data. Finally, based on ideas in Patton (2011) we construct a heavy tail robust forecast improvement statistic, which allows us to demonstrate that our spillover test can be used as a model specification pre-test to improve volatility forecasting.
C20|Semiparametric estimation of models with conditional moment restrictions in the presence of nonclassical measurement errors|This paper develops a framework for the analysis of semiparametric conditional moment models with endogenous and mismeasured causes, which is of empirical importance. We show that one set of valid instruments is sufficient to control for both endogeneity and measurement errors of the causes of interest, which has been observed in linear parametric models. Two-step consistent estimators of the parameters of interest are proposed. We also show that the proposed estimators are consistent with a rate faster than n−1/4 under a certain metric, and the proposed estimators of the finite-dimensional unknown parameters obtain root-n asymptotic normality. Monte Carlo evidences show that the proposed estimators perform well under a variety of identification conditions. An application to instrumental variables estimation of Engel curves illustrates the usefulness of our method. It supports that correcting for both endogeneity and measurement errors on total expenditure is substantial in estimating economically meaningful Engel curves.
C20|Living up to expectations: Estimating direct and indirect rebound effects for UK households|This study estimates the combined direct and indirect rebound effects from various types of energy efficiency improvement by UK households. In contrast to most studies of this topic, we base our estimates on cross-price elasticities and therefore capture both the income and substitution effects of energy efficiency improvements. Our approach involves estimating a household demand model to obtain price and expenditure elasticities of different goods and services, utilising a multiregional input–output model to estimate the GHG emission intensities of those goods and services, combining the two to estimate direct and indirect rebound effects, and decomposing those effects to reveal the relative contribution of different mechanisms and commodities. We estimate that the total rebound effects are 41% for measures that improve the efficiency of domestic gas use, 48% for electricity use and 78% for vehicle fuel use. The primary source of this rebound is increased consumption of the cheaper energy service (i.e. direct rebound) and this is primarily driven by substitution effects. Our results suggest that the neglect of substitution effects may have led prior research to underestimate the total rebound effect. However, we provide a number of caveats to this conclusion, as well as indicating priorities for future research.
C20|Robustness of Bootstrap in Instrumental Variable Regression| This paper studies robustness of bootstrap inference methods for instrumental variable (IV) regression models. We consider test statistics for parameter hypotheses based on the IV estimator and generalized method of trimmed moments (GMTM) estimator introduced by Čížek (2008, 2009), and compare the pairs and implied probability bootstrap approximations for these statistics by applying the finite sample breakdown point theory. In particular, we study limiting behaviors of the bootstrap quantiles when the values of outliers diverge to infinity but the sample size is held fixed. The outliers are defined as anomalous observations that can arbitrarily change the value of the statistic of interest. We analyze both just- and overidentified cases and discuss implications of the breakdown point analysis to the size and power properties of bootstrap tests. We conclude that the implied probability bootstrap test using the statistic based on the GMTM estimator shows desirable robustness properties. Simulation studies endorse this conclusion. An empirical example based on Romer's (1993) study on the effect of openness of countries to inflation rates is presented. Several extensions including the analysis for the residual bootstrap are provided.
C20|Benchmarking Judgmentally Adjusted Forecasts| Many publicly available macroeconomic forecasts are judgmentally adjusted model‐based forecasts. In practice, usually only a single final forecast is available, and not the underlying econometric model, nor are the size and reason for adjustment known. Hence, the relative weights given to the model forecasts and to the judgement are usually unknown to the analyst. This paper proposes a methodology to evaluate the quality of such final forecasts, also to allow learning from past errors. To do so, the analyst needs benchmark forecasts. We propose two such benchmarks. The first is the simple no‐change forecast, which is the bottom line forecast that an expert should be able to improve. The second benchmark is an estimated model‐based forecast, which is found as the best forecast given the realizations and the final forecasts. We illustrate this methodology for two sets of GDP growth forecasts, one for the USA and one for the Netherlands. These applications tell us that adjustment appears most effective in periods of first recovery from a recession. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
C20|The impact of changing youth employment patterns on future wages|"""This study examines employment patterns on the labor market for German apprenticeship graduates and returns to early-career employment stability over the past four decades. The data indicate the decreasing stability of youth employment since the late 1980s. Exploiting variation in the timing of macroeconomic shocks, I identify true state dependencies and find that stable employment early in professional life exhibits significant wage returns in future periods. These returns are particularly pronounced at the bottom of the wage distribution and have substantially increased during the 1990s. Accordingly, securing the training-to- work transitions would primarily be beneficial for the wage growth of workers with a generally low earning potential."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
C20|The Economic Legacy of Warfare: Evidence from European Regions|Historical warfare in Europe inflicted numerous costs on rural populations. To reduce such costs, rural populations relocated behind the relative safety of urban fortifications. We argue that war-related urbanization had positive consequences for long-run regional economic development. We geocode the locations of more than 600 conflicts in early modern Europe. We find a positive and significant relationship between historical conflict exposure and regional economic development today. Our results are robust to a wide range of econometric techniques, alternative samples, and economic outcomes. Human capital accumulation stands out as one channel through which war-related urbanization translated into regional economic development. Our results highlight the military origins of European wealthy urban belt.
C20|Modelling factors of Student test statistics dispersion in a multiple linear regression|One of the main objectives of this paper is to show that some algebraical properties of the Student test statistics demonstrated in F.M. Pavelescu (2014) and the use of a proposed new indicator – Synthesis of the Transformed Form of Student Test statistics - for the case of linear regressions with three explanatory are valid for the general case of linear regressions with n explanatory variables. Also, we propose a re-grouping of the modeling factors of Transformed Form Student Test statistics, which is in line with the ideas of Glauber and Ferrar (1967) on the definition of collinearity and of Belsey (1991) on the impact of collinearity on Student Test Statistics. In this context, the methodology proposed permits the identification of modeling factors contribution to the dispersion of Transformed Form of Student statistics. At the end of the paper a numerical example is presented in order to show that algebraical properties of the Student test statistics demonstrated in case of a linear regression with three explanatory variables are true also when the number of explanatory variables is higher than three. The respective numerical example is also an opportunity for a practical use of the proposed factorial analysis methodology of the dispersion of the Transformed Form of the Student Test statistics.
C20|Structured Additive Regression Models: An R Interface to BayesX| Structured additive regression (STAR) models provide a flexible framework for modeling possible nonlinear effects of covariates: They contain the well established frameworks of generalized linear models and generalized additive models as special cases but also allow a wider class of effects, e.g., for geographical or spatio-temporal data, allowing for specification of complex and realistic models. BayesX is standalone software package providing software for fitting general class of STAR models. Based on a comprehensive open-source regression toolbox written in C++, BayesX uses Bayesian inference for estimating STAR models based on Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation techniques, a mixed model representation of STAR models, or stepwise regression techniques combining penalized least squares estimation with model selection. BayesX not only covers models for responses from univariate exponential families, but also models from less-standard regression situations such as models for multi-categorical responses with either ordered or unordered categories, continuous time survival data, or continuous time multi-state models. This paper presents a new fully interactive R interface to BayesX: the R package R2BayesX. With the new package, STAR models can be conveniently specified using R’s formula language (with some extended terms), fitted using the BayesX binary, represented in R with objects of suitable classes, and finally printed/summarized/plotted. This makes BayesX much more accessible to users familiar with R and adds extensive graphics capabilities for visualizing fitted STAR models. Furthermore, R2BayesX complements the already impressive capabilities for semiparametric regression in R by a comprehensive toolbox comprising in particular more complex response types and alternative inferential procedures such as simulation-based Bayesian inference.
C20|Eligibility for free GP care and the utilisation of GP services by children in Ireland|The majority of the Irish population pay the full out-of-pocket price of a GP visit, with only those on low incomes exempt. While there is an extensive literature analysing the impact of the Irish system of eligibility for free GP care on GP visiting rates among adults, there is a lack of evidence for children. Given the importance of socio-economic health inequalities in shaping the future outcomes of children, it is important to analyse the extent to which the current system of eligibility leads to inequities in access to GP services among Irish children. In addition, some private health insurance plans have started to offer cover for GP expenses, which adds an additional layer of complexity to the existing system of eligibility, and to date, this has not been studied. Using a large, nationally-representative data-set covering two cohorts of Irish children (9-month olds and 9-year olds), we examine the role of eligibility for free GP care in determining GP visiting rates among children. As with the adult population, the results show that, even with controls for child health, and parental and family characteristics, eligibility for free GP care is a significant determinant of GP utilisation among Irish children. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C20|A post-truncation parameterization of truncated normal technical inefficiency|In this paper we consider a stochastic frontier model in which the distribution of technical inefficiency is truncated normal. In standard notation, technical inefficiency u is distributed as N + (μ, σ 2 ). This distribution is affected by some environmental variables z that may or may not affect the level of the frontier but that do affect the shortfall of output from the frontier. We will distinguish the pre-truncation mean (μ) and variance (σ 2 ) from the post-truncation mean μ * = E(u) and variance σ * 2 = var(u). Existing models parameterize the pre-truncation mean and/or variance in terms of the environmental variables and some parameters. Changes in the environmental variables cause changes in the pre-truncation mean and/or variance, and imply changes in both the post-truncation mean and variance. The expressions for the changes in the post-truncation mean and variance can be quite complicated. In this paper, we suggest parameterizing the post-truncation mean and variance instead. This leads to simple expressions for the effects of changes in the environmental variables on the mean and variance of u, and it allows the environmental variables to affect the mean of u only, or the variance of u only, or both. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C20|Real Output Costs of Financial Crisis on CEE Countries|Countries from CEE countries (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia) experienced systemic banking crisis during the recent turbulence on financial markets. Financial crisis can be very costly due to output losses during and after the crash. This article reviews the methodology for estimating the output losses for this particular group of countries recently affected by adverse economic and financial conditions. This study extend the analyses in two directions: first applying a Hodrick-Prescott filter for various lengths e.g. 10 years, 15 years and 20 years and then using the method proposed by Abiad et al (2009) and establishing the counterfactual trend, ignoring the past 3 years before the beginning of the crisis.
C20|Does Agricultural Growth Reduce Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries?|Drawing upon cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study examines the role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality and poverty by modelling the dynamic linkage between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. For this purpose, we have compared the role of agricultural growth and that of non-agricultural growth and have found that agricultural growth is more important in reducing poverty, while the negative effect of agricultural growth on inequality is found in a few models where specific definitions of inequality are adopted. The role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality is, however, undermined by ethnic fractionalisation which tends to make inequality more persistent. Our analysis generally reinforces the case for revival of agriculture in the post-2015 discourse, contrary to the much emphasised roles of rural-urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty.
C20|Early Warning Signs of the Economic Crisis in Greece: A Warning for Other Countries and Regions|Warning signs about the developing economic crisis in Greece were present in the growth rate of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and in the growth of the GDP well before the economic collapse. The growth ratewas strongly unstable. On average, in less than 50 years, it decreased 10-folds but after reaching a low minimum it quickly increased 6-folds only to crash before completing the full cycle. The decreasing growthrate was leading to an asymptotic maximumof the GDP but it was soon replaced by a fast-increasing growth rate propelling the GDP alonga pseudo-hyperbolic trajectory, which if continued would have escaped to infinity in 2017. Such a growth could not have been possibly supported. Under these conditions, the economic collapse in Greece was inevitable.
C20|Mathematics of Predicting Growth|Mathematical methods of analysis of data andofpredicting growth are discussed. The starting point is the analysis of the growth rates, which can be expressed as a function of time or as a function of the size of the growing entity. Application of these methods is illustrated using the world economic growth but they can be applied to any type of growth.
C20|The Insecure Future of the World Economic Growth|Growth rate of the world Growth Domestic Product (GDP) is analysed to determine possible pathways of the future economic growth. The analysis is based on using the latest data of the World Bank and it reveals that the growth rate between 1960 and 2014 was following a trajectory approaching asymptotically a constant value. The most likely prediction is that the world economic growth will continue to increase exponentially and that it will become unsustainable possibly even during the current century. A more optimistic but less realistic prediction is based on the assumption that the growth rate will start to decrease linearly. In this case, the world economic growth is predicted to reach a maximum, if the growth rate is going to decrease linearly with time, or to follow a logistic trajectory, if the growth rate is going to decrease linearly with the size of the world GDP.
C20|La herencia de Klein (1920-2013): Una visión de futuro/The Legacy of Klein (1920-2013): A Vision of the Future|Una breve referencia a la figura humana, obra científica y actividades de L.R. Klein con una perspectiva de su incidencia futura en la economía aplicada en general y en la modelización econométrica y predicción en particular. A brief reference to the human figure, the scientific work and the activities of L.R. Klein with a perspective of his future incidence in the applied economics as a whole and, in particular, to the econometric modelling and the economic forecasting.
C20|Proyecto LINK y Econometría de Alta Frecuencia: Las últimas aportaciones econométricas de Lawrence R. Klein /LINK Project and High Frequency Econometrics: Recent Econometric Contributions of Lawrence R. Klein|Lawrence R. Klein murió a los 93 años, el 20 de octubre de 2013. Su vida profesional ha sido larga y fructífera. Se mantuvo muy activo hasta los 87 años y el autor de este trabajo ha sido testigo directo de ello. Ha sido para él, maestro, mentor y amigo, y la colaboración de los dos se ha mantenido a lo largo de más de cuarenta años. Desde el punto de vista de la economía y de la econometría la carrera de Klein ha sido larga y variada, habiendo trabajado en áreas muy diversas. Como su vida y su obra son muy conocidas, en este trabajo, hecho en su homenaje, se hace referencia a lo que ha sido su última etapa de trabajo, muy relacionada con los modelos econométricos de Alta Frecuencia y con el mantenimiento del Proyecto LINK como un modelo de referencia de predicción económica mundial. Se combina la explicación del papel que tiene la econometría en nuestro mundo avanzado con algunos aspectos técnicos relacionados con las áreas de actividad mencionadas y con lo que podría ser una próxima etapa de evolución de esta disciplina. Lawrence R. Klein died at age 93 on 20 October 2013. His career has been long and fruitful. He was very active up to 87 years and the author of this paper has been a direct witness of it. Klein was for him teacher, mentor and friend and he has collaborated with him over more than forty years. From the point of view of economics and econometrics Klein's career has been long and varied, having worked in many different areas. As his life and work are well known, in this work, done in his honor, I refer to the last stage of his professional activity, closely related to the econometric models of High Frequency and to the maintenance and improvement of Project LINK as a reference model of global economic forecasting. It is intended explaining the role of the econometrics in our advanced world, discussing some technical aspects of the activity areas mentioned and figuring out what could be the next stage of evolution of this discipline.
C20|Banking Stability Index: New EU countries after Ten Years of Membership|Successful development of economy is based on the effective and stable performance of credit institutions, mainly banks. Evaluation of stability and soundness of banks is a complex task that involves a significant number of multidimensional criteria. This paper discusses some of the existing efforts to construct an aggregate financial stability index and brings attempts to construct an aggregate Banking Stability Index (BSI). We try to construct an aggregate index, taking into account indicators of financial strength of banks (performance and capital adequacy) and major risks (credit risk and liquidity risk) affecting banks in the banking system. Based on the international experience an aggregate BSI is then used for evaluation of stability in the European Union (EU) countries, focusing on ten countries that joined EU in 2004. We obtained data from database of the International Monetary Fund. Results showed that in 2014 countries with the most stable banking sectors were Luxembourg and Estonia. On the opposite end of the scale were banking sectors in Spain, Portugal, and Greece. The outcome of the study showed decline of the average banking stability in EU countries during the period of 2005-2008, and its improvement since 2009. The improvement in last years was positively affected mainly by development of the capital adequacy (which may be affected by the gradual implementation of decrees in the field of capital requirements regulation). Results also showed that the countries that joined EU in 2004 were positively affected by accession to EU what is evidenced by the value of BSI, which increased between the years 2004 and 2014.
C20|Risk and Banking Performance: the Correlation between Credit Risk Ratio and ROA in the Romanian Banking System|The economic rentability ratio within a banking system is an index for both efficiency and financial stability. The economic growth in Romania in 2006-2008 and the relaxation of the access conditions to banking credit led to an unprecedented expansion of the non- governmental credit. At the end of 2008, when the international crisis made its presence felt in Romania as well, credit risk became once again a matter of interest for both banking management and regulatory authorities. I consider that a study of the correlation between credit risk ratio and ROA is a useful and current instrument for all participants in the banking market, but also for the public and specialized institutions.
C20|Monetary transmission models for bank interest rates|Monetary policies, either actual or perceived, cause changes in monetary interest rates. These changes impact the economy through financial institutions, which react to changes in the monetary rates with changes in their administered rates, on both deposits and lendings. The dynamics of administered bank interest rates in response to changes in money market rates is essential to examine the impact of monetary policies on the economy. Chong et al. (2006) proposed an error correction model to study such impact, using data previous to the recent financial crisis. In this paper we examine the validity of the model in the recent time period, characterised by very low monetary rates. The current state of close-to-zero interest rates is of particular relevance, as it has never been studied before. Our main contribution is a novel, more parsimonious, model and a predictive performance assessment methodology, which allows to compare it with the error correction model. We also contribute to the literature on interest rate risk modelling proposing a forward looking method to allocate on-demand deposits to non-zero time maturity bands, according to the predicted bank rates.
C20|Labour market regulation and fiscal parameters: A structural model for European regions|Deregulation of the labour market and public budget balance are usually consid- ered a fundamental requirement for economic performance. This study analyses the long term relationship between these indicators and gross value added (GVA) for a panel of European regions from 1995 to 2008. Following Olley and Pakes (1996) and Levinsohn and Petrin (2003), a structural equation is estimated using a two stages semi-parametric procedure. Results suggest no univocal evidence of a detri- mental effect of labour protection on long term GVA, while public deficit spending is positively associated with higher output. A negative relationship with debt arises only for economies with very high debt/GDP ratios.
C20|Volatility in European regions|is paper examines the growth rate volatility of per capita GDP of European regions in 1992-2008. We measure the regional volatility using a new methodology based onMarkov matrices and we investigate its main determinants. Volatility displays a geographical pattern and a significant spatial dependence. Output composition appears one of the main driver of volatility; among the other determinants we find a negative impact of the size of regional economies and of the flexibility of labour market, and a positive impact of the sectoral concentration, of the financialization of economy, and of the participation to EMU.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Forecasting Elections: Do Prediction Markets Tells Us Anything More than the Polls?|Election forecasting is an expanding domain within political science, moving from the outer edges (as a novelty pursued by a few ‘quants’) toward the mainstream of the discipline. Amongst the most high profile of election forecasting techniques are prediction markets and vote-intention polls. While the weight of scholarly opinion appears to favour prediction markets over polls for election forecasting, there remain challengers and critics. This article joins with the challengers and the critics, looking at whether this ‘horse race’ competition between election forecasting approaches is valid. Using data from the 2013 Australian federal election, we conclude such comparisons-of-forecasts are misplaced in the Australian context, as prediction markets and vote-intention polls appear to be independent of each other given information from one appears to have no impact on the other.
C20|Decomposing economic mobility transition matrices|We present a decomposition method for transition matrices to identify forces driving the persistence of economic status across generations. The method decomposes differences between an estimated transition matrix and a benchmark transition matrix into portions attributable to differences in characteristics between individuals from different households (a composition effect) and portions attributable to differing returns to these characteristics (a structure effect). A detailed decomposition based on copula theory further decomposes the composition effect into portions attributable to specific characteristics and their interactions. To examine potential drivers of economic persistence in the USA, we apply the method to white males from the 1979 US National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. Depending on the transition matrix entry of interest, differing characteristics between sons from different households explain between 40% and 70% of observed income persistence, with differing returns for these characteristics explaining the remaining gap. Further, detailed decompositions reveal significant heterogeneity in the role played by specific characteristics (e.g., education) across the income distribution.
C20|Consumer models and the common influence of increasing VAT and decreasing wedges|In this paper we study the common impact of increasing VAT and decreasing incomes in consumer models. The considered models are linear ones (see [3], [4] and [8]). It is in fact the extension of the study [2], where there was performed the study of the impact of only one of the mentioned government decision (increasing VAT). We have already noticed that applying the simple three rule is not appropriate. But the problems that arise come from the common impact. It is possible that if it is applied only the decreasing of the wedges (25%) , the incomes from selling products decreases by the ratio b , if we apply only increasing VAT the income decreases by the ratio a (we have obtained in [2] a = 4.01653 ignoring the dependence of quantity on wedges), but if there are applied both the income decreases by the ratio g ¹1−(1−a )(1−b ) . This is the general case, and the explanation of such phenomenon comes from analogous reasons as in [2]: the total income is the sold quantity multiplied by the price, hence we have not linearity. Another explanation comes from the least squares method: in the obtained linear system for estimating the three parameters (intercept, coefficient of prices and coefficient of wedges) both variables influence the result.
C20|Side Effects of War on the US Economy|Having studied the ancient empires, achieving political and economic powers, have been hovered one of the most critical issues all the time for the nations. The strategies to secure those might be different, but the intension still stays the same: controlling the labor and capital markets. Reviewing the historical colonization, one would recognize that there is a significant correlation between the political power and economic power within the countries. Among all the explanations on the approaches to attain these ambitions, using conquest other nations to gain resources and new territory and labor force seems to be one the unfortunate motives in this discussion. In the current study, having analyzed the macro data, I claim the feasibility of a positive causal relationship between having wars abroad and government expenditure in the long run within the studied period in the United States. While in the investigated duration, war seems to have a positive effect on the personal consumptions and the negative one on the export of goods and services, as well as private investments in the short run, as a consequence.
C20|How Independent are the South African Reserve Bank’s Monetary Policy Decisions? Evidence from a Global New-Keynesian DSGE Model|We study the response of South African monetary policy decisions to foreign monetary policy shocks. We estimate the extent of foreign monetary policy pass-through by augmenting standard Taylor rules and comparing the results within the context of a Global New-Keynesian Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibirum (DSGE) model. The general equilibrium model captures important spill-over effects that would otherwise have been ignored in a single equation setup. The results show that the relationship between foreign monetary policy shocks and South African interest rates is complicated - South Africa does not import foreign monetary policy directly, but is still affected. Except for the U.S. an increase in foreign interest rates lead to a decrease in South African interest rates - highlighting the complex channels that monetary policy authorities have to monitor outside of its economy.
C20|Entrepreneurial activity and economic development: The shape of the relationship|The paper investigates how entrepreneurial activity depends on economic development, measured by GDP per capita. The empirical analysis is based on GEM yearly data on 65 countries for the period from 2001 to 2011. We use nonparametric approach to show that variation in entrepreneurial activity across countries can be explained by U-shaped relationship, the hypothesis of L-shaped relationship is rejected. At the same time the analysis does not reveal any significant relationship between the variables in time within one particular country.
C20|Modelling Asymmetry in Oil, Gold and Stock Markets by a Hidden Cointegration Technique. - Modelli di asimmetria nel mercato del petrolio, dell’oro e nei mercati azionari attraverso una tecnica di cointegrazione nascosta|This paper investigates the relationship between gold price growth, oil price shocks, and stock price index in the GCC countries over the period 2006-2008 using daily data. We apply hidden cointegration technique which identifies asymmetry of the cointegrating vectors between components (cumulative positive and negative changes) of the series. The results suggest that there is no link between stock price, gold price growth and oil price shocks. Our findings imply that stock market performance cannot forecast and be forecasted by oil and gold prices. Thus, the possibility of arbitrage is ruled out and the six GCC equity markets can be considered as informationally efficient with respect to oil and gold prices. This has important policy implications for domestic and foreign institutional investors and portfolio managers operating in the Gulf region since our finding can aid in the structuring of coherent trading portfolios in case of equity markets’ turmoil. - Questo lavoro esamina la relazione tra l’aumento del prezzo dell’oro, gli shock del prezzo del petrolio e gli indici azionari nei paesi del Golfo nel periodo 2006-2008 attraverso l’utilizzo di dati giornalieri. Viene applicata una tecnica di cointegrazione nascosta che identifica le asimmetrie dei vettori di cointegrazione tra le componenti (sia di segno positivo che negativo) della serie. I risultati suggeriscono che non c’è relazione tra indici azionari, crescita del prezzo dell’oro e shock nel prezzo del petrolio. Così la possibilità di arbitraggio è esclusa e i sei mercati azionari dei paesi del Golfo possono essere considerati informativamente efficienti in rapporto ai prezzi del petrolio e dell’oro. Ciò comporta implicazioni importanti sia per gli investitori nazionali che per quelli stranieri e per gli operatori di borsa che operano nella regione del Golfo, in quanto le evidenze riscontrate in questo studio possono aiutare a strutturare coerenti portfogli di trading in caso di volatilità nei mercati azionari.
C20|Beyond Technology Adoption: Homeowner Satisfaction with Newly Adopted Residential Heating Systems|In this paper we study homeowner satisfaction with respect to innovative residential heating systems. In particular, we focus on the role of attributes of the home, homeowners’ socio-demographic characteristics, RHS-related knowledge, and adoption motivations. For this purpose, we apply a linear regression model on a dataset obtained from a survey among homeowners in Germany (N=2,135) that had adopted a RHS shortly before the survey was conducted. Moreover, we investigate differences between groups of homeowners by means of t-tests and ANOVA. Our research shows that the motivations for adopting an RHS are relevant factors explaining satisfaction with newly adopted RHS. Moreover, we find the degree of RHS-related knowledge relevant as well. Socio-demographic aspects – such as age, university degree, gender or income – are found to be less important. In particular, the preference to have an RHS that is compatible with daily habits and routines has a strong impact on satisfaction. We also find differences between groups of adopters. Specifically, adopters of a gas-fired condensing boiler or a heat pump are less satisfied than adopters of a wood pellet-fired boiler. The findings of this study may also contribute to a better understanding of factors influencing the word to mouth communication resulting in the uptake and diffusion of certain RHS over time.
C20|Income-related inequity in the use of GP services by children: a comparison of Ireland and Scotland|Equity of access to health care is a key component of national and international health policy, with most countries subscribing to the principle that health care should be allocated on the basis of need, rather than ability to pay or other criteria. The issue of health care entitlements for children is particularly pertinent given the strong causal links that have been demonstrated between eligibility for free care, utilisation and health outcomes. The Irish health care system is unusual in requiring the majority of the population to pay the full out-of-pocket cost of GP care. In contrast, all Scottish residents are entitled to free GP care at the point of use. This difference in public health care entitlements between Ireland and Scotland allows us to examine the impact of differences in financing structures on equity in GP care. In this paper, we use data from two nationally representative surveys of children in Ireland and Scotland to examine the degree of income-related inequity in the utilisation of GP services in both countries. We find that while the distribution of GP care is significantly pro-poor in Ireland, even after adjustment for health need, there is little or no significant inequity in GP utilisation among Scottish children. However, focusing just on children who pay the full price of GP care in Ireland, we find some evidence for a significant pro-rich distribution of GP visits. These results reflect the particular structure of health care entitlements that exist in two systems. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C20|Information Theoretic Competitiveness Composite Indicator at Micro Level|In this paper we study the potentialities of a multivariate index approach for measuring competitiveness. Our proposal aims at developing a multidimensional economic performance index that could be used to measure and compare competitiveness at different level of aggregation (country, region or sector) with a micro-level foundation. The basic idea is to analyse the firm competitiveness by means of multivariate inequality indexes following the approach of Maasoumi (The measurement and decomposition of multidimensional inequality. Econometrica 991–997, 1986 ). An empirical analysis of the multidimensional economic performance index is also provided in terms of profitability, productivity as well as output growth using micro-data for Italian firms for the year 2008. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
C20|The effects of knowledge and innovation on regional growth: Nonparametric evidence|This paper deals with the relationship between knowledge, innovation and regional growth. The study is carried out through the application of nonparametric estimation methods to European data at NUTS2 level. We provide evidence that the share of innovative firms plays a more relevant role in explaining regional growth than R&D expenditures. Further, inward FDI turns out to be a robust growth determinant. Our results also suggest that the effects induced by these variables are of a heterogeneous nature. As a byproduct of the analysis, we show that the estimation results from a local-linear kernel regression can be used for the identification of spatial patterns. In this respect, we find a cluster of innovation-driven labour productivity growth in Germany.
C20|Free primary care in Zambia: an impact evaluation using a pooled synthetic control method|We estimate the impacts of user fee removal in Zambia using a pooled synthetic control method. We find no evidence that user fee removal changed health seeking behaviours, even among the poorest. We show that these results are not attributable to the imperfect implementation of the policy. Nonetheless, our results confirm that the policy virtually eliminated medical expenditures, thereby providing financial protection to health services users. Since the poorest individuals were found to be less likely to use care and had lower expenses, ceteris paribus, the policy effect was similar to a transfer of US$2.22 per medical visit for the total sample but of only US$0.65 for the poorest people.
C20|Is There A Diversification “Cost” of Shari’ah Compliance? Empirical Evidence from Malaysian Equities|Islamic equity portfolios work with a smaller investment universe given the filtering of non-Shari’ah compliant stocks. It has been theoretically argued that this culminates in suboptimal portfolio diversification which in turn adversely affects risk-adjusted returns. We employ a number of methods, namely construction of efficient frontiers, time-varying maximum Sharpe ratios, MGARCH-DCC and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), to offer empirical evidence that such a conceived portfolio diversification “penalty” is far from a foregone conclusion, at least empirically. Our results show that Islamic portfolios are not invariably handicapped in terms of portfolio diversification. We also explored dimensions which may account for differences in relative investment performance between Islamic and conventional portfolios such as portfolio constraints, length of investment horizon and market conditions. We believe this paper is among the first to apply substantial empirical analysis of the portfolio diversification perspective on Islamic equity investments.
C20|Analyzing South Africa’s inflation persistence using an ARFIMA model with Markov-switching fractional differencing parameter|The successful conduct of monetary policy relies on accurately characterising inflation’s data generating properties. Monetary policy errors that allow inflation to transition to a high inflation regime that is very persistent might have costly economic implications as the central bank attempts to bring inflation to a lower regime, say at some target level. This paper studies the duration of inflation persistence over time and across various policy regimes. We test the inertial properties of South African inflation in a Markov-Switching autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average model. We isolate period of high inflation and low inflation and analyse how persistent it is. This is an unique application to South Africa. The use of a fractional differencing ARIMA model allows for the possibility that inflation is close to a unit root, however, still mean reverting. This implies that shocks to inflation is very persistent and take long to dissipate. The inflation persistence is measured using a test by Ng and Perron (2001). We show that inflation is more persistent during high inflation episodes relative to low inflation episodes and more volatile during low inflation periods compared to high inflation periods. We estimate that it takes approximately 70 months for 50 percent of the shocks to dissipate in a high inflation regime compared to 10 months in a low inflation regime. The model identifies three structural breaks - a low inflation regime from 1920 until 1960, a high inflation regime from 1961 until 2003, and another low inflation regime over part of the inflation targeting period, 2003-2014. We also show that inflation persistence in the high inflation regime transitioned to a low inflation regime only much later than the implementation of inflation targeting - hinting that agents take time to adjust expectations. This has an important consequence for monetary policy - monetary policy errors that allow inflation to transition to a high inflation regime may take many months for any corrective policy to become effective.
C20|Breaking the “Iron Rice Bowl” and Precautionary Swings: Evidence from Chinese State-Owned Enterprises Reform|We use China’s large-scale reform of state-owned enterprises (SOE) in the late 1990s as a natural experiment to identify and quantify the importance of precautionary savings for wealth accumulation. Before the reform, SOE workers enjoyed the same job security as government employees. After the reform, a cumulative of over 35 million SOE workers have been laid off, although government employees kept their “iron rice bowl.” The change in unemployment risks for SOE workers relative to that of government employees before and after the reform provides a clean identification of income uncertainty that helps us estimate the importance of precautionary savings. In our estimation, we correct a self-selection bias in occupational choices and we disentangle the effects of uncertainty from pessimistic outlook. We obtain evidence that precautionary savings contribute to about one-third of the wealth accumulations for SOE workers between 1995 and 2002. Precautionary savings motive is thus an important factor that drives the observed rising Chinese saving rate.
C20|Effects of an Integrated Care System on Children with Special Health Care Needs' Medicaid Expenditures|Objective: The Children’s Medical Services Network, a carved-out fee-for-service health care delivery system for Florida’s Children with Special Health Care Needs (CSHCN), chose to develop an Integrated Care System (ICS) for its enrollees. The goal of this study is to analyze the effects of the ICS managed care program on the Medicaid expenditures of CSHCN. Data Sources: Administrative data from 3,947 CSHCN enrolled in Florida’s Medicaid program between 2006 and 2008 for two treatment and control counties were included in the analyses. Methods: To account for the unique nature of health care expenditures data, five econometric models were constructed. These models were used to estimate differences in health care expenditures between CSHCN in the reform and control counties before and after the implementation of the ICS controlling for demographic and individual health status. Principal Findings: The ICS program decreased outpatient, inpatient, pharmacy, and total costs. These effects were statistically significant for one of the reform counties. Emergency room costs increased slightly, though not significantly. Among the econometric models, the Generalized Linear Models outperforms the Ordinary Least Squared regressions. Conclusions: This analysis provides evidence that Managed Care programs such as Florida’s ICS have the potential to reduce health care expenditures.
C20|Statistical Indicators of Stock Assessed as a Percentage of GDP, and Consequences of Abusing the Logic of Statistical Thinking|The macroeconomic indicators concern both the flows that are not fully or partially compensated over a time interval, which can be cumulated or integrated, and the stocks or funds identified in a particular moment. These indicators are addressed either as free real and nominal indicators, or as bound or non-autonomous financial indicators. Statistical and economic problems are methodologically distinguished by the need for connection (free real indicators are updated through the time bound indicators, while free nominal macroeconomic indicators are characterized by a certain autonomy in relation to real free indicators), and also by turning flows into stocks and stocks into flows. This paper details three distinct solutions for the transformation of stocks to flow, solutions of different degrees of generalization: economic, statistical and physical, and all of which are detailed below using debt and budget examples.
C20|Destructive Leadership, Psychological Capital and Organizational Citizenship Behavior: A structural Equation Modelling|Examining the history of studies on leadership indicates that most of the them are about understanding the good and effective leadership (Shaw, Erickson & Harvey, 2011). Leadership styles such as transformational, ethical or authentic leadership which have been gained importance lastly, focuse on the effects and behaviors of constructive leadership (Schyns & Schilling, 2013). In accordance with the studies conducted on constructive leadership behaviors, it is seen that studies focused on the darker sides of leadership have been raised in the last decade. Although destructive leadership is an attention grabbing issue in all over the world, there is no comprehensive research on destructive leadership in Turkey. This kind of leadership has an important effect on employers from different perspectives. Hence, it is seen that understanding and preventing destructive leadership is also important for organizations and members as much as constructive leadership (Einarsen, Aasland, & Skogstad, 2007). In this context, the purpose of this study is to test theoretical model that destructive leadership behaviors of primary school principals affect teachers? psychological capital and organizational citizenship behaviors. The study is constructed with causal research design. The research sample is selected through stratified sampling from teachers in Eski?ehir. For testing theoretically constructed structural equation models, path analysis is used. Within this model destructive leadership is independent, organizational citizenship behavior is dependent and psychological capital is moderator variable. Data are collected through Destructive Leadership Questionnaire, Psychological Capital Questionnaire and Organizational Citizenship Behavior Questionnaire. The findings obtained from this study indicate that destructive leadership affect psychological capital and organizational citizenship behavior negatively, on the other hand psychological capital affect organizational citizenship behavior positively. ReferencesEinarsen, S., Aasland, M. S., & Skogstad, A. (2007). Destructive leadership behaviour: A definition and conceptual model. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 207-216.Schyns, B., & Schilling, J. (2013). How bad are the effects of bad leaders? A meta-analysis of destructive leadership and its outcomes. The Leadership Quarterly, 24, 138-158.Shaw, J. B., Erickson, A., & Harvey, M. (2011). A method for measuring destructive leadership and identifying types of destructive leaders in organizations. The Leadership Quarterly, 22, 575-590.
C20|Is the Engel curve approach viable in the estimation of alternative PPPs?|Conventional estimates of purchasing power parities (PPP) rely on cross-country price data. Using Engel curves, Almås (Am Econ Rev 102:1093–1117, 2012 ) was, however, able to show that PPPs contain substantial bias. Since constructing conventional estimates is expensive and time consuming, Almås’ idea of employing Engel curves is welcome. This article examines the viability of the Engel curve approach to PPP and its sensitivity to differences in relative prices and preferences by estimating Engel curves not only between countries but also for regions within a given country. My empirical evidence from the United States and Norway suggests that the differences can be problematic, but not sufficiently to discredit the new methodology. A pragmatic approach to PPP estimation between countries that are different is to compute a PPP band, rather than a point estimate. I present a practical example of this using expenditure data from 2001, which yields a band for NOK and US dollar. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
C20|OPEC and political considerations when deciding on oil extraction|Two oil price shocks changed the pattern of cheap oil. The first was the Arab embargo on oil exports in 1973. Oil prices rose five fold. In 1978, the second was the fall of Shah Iran. Prices soared to $80–$100 a barrel in today’s prices. In 1960, OPEC was established and since then it has been a considerable political and economic force in the oil market. Two thirds of the world’s oil reserves belong to OPEC members. OPEC is accused of being responsible for most of the price increases due to their production cuts and market power. This paper provides a general framework to examine the role of OPEC in affecting oil prices through the extracted quantities. A mathematical model is developed to explore the objective function of OPEC, which includes economic and political considerations. The idea is that OPEC members consider both the political support of their citizens and profits when determining oil extraction rates. This support is represented by a “harm function” which was added to the objective function of OPEC. The solution of the model lends some support for inclusion of this harm function, through which OPEC benefits from the cuts in production aimed at harming the western countries. For this harm function to be meaningful empirically, OPEC members should have a high harm indicator, α t . With high harm indicator values, OPEC harms itself financially. The results suggest that OPEC appears to be accepting considerable monetary setbacks to appease its citizens’ taste for harming the West. At different discount rates, the monetary losses range from about 10–20%. Solving the mathematical model required estimation of the residual demand that OPEC faces plus the cost function that applies to OPEC production. This paper reports the results of these estimations. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
C20|Improving likelihood-ratio-based confidence intervals for threshold parameters in finite samples|Within the context of threshold regressions, we show that asymptotically-valid likelihood-ratio-based confidence intervals for threshold parameters perform poorly in finite samples when the threshold effect is large. A large threshold effect leads to a poor approximation of the profile likelihood in finite samples such that the conventional approach to constructing confidence intervals excludes the true threshold parameter value too often, resulting in low coverage rates. We propose a conservative modification to the standard likelihood-ratio-based confidence interval that has coverage rates at least as high as the nominal level, while still being informative in the sense of including relatively few observations of the threshold variable. An application to thresholds for US industrial production growth at a disaggregated level shows the empirical relevance of applying the proposed approach.
C20|Targeting Noncognitive Skills to Improve Cognitive Outcomes: Evidence from a Remedial Education Intervention|We study an education intervention targeting underachieving pupils' noncognitive skills with the aim of improving attendance and cognitive outcomes. We evaluate the policy effect on test scores in national exams at age 16 exploiting repeated observations to control for unobservables. We find little evidence of improved cognitive outcomes. We further examine the policy impact on students' absences. Lacking repeated observations on this outcome, we simulate the effect of unobservables on attendance. While the intervention had beneficial effects on school presence, these did not translate to improved cognitive outcomes. Conversely, the policy generated positive spillover effects on nontreated students' test scores.
C20|Operationalising ‘safe statistics’: the case of linear regression|The recent growth in research access to confidential government microdata has prompted the development of more general 'output-based statistical disclosure control' (OSDC) methods which go beyond tabular protection. Central to OSDC is the concept of 'safe/unsafe statistics', allowing researchers and facility owners to make informed judgments about the types of research output that pose a disclosure risk. While increasingly accepted in specialist environments, in the wider community this novel approach causes some concern: how can 'safe' be unconditional? This paper therefore demonstrates the new approach using linear regression, a key research output, as an example. In doing so, the paper reconsiders the objectivity of SDC decision-making, arguing that ‘safety’ be explicitly acknowledged as a relative concept.
C20|Bayesian Inference for a Semi-Parametric Copula-based Markov Chain|This paper presents a method to specify a strictly stationary univariate time series model with particular emphasis on the marginal characteristics (fat tailedness, skewness etc.). It is the rst time in time series models with speci ed marginal distribution, a non-parametric speci cation is used. Through a Copula distribution, the marginal aspect are separated and the information contained within the order statistics allow to efficiently model a discretely-varied time series. The estimation is done through Bayesian method. The method is invariant to any copula family and for any level of heterogeneity in the random variable. Using count times series of weekly rearm homicides in Cape Town, South Africa, we show our method efficiently estimates the copula parameter representing the first-order Markov chain transition density. JEL classification: C11 ; C14 ; C20
C20|Classification and Re-Classification: Oregon’s Willamette Valley AVA and its New Sub-AVAs| The creation of new, sub-AVAs within Oregon’s Willamette Valley AVA may indicate a desire on the part of well-established wineries to “split” or separate their social grouping from those with lesser qualifications. Once their social cluster has been differentiated, we theorize that these wineries would be able to capitalize on their newly developed distinctiveness and collect a larger regional reputation premium. Based on 2,221 Wine Spectator rated pinot noir wines between 1984 and 2008, regression analyses demonstrate that indeed regional reputation premiums have significantly increased with the creation of sub-AVAs; and that the price-quality ratio gap between sub-AVAs and the rest of Willamette has widened. (JEL Classification: C20, Q12, Q13, L66)
C20|The price of gold and the exchange rate: Evidence from threshold cointegration and threshold granger causality analyses for Turkey|This paper explores the relationship between gold prices and the US dollar/Turkish lira exchange rate between 1990–2011 by using cointegration and Granger causality analyses. The empirical findings indicate that there is a threshold cointegration relationship between the two variables. The threshold value obtained from the estimation of threshold vector error correction model equals −3.268. The Granger test indicates that there is evidence of a bi-directional causal relationship between gold prices and the exchange rate, except when the threshold parameter exceeds the threshold value in the exchange rate equation. According to these findings, gold price can be used as a hedge against the exchange rate. However, since this relationship disappears above the threshold value, gold is only a weak hedge against exchange rate fluctuations.
C20|Ökonometrische Methoden zur Evaluierung kausaler Effekte der Wirtschaftspolitik|Die Öffentlichkeit hat ein Interesse zu wissen, ob politische Maßnahmen die mit ihnen verfolgten Ziele wirksam und wirtschaftlich erreichen. In empirischen Studien, die als Grundlage für evidenzbasierte Wirtschaftspolitik dienen können, werden häufig komplexe Methoden verwendet, um tatsächliche kausale Wirkungen von anderweitig verursachten Zusammenhängen zu unterscheiden. Der vorliegende Beitrag gibt einen nichttechnischen Überblick über Intuition und Anwendungsbeispiele des modernen wissenschaftlichen Instrumentariums zur Evaluierung kausaler Effekte. Die betrachteten ökonometrischen Methoden umfassen kontrolliert randomisierte Experimente, die Zufallsvergabe überzeichneter Programme, den Instrumentvariablen-Ansatz, den Regressions-Diskontinuitäten-Ansatz, den Differenzen-in-Differenzen-Ansatz sowie Panelmethoden mit fixen Effekten. Diese experimentellen und quasi-experimentellen Designs sollen der Wirtschaftspolitik helfen zu lernen, was funktioniert.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Dynamic and Long-term Linkages among Growth, Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries|Abstract Drawing upon a cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study sheds new empirical light on dynamic and long-term linkages among growth, inequality and poverty. First, agricultural sector growth is found to be consistently the most important factor in reducing inequality and poverty not only through its direct effects but also through its indirect effects. Second, there is a significant and negative association between inequality and GDP per capita, with macro institutional quality as one of the important factors in determining the inequality-growth relationship. Third, policies designed to prevent conflicts and mitigate their disruptive effects and violence, stabilise commodity prices, and enhance institutional quality would help eliminate worst forms of deprivation. Our analysis points to a drastic shift away from rural- urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty, and towards revival of agriculture in the post-2015 policy discourse. Indeed, the case for urbanisation rests on not just shaky empirical foundations but could mislead policy makers and donors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Poverty reduction during the rural–urban transformation: Rural development is still more important than urbanisation|Based on cross-country panel datasets, we find that (i) an increase in population share in agriculture is associated with poverty reduction once the longer-term poverty change or the dynamic is taken into account; (ii) rural non-agricultural sector also is poverty reducing in some cases; and (iii) increased population in the mega cities has no role in poverty reduction. In fact, the growth of population in mega cities is “poverty-increasing” in a few cases. Given that a rapid population growth or rural–urban migration is likely to increase poverty, more emphasis should be placed on policies that enhance support for rural agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. If our analysis has any validity, doubts are raised about recent research emphasising the role of secondary towns or urbanisation as the main driver of extreme poverty reduction.
C20|Agricultural Employment, Wages and Poverty in Developing Countries|Drawing upon panel data estimations, we have analysed the relationships among agricultural productivity, employment, technology, openness of the economy, inequality in land distribution and poverty. First, we have identified a number of important factors affecting agricultural productivity, such as agricultural R&D expenditure, irrigation, fertilizer use, agricultural tractor/machinery use, reduction in inequality of land distributions, or reduction in gender inequality. Second, while agricultural wage rate is negatively associated with agricultural productivity and food price in levels, the growth in agricultural wage rate is positively correlated with the growth in agricultural land or labour productivity as well as with the growth in food price, particularly after 2000. Contrary to the ILO's (2012) claim that the gap has widened recently, this suggests the narrowing gap between wage and labour productivity once we focus on the conditional relationship between the two. Third, agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase agricultural productivity after taking account of the endogeneity of the former, while the growth in agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase the growth in non-agricultural employment over time with adjustment for endogeneity of the former. In this context, we have reviewed the recent literature and emphasised the importance of enhancing agricultural productivity and employment. Fourth, both agricultural growth and non-agricultural growth tend to lead to reduction in overall inequality. Finally, increase in agricultural productivity which is treated as endogenous will reduce poverty significantly through the overall economic growth. Overall, policies to increase agricultural productivity and agricultural employment are likely to increase non-agricultural growth, overall growth and reduce poverty, where guaranteeing gender inequality is likely to be one of the key factors.
C20|Conventional and Islamic stock price performance: An empirical investigation|The present paper studies the financial performance of Islamic and conventional indexes for three major regions: Europe, the USA and the World. The study covers the period 2000–2011, enabling us to capture the impact of the recent global financial crisis. To this end, we computed different performance ratios and estimated the CAPM-GARCH model to take into account the financial risk time-variation in order to provide precise performance evaluations. Our findings offer some interesting results and have diverse economic and policy implications. First, while conventional investments seemed promising before the crisis and during periods of calmness, Islamic funds have outperformed them since the subprime crisis began and in turbulent times, but this result is specific to the region under consideration and to the performance criterion. Second, the heterogeneous conclusions in terms of performance may reflect the different states of development of the Islamic finance industry in these regions. Third, we show that the impact of the 2008–2009 global financial crisis on Islamic markets is less significant than for conventional markets, suggesting that by keeping their eye on Islamic finance products, investors can expect some interesting investment opportunities.
C20|Model Of Analysis In The Romanian Footwear Industry|The aim of this work is to determine the influence that exports of footwear industry have on the turnover of the sector. In the work, a period of 9 years is taken into consideration: from 2004 to 2012, establishing an econometric model of analysis of the connection between the turnover and direct exports of footwear industry in Romania. Based on the analyzed empirical data, the work answers to the following question: what is the influence that exports of footwear industry have on sector’s turnover? In addition to specifying the econometric model which describes the connection between the two variables, we also test the validity of the model and the intensity of the connection between the two variables.
C20|El valor del capital natural, un indicador en la sostenibilidad de la extracción del carbón colombiano (2004-2011)|Este artículo muestra una aplicación de la metodología del Valor Capital Natural en tiempo discreto de Maller (2001) buscando responder a la pregunta de si la extracción de carbón ha sido sostenible para Colombia, entre 2004 y 2011. Se estima el excedente del consumidor y del productor, a través de la estimacion de una funcion de demanda para el carbon colombiano y los estados financieros de las empresas del sector carbonífero en Colombia respectivamente. La suma de dichos excedentes da una medida de bienestar social, que junto con la tasa de descuento ambiental para Colombia determina los precios sombra bajo dos modelos de asignacion de los recursos (autónoma y no autónoma). Analizando esta informacion y el indicador de sostenibilidad empleado se concluye que la extraccion de carbón en Colombia para el periodo no ha mostrado una senda sostenible.
C20|Competencia y Crecimiento Económico: una aproximación empírica|El efecto de políticas de promoción de la competencia sobre el crecimiento económico ha sido poco estudiado empíricamente; sin embargo, algunos estudios teóricos y empíricos han analizado el impacto de la competencia imperfecta en el crecimiento de la productividad. En este orden de ideas, en el presente documento se estudia el efecto del alcance del régimen de competencia sobre el crecimiento económico, usando un modelo clásico de crecimiento económico estimado. Se formulan dos modelos, el primero con una variable que refleja la promoción de las leyes de competencia para una muestra de 101 países, y el segundo empleando una variable que captura la eficiencia del mercado de bienes (grado de competencia) para una muestra de 96 países. Los resultados de ambos modelos, sugieren que tanto la promoción de la competencia como un aumento en el grado de competencia en los mercados de bienes, tienen un efecto positivo sobre el crecimiento económico de los países.
C20|Returns on Indian Art during 2000-2013|The market for modern Indian art is an emerging art market, having come into a proper existence only in the late 1990s. This market saw tremendous growth in its initial years and then a downturn that started around 2007-2008. Using data from auctions conducted by a major Indian art auctioneer, we estimate via hedonic regression a price index for paintings and drawings by Indian artists sold during 2000-2013. We are able to thus estimate a rate of return on Indian art as an investment and also shed light on what drives the price of a painting in the Indian market. In doing so, we document quantitatively the extent of the rise and fall in Indian art prices. We also distinguish empirically two segments in the Indian art market, namely modern painters and contemporary painters, who appear to command different prices at auction. We find a positive and statistically significant relationship between the state of the Indian stock market and art auction prices. Finally, we use our econometric results to construct a ranking of Indian painters in terms of the market prices for their work.
C20|Structural Breaks and Causality Relationship between Economic Growth and Energy Consumption in Saudi Arabia|The purpose of this paper is to empirically investigate the short and long run causality between economic growth and energy consumption in Saudi Arabia during the period of 1971-2012 using the Gregory and Hansen (1996) cointegration procedure and error-correction models. The results of the unit root tests with structural breaks indicate that total energy and gas consumption are stationary in levels. Thus, we dropped these variables from the cointegration and causality analysis. The stable long run relationship between real GDP and oil consumption is detected by both stability and cointegration tests. The estimated breakpoints correspond with the period of 1974-1985 during the oil boom. The causal relationship is found between real GDP and oil consumption in both the short and long run. We found short run unidirectional Granger causality running from real GDP to oil consumption. However, the long run unidirectional Granger causality is detected from oil consumption to real GDP. Therefore, the energy conservation policy in the long run should be designed with caution, since energy is considered an engine of GDP growth.
C20|Testing for persistence change in fractionally integrated models: An application to world inflation rates|A new approach to detect persistence change in fractionally integrated models based on recursive forward and backward estimation of regression-based Lagrange Multiplier tests is proposed. This procedure generalizes approaches for conventional integrated processes to the fractional integration context. Asymptotic results are derived and the performance of the new tests evaluated in a Monte Carlo exercise. In particular, analytical and simulation results are provided for cases where the order of fractional integration is both known and unknown and needs to be estimated. The finite sample size and power performance of the statistics are encouraging and compare favorably to other recently proposed tests in the literature. The test statistics introduced are also applied to several world inflation rates and evidence of persistence change is found in most series.
C20|Bounding quantile demand functions using revealed preference inequalities|This paper develops a new approach to the estimation of consumer demand models with unobserved heterogeneity subject to revealed preference inequality restrictions. Particular attention is given to nonseparable heterogeneity. The inequality restrictions are used to identify bounds on counterfactual demand. A nonparametric estimator for these bounds is developed and asymptotic properties are derived. An empirical application using data from the UK Family Expenditure Survey illustrates the usefulness of the methods.
C20|Revisiting the relationship between spot and futures prices in the Nord Pool electricity market|This work discusses potential pitfalls of applying linear regression models for explaining the relationship between spot and futures prices in electricity markets, in particular, the bias coming from the simultaneity problem, the effect of correlated measurement errors and the impact of seasonality on the regression results. Studying a 13-year long (1998–2010) price series of spot and futures prices at Nord Pool and employing regression models with GARCH residuals, we show that the impact of the water reservoir level on the risk premium is positive, which is to be expected, but contradicts the results of Botterud et al. (2010). We also show that after taking into account the seasonality of the water level, the storage cost theory proposed by Botterud et al. (2010) to explain the behavior of convenience yield has only limited support in the data.
C20|The term structure of interest rates as predictor of stock returns: Evidence for the IBEX 35 during a bear market|A Probit model to forecast the probability of bear markets in the Spanish IBEX 35 is presented, being the explanatory factors selected from a wide set of economic variables like the yield curve of Spain, US and Europe, several macro variables, and numerous leading indicators. A data-guided algorithm is used to render a concise parameterization of this optimal model. Our results suggest that the slopes of US and Europe yield curves have some information content (not implicitly present in the slope of the Spanish yield curve) that helps to better forecast the probability of bear markets.
C20|Las externalidades de las economías de la red: el caso de la telefonía movil|The complexity of the current economic relations, created in part by the rapid change of technology, offers real challenges to study and understand the behavior of economic agents. Many of these problems and their solutions have to do with the way in which the complexity of the involved systems is analyzed. In particular, the economic systems whose dynamics is the result of the interaction of the processes of positive and negative feedback have been widely used in the economic analysis. As a classic example, we have the model of supply and demand whose dynamic nature is the result of the interaction of these processes.This paper analyzes one of forces of positive feedback such as the primary network and secondary network economies. The first type refers to the increased value received by the consumer as the number of users increases while the second one refers to the establishment of a complementary base that can reduce the transaction costs for consumers and increase the value captured by the supplier. By using as reference the classic model of Harold Hotelling, the externalities of network economies are modelled as a force of positive feedback since these forces play a determinant role in an oligopolistic market with a dominant agent –a market structure that describes in general the competition in the mobile phone industry in MexicoJournal: Revista de Administración, Finanzas y Economía (Journal of Management, Finance and Economics)
C20|Socio-economic Inequalities in Child Health in Ireland|In the literature on the links between socio-economic status (SES) and child health, there is evidence that the SES gradient is weaker for objective indicators of child health (e.g., height) than for subjective indicators (e.g., parental-assessed health). In this paper, we use crosssectional micro-data from the Growing Up in Ireland study to examine the SES gradient in height, weight, general health status and chronic illness incidence. Using household income and mother’s education as indicators of SES, we find only limited support for the contention that the SES gradient in child health in Ireland is stronger for more subjective indicators of child health.
C20|"Breaking the ""Iron Rice Bowl"" and Precautionary Savings: Evidence from Chinese State-Owned Enterprises Reform"|"We use China's large-scale reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the late 1990s as a natural experiment to identify and quantify the importance of precautionary saving for wealth accumulation. Before the reform, SOE workers enjoyed the same job security as government employees. Since the reform, over 35 million SOE workers have been laid off, although government employees kept their ""iron rice bowl."" The change in unemployment risk for SOE workers relative to that of government employees before and after the reform provides a clean identification of income uncertainty that helps us estimate the importance of precautionary saving. In our estimation, we correct a self-selection bias in occupational choice and disentangle the effects of uncertainty from pessimistic outlook. We obtain evidence that precautionary savings account for at least one-third of the wealth accumulation for SOE workers between 1995 and 2002."
C20|The Soft Regression Method- Suggested Improvements|Soft regression is a regression technique based on fuzzy information processing and heuristic information processing methods. However, following the practical use of the method, it was found that two aspects of the calculations pertaining to the relative weights of explanatory variables could be improved to make the method more logical, and therefore more in line with heuristic basis of soft regression. In the following paper, we will present the soft regression method, the suggested improvements, and finally an example to illustrate the suggested improvements regarding factors affecting international growth and development.
C20|Commodity and equity markets: Some stylized facts from a copula approach|In this paper, we propose to identify the dependence structure that exists between returns on equity and commodity futures and its development over the past 20years. The key point is that we do not impose any dependence structure, but let the data select it. To do so, we model the dependence between commodity (metal, agriculture and energy) and stock markets using a flexible approach that allows us to investigate whether the co-movement is: (i) symmetrical and frequent, (ii) (a) symmetrical and mostly present during extreme events and (iii) asymmetrical and mostly present during extreme events. We also allow for this dependence to be time-varying from January 1990 to February 2012. Our analysis uncovers three major stylised facts. First, we find that the dependence between commodity and stock markets is time-varying, symmetrical and occurs most of the time (as opposed to mostly during extreme events). Second, not allowing for time-varying parameters in the dependence distribution generates a bias towards an evidence of tail dependence. Similarly, considering only tail dependence may lead to false evidence of asymmetry. Third, a growing co-movement between industrial metals and equity markets is identified as early as 2003; this co-movement spreads to all commodity classes and becomes unambiguously stronger with the global financial crisis after Fall 2008.
C20|Some New Results on the Estimation of Structural Budget Balance for Spain|The recession that started in 2008 caused a sharp deterioration of the budget balance of Spain. This de-cline was not fully anticipated by the structural budget balance due to some methodology limitations. In this article, we calculate an alternative structural balance for Spain in the years prior to the subprime crisis that includes residential investment as an explanatory variable. This estimate shows that by 2004the Spanish fiscal situation was not as strong as presumed. This fragility was hidden by the extraordinary revenue from the real estate bubble and the construction boom.
C20|Overseas Performance Of Chilean Pension Funds,Desempeno De Los Fondos De Pensiones Chilenos En El Extranjero|Considering the cycle of high volatility generated as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, we analyze the performance of Chilean Pension Funds by means of JensenÂ´s measure, SharpeÂ´s ratio and TreynorÂ´s ratio. Comparisons are made on a monthly basis from September 2007 to August 2012. We conclude that pension funds had a similar performance to the MSCI-ACWI global index, but failed to deliver a premium per unit of risk above the average yield of U.S. Treasury bonds. By breaking down the total risk of the pension funds into their systematic and idiosyncratic components, we confirm the difficulty involved in eliminating unsystematic risk. Our findings suggest that the restrictions imposed by Chilean law allowed the funds to reach return levels similar to an active global portfolio, albeit with a substantial increase in overall risk.
C20|The Contribution of Small Scale Irrigation Water Use to Households Food Security in Gorogutu District of Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia|Small scale irrigation expansion has got vital role in assisting the development of sustainable agriculture in Ethiopia. And more number of small scale irrigation schemes were developed in the country including Gorogutu district of Oromia Region, considering the reality that irrigation is the obvious response to low agricultural productivity. The purpose of this study is therefore to assess the contribution of small-scale irrigation to householdâ€™s food security in Gorogutu district. Primary data were collected from 180 sample households selected from two PAs in the district, through random sampling technique based on probability proportional to size. The two PAs were selected considering the existence of small scale irrigation schemes, schemes years of operation and irrigation capacity. Binary Logit model was employed to examine the contribution of irrigation to householdâ€™s food security. The result of Binary Logit model indicates that use of irrigation water, family size in AE, off/non-farm income, total farm income, and livestock holding were found significantly influencing households food security. The marginal effect of the study showed that small-scale irrigation scheme utilization increases the probability of farm households to be food secure by 48%. The result is witnessed that irrigation has a great contribution to householdâ€™s food security and sustainable food security intervention must not exclude the improvement of production and productivity of agricultural sector through expansion of small-scale irrigation water use.
C20|An Extension Of The Methodology Of Using The Student Test In Case Of A Linear Regression With Three Explanatory Variables|Having in view some algebraical properties of the Student Test statistics, in this paper a new indicator is proposed in order to evaluate the quality of estimation in case of a linear regression with three explanatory variables, when OLS method is used. The respective indicator, named Synthesis of Transformed Form of Student Test statistics (STFST) is defined by taking into consideration the arithmetical mean and the coefficient of variation of Transformed Form of Student Test Statistics. Also, an explanation regarding the deviation of the arithmetical mean of Transformed Form of Student Test Statistics from Fisher Test statistics is given. In this context, a factorial analysis model is proposed in order to reveal the modeling factors contribution in obtaining the Student Test statistics. At the end of the paper a numerical example is presented in order to show the practical use of the proposed analysis methodology.
C20|Gender-based wage and occupational inequality in the new millenium in Egypt|This paper adds to the existing literature on the Egyptian labor market by examining the extent to which the treatment of women in the Egyptian private labor market has evolved, and if occupational segregation has affected gender wage gaps in the newly transformed Egyptian economy. T he paper tracks the current trend of gender based wage gaps, and evaluates the role of occupational segregation in explaining these gaps in the Egyptian private labor market. Comparing the years 2000 and 2004, and arranging occupations in three broad categories, findings of this study point to a wider occupational segregation and increased crowding of women in few jobs, which are becoming a more serious issue in pay differences than pure pay discrimination for both professional and blue collar women. Pay discrimination for white collar workers is not as severe as in professional and blue collar jobs. Therefore, policies that target inter-occupational components to close the wage gap may have far-reaching effects on professional and blue-collar workers, whereas policies targeting equal pay for equal jobs will have a greater success for white-collar workers.
C20|A two-stage proxy variable approach to estimating movie box office receipts|This paper advances the ongoing discussion of methods for predicting movie box office revenues with two contributions to the methodology and an out-of-sample test of the model. The first innovation is the development of a two-stage model using publicly available pre-release indicators to predict (1) initial week and (2) subsequent run box office revenues. To incorporate the experience-good nature of movies, the second stage is estimated by incorporating a proxy variable for box office success during the first week relative to predicted first week success. The second contribution is an empirical test of De Vany and Walls’ (J Econ Dyn Control 28:1035–1057, 2004 ) finding that the distribution of movie revenues has “heavy tails” and follows a non-Gaussian stable distribution with infinite variance. We estimate the two-stage model of a movie’s box office success on all general release movies in 1 year with both the Gaussian and stable distribution with heavy tails and infinite variance and find no evidence for the stable distribution in either stage of the estimation. This two-stage model is validated by comparing all general release movies in 3 future years (out-of-sample data) to the model’s predictions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C20|A hidden cost of war: the impact of mobilizing reserve troops on emergency response times|This paper analyzes a hidden cost of war: the effect of the mass mobilization of reserve troops on the response times of domestic emergency services to accidents. We provide a statistical examination of this linkage following the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 and find that mobilization significantly increases response times to accidents in the United States. These mobilization-related costs are exacerbated by both legal restrictions and issues of replacing highly specialized human capital. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C20|Agricultural Employment, Wages and Poverty in Developing Countries|Abstract Drawing upon panel data estimations, we have analysed the relationships among agricultural productivity, employment, technology, openness of the economy, inequality in land distribution and poverty. First, we have identified a number of important factors affecting agricultural productivity, such as agricultural R&D expenditure, irrigation, fertilizer use, agricultural tractor/machinery use, reduction in inequality of land distributions, or reduction in gender inequality. Second, while agricultural wage rate is negatively associated with agricultural productivity and food price in levels, the growth in agricultural wage rate is positively correlated with the growth in agricultural land or labour productivity as well as with the growth in food price, particularly after 2000. Contrary to the ILO’s (2012) claim that the gap has widened recently, this suggests the narrowing gap between wage and labour productivity once we focus on the conditional relationship between the two. Third, agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase agricultural productivity after taking account of the endogeneity of the former, while the growth in agricultural employment per hectare tends to increase the growth in non-agricultural employment over time with adjustment for endogeneity of the former. In this context, we have reviewed the recent literature and emphasised the importance of enhancing agricultural productivity and employment. Fourth, both agricultural growth and non-agricultural growth tend to lead to reduction in overall inequality. Finally, increase in agricultural productivity which is treated as endogenous will reduce poverty significantly through the overall economic growth. Overall, policies to increase agricultural productivity and agricultural employment are likely to increase non-agricultural growth, overall growth and reduce poverty, where guaranteeing gender inequality is likely to be one of the key factors.
C20|Dynamic and Long-term Linkages among Growth, Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries|Drawing upon cross-country panel data for developing countries, the present study sheds new empirical light on dynamic and long-term linkages among growth in agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, inequality and poverty. Agricultural growth is found to be the most important factor in reducing inequality and poverty. The role of agricultural growth in reducing inequality is undermined by ethnic fractionalisation which tends to make inequality more persistent. Our analysis points to a drastic shift away from rural-urban migration and urbanisation as main drivers of growth and elimination of extreme poverty, and towards revival of agriculture in the post-2015 policy discourse.
C20|How do unisex rating regulations affect gender differences in insurance premiums?|As of December 21, 2012, the use of gender as an insurance rating category was prohibited. Any remaining pricing disparities between men and women will now be traced back to the reasonable pricing of characteristics that happen to differ between the groups or to the pricing of characteristics that differ between sexes in a way that proxies for gender. Using data from an automobile insurer, we analyze how the standard industry approach to simply omit gender from the pricing formula, which allows for proxy effects, differs from the benchmark for what prices would look like if direct gender effects are removed and other variables do not adjust as proxies. We find that the standard industry approach will likely be influenced by proxy effects for young and old drivers. Our method can simply be applied to almost any setting where a regulator is considering a uniform-pricing reform.
C20|Group-Average Observables as Controls for Sorting on Unobservables When Estimating Group Treatment Effects: the Case of School and Neighborhood Effects|We consider the classic problem of estimating group treatment effects when individuals sort based on observed and unobserved characteristics that affect the outcome. Using a standard choice model, we show that controlling for group averages of observed individual characteristics potentially absorbs all the across-group variation in unobservable individual characteristics. We use this insight to bound the treatment effect variance of school systems and associated neighborhoods for various outcomes. Across four datasets, our most conservative estimates indicate that a 90th versus 10th percentile school system increases the high school graduation probability by between 0.047 and 0.085 and increases the college enrollment probability by between 0.11 and 0.13. We also find large effects on adult earnings. We discuss a number of other applications of our methodology, including measurement of teacher value-added.
C20|The Taylor Decomposition: A Unified Generalization of the Oaxaca Method to Nonlinear Models|The widely used Oaxaca decomposition applies to linear models. Extending it to commonly used nonlinear models such as binary choice and duration models is not straightforward. This paper shows that the original decomposition using a linear model can be obtained as a first order Taylor expansion. This basis provides a means of obtaining a coherent and unified approach which applies to nonlinear models, which we refer to as a Taylor decomposition. Explicit formulae are provided for the Taylor decomposition for the main nonlinear models used in applied econometrics including the Probit binary choice and Weibull duration models. The detailed decomposition of the explained component is expressed in terms of what are usually referred to as marginal effects and a remainder. Given Jensen's inequality, the latter will always be present in nonlinear models unless an ad hoc or tautological basis for decomposition is used.
C20|On the asymptotic distribution of the transaction price in a clock model of a multi-unit, oral, ascending-price auction within the common-value paradigm|" type=""main""> Using a clock model of a multi-unit, oral, ascending-price auction, within the common-value paradigm, we analyze the behavior of the transaction price as the numbers of bidders and units gets large in a particular way. We find that even though the transaction price is determined by a fraction of losing drop-out bids, that price converges in probability to the true, but ex ante unknown, value. Subsequently, we demonstrate that the asymptotic distribution of the transaction price is Gaussian. Finally, we apply our methods to data from an auction of taxi license plates held in Shenzhen, China."
C20|Modelling the fiscal reaction functions of the GIPS based on state-varying thresholds|We introduce non-linear fiscal reaction functions with endogenously estimated state-varying thresholds to capture the behaviour of fiscal policy authorities during “good” and “bad” times. These thresholds vary with the level of debt, the economic cycle and a financial pressure index.
C20|The Impact Of Persistent Cycles On Zero Frequency Unit Root Tests|In this paper we investigate the impact of non-stationary cycles on the asymptotic and finite sample properties of standard unit root tests. Results are presented for the augmented Dickey-Fuller normalised bias and t-ratio-based tests (Dickey and Fuller, 1979, and Said and Dickey, 1984), the variance ratio unit root test of Breitung (2002) and the M class of unit-root tests introduced by Stock (1999) and Perron and Ng (1996). The limiting distributions of these statistics are derived in the presence of non-stationary cycles. We show that while the ADF statistics remain pivotal (provided the test regression is properly augmented), this is not the case for the other statistics considered and show numerically that the size properties of the tests based on these statistics are too unreliable to be used in practice. We also show that the t-ratios associated with lags of the dependent variable of order greater than two in the ADF regression are asymptotically normally distributed. This is an important result as it implies that extant sequential methods (see Hall, 1994 and Ng and Perron, 1995) used to determine the order of augmentation in the ADF regression remain valid in the presence of non-stationary cycles.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C20|Macroeconomics: Science or Faith Based Discipline?| Whether or not macroeconomics is a science depends on the scientific nature of macroeconomic theories and how the discipline responds when the empirical evidence fails to match the underlying assumptions and predictions of the theories. By way of an example, four conditions for macroeconomics to be a science are developed and used to examine the 'modern' theories of the Phillips curve. It is found that while the discipline in general maintains one condition it routinely violates the other three. This suggests the macroeconomics discipline has some way to go before it can call itself a 'pure science.'
