C22|In Search of a Job: Forecasting Employment Growth in the US using Google Trends|We show that Google search activity on relevant terms is a strong out-of-sample predictor of future employment growth in the US and that it greatly outperforms benchmark predictive models based on macroeconomic, financial, and sentiment variables. Using a subset of ten keywords, we construct a panel with 211 variables using Google’s own algorithms to find related search queries. We use Elastic Net variable selection in combination with Partial Least Squares to extract the most important information from a large set of search terms. Our forecasting model, which can be constructed in real time and is free from revisions, delivers an out-of-sample R^2 statistic of 65% to 88% for horizons between one month and one year ahead over the period 2008-2017, which compares to between roughly 30% and 60% for the benchmark models.
C22|Transition from the Taylor rule to the zero lower bound|This paper examines the Taylor rule in the context of United States monetary policy since 1965, particularly with respect to the zero-lower-bound era of the federal funds rate from 2009 to 2016. A nonlinear Taylor rule is developed which features smooth transitions in the first two moments of the federal funds rate. This exible specification is found to usefully capture observed nonlinearity, while accounting for the well-documented structural changes in monetary policy formation at the Federal Reserve in the last fifty years, and especially in the recent zero-lower-bound era.
C22|Variance swap payoffs, risk premia and extreme market conditions|This paper estimates the Variance Risk Premium (VRP) directly from synthetic variance swap payoffs. Since variance swap payoffs are highly volatile, we extract the VRP by using signal extraction techniques based on a state-space representation of our model in combination with a simple economic constraint. Our approach, only requiring option implied volatilities and daily returns for the underlying, provides measurement error free estimates of the part of the VRP related to normal market conditions, and allows constructing variables indicating agents' expectations under extreme market conditions. The latter variables and the VRP generate different return predictability on the major US indices. A factor model is proposed to extract a market VRP which turns out to be priced when considering Fama and French portfolios.
C22|Forecasting dynamically asymmetric fluctuations of the U.S. business cycle|The generalized smooth transition autoregression (GSTAR) parametrizes the joint asymmetry in the duration and length of cycles in macroeconomic time series by using particular generalizations of the logistic function. The symmetric smooth transition and linear autoregressions are nested in the GSTAR. A test for the null hypothesis of dynamic symmetry is presented. Two case studies indicate that dynamic asymmetry is a key feature of the U.S. economy. The GSTAR model beats its competitors for point forecasting, but this superiority becomes less evident for density forecasting and in uncertain forecasting environments.
C22|The Shifting Seasonal Mean Autoregressive Model and Seasonality in the Central England Monthly Temperature Series, 1772-2016|In this paper we introduce an autoregressive model with seasonal dummy variables in which coefficients of seasonal dummies vary smoothly and deterministically over time. The error variance of the model is seasonally heteroskedastic and multiplicatively decomposed, the decomposition being similar to that in well known ARCH and GARCH models. This variance is also allowed to be smoothly and deterministically time-varying. Under regularity conditions, consistency and asymptotic normality of the maximum likelihood estimators of parameters of this model is proved. A test of constancy of the seasonal coefficients is derived. The test is generalised to specifying the parametric structure of the model. A test of constancy over time of the heteroskedastic error variance is presented. The purpose of building this model is to use it for describing changing seasonality in the well-known monthly central England temperature series. More specifically, the idea is to find out in which way and by how much the monthly temperatures are varying over time during the period of more than 240 years, if they do. Misspecification tests are applied to the estimated model and the findings discussed.
C22|Forecaster’s utility and forecasts coherence|I provide general frequentist framework to elicit the forecaster’s expected utility based on a Lagrange Multiplier-type test for the null of locality of the scoring rules associated to the probabilistic forecast. These are assumed to be observed transition variables in a nonlinear autoregressive model to ease the statistical inference. A simulation study reveals that the test behaves consistently with the requirements of the theoretical literature. The locality of the scoring rule is fundamental to set dating algorithms to measure and forecast probability of recession in US business cycle. An investigation of Bank of Norway’s forecasts on output growth leads us to conclude that forecasts are often suboptimal with respect to some simplistic benchmark if forecaster’s reward is not properly evaluated.
C22|Disappearing money illusion|In long-term US stock market data the price-dividend ratio strongly predicts future inflation with a positive slope coefficient up to the mid 1970s. Thereafter, the predictability turns negative. We argue that this phenomenon reflects money illusion that disappears during the 1970s. We develop a consumption-based asset pricing model with recursive preferences and either money illusion or inflation non-neutrality that can explain the predictive patterns. The model is also consistent with a structural shift around the mid 1970s in the real interest rate - inflation relationship, thus supporting the hypothesis of disappearing money illusion at that time.
C22|Testing Jointly for Structural Changes in the Error Variance and Coefficients of a Linear Regression Model|We provide a comprehensive treatment of the problem of testing jointly for structural change in both the regression coefficients and the variance of the errors in a single equation regression involving stationary regressors. Our framework is quite general in that we allow for general mixing-type regressors and the assumptions imposed on the errors are quite mild. The errors’ distribution can be non-normal and conditional heteroskedasticity is permissable. Extensions to the case with serially correlated errors are also treated. We provide the required tools for addressing the following testing problems, among others: a) testing for given numbers of changes in regression coefficients and variance of the errors; b) testing for some unknown number of changes less than some pre-specified maximum; c) testing for changes in variance (regression coefficients) allowing for a given number of changes in regression coefficients (variance); and d) estimating the number of changes present. These testing problems are important for practical applications as witnessed by recent interests in macroeconomics and finance for which documenting structural change in the variability of shocks to simple autoregressions or vector autoregressive models has been a concern.
C22|Forecasting Public Investment Using Daily Stock Returns|This paper investigates the predictability of public investment in Japan using the daily excess stock returns of the construction industry, to contribute to the recent discussion on fiscal foresight. To examine the relationship between monthly public investment and daily stock returns without any prior time aggregation, we employ the VAR model with MIDAS regression and estimate the optimal weights for connecting high-frequency and low-frequency data in addition to VAR coefficients and the variance-covariance structure. We find that the VAR model with MIDAS regression reduces the mean square prediction error in out-of-sample forecasting by approximately 15% and 2.5% compared to the no-change forecast and VAR model forecasting with prior time aggregation, respectively. Moreover, using the local projection method, we find evidence of the fiscal news shock estimated in our proposed model delaying positive effects on output, consumption, hours worked, and real wage when news shocks actually result in increasing public investment. This finding suggests the New Keynesian structure of the Japanese economy.
C22|The Great Moderation: Updated Evidence with Joint Tests for Multiple Structural Changes in Variance and Persistence|"We assess the empirical evidence about the Great Moderation using a comprehensive framework to test for multiple structural changes in the coeffcients and in the variance of the error term of a linear regression model provided by Perron, Yamamoto, and Zhou (2019). We apply it to U.S. real GDP and its major components for the period 1960:1 to 2018:4. A notable feature of our approach is that we adopt an unobserved component model, allowing for two breaks in the trend function in 1973:1 and 2008:1, in order to obtain a stationary or cyclical component modelled as an autoregressive process. First, we confirm evidence about the Great Moderation, i.e., a structural change in variance of the errors in the mid-80s for the various series. Second, additional breaks in variance are found in 1970:3 for GDP and production (goods), after which the sample standard deviation increased by three times. Hence, a part of the Great Moderation can be viewed as a reversion to the pre-70s level of volatility. Third, the evidence about systematic changes in the sum of the autoregressive coefficients (a measure of persistence) is weak over the whole sample period. Finally, we find little evidence of structural changes occurring in both the variance and the coeffcients following the Great Recession (2007-2008). These results support views emphasizing the ""good luck"" hypothesis as a source of the Great Moderation, which continues even after the Great Recession."
C22|Améliorer la prise en charge sanitaire et sociale des personnes âgées : impact des plans personnalisés de santé sur les parcours de soins|Assurer une prise en charge sanitaire et sociale adaptée aux besoins des personnes âgées est un enjeu majeur des politiques publiques. Dans le cadre des expérimentations Parcours santé des aînés (Paerpa), lancées en 2014 pour améliorer la prise en charge des personnes âgées en « risque de perte d’autonomie », un outil de coordination, le Plan personnalisé de santé (PPS), a été proposé. Le PPS est un outil innovant qui a pour objectif d’améliorer la coordination et la continuité des prises en charge sanitaires et sociales, et ainsi de prévenir la perte d’autonomie, d'éviter le recours inapproprié à l’hospitalisation et la polymédication. Notre étude vise à évaluer l’impact de la réalisation d’un PPS sur les parcours de soins en observant l’évolution de la consommation de soins et de la qualité de prise en charge des personnes âgées qui en bénéficient. L’évaluation est réalisée à partir des données de consommation inter-régime de l’Assurance maladie appariées aux bases de données hospitalières de 2014 à 2017. Nous développons une analyse en doubles différences après appariement afin de mesurer la différence d’évolution entre les traités et les témoins, avant et après la réalisation du PPS. Afin de s’affranchir du biais de sélection pouvant persister à cause du manque de données sociales et d’état de santé dans les bases de données dont nous disposons, nous introduisons dans l’analyse un instrument qui exploite les différences de diffusion du PPS auprès des médecins généralistes entre les communes des territoires Paerpa. Nos résultats montrent que les personnes âgées qui ont bénéficié du PPS ont des besoins complexes, nécessitant une prise en charge sanitaire et médico-sociale. On observe un impact direct du PPS sur les dépenses d’infirmières à domicile qui augmentent significativement dans la première année suivant le PPS, sans se traduire par une augmentation des dépenses globales en ville, puisqu'il s'accompagne d'une réduction des dépenses de soins de généralistes et de médicaments. En revanche, on ne constate aucun effet significatif du PPS sur les hospitalisations évitables, la polymédication et le recours aux urgences. Au regard de nos résultats et des remontées des informations des territoires pilotes, le PPS semble être un outil mobilisé par les professionnels de santé de premier recours pour enclencher une prise en charge médico-sociale et sociale au domicile de la personne. Mais pour assurer la qualité et la continuité de la prise en charge globale, il serait important de créer des passerelles plus formalisées avec les médecins spécialistes et les acteurs hospitaliers.
C22|On the Cyclicality of Social Expenditure: New Time-Varying evidence from Developing Economies|This paper provides a novel dataset of time-varying measures of social spending cyclicality for an unbalanced panel of 45 developing economies from 1982 to 2012. More specifically, we focus on four categories of government social expenditure: health, social protection, pensions and education. We find that social spending has generally been acyclical over time in developing countries, with the exception of spending on pensions.However, sample averages high marked heterogeneity across countries with the majority showing procyclical behaviour in different social spending categories. In addition,by means of weighted least squares panel regressions with country and time effects, we find that the degree of social spending [pro]cyclicality is generally negatively associated with financial deepening, the level of economic development, trade openness, government size as well as political constraints on the executive.
C22|The dynamic relationship between stock market indexes and foreign exchange|his empirical study analyses the dynamic relationship between the FTSE100 Index and the EuroSTOXX50 Index and the USD/EUR and USD/GBP exchange rates, from January 2007 to April 2017. The Johansen co-integration tests suggest that these variables have a long-term relationship.The Granger causality test was conducted through the use of VECM equations, showing that the FTSE100 and the EuroSTOXX50 Index both have a causal feedback relationship. A unidirectional relationship was found between the FTSE100 Index stock prices and the USD/EURexchange rate.The presence of a unidirectional relationship between the USD/GBP exchange rate and FTSE100 and EuroSTOXX50 Index stock priceswas also detected.
C22|Centralized and decentralized bitcoin markets: Euro vs USD vs GBP|In this study, I compared the euro, U.S. dollar, and British pound sterling (GBP) centralized and decentralized bitcoin cryptocurrency markets in terms of return volatility and interdependency. This comparison showed the decentralized bitcoin market has higher volatility and the centralized markets have higher tail dependence regarding returns. The volatility analysis results are contrary to the established leverage reasons that market drops cause volatility. The results demonstrate a higher left tail dependence is in line with the general pattern in “traditional” financial markets which more extreme dependent in downturns. It was also shown trade volume increases as prices decrease, demonstrating participants’ lack of confidence and consensus in a price-jump period.
C22|Contagion and bond pricing: The case of the ASEAN region|In this paper, we obtain explicit numerical formulas to price the defaultable bonds prices of firms. The possible default event of the firms happen in random time and not necessary in uniform time spread. For this purpose, we develop a Markov regime-switching Copula model that allows us to well-capture the economic behavior in some ASEAN region countries. The first regime represents the evidence that is used to support the standard economy. The second regime represents the crisis state. Based on various specifications, we obtain an explicit formula to evaluate the conditional Laplace transform of a regime switching Cox Ingersoll Ross model using the semi-affine property of this model. Our numerical results show strong evidence for increasing volatility parameter in crisis state, suggesting more possibility of contagion. Furthermore, statistically significant differences in terms of volatility of default across countries are reported. Indonesia and Malaysia exhibit particularly higher volatility than other markets, especially in the crisis state.
C22|Mixed Causal-Noncausal Autoregressions: Bimodality Issues in Estimation and Unit Root Testing|This paper stresses the bimodality of the widely used Student's t likelihood function applied in modelling Mixed causal-noncausal AutoRegressions (MAR). It first shows that a local maximum is very often to be found in addition to the global Maximum Likelihood Estimator (MLE), and that standard estimation algorithms could end up in this local maximum. It then shows that the issue becomes more salient as the causal root of the process approaches unity from below. The consequences are important as the local maximum estimated roots are typically interchanged, attributing the noncausal one to the causal component and vice-versa, which severely changes the interpretation of the results. The properties of unit root tests based on this Student's t MLE of the backward root are obviously a ected as well. To circumvent this issues, this paper proposes an estimation strategy which i) increases noticeably the probability to end up in the global MLE and ii) retains the maximum relevant for the unit root test against a MAR stationary alternative. An application to Brent crude oil price illustrates the relevance of the proposed approach.
C22|Estimating the transition time from school to university using a stochastic mortality model|The sufficient provision of university places is of high sociopolitical importance as it facilitates the participation in higher education as well as the accumulation of human capital both being important factors for wealth and economic growth. The aim of this paper is to use the concept of mortality rates for forecasting the transition from school graduates into university in order to enrich and enhance the planning of the needed university places for first-year students. The transition rates differentiated in 16 Federal States and two types of university entrance qualifications were interpreted as mortality rates, fitted with the classical Lee-Carter approach and forecasted with automatically selected ARIMA processes. The results suggest that the constancy assumption used for the original planning provides indeed the best approach for many Federal States. Nevertheless, the application of the well-established Lee-Carter mortality model offers the opportunity to estimate an alternative number of first-year students and to open up a range of possible solutions.
C22|Testing Return Predictability with the Dividend-Growth Equation: An Anatomy of the Dog|The dividend-growth based test of return predictability, proposed by Cochrane[2008, Review of Financial Studies 21, 1533-1575], is similar to a likelihood-based test of the standard return-predictability model, treating the autoregressive parameter of the dividend-price ratio as known. In comparison to standard OLS-based inference, both tests achieve power gains from a strong use of the exact value postulated for the autoregressive parameter. When compared to the likelihood-based test, there are no power advantages for the dividend-growth based test. In common implementations, with the autoregressive parameter set equal to the corresponding OLS estimate, Cochrane's test also suffers from severe size distortions.
C22|The impact of international tax information exchange agreements on the use of tax amnesty: evidence from Norway|In this paper we develop a model for tax amnesty applications in a multi-period setting. One key insight from the model is that applying for amnesty becomes more attractive at the moment when stricter enforcement is announced, even if the implementation of the policy is in the distant future. We use our model to make sense of how international tax information exchange agreements affects voluntary disclosure of wealth and income previously hidden in tax havens. Our data is from Norway. In accordance with the dynamic amnesty model we observe a strong announcement effect of a tax information exchange agreement between Norway and Switzerland and Luxembourg, the two most important tax havens for Norwegian tax evaders. However, the effect levels off very quickly, much faster than our model predicts. We think this is because the initial announcement of the tax agreement exaggerated the risk the agreement imposed to those who had hidden taxable income and wealth in Switzerland. We also estimate and find significant effects of the press releases the Norwegian Tax Authority issues to inform taxpayers about new international tax agreements and the amnesty, or voluntary disclosure, option that exists in the Norwegian tax code.
C22|The impact of international tax information exchange agreements on the use of tax amnesty: evidence from Norway|In this paper we develop a model for tax amnesty applications in a multi-period setting. One key insight from the model is that applying for amnesty becomes more attractive at the moment when stricter enforcement is announced, even if the implementation of the policy is in the distant future. We use our model to make sense of how international tax information exchange agreements affects voluntary disclosure of wealth and income previously hidden in tax havens. Our data is from Norway. In accordance with the dynamic amnesty model we observe a strong announcement effect of a tax information exchange agreement between Norway and Switzerland and Luxembourg, the two most important tax havens for Norwegian tax evaders. However, the effect levels off very quickly, much faster than our model predicts. We think this is because the initial announcement of the tax agreement exaggerated the risk the agreement imposed to those who had hidden taxable income and wealth in Switzerland. We also estimate and find significant effects of the press releases the Norwegian Tax Authority issues to inform taxpayers about new international tax agreements and the amnesty, or voluntary disclosure, option that exists in the Norwegian tax code.
C22|The Russian University Excellence Initiative: Is It Really Excellence That Is Promoted?|We estimate the effect of the Russian University excellence program (Project 5-100) initiated by the Government in 2013 on research performance of top Russian universities which received, on a competitive basis, substantial financial support within this program. To do so we use an econometric analysis of longitudinal data applying a linear growth model with mixed effects, with different characteristics of research output as dependent variables. We demonstrate that there is a significant positive effect of Project 5-100 which appeared from the very first years of its implementation – that is, the universities receiving financial support demonstrate a substantial, steady increase in publications both measured in total numbers and per capita when compared to universities from the control group. An analysis of the structure of publication output allows us to demonstrate that not only quantitative but also qualitative growth has taken place, although the impact of Project 5-100 on quality is heterogeneous across universities and disciplines. Finally, we examine to what extent the change in the structure of research output may be attributed to changes in research collaboration patterns.
C22|Do Portfolio Investors Need To Consider The Asymmetry Of Returns On The Russian Stock Market?|This paper uses the parsimonious method of embedding skewness in asset allocation based on the Taylor expansion of the investor utility function up to the third term and maximizing it by portfolio weights. This approach also enables us to consider investor risk aversion. Time-dependent multivariate asset moments are obtained via the GOGARCH volatility model with a normal-inverse Gaussian distribution for the error term. We explore the performance of the usual 2 moment utility and its 3 moment counterpart for a portfolio consisted of twenty assets traded on the Russian stock market. The results demonstrate that the 3 moment utility significantly outperforms the 2 moment utility by SD, MAD and CVaR for low levels of absolute risk aversion and by portfolio returns and investor utility level during the whole forecast period.
C22|Will the real eigensystem VAR please stand up? A univariate primer|I introduce the essential aspects of the eigensystem vector autoregression (EVAR), which allows VARs to be specified and estimated directly in terms of their eigensystem, using univariate examples for clarity. The EVAR guarantees non-explosive dynamics and, if included, non-redundant moving-average components. In the empirical application, constraining the EVAR eigenvalues to be real and positive leads to “desirable” impulse response functions and improved out-of-sample forecasts.
C22|Yield Curve and Financial Uncertainty: Evidence Based on US Data|How do short and long term interest rates respond to a jump in financial uncertainty? We address this question by conducting a local projections analysis with US monthly data, period: 1962-2018. The state-of-the-art financial uncertainty measure proposed by Ludvigson, Ma, and Ng (2019) is found to predict movements in interest rates at different maturities. In particular, an increase in financial uncertainty is found to trigger a negative and significant response of both short and long term interest rates. The response of the short end of the yield curve (i.e., of short term interest rates) is found to be stronger than that of the long end (i.e., of long term ones). In other words, a financial uncertainty shock causes a temporary steepening of the yield curve. This result is consistent, among other interpretations, with medium-term expectations of a recovery in real activity after a financial uncertainty shock.
C22|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity, and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) Model|In order to hedge efficiently, persistently high negative covariances or, equivalently, correlations, between risky assets and the hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against financial risk and subsequent losses. If there is more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances and correlations have to be calculated. As optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, it is essential to specify dynamic time-varying models of covariances and correlations. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of this paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the only multivariate dynamic conditional correlation model to have been developed to date, namely the widely used Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) model. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. This paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation, and presentation of caveats relating to the DCC model, with an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the DCC model, as well as a related model, in practice.
C22|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Full BEKK Dynamic Conditional Covariance Model|Persistently high negative covariances between risky assets and hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against risk and subsequent financial losses. In the event of having more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances need to be calculated. Optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, so it is essential to specify dynamic covariance models. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of the paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the most widely-used multivariate dynamic conditional covariance model to have been developed to date, namely the Full BEKK model, named for Baba, Engle, Kraft and Kroner. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. The paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation and presentation of caveats relating to the Full BEKK model, and an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the Full BEKK and related non-Diagonal BEKK models, such as Triangular BEKK and Hadamard BEKK, in practice.
C22|Quantile relationship between oil and stock returns: Evidence from emerging and frontier stock markets|This study extends the literature on the asymmetric effect of oil price fluctuations on emerging and frontier stock markets via a quantile-on-quantile approach that allows to capture normal and extreme states in each respective market. We find that oil risk exposures are heterogeneous across the emerging and frontier stock markets and indeed display quantile-specific characteristics. Observing uniform patterns of oil risk exposures within groups of countries that include both importers and exporters, we argue that oil price risk serves as a systematic risk proxy, capturing the market’s concerns regarding global growth expectations, rather than a simple import/export commodity. Our findings suggest that signals from the oil market, either via measures of trading activity in oil futures or changes in basis values, could be utilized by policy makers to improve models of stock market volatility.
C22|Testing the Asymmetric Effects of Exchange Rate and Oil Price Pass-Through in BRICS Countries: Does the state of the economy matter?|This paper investigates not only the question of whether there is exchange rate and oil price pass-through (EROPPT) but also the extent to which the pass-through is asymmetric or state dependent in the BRICS countries. Using monthly data and the nonlinear Vector Smooth Transition Autoregressive (VSTAR) model, we find evidence of period specific pass-through between the upper and lower regime periods, governed by the selected transition variables. We also find asymmetric pass-through in all the countries with strong evidence of higher pass-through when the size of the shocks to the transition variable moves the system above a threshold level. The result further divulges that output growth asymmetrically reacts to the shocks. The implication of these findings is that the pass-through is strongly affected by the state of the economy.
C22|Temporal Aggregation of Seasonally Near-Integrated Processes|In this paper we investigate the implications that temporally aggregating, either by average sampling or systematic sampling, a seasonal process has on the integration properties of the resulting series at both the zero and seasonal frequencies. Our results extend the existing literature in three ways. First, they demonstrate the implications of temporal aggregation for a general seasonally integrated process with S seasons. Second, rather than only considering the aggregation of seasonal processes with exact unit roots at some or all of the zero and seasonal frequencies, we consider the case where these roots are local-to-unity (which includes exact unit roots as a special case) such that the original series is near-integrated at some or all of the zero and seasonal frequencies. These results show, among other things, that systematic sampling, although not average sampling, can impact on the non-seasonal unit root properties of the data; for example, even where an exact zero frequency unit root holds in the original data it need not necessarily hold in the systematically sampled data. Moreover, the systematically sampled data could be near-integrated at the zero frequency even where the original data is not. Third, the implications of aggregation on the deterministic kernel of the series are explored.
C22|Testing for Episodic Predictability in Stock Returns|Standard tests based on predictive regressions estimated over the full available sample data have tended to find little evidence of predictability in stock returns. Recent approaches based on the analysis of subsamples of the data have been considered, suggesting that predictability where it occurs might exist only within so-called “pockets of predictability” rather than across the entire sample. However, these methods are prone to the criticism that the sub-sample dates are endogenously determined such that the use of standard critical values appropriate for full sample tests will result in incorrectly sized tests leading to spurious findings of stock returns predictability. To avoid the problem of endogenously determined sample splits, we propose new tests derived from sequences of predictability statistics systematically calculated over sub-samples of the data. Specifically, we will base tests on the maximum of such statistics from sequences of forward and backward recursive, rolling, and double-recursive predictive sub-sample regressions. We develop our approach using the over-identified instrumental variable-based predictability test statistics of Breitung and Demetrescu (2015). This approach is based on partial-sum asymptotics and so, unlike many other popular approaches including, for example, those based on Bonferroni corrections, can be readily adapted to implementation over sequences of subsamples. We show that the limiting distributions of our proposed tests are robust to both the degree of persistence and endogeneity of the regressors in the predictive regression, but not to any heteroskedasticity present even if the sub-sample statistics are based on heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. We therefore develop fixed regressor wild bootstrap implementations of the tests which we demonstrate to be first-order asymptotically valid. Finite sample behaviour against a variety of temporarily predictable processes is considered. An empirical application to US stock returns illustrates the usefulness of the new predictability testing methods we propose.
C22|The Stability of Demand for Money in the Proposed Southern African Monetary Union|This study investigates the stability of demand for money in the proposed Southern African Monetary Union (SAMU). The study uses annual data for the period 1981 to 2015 from ten countries making-up the Southern African Development Community (SADC). A standard function of demand for money is designed and estimated using a bounds testing approach to co-integration and error-correction modeling. The findings show divergence across countries in the stability of money. This divergence is articulated in terms of differences in cointegration, CUSUM (cumulative sum) and CUSUMSQ (CUSUM squared) tests, short run and long-term determinants and error correction in event of a shock. Policy implications are discussed in the light of the convergence needed for the feasibility of the proposed SAMU. This study extends the debate in scholarly and policy circles on the feasibility of proposed African monetary unions.
C22|Inflation, Output Growth and their Uncertainties: A Multivariate GARCH-M Modeling Evidence for Nigeria|The study applies a BEKK GARCH-M model to examine the effect of uncertainty on the levels of inflation and output growth in Nigeria. The results suggest a significant positive effect of inflation uncertainty on the level of inflation, supporting the Cukierman and Meltzer (1986) hypothesis. In addition, uncertainty about inflation is found to be detrimental to output growth, supporting the Friedman’s (1977) hypothesis of a negative effect of inflation uncertainty on output growth. Uncertainty about growth does not have a significant effect on both the levels of inflation and output growth. The evidence in this study suggests that Nigeria should put in place policies minimizing inflation uncertainty to avoid its adverse effects on the economy. In addition, the independence relationship between output growth and its uncertainty in Nigeria suggest that they can be treated separately as suggested by business cycle models.
C22|What Wavelet-Based Quantiles Can Suggest about the Stocks-Bond Interaction in the Emerging East Asian Economies?|This paper investigates bidirectional interdependence between 10Y bond yields and stock returns in the eight emerging East Asian economies. The method of choice is wavelet-based quantile approach, which can provide an answer about spillover effect in different market conditions and in different time horizons. We find that shock spillover effect is much more intense from the bond markets to the stock markets in all the selected economies, than vice-versa. Also, the nexus is dominantly positive in the more developed financial markets in both tranquil and crisis periods, particularly in the short and midterm horizons, which is an indication that capital reallocation takes place between these markets in a search for safer and more profitable investments. As for the less developed East Asian economies, we find negative quantile parameters in all quantiles and in all wavelet scales, which suggests that dividend discount model is a decisive factor that drives the stock-bond interdependence in all time horizons.
C22|Multiscale Volatility Transmission and Portfolio Construction Between the Baltic Stock Markets|This paper investigates volatility transmission and portfolio construction between the three Baltic stock indices at different time-horizons. Methodologies used for this study encompass parametric EGARCH model and the three non-parametric approaches – wavelet coherence, wavelet correlation and phase difference. Wavelet coherence indicated that risk integration between the Baltic stock markets is not so strong, while wavelet correlations confirmed this contention more precisely. Additional analysis showed that low wavelet correlations are also present between the Baltic indices and the German DAX index. These findings may suggest that the selected indices could be useful for the construction of risk-minimizing portfolios. In order to confirm (discard) this assumption, we constructed wavelet-based two-asset portfolios. The results provided evidence that hedging opportunities exist when the Baltic indices are combined between themselves, but also when they are coupled with the DAX index. This is particularly true for the longer time-horizons.
C22|Causality in Quantiles and Dynamic Relations in Energy Markets| In this paper we investigate the dynamic relations between crude oil price returns and a set of energy price returns, namely diesel, gasoline, heating, and the natural gas. This is performed by means of Granger non-causality tests for US spot closing prices over the period from January 1997 to December 2017. In previous studies this has been done by testing for the added predictive value of including lagged values of one energy price return in predicting the conditional expectation of another. In this paper, we instead focus on different ranges of the full conditional distribution within the framework of a dynamic quantile regression model, and identify the quantile ranges from which causality arises. The results constitute a richer set of findings than what is possible by just considering a single moment of the conditional distribution, which can be useful for implementing better substitution investment strategies and effective policy interventions. We find several interesting one-directional dynamic relations between the employed energy prices, especially in the tail quantiles, but also a bi-directional causal relation between energy prices for which the classical Granger non-causality test suggests otherwise. Our results are robust to alternative measures of the price of oil and different data frequencies.
C22|Frequency Dependence in a Real-Time Monetary Policy Rule|We estimate a monetary policy rule allowing for possible frequency dependence - i.e. allowing the central bank to respond diÂ¤erently to persistent innovations than to transitory innovations, in both the real-time unemployment rate and the real-time inflation rate. The method is flexible, and requires no strong a priori assumptions on the pattern of frequency dependence or on the nature of the data-generating process. The data convincingly reject linearity in the monetary policy rule, in the direction suggested by theory. Our two major â€¦ndings are 1) the post-Volcker central bank responds more strongly to unemployment rate fluctuations than previous regimes do and 2) while the post-Volcker central bank reacts more strongly to persistent inflation fluctuations, it actually accommodates inflation at higher frequencies.
C22|Mis-Specification in Phillips Curve Regressions: Quantifying Frequency Dependence in This Relationship While Allowing for Feedback|We use recently developed econometric tools to demonstrate that the Phillips curve unemployment rate–inflation rate relationship varies in an economically meaningful way across three phases of the business cycle. The first (“bust phase”) relationship is the one highlighted by Stock and Watson (2010): A sharp reduction in inflation occurs as the unemployment rate is rising rapidly. The second (“recovery phase”) relationship occurs as the unemployment rate subsequently begins to fall; during this phase, inflation is unrelated to any conventional unemployment gap. The final (“overheating phase”) relationship begins once the unemployment rate drops below its natural rate. We validate our findings in a forecasting exercise and find statistically significant episodic forecast improvement. Our analysis allows us to provide a unified explanation of many prominent findings in the literature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C22|Estimation of impulse response functions when shocks are observed at a higher frequency than outcome variables|This paper proposes mixed-frequency distributed-lag (MFDL) estimators of impulse response functions (IRFs) in a setup where (i) the shock of interest is observed, (ii) the impact variable of interest is observed at a lower frequency (as a temporally aggregated or sequentially sampled variable), (iii) the data generating process (DGP) is given by a VAR model at the frequency of the shock, and (iv) the full set of relevant endogenous variables entering the DGP is unknown or unobserved. Consistency and asymptotic normality of the proposed MFDL estimators is established, and their small-sample performance is documented by a set of Monte Carlo experiments. The proposed approach is then applied to estimate the daily pass-through of changes in crude oil prices observed at the daily frequency to U.S. gasoline consumer prices observed at the weekly frequency. We find that the pass-through is fast, with about 23% of the crude oil price changes passed through to retail gasoline prices within five working days, representing about 42% of the long-run pass-through. JEL Classification: C22
C22|Closer to One Great Pool? Evidence from Structural Breaks in Oil Price Differentials|We show that the oil market has become closer to “one great pool,” in the sense that price differentials between crude oils of different qualities have generally become smaller over time. We document, in particular, that many of these quality-related differentials experienced a major structural break in or around 2008, after which there was a marked reduction in their means and, in many cases, volatilities. Several factors explain these shifts, including a growing ability of the global refinery sector to process lower-quality crude oil and the U.S. shale boom, which has unexpectedly boosted the supply of high-quality crude oil. Differentials between crude oils of similar quality in general did not experience breaks in or around 2008, although we do find evidence of breaks at other times. We also show that these structural breaks can affect tests of stationarity for many price differentials.
C22|The Contribution of Jump Signs and Activity to Forecasting Stock Price Volatility|We document the forecasting gains achieved by incorporating measures of signed, finite and infinite jumps in forecasting the volatility of equity prices, using high-frequency data from 2000 to 2016. We consider the SPY and 20 stocks that vary by sector, volume and degree of jump activity. We use extended HAR-RV models, and consider different frequencies (5, 60 and 300 seconds), forecast horizons (1, 5, 22 and 66 days) and the use of standard and robust-to-noise volatility and threshold bipower variation measures. Incorporating signed finite and infinite jumps generates significantly better real-time forecasts than the HAR-RV model, although no single extended model dominates. In general, standard volatility measures at the 300-second frequency generate the smallest real-time mean squared forecast errors. Finally, the forecasts from simple model averages generally outperform forecasts from the single best model.
C22|The uniform validity of impulse response inference in autoregressions|Existing proofs of the asymptotic validity of conventional methods of impulse response inference based on higher-order autoregressions are pointwise only. In this paper, we establish the uniform asymptotic validity of conventional asymptotic and bootstrap inference about individual impulse responses and vectors of impulse responses at fixed horizons. For inference about vectors of impulse responses based on Wald test statistics to be uniformly valid, lag-augmented autoregressions are required, whereas inference about individual impulse responses is uniformly valid under weak conditions even without lag augmentation. We introduce a new rank condition that ensures the uniform validity of inference on impulse responses and show that this condition holds under weak conditions. Simulations show that the highest finite-sample accuracy is achieved when bootstrapping the lag-augmented autoregression using the bias adjustments of Kilian (1999). The resulting confidence intervals remain accurate even at long horizons. We provide a formal asymptotic justification for this result.
C22|Evaluating the Conditionality of Judgmental Forecasts|We propose a framework to evaluate the conditionality of forecasts. The crux of our framework is the observation that a forecast is conditional if revisions to the conditioning factor are faithfully incorporated into the remainder of the forecast. We consider whether the Greenbook, Blue Chip, and the Survey of Professional Forecasters exhibit systematic biases in the manner in which they incorporate interest rate projections into the forecasts of other macroeconomic variables. We do not find strong evidence of systematic biases in the three economic forecasts that we consider, as the interest rate projections in these forecasts appear to be efficiently incorporated into forecasts of other economic variables.
C22|When Simplicity Offers a Benefit, Not a Cost: Closed-Form Estimation of the GARCH(1,1) Model that Enhances the Efficiency of Quasi-Maximum Likelihood|Simple, multi-step estimators are developed for the popular GARCH(1,1) model, where these estimators are either available entirely in closed form or dependent upon a preliminary estimate from, for example, quasi-maximum likelihood. Identification sources to asymmetry in the model's innovations, casting skewness as an instrument in a linear, two-stage least squares estimator. Properties of regular variation coupled with point process theory establish the distributional limits of these estimators as stable, though highly non-Gaussian, with slow convergence rates relative to the âˆšn-case. Moment existence criteria necessary for these results are consistent with the heavy-tailed features of many financial returns. In light-tailed cases that support asymptotic normality for these simple estimators, conditions are discovered where the simple estimators can enhance the asymptotic efficiency of quasi-maximum likelihood estimation. In small samples, extensive Monte Carlo experime nts reveal these efficiency enhancements to be available for (very) heavy tailed cases. Consequently, the proposed simple estimators are members of the class of multi-step estimators aimed at improving the efficiency of the quasi-maximum likelihood estimator.
C22|New Testing Approaches for Mean-Variance Predictability|We propose tests for smooth but persistent serial correlation in risk premia and volatilities that exploit the non-normality of financial returns. Our parametric tests are robust to distributional misspecification, while our semiparametric tests are as powerful as if we knew the true return distribution. Local power analyses confirm their gains over existing methods, while Monte Carlo exercises assess their finite sample reliability. We apply our tests to quarterly returns on the five Fama-French factors for international stocks, whose distributions are mostly symmetric and fat-tailed. Our results highlight noticeable differences across regions and factors and confirm the fragility of Gaussian tests.
C22|Realized Volatility Forecasting: Robustness to Measurement Errors|In this paper, we reconsider the issue of measurement errors affecting the estimates of a dynamic model for the conditional expectation of realized variance arguing that heteroskedasticity of such errors may be adequately represented with a multiplicative error model. Empirically we show that the significance of quarticity/quadratic terms capturing attenuation bias is very important within an HAR model, but is greatly diminished within an AMEM, and more so when regime specific dynamics account for a faster mean reversion when volatility is high. Model Confidence Sets confirm such robustness both inâ€“ and outâ€“ofâ€“sample.
C22|Uniform Consistency of Marked and Weighted Empirical Distributions of Residuals|A uniform weak consistency theory is presented for the marked and weighted empirical distribution function of residuals. New and weaker sufficient conditions for uniform consistency are derived. The theory allows for a wide variety of regressors and error distributions. We apply the theory to 1-step Huber-skip estimators. These estimators describe the widespread practice of removing outlying observations from an intial estimation of the model of interest and updating the estimation in a second step by applying least squares to the selected observations. Two results are presented. First, we give new and weaker conditions for consistency of the estimators. Second, we analyze the gauge, which is the rate of false detection of outliers, and which can be used to decide the cut-off in the rule for selecting outliers.
C22|Speculative Bubbles in Segmented Markets|We propose a novel approach for testing for rational speculative bubbles in segmented capital markets. The basic idea is that, under capital controls, heterogeneity of speculative expectations across international equity markets causes financial assets with identical cash flow promises to trade at different prices. Because these deviations from the law of one price inherit the properties of the speculative bubble process, they display periods of explosive dynamics and have predictive power for future movements in equity prices in sample. These two hypotheses can be examined empirically using sequential unit root tests and predictive regressions. An attractive feature of this approach for bubble detection is that it does not require the specification of a model for market fundamentals, thus mitigating the well-known joint hypothesis problem. The focus of the paper is on mainland Chinese companies that cross list shares in Hong Kong. China is an ideal setting for our analysis because of the significant restrictions on capital movements imposed by the authorities and the turbulent behaviour of its stock market over the last decades.
C22|Reference Forecasts for CO2 Emissions from Fossil-Fuel Combustion and Cement Production in Portugal|"We provide reference forecasts for CO2 emissions from burning fuel fossil and cement production in Portugal based on an ARFIMA model approach and using annual data from 1950 to 2017. Our ""business as usual"" projections suggest a pattern of decarbonization that will cause the reduction of 3.3 Mt until 2030 and 5.1 Mt between 2030 and 2050. This scenario allows us to assess effort required by the new IPCC goals to ensure carbon neutrality by 2050. For this objective to be achieved it is necessary for emissions to be reduced by 39.6 Mt by 2050. Our results suggest that of these, only 8.4 Mt will result from the inertia of the national emissions system. The remaining reduction on emissions of 31.2 Mt of CO2 will require additional policy efforts. Accordingly, our results suggest that about 79% of the reductions necessary to achieve IPCC goals require deliberate policy efforts. Finally, the presence in the data of long memory with mean reversion suggests that policies must be persistent to ensure that these reductions in emissions are also permanent."
C22|ARFIMA Reference Forecasts for Worldwide CO2 Emissions and the National Dimension of the Policy Efforts to Meet IPCC Targets|We use an ARFIMA approach to develop reference scenario projections for CO2 emissions worldwide and for seven different regions. Our objective is to determine the magnitude of the policy efforts necessary to achieve the IPCC emissions reductions goals. For worldwide emissions, the aggregate policy effort required to achieve the 2050 goals is equivalent to 97.4% of 2010 emissions. This policy effort is frontloaded as about 60% of such efforts would have to occur by 2030. In order to achieve the IPCC target the policy efforts in the cases of the USA, EU(28), Russia, and Japan - which account for 32% of worldwide emissions, are lower and less frontloaded than the IPCC goals themselves. In the case of China, India and the ROW, which account for 68% of worldwide emissions, additional policy efforts are necessary to achieve reductions in emissions of 105.0%, 156.0% and 111.4%, of the 2010 levels, respectively. In the case of India, policy efforts are not only rather severe but also rather dramatically frontloaded, as about 74% of the policy efforts would have to occur by 2030. Our results suggest that the policies toward decarbonization must consider the specific regional characteristics of emissions. Given the differences in the inertia of emissions in the different regions a one-size fits all approach is not the best approach.
C22|Robust measures of skewness and kurtosis for macroeconomic and financial time series|The sample skewness and kurtosis of macroeconomic and financial time series are routinely scrutinized in the early stages of model-building and are often the central topic of studies in economics and finance. Notwithstanding the availability of several robust estimators, most scholars in economics rely on method-of-moments estimation that is known to be very sensitive to outliers. We carry out an extensive Monte Carlo analysis to compare the bias and root mean squared error of twelve different estimators of skewness and kurtosis. We consider nine statistical distributions that approximate the range of data generating processes of many macroeconomic and financial time series. Both in independently and identically distributed samples and in data generating processes featuring serial correlation L-moments and trimmed L-moments estimators are particularly resistant to outliers and deliver the lowest root mean squared error. The application to 128 macroeconomic and financial time series sourced from a large, monthly frequency, database (i.e. the FRED-MD of McCracken and Ng, 2016) confirms the findings of the simulation study.
C22|On the (in)efficiency of cryptocurrencies: Have they taken daily or weekly random walks?|The legitimacy of virtual currencies as an alternative form of monetary exchange has been the centre of an ongoing heated debated since the catastrophic global financial meltdown of 2007-2008. We contribute to the relative fresh body of empirical research on the informational market efficiency of cryptomarkets by investigating the weak-form efficiency of the top-five cryptocurrencies. In differing from previous studies, we implement random walk testing procedures which are robust to asymmetries and unobserved smooth structural breaks. Moreover, our study employs two frequencies of cryptocurrency returns, one corresponding to daily returns and the other to weekly returns. Our findings validate the random walk hypothesis for daily series hence validating the weak-form efficiency for daily returns. On the other hand, weekly returns are observed to be stationary processes which is evidence against weak-form efficiency for weekly returns. Overall, our study has important implications for market participants within cryptocurrency markets.
C22|The human capital-economic growth nexus in SSA countries: What can strengthen the relationship?|The World Bank has recently placed increasing emphasis on the role of human capital development in facilitating economic development in the Sub-Saharan African (SSA) region. Our study examines the impact of human capital on economic growth for a selected sample of 9 SSA countries between 1980 and 2016 using a panel econometric approach. Interestingly enough, our empirical analysis shows an insignificant effect of human capital on economic growth for our selected sample. These findings remain unchanged even after adding interactive terms to human capital which are representative of government spending as well as foreign direct investment. Nevertheless, we establish a positive and significant effect of the interactive term between urbanization and human capital on economic growth, a result which emphasizes the importance of developing urbanized, ‘smart’, technologically-driven cities within the SSA region as a platform towards strengthening the impact of human capital- economic growth relationship.
C22|Can the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) protect the purchasing power of citizens? A new look at Fisher’s hypothesis|In this paper, we evaluate whether the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has been successful at fulfilling it’s mandate of protecting the purchasing power of the country’s citizens. To this end, we use monthly data covering the post-inflation targeting era of 2002:01 to 2018:04 to re-examine Fisher’s hypothesis for the South African economy by testing for stationarity in real interest rates. Our study makes three noteworthy empirical contributions. Firstly, we use three measures of inflation in computing the real interest rate variable. Secondly, our inflation expectations variables are constructed in alignment with the inflation forecast horizons of 12 to 24 months as practiced by the SARB. Thirdly, we rely on the more powerful flexible Fourier unit root test in testing for integration properties of the real exchange rate. All-in-all, our findings highlight the Reserve Bank’s struggles in protecting the purchasing power of citizen’s for periods subsequent to the global financial crisis but not for periods before the crisis. Policy recommendations are also provided.
C22|Towards resolving the Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) ‘puzzle’ in Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC’s)|The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) hypothesis represents one of the oldest existing economic doctrines and is plagued with empirical inconsistencies collectively labelled as ‘puzzles’. Our study resolves these ‘puzzles’ for 14 Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC) whose developmental strategies are impinged on the stability of real exchange rates which, in turn, validates the PPP hypothesis. We test for the stationarity of real exchange rates (RER’s) by applying an exponential smooth transition autoregressive unit root test augmented with a fractional frequency flexible Fourier form component (ESTAR-FFFFF) to capture heterogeneous smooth transition asymmetries and approximate unknown structural breaks in the time series. We find the RER’s in all 14 NIC’s are mean-reverting over monthly period of 1970:1-2018:12 which confirms the PPP hypothesis for these economies in the presence of exchange-rate regime shifts, oil and food shocks, financial crisis and other forms of asymmetries and structural breaks. Length: 29 pages
C22|A Feature-Based Framework for Detecting Technical Outliers in Water-Quality Data from In Situ Sensors|Outliers due to technical errors in water-quality data from in situ sensors can reduce data quality and have a direct impact on inference drawn from subsequent data analysis. However, outlier detection through manual monitoring is unfeasible given the volume and velocity of data the sensors produce. Here, we proposed an automated framework that provides early detection of outliers in water-quality data from in situ sensors caused by technical issues.The framework was used first to identify the data features that differentiate outlying instances from typical behaviours. Then statistical transformations were applied to make the outlying instances stand out in transformed data space. Unsupervised outlier scoring techniques were then applied to the transformed data space and an approach based on extreme value theory was used to calculate a threshold for each potential outlier. Using two data sets obtained from in situ sensors in rivers flowing into the Great Barrier Reef lagoon, Australia, we showed that the proposed framework successfully identified outliers involving abrupt changes in turbidity, conductivity and river level, including sudden spikes, sudden isolated drops and level shifts, while maintaining very low false detection rates. We implemented this framework in the open source R package oddwater.
C22|Calendar-based Graphics for Visualizing People's Daily Schedules|Calendars are broadly used in society to display temporal information and events. This paper describes a new calendar display for plotting data, that includes a layout algorithm with many options, and faceting functionality. The functions use modulus algebra on the date variable to restructure the data into a calendar format. The user can apply the grammar of graphics to create plots inside each calendar cell, and thus the displays synchronize neatly with ggplot2 graphics. The motivating application is studying pedestrian behavior in Melbourne, Australia, based on counts which are captured at hourly intervals by sensors scattered around the city. Faceting by the usual features such as day and month, is insufficient to examine the behavior. Making displays on a monthly calendar format helps to understand pedestrian patterns relative to events such as work days, weekends, holidays, and special events. The functions for the calendar algorithm are available in the R package sugrrants.
C22|A New Tidy Data Structure to Support Exploration and Modeling of Temporal Data|"Mining temporal data for information is often inhibited by a multitude of formats: irregular or multiple time intervals, point events that need aggregating, multiple observational units or repeated measurements on multiple individuals, and heterogeneous data types. On the other hand, the software supporting time series modeling and forecasting, makes strict assumptions on the data to be provided, typically requiring a matrix of numeric data with implicit time indexes. Going from raw data to model-ready data is painful. This work presents a cohesive and conceptual framework for organizing and manipulating temporal data, which in turn flows into visualization, modeling and forecasting routines. Tidy data principles are extended to temporal data by: (1) mapping the semantics of a dataset into its physical layout; (2) including an explicitly declared index variable representing time; (3) incorporating a ""key"" comprising single or multiple variables to uniquely identify units over time. This tidy data representation most naturally supports thinking of operations on the data as building blocks, forming part of a ""data pipeline"" in time-based contexts. A sound data pipeline facilitates a fluent workflow for analyzing temporal data. The infrastructure of tidy temporal data has been implemented in the R package tsibble."
C22|Nonparametric Predictive Regressions for Stock Return Prediction|We propose two new nonparametric predictive models: the multi-step nonparametric predictive regression model and the multi-step additive predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are locally stationary time series. We define estimation methods and establish the large sample properties of these methods in the short horizon and the long horizon case. We apply our methods to stock return prediction using a number of standard predictors such as dividend yield. The empirical results show that all of these models can substantially outperform the traditional linear predictive regression model in terms of both in-sample and out-of-sample performance. In addition, we find that these models can always beat the historical mean model in terms of in-sample fitting, and also for some cases in terms of the out-of-sample forecasting. We also propose a trading strategy based on our methodology and show that it beats the buy and hold stategy provided the tuning parameters are well chosen.
C22|Optimal Bias Correction of the Log-periodogram Estimator of the Fractional Parameter: A Jackknife Approach|We use the jackknife to bias correct the log-periodogram regression (LPR) estimator of the fractional parameter in a stationary fractionally integrated model. The weights for the jackknife estimator are chosen in such a way that bias reduction is achieved without the usual increase in asymptotic variance, with the estimator viewed as `optimal' in this sense. The theoretical results are valid under both the non-overlapping and moving-block sub-sampling schemes that can be used in the jackknife technique, and do not require the assumption of Gaussianity for the data generating process. A Monte Carlo study explores the Ã–nite sample performance of diÂ§erent versions of the optimal jackknife estimator under a variety of fractional data generating processes. The simulations reveal that when the weights are constructed using the true parameter values, a version of the optimal jackknife estimator almost always out-performs alternative bias-corrected estimators. A feasible version of the jackknife estimator, in which the weights are constructed using consistent estimators of the unknown parameters, whilst not dominant overall, is still the least biased estimator in some cases.
C22|The Federal Reserve’s Current Framework for Monetary Policy: A Review and Assessment|We review and assess the monetary policy framework currently used by the Federal Reserve, with special focus on policies that operate through the slope of the term structure, including forward guidance and large scale asset purchases. These slope policies are important at the zero lower bound. We study the performance of counterfactual monetary policies since the Great Recession in the framework of a structural VAR, identified using high-frequency jumps in asset prices around FOMC meetings as external instruments. The intention is to give guidance to policymakers responding to future downturns. In our counterfactuals, we find that slope policies played an important role in supporting the recovery, but did not fully circumvent the zero lower bound. In our simulations, earlier and more aggressive use of slope policies support a faster recovery. The recovery would also have been faster, with the unemployment gap closing seven quarters earlier, if the Fed had inherited a higher level of inflation and nominal interest rates consistent with a higher inflation target coming into the financial crisis recession.
C22|Forecasting Causes of Death using Compositional Data Analysis: the Case of Cancer Deaths|Cause-specific mortality forecasting is often based on predicting cause-specific death rates independently. Only a few methods have been suggested that incorporate dependence among causes. An attractive alternative is to model and forecast cause-specific death distributions, rather than mortality rates, as dependence among the causes can be incorporated directly. We follow this idea and propose two new models which extend the current research on mortality forecasting using death distributions. We find that adding age, time, and cause-specific weights and decomposing both joint and individual variation among different causes of death increased the forecast accuracy of cancer deaths using data for French and Dutch populations
C22|Longevity forecasting by socio-economic groups using compositional data analysis|Several OECD countries have recently implemented an automatic link between the statutory retirement age and life expectancy for the total population to insure sustainability in their pension systems when life expectancy is increasing. Significant mortality differentials are observed across socio-economic groups and future changes in these differentials will determine whether some socio-economic groups drive increases in the retirement age leaving other groups with fewer years in receipt of pensions. We forecast life expectancy by socio-economic groups and compare the forecast performance of competing models using Danish mortality data and find that the most accurate model assumes a common mortality trend. Life expectancy forecasts are used to analyse the consequences of a pension system where the statutory retirement age is increased when total life expectancy is increasing
C22|Uniform Consistency of Marked and Weighted Empirical Distributions of Residuals|A uniform weak consistency theory is presented for the marked and weighted empirical distribution function of residuals. New and weaker sufficient conditions for uniform consistency are derived. The theory allows for a wide variety of regressors and error distributions. We apply the theory to 1-step Huber-skip estimators. These estimators describe the widespread practice of removing outlying observations from an intial estimation of the model of interest and updating the estimation in a second step by applying least squares to the selected observations. Two results are presented. First, we give new and weaker conditions for consistency of the estimators. Second, we analyze the gauge, which is the rate of false detection of outliers, and which can be used to decide the cut-off in the rule for selecting outliers.
C22|In search of a job: Forecasting employment growth using Google Trends|We show that Google search activity on relevant terms is a strong out-of-sample predictor for future employment growth in the US over the period 2004-2018 at both short and long horizons. Using a subset of ten keywords associated with “jobs”, we construct a large panel of 173 variables using Google’s own algorithms to find related search queries. We find that the best Google Trends model achieves an out-of-sample R2 between 26% and 59% at horizons spanning from one month to a year ahead, strongly outperforming benchmarks based on a large set of macroeconomic and financial predictors. This strong predictability extends to US state-level employment growth, using state-level specific Google search activity. Encompassing tests indicate that when the Google Trends panel is exploited using a non-linear model it fully encompasses the macroeconomic forecasts and provides significant information in excess of those.
C22|Testing Nonlinearity through a Logistic Smooth Transition AR Model with Logistic Smooth Transition GARCH Errors|This paper analyzes the cyclical behavior of CAC 40 by testing the existence of nonlinearity through a logistic smooth transition AR model with logistic smooth transition GARCH errors. We study the daily returns of CAC 40 from 1990 to 2018. We estimate several models using nonparametric maximum likelihood, where the innovation distribution is replaced by a nonparametric estimate for the density function. We find that the rate of transition and the threshold value in both the conditional mean and conditional variance are highly significant. The forecasting results show that the informational shocks have transitory effects on returns and volatility and confirm nonlinearity.
C22|Memory that Drives! New Insights into Forecasting Performance of Stock Prices from SEMIFARMA-AEGAS Model|Stock price forecasting, a popular growth-enhancing exercise for investors, is inherently complex – thanks to the interplay of financial economic drivers which determine both the magnitude of memory and the extent of non-linearity within a system. In this paper, we accommodate both features within a single estimation framework to forecast stock prices and identify the nature of market efficiency commensurate with the proposed model. We combine a class of semiparametric autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (SEMIFARMA) model with asymmetric exponential generalized autoregressive score (AEGAS) errors to design a SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS framework based on which predictive performance of this model is tested against competing methods. Our conditional variance includes leverage effects, jumps and fat tail-skewness distribution, each of which affects magnitude of memory in a stock price system. A true forecast function is built and new insights into stock price forecasting are presented. We estimate several models using the Skewed Student-t maximum likelihood and find that the informational shocks have permanent effects on returns and the SEMIFARMA-AEGAS is appropriate for capturing volatility clustering for both negative (long Value-at-Risk) and positive returns (short Value-at-Risk). We show that this model has better predictive performance over competing models for both long and/or some short time horizons. The predictions from SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS model beats comfortably the random walk model. Our results have implications for market-efficiency: the weak efficiency assumption of financial markets stands violated for all stock price returns studied over a long period.
C22|The Stability of Demand for Money in the Proposed Southern African Monetary Union|This study investigates the stability of demand for money in the proposed Southern African Monetary Union (SAMU). The study uses annual data for the period 1981 to 2015 from ten countries making-up the Southern African Development Community (SADC). A standard function of demand for money is designed and estimated using a bounds testing approach to co-integration and error-correction modeling. The findings show divergence across countries in the stability of money. This divergence is articulated in terms of differences in cointegration, CUSUM (cumulative sum) and CUSUMSQ (CUSUM squared) tests, short run and long-term determinants and error correction in event of a shock. Policy implications are discussed in the light of the convergence needed for the feasibility of the proposed SAMU. This study extends the debate in scholarly and policy circles on the feasibility of proposed African monetary unions.
C22|Inflation, Output Growth and their Uncertainties: A Multivariate GARCH-M Modeling Evidence for Nigeria|The study applies a BEKK GARCH-M model to examine the effect of uncertainty on the levels of inflation and output growth in Nigeria. The results suggest a significant positive effect of inflation uncertainty on the level of inflation, supporting the Cukierman and Meltzer (1986) hypothesis. In addition, uncertainty about inflation is found to be detrimental to output growth, supporting the Friedmanâ€™s (1977) hypothesis of a negative effect of inflation uncertainty on output growth. Uncertainty about growth does not have a significant effect on both the levels of inflation and output growth. The evidence in this study suggests that Nigeria should put in place policies minimizing inflation uncertainty to avoid its adverse effects on the economy. In addition, the independence relationship between output growth and its uncertainty in Nigeria suggest that they can be treated separately as suggested by business cycle models.
C22|Bayesian MIDAS penalized regressions: estimation, selection, and prediction|We propose a new approach to mixed-frequency regressions in a high-dimensional environment that resorts to Group Lasso penalization and Bayesian techniques for estimation and inference. To improve the sparse recovery ability of the model, we also consider a Group Lasso with a spike-and-slab prior. Penalty hyper-parameters governing the model shrinkage are automatically tuned via an adaptive MCMC algorithm. Simulations show that the proposed models have good selection and forecasting performance, even when the design matrix presents high cross-correlation. When applied to U.S. GDP data, the results suggest that financial variables may have some, although limited, short-term predictive content.
C22|Boosting the Hodrick-Prescott Filter|The Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter is one of the most widely used econometric methods in applied macroeconomic research. The technique is nonparametric and seeks to decompose a time series into a trend and a cyclical component unaided by economic theory or prior trend specification. Like all nonparametric methods, the HP filter depends critically on a tuning parameter that controls the degree of smoothing. Yet in contrast to modern nonparametric methods and applied work with these procedures, empirical practice with the HP filter almost universally relies on standard settings for the tuning parameter that have been suggested largely by experimentation with macroeconomic data and heuristic reasoning about the form of economic cycles and trends. As recent research has shown, standard settings may not be adequate in removing trends, particularly stochastic trends, in economic data. This paper proposes an easy-to-implement practical procedure of iterating the HP smoother that is intended to make the filter a smarter smoothing device for trend estimation and trend elimination. We call this iterated HP technique the boosted HP filter in view of its connection to L_2-boosting in machine learning. The paper develops limit theory to show that the boosted HP filter asymptotically recovers trend mechanisms that involve unit root processes, deterministic polynomial drifts, and polynomial drifts with structural breaks – the most common trends that appear in macroeconomic data and current modeling methodology. In doing so, the boosted filter provides a new mechanism for consistently estimating multiple structural breaks. A stopping criterion is used to automate the iterative HP algorithm, making it a data-determined method that is ready for modern data-rich environments in economic research. The methodology is illustrated using three real data examples that highlight the differences between simple HP filtering, the data-determined boosted filter, and an alternative autoregressive approach. These examples show that the boosted HP filter is helpful in analyzing a large collection of heterogeneous macroeconomic time series that manifest various degrees of persistence, trend behavior, and volatility.
C22|On the Evolution of U.S. Temperature Dynamics|Climate change is a multidimensional shift. While much research has documented rising mean temperature levels, we also examine range-based measures of daily temperature volatility. Specifically, using data for select U.S. cities over the past half-century, we compare the evolving time series dynamics of the average temperature level, AVG, and the diurnal temperature range, DTR (the difference between the daily maximum and minimum temperatures at a given location). We characterize trend and seasonality in these two series using linear models with time-varying coecients. These straightforward yet flexible approximations provide evidence of evolving DTR seasonality, stable AVG seasonality, and conditionally Gaussian but heteroskedastic innovations for both DTR and AVG.
C22|How Oil Supply Shocks Affect the Global Economy: Evidence from Local Projections|We provide empirical evidence on the impact of oil supply shocks on global aggregates. To do this, we first extract structural oil supply shocks from a standard oil-price determination model found in the literature. Impulse response functions are then estimated using local projections. This technique has recently been used to estimate the effect of monetary policy and government spending shocks. To our knowledge, however, this is the first time it is used to analyze the effect of oil supply shocks on global aggregates. While there is a high level of uncertainty around our estimates, results can be summarized with three main takeaways. Following a supply-driven decline in oil prices: (1) US business investment usually decreases, highlighting the importance of the shale oil industry, while the reaction of US gross domestic product (GDP) is often not statistically significant; (2) domestic demand in the euro area usually increases strongly; and (3) GDP among commodity exporters declines in the short term, reflecting the importance of the terms-of-trade channel, but increases in the longer term, reflecting the aggregate benefits of increased oil production.
C22|Disentangling the Factors Driving Housing Resales|We use a recently developed model and loan-level micro data to decompose movements in housing resales since 2015. We find that fundamental factors, namely housing affordability and full-time employment, have had offsetting effects on resales over our study period. Recent mortgage rule changes have likely contributed to slower resale activity in Canada, but their impact is estimated to be relatively small. Thus, much of the variation in resales since 2015 reflects deviations from long-run fundamentals, most notably in British Columbia and Ontario. We show that the deviations from fundamentals in these provinces are strongly correlated with house price expectations, which rose rapidly in 2016 but then retreated following provincial housing policy changes.
C22|Démêler les facteurs qui influencent les reventes de logements|Nous utilisons un modèle élaboré récemment et des microdonnées sur les prêts individuels pour décomposer les mouvements sur le marché de la revente depuis 2015. Nous constatons que les facteurs fondamentaux, notamment l’accessibilité au logement et l’emploi à temps plein, ont fait contrepoids aux ventes de maisons existantes pendant la période visée par notre étude. Les modifications apportées récemment aux règles hypothécaires ont vraisemblablement contribué à ralentir l’activité de revente au Canada, mais nous estimons que leur incidence a été relativement faible. Ainsi, les variations des reventes depuis 2015 reflètent surtout des écarts par rapport aux fondamentaux de long terme, principalement en Colombie-Britannique et en Ontario. Nous montrons que les écarts dans ces provinces présentent une forte corrélation avec les attentes à l’égard des prix des logements, qui ont crû rapidement en 2016 puis diminué compte tenu des nouvelles orientations des politiques provinciales du logement.
C22|Measuring real and financial cycles in Luxembourg: An unobserved components approach|We use unobserved components time series models to extract real and financial cycles for Luxembourg over the period 1980Q1-2018Q2. We find that financial cycles are longer and have larger amplitude compared to standard business cycles. Furthermore, financial cycles are highly correlated with cycles in GDP. We compare our results to other approaches to measure financial cycles and show how unobserved components models can serve to evaluate uncertainty and to monitor cyclical developments in real time. Overall, our estimates indicate that in mid 2018 both real and financial cycles in Luxembourg were close to zero, with financial conditions near their long-run trend.
C22|A new approach to dating the reference cycle|This paper proposes a new approach to the analysis of the reference cycle turning points, defined on the basis of the specific turning points of a broad set of coincident economic indicators. Each individual pair of specific peaks and troughs from these indicators is viewed as a realization of a mixture of an unspecified number of separate bivariate Gaussian distributions whose different means are the reference turning points. These dates break the sample into separate reference cycle phases, whose shifts are modeled by a hidden Markov chain. The transition probability matrix is constrained so that the specification is equivalent to a multiple changepoint model. Bayesian estimation of finite Markov mixture modeling techniques is suggested to estimate the model. Several Monte Carlo experiments are used to show the accuracy of the model to date reference cycles that suffer from short phases, uncertain turning points, small samples and asymmetric cycles. In the empirical section, we show the high performance of our approach to identifying the US reference cycle, with little difference from the timing of the turning point dates established by the NBER. In a pseudo real-time analysis, we also show the good performance of this methodology in terms of accuracy and speed of detection of turning point dates.
C22|ITER A quarterly indicator of regional economic activity in Italy|This work documents the construction of the new quarterly indicator of regional economic activity (Indicatore Trimestrale dell’Economia Regionale – ITER), which uses a parsimonious set of regional variables and combines them by means of temporal disaggregation techniques to obtain a quarterly index that is consistent with the official data on national and regional GDP and marked by a small lag compared with the reference period. The methodology was implemented to produce quarterly indicators for the economies of Italy’s four macro-areas in the period 1995-2017. With a view to assessing the performance of the quarterly indicator, a forecasting exercise was conducted regarding annual GDP growth in the four macro-areas for the period 2014-17. The forecasting performance of ITER is in line with that of the indicators developed by other national research institutions.
C22|Evolution and Characteristics of the Exchange Rate Pass Through to Prices in Mexico|This paper analyzes the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices in Mexico using different methodologies. First, we estimate Vector Autoregressive Models (VAR). Subsequently, we estimate Autoregressive Distributed Lags Models (ARDL) in order to make a long run analysis. In particular, we find that the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices is low and has barely changed in relation with the findings in previous studies. We also estimate that when the economy grows above its long-run trend, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is larger on average. Finally, we provide some evidence of asymmetry in the exchange rate pass through, that is, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is greater when there is a depreciation than when there is a currency appreciation. It should be noted that in the long run analysis these results are preserved.
C22|Migración internacional y determinantes de las remesas de trabajadores en Colombia|Esta investigación contribuye a la identificación, caracterización y modelación de los determinantes de las remesas de trabajadores en Colombia. Incluye una descripción de la evolución y características del flujo migratorio de colombianos hacia el exterior y de los receptores de éstas transferencias en el país. El análisis de los determinantes macroeconómicos de las remesas se realiza mediante la estimación de un modelo VEC, el cual considera, además de las remesas, el stock de migrantes colombianos en el exterior y algunos agregados macroeconómicos que permiten aproximar las variables de decisión del migrante para el envío de recursos a su país de origen. Los resultados del modelo muestran que las remesas se ven favorecidas por el desempeño del PIB de los países donde residen los migrantes, así como por el aumento de la emigración de nacionales hacia el exterior. A su vez, permiten concluir que estas transferencias son contracíclicas con respecto al PIB de Colombia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper is a contribution to the process of identifying, characterizing and modeling the determinants of workers' remittances for the case of Colombia. It also includes a description of the evolution of the migratory flow of Colombians abroad and of the remittances recipient’s households. Remittances determinants are explained by using a VEC model that includes, in addition to the remittances inflows, the stock of Colombian migrants abroad and some macroeconomic aggregates that are thought to approximate the variables that influence the migrant's decision to send money to their families. According to the econometric results, Colombian workers remittances inflows are determined by the performance of the GDP of the countries where the migrants live, as well as by the increase in the international emigration of Colombians. In addition, these transfers show a countercyclical behavior against the Colombian GDP.
C22|¿Cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda pública a las tasas de interés de mercado?|La relación entre la deuda pública y las tasas de interés de mercado ha sido un tema de amplia discusión en la literatura internacional, por sus implicaciones sobre los mercados financieros, las decisiones de ahorro e inversión de los agentes económicos y el agregado de la economía. En este artículo se analiza cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda del pública la pendiente o spread de la estructura a plazos de las tasas de interés en Colombia en el periodo 2003-2017. Para alcanzar su objetivo, primero se estima el spread a diferentes plazos, mediante un modelo de estado-espacio. Posteriormente, se determina el impacto de la deuda sobre aquel; utilizando modelos de series de tiempo univariados y multivariados. Por último, se realiza una descomposición histórica de choques del spread. Los principales resultados obtenidos muestran que la deuda pública tiene un efecto positivo sobre el spread, tanto la emitida a tasa fija como a tasa variable. Así mismo se encuentra que la emisión de deuda a tasa variable tiene un mayor efecto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de corto plazo, mientras la de tasa fija, más sensible a las condiciones del mercado, tiene un mayor impacto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de largo plazo. La implicación de política más importante es el llamado a la reducción del endeudamiento público, con el objetivo de aminorar su impacto no deseado sobre el mercado financiero y la actividad económica. **** ABSTRACT: The relationship between public debt and market interest rates has been a subject of wide discussion in the international literature, due to its implications for the financial markets, saving and investment decisions of economic agents and for the aggregate of the economy. This article analyzes how and how much public debt impacts the slope or spread of the term structure of interest rates in Colombia in the period 2003-2017. To reach its objective, the spread is estimated at different terms, using a state-space model. Subsequently, the impact of the debt on the spread is determined; using univariate and multivariate time series models. Finally, a historical decomposition of the spread shocks is carried out. The main results obtained show that the public debt has a positive effect on the spread, both debts issued at a fixed rate and at a variable rate. It is also found that the issuance of debt at a variable rate has a greater effect on the spread of the short-term interest rates, while the fixed-rate debt, which is more sensitive to market conditions, has a greater impact on the spread of long-term rates. The most important policy implication is the call for the reduction of public indebtedness, with the aim of reducing its undesired impact on the financial market and economic activity.
C22|El rol del sector real en el mercado de derivados y su impacto sobre la tasa de cambio|Aunque las negociaciones de los intermediarios del mercado cambiario (IMC) con el sector real en el mercado de forwards peso-dólar son bajas en comparación con las operaciones transadas con agentes offshore, es importante entender el comportamiento de dicho sector y su impacto en el mercado cambiario. En este trabajo se evalúa si el sector real ha tenido un impacto en la tasa de cambio, analizando la evolución diaria de su posición neta en el mercado de forwards peso-dólar. De acuerdo con la evolución de los montos negociados en el mercado de forwards por parte de los IMC con diferentes contrapartes, se observa que el sector real en algunas ocasiones ha tomado posiciones que parecen ir en sentido contrario a las operaciones negociadas por los agentes offshore, las cuales podrían tener un efecto estabilizador en la tasa de cambio. Mediante modelos EGARCH y VARX-MGARCH se encuentra evidencia de que las posiciones que toma el sector real tienen un impacto sobre la tasa de cambio. Sin embargo, ese efecto no ha sido estable entre 2008 y 2015, y se ha reducido en el tiempo. Igualmente, las posiciones del sector real en el mercado forward no tienen un efecto estabilizador sobre el tipo de cambio pues ante compras netas del offshore en dicho mercado no se encuentra evidencia que el sector real tome una posición vendedora neta. **** ABSTRACT: Although transactions of foreign exchange market intermediaries with the real sector in the peso-dollar market are low in comparison to the ones with offshore agents, it is important to understand the behavior of the real sector and its impact on the exchange market. This paper assesses whether the real sector has an impact on the spot exchange rate by analyzing the daily evolution of its net position in the peso-dollar forward market. According to the amounts negotiated in this market segment, it is observed that the real sector has sometimes taken positions that go in the opposite direction to the operations negotiated by offshore agents. This behavior could have a stabilizing effect on the exchange rate. Through EGARCH and VARX-MGARCH models, there is evidence that the positions taken by the real sector have an impact on the spot exchange rate. However, this effect has not been stable between 2008 and 2015, and has been reduced over time. Likewise, the positions of the real sector in the forward market do not have a stabilizing effect on the exchange rate, since against net purchases of the offshore market there is no evidence that the real sector takes a net selling position.
C22|The Exchange Rate and Oil Prices in Colombia: A High Frequency Analysis|We study the relationship between daily oil prices and nominal exchange rates between 1995 and 2019 in Colombia through a Time-Varying Vector Auto-Regressions with residual Stochastic Volatility, TV-VAR-SV, model. For this task we also employ cointegration, Univariate Auto-Regressions with residual Stochastic Volatility, UAR-SVTV, and De-trended Cross Correlation, DCC analyses. We found that a stable longrun relationship between the two processes is lacking. We also found significant time variation in residual volatility and co-volatility. More specifically, we found that both periods of time, the international financial crisis and the oil price drop of 2015, behave conspicuously different from other “more normal” times. These results are consistent with a shift in the features of the DCC at the start of the crisis. Before the crises the DCCs are positive but weak for different windows sizes, turning negative and significant after it. The latter DCCs and their significance increase with the window size. These results are concurrent, also, with two clearly differentiated periods of time; one when oil production was not financially feasible, and thus production, exports and oil related currency inflows were small, and the other when oil production became feasible because of the price increase, which led to a boom in exploration, production, exports and oil related currency inflows. **** RESUMEN: Estudiamos la evolución de la relación entre los precios diarios del petróleo y la tasa de cambio nominal Colombiana entre 1995 y 2019 a través de un modelo de Vectores Auto-Regresivos Tiempo-Variantes con Volatilidad Estocástica Residual. Para esto empleamos también técnicas de co-integración, Auto-Regresiones Univariadas con Volatilidad Estocástica Residual, y Correlaciones Cruzadas Des-tendeciadas. Se encontró que no existe una relación estable de largo plazo entre estos dos procesos. También hallamos evidencia de variación temporal de la volatilidad y co-volatilidad residual. Más específicamente, encontramos que tanto la crisis financiera global como la reducción de los precios de petróleo de 2015 son periodos particularmente distintos de otros periodos “más normales”. Estos resultados son consistentes con un cambio en el comportamiento de las DCC al inicio de la crisis financiera de 2008. En efecto, antes de la crisis estas correlaciones eran positivas pero poco significativas para diferentes tama˜nos de la ventana de estimación, pero después de la crisis se tornaron negativas y significancias. Las últimas DCCs y su significancia se incrementaron a mayores tama˜nos de la ventana. Estos resultados coinciden con dos periodos de tiempo claramente diferenciados en Colombia, uno en el cual la producción petrolera no era financieramente factible, y en consecuencia la producción, exportación y flujos entrantes de divisas por petróleo eran pequeños, y otro donde la producción fue factible, conduciendo a un boom en la exploración, producción, exportación y en los flujos entrantes de divisas relacionados con petróleo.
C22|Estimating the Exchange Rate Pass-Through: A Time-Varying Vector Auto-Regression with Residual Stochastic Volatility Approach|The adoption of a Time-Varying Vector Auto-Regression with residual Stochastic Volatility approach to address the state and time dependency of the exchange rate pass-through, ERPT, is proposed. This procedure is employed to estimate the size, duration and stability of the ERPT to flexible relative price changes in Colombia through a fairly simple Phillips curve. For this, the generalized impulse responses, i.e. pass-throughs, from different periods of time are compared. It was found that the ERPT is bigger and faster than previous estimates for broader price indexes. It was also also found that regardless of the existence of time-varying shock sizes, i.e. time varying standard deviations, the ERPT before full Inflation Targeting, IT, is marked and significantly larger before than during full IT, and also that the ERPT relates to real exchange rate volatility. The second results relates to the benefits derived from the adoption of full IT in this country. It was finally found that the output gap and flexible relative price change residual volatilities drop permanently and importantly at 1998Q3, emphasizing the role of the free float regime adoption in the success of IT in this country. **** RESUMEN: La adopción de un enfoque de Vectores Auto-Regresivos Tiempo-Variantes con Volatilidad Estocástica residual para examinar la variación temporal y sobre el estado de la economía del Traspaso de la Tasa de Cambio, TCC, es propuesta. Este enfoque es empleado para estimar el tamaño, duración y estabilidad del TTC a los cambios de los precios relativos de los flexibles en Colombia a través de una curva de Phillips relativamente simple. Para esto, las funciones de impulso respuesta generalizadas, es decir los TTC, de diferentes periodos de tiempo son comparados. Se encontró que el TTC es más grande y rápido que estimaciones anteriores para agregados más amplios de precios. Se encontró también que a pesar del tamaño tiempo-variante de los choques, es decir las desviaciones estándar, el traspaso antes del Esquema completo de Inflación Objetivo, EIO, es marcada y significativamente más grande que el traspaso durante este, y también se halló evidencia de una relación entre el traspaso y la volatilidad de la tasa de cambio real. El segundo resultado se relaciona con los beneficios derivados de la adopción del esquema de inflación objetivo en este país. Se encontró, finalmente, que la volatilidad residual de la brecha del PIB y del cambio de los precios relativos de los flexibles cayó substancial y permanentemente en 1998Q3, enfatizando el papel del régimen de libre flotación en el éxito del EIO en este país.
C22|Bayesian MIDAS Penalized Regressions: Estimation, Selection, and Prediction|We propose a new approach to mixed-frequency regressions in a high-dimensional environment that resorts to Group Lasso penalization and Bayesian techniques for estimation and inference. To improve the sparse recovery ability of the model, we also consider a Group Lasso with a spike-and-slab prior. Penalty hyper-parameters governing the model shrinkage are automatically tuned via an adaptive MCMC algorithm. Simulations show that the proposed models have good selection and forecasting performance, even when the design matrix presents high cross-correlation. When applied to U.S. GDP data, the results suggest that financial variables may have some, although limited, short-term predictive content.
C22|VAR-based Granger-causality test in the presence of instabilities|In this article, we review Granger-causality tests robust to the presence of instabilities in a Vector Autoregressive framework. We also introduce the gcrobustvar command, which illustrates the procedure in Stata. In the presence of instabilities, the Granger-causality robust test is more powerful than the traditional Granger-causality test.
C22|The Identification Problem for Linear Rational Expectations Models|We consider the problem of the identification of stationary solutions to linear rational expectations models from the second moments of observable data. Observational equivalence is characterized and necessary and sufficient conditions are provided for: (i) identification under affine restrictions, (ii) generic identification under affine restrictions of analytically parametrized models, and (iii) local identification under non-linear restrictions. The results strongly resemble the classical theory for VARMA models although significant points of departure are also documented.
C22|Energy Consumption in the GCC Countries: Evidence on Persistence|This paper examines the statistical properties of energy consumption in the GCC countries applying fractional integration methods to annual data from 1980 to 2014. The results indicate that both the raw and the logged series exhibit a (statistically significant) linear time trend in the case of Bahrain, Oman and Qatar, and the raw series only in the case of Saudi Arabia. Mean reversion (i.e., statistical evidence of d
C22|Stock market linkages between the ASEAN countries, China and the US: a fractional cointegration approach|This paper examines stock market integration between the ASEAN five and the US and China, respectively, over the period from November 2002 to March 2018. The linkages between both aggregate and financial sector stock indices (both weekly and monthly) are analysed using fractional integration and fractional cointegration methods. Further, recursive cointegration analysis is carried out for the weekly series to study the impact of the 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 China stock market crash on the pattern of stock market co-movement. The main findings are the following. All stock indices exhibit long memory. There is cointegration between the ASEAN five and the US but almost none between the former and China, except between Indonesia and China in the case of the financial sector. The 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 Chinese stock market plunge weakened the linkages between the ASEAN five and both China and the US. The implications of these results for market participants and policy makers are discussed.
C22|Volatility forecasts for the RTS stock index: option-implied volatility versus alternative methods|This paper compares volatility forecasts for the RTS Index (the main index for the Russian stock market) generated by alternative models, specifically option-implied volatility forecasts based on the Black-Scholes model, ARCH/GARCH-type model forecasts, and forecasts combining those two using a mixing strategy based either on a simple average or a weighted average with the weights being determined according to two different criteria (either minimizing the errors or maximizing the information content). Various forecasting performance tests are carried out which suggest that both implied volatility and combination methods using a simple average outperform ARCH/GARCH-type models in terms of forecasting accuracy.
C22|High and low prices and the range in the European stock markets: a long-memory approach|This paper uses fractional integration techniques to examine the stochastic behaviour of high and low stock prices in Europe and then to test for the possible existence of long-run linkages between them by looking at the range, i.e., the difference between the two logged series. Specifically, monthly, weekly and daily data on the following five European stock market indices are analysed: DAX30 (Germany), FTSE100 (UK), CAC40 (France), FTSE MIB40 (Italy) and IBEX35 (Spain). In all cases, the order of integration of the range is lower than that of the original series, which implies the existence of a long-run equilibrium relationship between high and low prices. Further, the estimated fractional differencing parameter is positive in all cases, which represents evidence of long memory.
C22|Persistence, non-linearities and structural breaks in European stock market indices|This paper examines persistence, structural breaks and non-linearities in the case of five European stock market indices, namely the FTSE100 (UK), DAX30 (Germany), CAC40 (France), IBEX35 (Spain) and FTSE MIB40 (Italy), using fractional integration methods. The empirical results provide no evidence of non-linearities in either prices or returns; the former are found to exhibit unit roots and the latter to be I(0) in most cases. Further, between 2 and 4 structural breaks are found for each of the return series, and mean reversion in some subsamples.
C22|Non-Linearities, Cyber Attacks and Cryptocurrencies|This paper uses a Markov-switching non-linear specification to analyse the effects of cyber attacks on returns in the case of four cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethernam, Litecoin and Stellar) over the period 8/8/2015 - 28/2/2019. The analysis considers both cyber attacks in general and those targeting cryptocurrencies in particular, and also uses cumulative measures capturing persistence. On the whole, the results suggest the existence of significant negative effects of cyber attacks on the probability for cryptocurrencies to stay in the low volatility regime. This is an interesting finding, that confirms the importance of gaining a deeper understanding of this form of crime and of the tools used by cybercriminals in order to prevent possibly severe disruptions to markets.
C22|Yield curve and financial uncertainty: Evidence based on US data|How does the yield curve respond to a jump in financial uncertainty? We address this question by conducting a local projections analysis with US monthly data, period: 1962- 2018. The state-of-the-art financial uncertainty measure proposed by Ludvigson, Ma, and Ng (2019) is found to predict movements in interest rates of the entire US yield curve. Both ends of the yield curve respond negatively and significantly. The response of the short end of the yield curve is found to be stronger than that of the long end, i.e., a financial uncertainty shock causes a temporary steepening of the yield curve. This result is consistent, among other interpretations, with medium-term expectations of a recovery in real activity after a financial uncertainty shock.
C22|Another Look at Cryptocurrency Bubbles|This paper deals with cryptocurrency bubbles. First, it points out that a number of recent papers on cryptocurrency bubbles are awed due to an insufficient consideration of the fundamental value of cryptocurrencies. As even fiat money is said to exhibit features of bubbles, the same applies to cryptocurrencies. Thus, any empirical investigation into either the presence of cryptocurrency bubbles or the fundamental value of cryptocurrencies is needless. Second, the paper conducts a short empirical analysis into the relationship of the prices of Etherum and Bitcoin. Evidence of explosive periods is found in the price of Etherum even if this price is expressed in terms of Bitcoin rather than US Dollars. These periods, however, are found to be in the first half of 2016 and 2017, respectively, but not during the price peak period of Bitcoin witnessed end of 2017 and beginning of 2018.
C22|Is the UK Productivity Slowdown Unprecedented?|We estimate trend UK labour productivity grow thusing a Hodrick-Prescott filter method. We use the results to compare downturns where the economy fell below its pre-existing trend. We find that the current productivity slowdown has resulted in productivity being 19.7% below the pre-2008 trend path in 2018. This is nearly double the previous worst productivity short fall ten years after the start of a downturn. On this criterion the slow down is unprecedented in the last 250 years. We conjecture that this reflects a combination of adverse circumstances, namely, a financial crisis, a weakening impact of ICT and impending Brexit.
C22|The Effect of Higher Capital Requirements on Bank Lending: The Capital Surplus Matters|This paper studies the impact of higher additional capital requirements on growth in loans to the private sector for banks in the Czech Republic. The empirical results indicate that higher additional capital requirements have a negative effect on loan growth for banks with relatively low capital surpluses. In addition, the results confirm that the relationship between the capital surplus and loan growth is also important at times of stable capital requirements, i.e. it does not serve only as an intermediate channel of higher additional capital requirements.
C22|Uncertainty in Electricity Markets from a seminonparametric Approach|No abstract is available for this item.
C22|Forecasting Volatility in Cryptocurrency Markets|In this paper, we revisit the stylized facts of cryptocurrency markets and propose various approaches for modeling the dynamics governing the mean and variance processes. We first provide the statistical properties of our proposed models and study in detail their forecasting performance and adequacy by means of point and density forecasts. We adopt two loss functions and the model confidence set (MSC) test to evaluate the predictive ability of the models and the likelihood ratio test to assess their adequacy. Our results confirm that cryptocurrency markets are characterized by regime shifting, long memory and multifractality. We find that the Markov switching multifractal (MSM) and FIGARCH models outperform other GARCH-type models in forecasting bitcoin returns volatility. Furthermore, combined forecasts improve upon forecasts from individual models.
C22|Mixed Causal-Noncausal Autoregressions: Bimodality Issues in Estimation and Unit Root Testing <BR>[Modèles auto-régressifs non-causaux mixtes: Problèmes de bimodalité pour l'estimation et le test de racine unitaire]|This paper stresses the bimodality of the widely used Student's t likelihood function applied in modelling Mixed causal-noncausal AutoRegressions (MAR). It first shows that a local maximum is very often to be found in addition to the global Maximum Likelihood Estimator (MLE), and that standard estimation algorithms could end up in this local maximum. It then shows that the issue becomes more salient as the causal root of the process approaches unity from below. The consequences are important as the local maximum estimated roots are typically interchanged , attributing the noncausal one to the causal component and vice-versa, which severely changes the interpretation of the results. The properties of unit root tests based on this Student's t MLE of the backward root are obviously affected as well. To circumvent this issues, this paper proposes an estimation strategy which i) increases noticeably the probability to end up in the global MLE and ii) retains the maximum relevant for the unit root test against a MAR stationary alternative. An application to Brent crude oil price illustrates the relevance of the proposed approach. Keywords: Mixed autoregression, non-causal autoregression, maximum likelihood estimation, unit root test, Brent crude oil price.
C22|Score-driven time series models with dynamic shape : an application to the Standard & Poor's 500 index|We introduce new dynamic conditional score (DCS) volatility models with dynamic scale and shape parameters for the effective measurement of volatility. In the new models, we use the EGB2 (exponential generalized beta of the second kind), NIG (normal-inverse Gaussian) and Skew-Gen-t (skewed generalized-t) probability distributions. Those distributions involve several shape parameters that control the dynamic skewness, tail shape and peakedness of financial returns. We use daily return data from the Standard & Poor's 500 (S&P 500) index for the period of January 4, 1950 to December 30, 2017. We estimate all models by using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, and we present the conditions of consistency and asymptotic normality of the ML estimates. We study those conditions for the S&P 500 and we also perform diagnostic tests for the residuals. The statistical performances of several DCS specifications with dynamic shape are superior to the statistical performance of the DCS specification with constant shape. Outliers in the shape parameters are associated with important announcements that affected the United States (US) stock market. Our results motivate the application of the new DCS models to volatility measurement, pricing financial derivatives, or estimation of the value-at-risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES) metrics.
C22|Maximum likelihood estimation of score-driven models with dynamic shape parameters : an application to Monte Carlo value-at-risk|Dynamic conditional score (DCS) models with time-varying shape parameters provide a exible method for volatility measurement. The new models are estimated by using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, conditions of consistency and asymptotic normality of ML are presented, and Monte Carlo simulation experiments are used to study the precision of ML. Daily data from the Standard & Poor's 500 (S&P 500) for the period of 1950 to 2017 are used. The performances of DCS models with constant and dynamic shape parameters are compared. In-sample statistical performance metrics and out-of-sample value-at-risk backtesting support the use of DCS models with dynamic shape.
C22|Exploring option pricing and hedging via volatility asymmetry|This paper evaluates the application of two well-known asymmetric stochastic volatility (ASV) models to option price forecasting and dynamic delta hedging. They are specied in discrete time in contrast to the classical stochastic volatility (SV) models used in option pricing. There is some related literature, but little is known about the empirical implications of volatility asymmetry on option pricing. The objectives of this paper are to estimate ASV option pricing models using a Bayesian approach unknown in this type of literature, and to investigate the e ect of volatility asymmetry on option pricing for di erent size equity sectors and periods of volatility. Using the S&P MidCap 400 and S&P 500 European call option quotes, results show that volatility asymmetry benets the accuracy of option price forecasting and hedging cost e ectiveness in the large-cap equity sector. However, asymmetric SV models do not improve the option price forecasting and dynamic hedging in the mid-cap equity sector.
C22|Boosting the Hodrick-Prescott Filter|The Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter is one of the most widely used econometric methods in applied macroeconomic research. The technique is nonparametric and seeks to decompose a time series into a trend and a cyclical component unaided by economic theory or prior trend specification. Like all nonparametric methods, the HP filter depends critically on a tuning parameter that controls the degree of smoothing. Yet in contrast to modern nonparametric methods and applied work with these procedures, empirical practice with the HP filter almost universally relies on standard settings for the tuning parameter that have been suggested largely by experimentation with macroeconomic data and heuristic reasoning about the form of economic cycles and trends. As recent research has shown, standard settings may not be adequate in removing trends, particularly stochastic trends, in economic data. This paper proposes an easy-to-implement practical procedure of iterating the HP smoother that is intended to make the filter a smarter smoothing device for trend estimation and trend elimination. We call this iterated HP technique the boosted HP filter in view of its connection to L2-boosting in machine learning. The paper develops limit theory to show that the boosted HP filter asymptotically recovers trend mechanisms that involve unit root processes, deterministic polynomial drifts, and polynomial drifts with structural breaks -- the most common trends that appear in macroeconomic data and current modeling methodology. A stopping criterion is used to automate the iterative HP algorithm, making it a data-determined method that is ready for modern data-rich environments in economic research. The methodology is illustrated using three real data examples that highlight the differences between simple HP filtering, the data-determined boosted filter, and an alternative autoregressive approach.
C22|Identification of Dynamic Panel Binary Response Models|We analyze identification in dynamic econometric models of binary choice with fixed effects under general conditions. This class of models is often used in the literature to distinguish between state dependence (invariably referred to in the recent literature as switching costs, inertia or stickiness) and heterogeneity. We first characterize the sharp set for parameters in a dynamic panel of binary choice under conditional stationarity. The identified set can be characterized by a union of convex polyhedrons. We conduct the same exercise under the stronger assumption of conditional exchangeability, and establish its incremental identifying power. We extend our identification approach to study models with more time periods as well. We also provide sufficient conditions for point identification. For inference in cases with discrete regressors, we provide an approach to constructing confidence sets for the identified sets using a linear program that is simple to implement. The paper then provides simulation based evidence on the size and shape of the identified sets in varying designs to illustrate the informational content of different assumptions. We also illustrate the inference approach using a data set on women’s labor supply decisions.
C22|Inference on Semiparametric Multinomial Response Models|In this paper we explore inference on regression coefficients in semi parametric multinomial response models. We consider cross sectional, and both static and dynamic panel settings where we focus throughout on point inference under sufficient conditions for point identification. The approach to identification uses a matching insight throughout all three models and relies on variation in regressors: with cross section data, we match across individuals while with panel data we match within individuals over time. Across models, IIA is not assumed as the unobserved errors across choices are allowed to be arbitrarily correlated. For the cross sectional model estimation is based on a localized rank objective function, analogous to that used in Abrevaya, Hausman, and Khan (2010), and presents a generalization of existing approaches. In panel data settings rates of convergence are shown to exhibit a curse of dimensionality in the number of alternatives. The results for the dynamic panel data model generalizes the work of Honoré and Kyriazidou (2000) to cover the multinomial case. A simulation study establishes adequate finite sample properties of our new procedures and we apply our estimators to a scanner panel data set.
C22|Money growth and inflation : International historical evidence on high inflation episodes for developed countries|How long is the long run in the relationship between money growth and inflation? How important are high inflation episodes for the unit slope finding in the quantity theory of money? To answer these questions we study the relationship between excess money growth and inflation over time and across frequencies using annual data from 1871 to 2013 for several developed countries. Wavelet-based exploratory analysis shows the existence of a close stable relationship between excess money growth and inflation only over longer time horizons, i.e. periods greater than 16 and 24 years, with money growth mostly leading. When we investigate the sensitivity of the unit slope finding to inflation episodes using a scale-based panel data approach we find that low-frequency regression coefficients estimated over variable-length subsamples before and after WWII are largely affected by high inflation episodes. Taken together the results that inflationary upsurges affect regression coefficients but not the closeness of the long-run relationship call for a qualification of the Quantity Theory of Money and suggests that policymakers should not lose interest on monetary developments.
C22|Optimism in Financial Markets: Stock Market Returns and Investor Sentiments|This paper investigates how investor sentiment affects stock market returns and evaluates the predictability power of sentiment indices on U.S. and EU stock market returns. As regards the American example, evidence shows that investor sentiment indices have a negative influence on stock market returns. Concerning the European market instead, investigation provides weak results. Moreover, comparing the two markets, where investor sentiment of U.S. market tries to predict the European stock market returns, and vice versa, the analyses indicate a spillover effect from the U.S. to Europe.
C22|Contagion between Real Estate and Financial Markets: A Bayesian Quantile-on-Quantile Approach|We study contagion between REITs and the equity market in the U.S. over four subsamples covering January, 2003 to December, 2017, by using Bayesian nonparametric quantile-on-quantile regressions with heteroskedasticity. We find that the spillovers from the REITs on to the equity market has varied over time across the four sub-samples, though similarity is observed between the first and the last sub-samples. Further, barring the extreme ends of the two markets, contagion from REITs upon the stock market went down during the global financial crisis relative to the pre-crisis period, with the spillover picking-up during the European sovereign debt crisis.
C22|Dynamic Tobit models|Score-driven models provide a solution to the problem of modelling time series when the observations are subject to censoring and location and/or scale may change over time. The method applies to generalized-t and EGB2 distributions, as well as to the normal distribution. A set of Monte Carlo experiments show that the score-driven model provides good forecasts even when the true model is parameterdriven. The viability of the new models is illustrated by fitting them to data on Chinese stock returns.
C22|Nonparametric Recovery of the Yield Curve Evolution from Cross-Section and Time Series Information|We develop estimation methodology for an additive nonparametric panel model that is suitable for capturing the pricing of coupon-paying government bonds followed over many time periods. We use our model to estimate the discount function and yield curve of nominally riskless government bonds. The novelty of our approach is the combination of two different techniques: cross-sectional nonparametric methods and kernel estimation for time varying dynamics in the time series context. The resulting estimator is able to capture the yield curve shapes and dynamics commonly observed in the fixed income markets. We establish the consistency, the rate of convergence, and the asymptotic normality of the proposed estimator. A Monte Carlo exercise illustrates the good performance of the method under different scenarios. We apply our methodology to the daily CRSP bond dataset, and compare with the popular Diebold and Li (2006) method.
C22|Some Dynamic and Steady-State Properties of Threshold Autoregressions with Applications to Stationarity and Local Explosivity|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the dynamics and steady-state properties of threshold autoregressive models with exogenous states that follow Markovian processes; these processes are widely used in applied economics although their statistical properties have not been explored in detail. We use characteristic functions to carry out the analysis and this allows us to describe limiting distributions for processes not considered in the literature previously. We also calculate analytical expressions for some moments. Furthermore, we see that we can have locally explosive processes that are explosive in one regime whilst being strongly stationary overall. This is explored through simulation analysis where we also show how the distribution changes when the explosive state become more frequent although the overall process remains stationary. In doing so, we are able to relate our analysis to asset prices which exhibit similar distributional properties.
C22|Nonparametric Predictive Regressions for Stock Return Prediction|We propose two new nonparametric predictive models: the multi-step nonparametric predictive regression model and the multi-step additive predictive regression model, in which the predictive variables are locally stationary time series. We define estimation methods and establish the large sample properties of these methods in the short horizon and the long horizon case. We apply our methods to stock return prediction using a number of standard predictors such as dividend yield. The empirical results show that all of these models can substantially outperform the traditional linear predictive regression model in terms of both in-sample and out-of-sample performance. In addition, we _nd that these models can always beat the historical mean model in terms of in-sample fitting, and also for some cases in terms of the out-of-sample forecasting. We also compare our methods with the linear regression and historical mean methods according to an economic metric. In particular, we show how our methods can be used to deliver a trading strategy that beats the buy and hold strategy (and linear regression based alternatives) over our sample period.
C22|Modeling directional (circular) time series|Circular observations pose special problems for time series modeling. This article shows how the score-driven approach, developed primarily in econometrics, provides a natural solution to the difficulties and leads to a coherent and unified methodology for estimation, model selection and testing. The new methods are illustrated with hourly data on wind direction.
C22|Emerging Markets and the Conditional CAPM|Emerging Market equity returns have proved challenging to model using conventional statistical tools. In this paper we use the conditional capital asset pricing model (CCAPM) together with an explicit expectations structure to arrive at a framework which can be easily estimated. We take the perspective that US equity corresponds to the market and that our investors are US dollar investors and use this approach to explain emerging market country index equity returns. Different choices of US equity index provide, unsurprisingly, different results. A noteworthy finding is that the Russell 2000 seems a better explanatory variable than the Russell 1000 suggesting that it is the small to medium capitalised US companies that help us understand emerging market returns.
C22|Tracking the Course of the Economy (Nowcasting of basic macroeconomic indicators of Slovakia)|Real GDP and its structure are available within 70 days after the end of the reference quarter. By using leading indicators of higher frequency, it is possible to nowcast GDP in real-time. With an assumption of unobserved factor driving the business cycle we estimate dynamic factor models for real GDP, its demand components, inflation, wages and employment using statistically significant domestic and foreign indicators. To ensure the consistency of out-of-sample forecasts for GDP and its components, past forecast deviations and correlation coefficients are used to adjust the forecast, which helps to reduce the bias of individual models. Forecasts using real-time database are carried out since the 1st January of 2017 using daily data vintages. Real-time forecasts display a reduction of forecasting error with the arrival of new data in the last month of the quarter until the official publication. The main role of nowcasting in CBR is to track the actual positive and negative macroeconomic risks of the Slovak economy in relation to the latest official national macroeconomic forecast by the Macroeconomic Forecasting Committee. Additionally, the nowcast models help to improve precision of estimates of initial conditions of the economy by bridging the short-term forecast and mid-term forecast.
C22|The Short-Run Effect of Monetary Policy Shocks on Credit Risk: An Analysis of the Euro Area|We examine the credit channel of monetary policy from 2000 to 2015 in the Euro Area using daily monetary policy shock and credit risk measures in an autoregressive distributed lag model. We find that an expansionary monetary policy shock leads to a short-run increase in the credit risk of non-financial corporations. This dysfunctionality of the credit channel is driven by the crisis-dominated post-2009 period. During this period, market participants may have interpreted expansionary monetary policy shocks as a signal of worsening economic prospects. We further distinguish policy shocks aiming at short- and long-run expectations of market participants, i.e. target and path shocks. The adverse effect disappears for crisis countries when the European Central Bank targets long-run rather than short-run expectations.
C22|Narrow-band Weighted Nonlinear Least Squares Estimation of Unbalanced Cointegration Systems|We discuss cointegration relationships when covariance stationary observables exhibit unbalanced integration orders. Least squares type estimates of the long run coefficient are expected to converge either to 0 or to infinity if one does not account for the true unknown unbalance parameter. We propose a class of narrow-band weighted non-linear least squares estimators of these two parameters and analyze its asymptotic properties. The limit distribution is shown to be Gaussian, albeit singular, and it covers the entire stationary region in the particular case of the generalized non-linear least squares estimator, thereby allowing for straightforward statistical inference. A Monte Carlo study documents the good finite sample properties of our class of estimators. They are further used to provide new perspectives on the risk-return relationship on financial stock markets. In particular, we find that the variance risk premium estimated in an appropriately rebalanced cointegration system is a better return predictor than existing risk premia measures.
C22|Local Whittle Analysis of Stationary Unbalanced Fractional Cointegration Systems|In this paper we propose a local Whittle estimator of stationary bivariate unbalanced fractional cointegration systems. Unbalanced cointegration refers to the situation where the observables have different integration orders, but their filtered versions have equal integration orders and are cointegrated in the usual sense. Based on the frequency domain representation of the unbalanced version of Phillips’ triangular system, we develop a semiparametric approach to jointly estimate the unbalance parameter, the long run coefficient, and the integration orders of the regressand and cointegrating errors. The paper establishes the consistency and asymptotic normality of this estimator. We find a peculiar rate of convergence for the unbalance estimator (possibly faster than root-n) and a singular joint limiting distribution of the unbalance and long-run coefficients. Its good finite-sample properties are emphasized through Monte Carlo experiments. We illustrate the relevance of the developed estimator for financial data in an empirical application to the information flowing between the crude oil spot and CME-NYMEX markets.
C22|Exchange rate pass-through to import prices: Accounting for changes in the Eurozone trade structure|This paper assesses whether the emergence of new trading partners (i.e., China and Eastern Europe) as suppliers reduces the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) in Eurozone countries which differ regarding their external exposure. Using bilateral data on import prices at the two-digit sector level, we find that (i) pass-through is complete in many cases, (ii) ERPT from China is higher than from the United States, and (iii) there is no compelling evidence of a generalized link between ERPT and the increasing integration of some emerging markets in European imports. We also show that the launch of the single currency has not provoked a sufficient change in the part of trade exposed to exchange rate fluctuations and, therefore, has not affected the pass-through. Overall, the trend of liberalization in new players' markets has not altered the competitive environment such as to induce exporters of other countries to absorb exchange rate depreciations.
C22|Physician’s altruism in incentive contracts: Medicare’s quality race|The paper analyzes the impact of physicians' altruism and motivation on the outcomes of pay-for-performance schemes in healthcare, where a fixed price contract on quantity is supplemented with a relative performance contract on quality. Our theoretical model forecasts crowding out of most altruistic types. In an empirical application to the Medicare's nationwide natural experiment with a relative performance contract on quality for acute inpatient care since 2013, we observe the proof of this prediction. Namely, the quality dimensions, which are linked to patient's benefit, demonstrate higher deterioration among top-performing hospitals than other incentivized dimensions.
C22|Anticipating the bust: a new cyclical systemic risk indicator to assess the likelihood and severity of financial crises|This paper presents a tractable, transparent and broad-based domestic cyclical systemic risk indicator (d-SRI) that captures risks stemming from domestic credit, real estate markets, asset prices, and external imbalances. The d-SRI increases on average several years before the onset of systemic financial crises, and its early warning properties for euro area countries are superior to those of the total credit-to-GDP gap. In addition, the level of the d-SRI around the start of financial crises is highly correlated with measures of subsequent crisis severity, such as GDP declines. Model estimates suggest that the d-SRI has significant predictive power for large declines in real GDP growth three to four years down the line, as it precedes shifts in the entire distribution of future real GDP growth and especially of its left tail. The d-SRI therefore provides useful information about both the probability and the likely cost of systemic financial crises many years in advance. Given its timely signals, the d-SRI is a useful analytical tool for macroprudential policymakers. JEL Classification: G01, G17, C22, C54
C22|Estimation of Impulse Response Functions When Shocks are Observed at a Higher Frequency than Outcome Variables|This paper proposes mixed-frequency distributed-lag (MFDL) estimators of impulse response functions (IRFs) in a setup where (i) the shock of interest is observed, (ii) the impact variable of interest is observed at a lower frequency (as a temporally aggregated or sequentially sampled variable), (iii) the data-generating process (DGP) is given by a VAR model at the frequency of the shock, and (iv) the full set of relevant endogenous variables entering the DGP is unknown or unobserved. Consistency and asymptotic normality of the proposed MFDL estimators is established, and their small-sample performance is documented by a set of Monte Carlo experiments. The proposed approach is then applied to estimate the daily pass-through of changes in crude oil prices observed at a daily frequency to U.S. gasoline consumer prices observed at a weekly frequency. We find that the pass-through is fast, with about 28% of the crude oil price changes passed through to retail gasoline prices within five working days, and that the speed of the pass-through has increased over time.
C22|Changes in sovereign debt dynamics in Central and Eastern Europe|The aim of this paper is to shed some light on the degree of fiscal debt sustainability for a group of Central and Eastern European countries. We apply a battery of time series econometrics methods to show how the financial crisis has affected the debt-to-GDP ratio and how it has behaved recently. The results provide us with important insights into the way governments in Central and Eastern Europe have reacted to debt accumulation. We distinguish two groups of countries; one group where the sovereign debt stock stabilises after the crisis, and another group where debt has been accumulated more quickly in recent years. The results provide important policy lessons for the authorities responsible.
C22|Modelling and forecasting the dollar-pound exchange rate in the presence of structural breaks|We employ a newly-developed partial cointegration system allowing for level shifts to examine whether economic fundamentals form the long-run determinants of the dollar-pound exchange rate in an era of structural change. The paper uncovers a class of local data generation mechanisms underlying long-run and short-run dynamic features of the exchange rate using a set of economic variables that explicitly reï¬‚ect the central banksâ€™ monetary policy stances and the inï¬‚uence of a forward exchange market. The impact of the Brexit referendum is evaluated by examining forecasts when the dollar-pound exchange rate fell substantially around the vote.
C22|Sticky prices and the transmission mechanism of monetary policy: A minimal test of New Keynesian models|This paper proposes a minimal test of two basic empirical predictions that ag-gregate data should exhibit if sticky prices were the key transmission mechanism of monetary policy, as implied by the benchmark DSGE-New Keynesian models. First, large monetary policy shocks should yield proportionally larger initial re-sponses of the price level and smaller real effects on output. Second, in a high trend inflation regime, prices should be more flexible, and thus the real effects of monetary policy shocks should be smaller and the response of the price level larger. Our analysis provides some statistically significant evidence in favor of a sticky price theory of the transmission mechanism of monetary policy shocks.
C22|Uniform Consistency of Marked and Weighted Empirical Distributions of Residuals|A uniform weak consistency theory is presented for the marked and weighted emÂ­pirical distribution function of residuals. New and weaker sufficient conditions for uniform consistency are derived. The theory allows for a wide variety of regressors and error distributions. We apply the theory to 1-step Huber-skip estimators. These estimators describe the widespread practice of removing outlying observations from an intial estimation of the model of interest and updating the estimation in a second step by applying least squares to the selected observations. Two results are presented. First, we give new and weaker conditions for consistency of the estimators. Second, we analyze the gauge, which is the rate of false detection of outliers, and which can be used to decide the cut-off in the rule for selecting outliers.
C22|Data-driven local polynomial for the trend and its derivatives in economic time series|The main purpose of this paper is the development of iterative plug-in algorithms for local polynomial estimation of the trend and its derivatives in macroeconomic time series. In particular, a data-driven lag-window estimator for the variance factor is proposed so that the bandwidth is selected without any parametric assumption on the stationary errors. Further analysis of the residuals using an ARMA model is discussed briefl y. Moreover, confidence bounds for the trend and its derivatives are conducted using some asymptotically unbiased estimates and applied to test possible linearity of the trend. These graphical tools also provide us further detailed features about the economic development. Practical performance of the proposals is illustrated by quarterly US and UK GDP data.
C22|On the Evolution of U.S. Temperature Dynamics|Climate change is a multidimensional shift. While much research has documented rising mean temperature levels, we also examine range-based measures of daily temperature volatility. Specifically, using data for select U.S. cities over the past half-century, we compare the evolving time series dynamics of the average temperature level, AVG, and the diurnal temperature range, DTR (the difference between the daily maximum and minimum temperatures at a given location). We characterize trend and seasonality in these two series using linear models with time-varying coefficients. These straightforward yet flexible approximations provide evidence of evolving DTR seasonality, stable AVG seasonality, and conditionally Gaussian but heteroskedastic innovations for both DTR and AVG.
C22|Do we Experience Day-of-the-week Effects in Returns and Volatility of Cryptocurrency?|This present paper investigates day-of-the-week effect in some notable cryptocurrency in terms of pricing and market capitalizations. We applied fractional integration regression approach with dummies. We found non-significance of day-of-the-week effect in returns, while there is possible evidence of Monday and Friday effects in volatility of Bitcoin only. Non-significance of day-of-the-week effect in returns of Bitcoin and some other cryptocurrencies further support market efficiency of these markets.
C22|Market Efficiency and Volatility Persistence of Cryptocurrency during Pre- and Post-Crash Periods of Bitcoin: Evidence based on Fractional Integration|This paper investigates both market efficiency and volatility persistence in 12 cryptocurrencies during pre-crash and post-crash periods. We were motivated by the erroneous belief of some authors that driving currency, Bitcoin is inefficient. By considering robust fractional integration methods in linear and nonlinear set up, we found that markets of Bitcoin and most altcoins considered in our samples can be dubbed as efficient, and these are highly volatile particularly in the post-crash sample that we are now. These volatilities will then persist for shorter period than in the pre-crash period. Our work therefore renders important information to cryptocurrency market participants and portfolio managers.
C22|أثر الاستثمار الأجنبي المباشر على نمو القطاع الصناعي بالجزائر<BR>[the impact of Foreign Direct Investment on the Industrial Sector Growth in Algeria]|The purpose of this study is to measure the impact of Foreign Direct Investment on the Industrial Sector Growth in Algeria, towards this goal we analyze the long term relationship among the following variables: the value added of industry sector is used as a dependent variable, Foreign Direct Investment inflows and Domestic Investment as independent variables, using cointegration technique over the period from 1980 to 2017. Our empirical results suggest that Foreign Direct Investment inflows and Domestic Investment had a positive and significant effect on the industrial sector growth of Algeria in the long run as well as in the short run.
C22|Forecasting bubbles with mixed causal-noncausal autoregressive models|This paper investigates one-step ahead density forecasts of mixed causal-noncausal models. We compare the sample-based and the simulations-based approaches respectively developed by Gouriéroux and Jasiak (2016) and Lanne, Luoto, and Saikkonen (2012). We focus on explosive episodes and therefore on predicting turning points of bubbles bursts. We suggest the use of both methods to construct investment strategies based on how much probabilities are induced by the assumed model and by past behaviours. We illustrate our analysis on Nickel prices series.
C22|Dette Publique Extérieure Et Croissance Économique En République Démocratique Du Congo (Rdc)<BR>[External Public Debt And Economic Growth In The Democratic Republic Of Congo (Drc)]|The purpose of this article is to determine the effect of external public debt on the economic growth of the Democratic Republic of Congo. To achieve this objective, we used the error-correction model (Engle and Granger, 1987), estimated by the Least Squares method over a period from 1981 to 2015. The results indicate a nonlinear relationship between external public debt and economic growth, as well as an optimal threshold of 22.5 % of GDP. The external public debt has a positive effect on the economic growth of the DRC for any debt below this threshold. Therefore, to sustainably promote economic growth in the DRC, the management of external public debt will need to focus on good governance.
C22|Модель Реального Обменного Курса Рубля С Марковскими Переключениями Режимов<BR>[Modeling real exchange rate of the Russian ruble using Markov regime-switching approach]|In this paper we analyze the relationship between the real Russian ruble exchange rate and real oil prices using the error correction model with Markov regime switching, which allows for changes in exchange rate policy. We find that during the period 1999-2018 real exchange rate dynamics was characterized by two clearly distinguishable regimes, one with fast and the other with slow adjustment to long-term equilibrium in response to oil price shocks. Further model testing shows that long-term relationship between real exchange rate and oil price is invariant to regime change. We also find that, despite adoption of a floating exchange rate policy in 2014, inflexible real exchange rate regime has been periodically identified in recent years. This could be due to the new budget rule, according to which Russian Ministry of Finance in February 2017 started purchasing foreign currencies in amount of excess oil and gas earnings of the federal budget.
C22|Growth and Inflation Regimes in Greater Tumen Initiative Area|This paper tests for multiple structural breaks in the mean, seasonality, dynamics and conditional volatility of Greater Tumen Initiative Countries’ (GTI) growth and inflation, while also accounting for outliers. It finds a drop in the level of Chinese growth rate in the third quarter of 2011 and of inflation rate in 1998. There are more volatility regimes than the growth regimes and most GTI countries are currently enjoying historically low volatility of their growth and inflation. Two exceptions are the increased growth volatility for Japan since 2006 and inflation volatility for Russia since 2012. There is an increased importance of seasonality in GTI and especially in Chinese inflation volatility, constituting at least a half of the total volatility.
C22|Forecasting Realized Volatility of Russian stocks using Google Trends and Implied Volatility|This work proposes to forecast the Realized Volatility (RV) and the Value-at-Risk (VaR) of the most liquid Russian stocks using GARCH, ARFIMA and HAR models, including both the implied volatility computed from options prices and Google Trends data. The in-sample analysis showed that only the implied volatility had a significant effect on the realized volatility across most stocks and estimated models, whereas Google Trends did not have any significant effect. The outof-sample analysis highlighted that models including the implied volatility improved their forecasting performances, whereas models including internet search activity worsened their performances in several cases. Moreover, simple HAR and ARFIMA models without additional regressors often reported the best forecasts for the daily realized volatility and for the daily Value-at-Risk at the 1 % probability level, thus showing that efficiency gains more than compensate any possible model misspecifications and parameters biases. Our empirical evidence shows that, in the case of Russian stocks, Google Trends does not capture any additional information already included in the implied volatility.
C22|IFRS9 Expected Credit Loss Estimation: Advanced Models for Estimating Portfolio Loss and Weighting Scenario Losses|Estimation of portfolio expected credit loss is required for IFRS9 regulatory purposes. It starts with the estimation of scenario loss at loan level, and then aggregated and summed up by scenario probability weights to obtain portfolio expected loss. This estimated loss can vary significantly, depending on the levels of loss severity generated by the IFSR9 models, and the probability weights chosen. There is a need for a quantitative approach for determining the weights for scenario losses. In this paper, we propose a model to estimate the expected portfolio losses brought by recession risk, and a quantitative approach for determining the scenario weights. The model and approach are validated by an empirical example, where we stress portfolio expected loss by recession risk, and calculate the scenario weights accordingly.
C22|Heterogeneous component multiplicative error models for forecasting trading volumes|We propose a novel approach to modelling and forecasting high frequency trading volumes. The new model extends the Component Multiplicative Error Model of Brownlees et al. (2011) by introducing a more flexible specification of the long-run component. This uses an additive cascade of MIDAS polynomial filters, moving at different frequencies, in order to reproduce the changing long-run level and the persistent autocorrelation structure of high frequency trading volumes. After investigating its statistical properties, the merits of the proposed approach are illustrated by means of an application to six stocks traded on the XETRA market in the German Stock Exchange.
C22|Are inflation rates in OECD countries actually stationary during 2011-2018? Evidence based on Fourier Nonlinear Unit root tests with Break|We re-investigate the hypothesis of inflation stationarity in 33 Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) member countries from 2011 to 2018. We compare two linear fractional-based, two nonlinear Fourier-based and two nonlinear Fourier-Fractional-based unit root tests with five classical unit root tests. Classical unit root tests are biased to the hypothesis of unit root since they do not account for structural breaks and nonlinearities. Incorporating just the Fourier framework into the ADF test does not significantly improve the conventional ADF unit root test. More importantly, we find that accounting for the observed limitations of the classical unit root tests improves the power of test. The rejection ability of the examined unit root tests are greatly enhanced whenever inherent salient features (nonlinearity and fractional integration) are combined with structural breaks. The battery of enhanced unit root tests confirmed the Norwegian inflation rate as the only nonstationary series among the thirty three considered. More than half of the OECD member countries have inflation rates that are somewhat stationary within the investigated period. Robustness check indicated the superiority of test regression with Fourier nonlinearity and break over the classical ADF regression.
C22|Hysteresis of Unemployment Rates in Africa: New Findings from Fourier ADF test|We investigate unit root in the unemployment rates of 42 African countries. The essence is to clarify if the hypothesis of hysteresis holds or unemployment rate is dubbed as having natural rate, that is, stationarity. Having considered a novel approach that considers the nonlinear Fourier and a structural break in the unit root testing framework, we find the classical unit root test wrongly accepting the hysteresis hypothesis of unemployment rate in selected African countries more than 60% of the cases. Meanwhile, our approach finds fewer cases of hysteresis in the unemployment rate than initially detected by the conventional classical test: the hysteresis hypothesis is found to hold in only 7 countries (Algeria, Botswana, Cabo Verde, Congo DR, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and Tanzania) out of the 42 African countries. This implies that with the exception of the seven countries mentioned, shocks to unemployment will be transitory and strong policy action will not be required to address unemployment challenges. This suggests that hysteresis effects will be offset in overall since these are concentrated in smaller African economies and portends for a faster recovery to shocks in the broader African context. Robustness check proves the superiority of the Fourier unit root tests with structural break over other lower alternatives.
C22|Influence of US Presidential Terms on S&P500 Index Using a Time Series Analysis Approach|This paper examines the influence of US presidential terms on the stock market by focusing on the S&P500 index. Fractional integration techniques, which are more general than other standard methods, are used and the results obtained produce interesting findings. It was found that during the second presidential terms, stock markets are less efficient and present higher degrees of persistence in their volatilities. This is observed independently of the political affiliations of the president in power. The volatility, in general, reflects the spillover of economic excesses at the end of the first presidential term when seeking re-election into the second term in office. Expansionary monetary and fiscal policies at the end of the first term may create disequilibria in the economy which are amplified in the second term through a transmission mechanism resulting in contractionary interventionist policies in a situation where no incentive for re-election exists by the incumbent
C22|Stock Market Volatility Analysis using GARCH Family Models: Evidence from Zimbabwe Stock Exchange|Understanding the pattern of stock market volatility is important to investors as well as for investment policy. Volatility is directly associated with risks and returns, higher the volatility the more financial market is unstable. The volatility of the Zimbabwean stock market is modeled using monthly return series consisting of 109 observations from January 2010 to January 2019. ARCH effects test confirmed the use of GARCH family models. Symmetric and asymmetric models were used namely: GARCH(1,1), GARCH-M(1,1), IGARCH(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1). Post-estimation test for further ARCH effects were done for each model to confirm its efficiency for policy. EGARCH(1,1) turned to be the best model using both the AIC and SIC criterions; with the presence of asymmetry found to be significant. The study concludes that positive and negative shocks have different effects on the stock market returns series. Bad and good news will increase volatility of stock market returns in different magnitude. This simply imply that investors on the Zimbabwean stock exchange react differently to information depending be it positive or negative in making investment decisions.
C22|Examining eco-efficiency convergence of European Industries.The existence of technological spillovers within a metafrontier framework|European policies regarding global warming have been outspread the last few decades with many initiatives for industrial production process. In this paper we model eco-efficiency performance under a meta-frontier framework for 14 industries from the manufacturing sector from 27 European countries over the 1995-2011 period. The utilization of NOx, SOx, CO2, CH4, N2O, CO, NMVOC and NH3 as undesirable outputs and GVA as the desirable represent the impact of of economic activities on the environment. In the first stage, we estimate eco-efficiency using the conventional Directional Distance Function (DDF) as well as the non-radial DDF approach. In the second stage of analysis, we investigate the existence of conditional and unconditional convergence according to several methodologies. Our eco-efficiency estimates provide a distinct behavior for energy intensive European industries. Moreover, a decline occurs for the majority of them. In addition, our results using distributional dynamics approach and the recent approach of Philips and Sul (2007) supports the non-convergence hypothesis and the creation of distinct clubs. Finally, the establishment of a catch up index indicate an increase in a speed of convergence.
C22|Oil price volatility forecasts: What do investors need to know?|Contrary to the current practice that mainly considers stand-alone statistical loss functions, the aim of the paper is to assess oil price volatility forecasts based on objective-based evaluation criteria, given that different forecasting models may exhibit superior performance at different applications. To do so, we forecast implied and several intraday volatilities and we evaluate them based on financial decisions for which these forecasts are used. In this study we confine our interest on the use of such forecasts from financial investors. More specifically, we consider four well established trading strategies, which are based on volatility forecasts, namely (i) trading the implied volatility based on the implied volatility forecasts, (ii) trading implied volatility based on intraday volatility forecasts, (iii) trading straddles in the United States Oil Fund ETF and finally (iv) trading the United States Oil Fund ETF based on implied and intraday volatility forecasts. We evaluate the after-cost profitability of each forecasting model for 1-day up to 66-days ahead. Our results convincingly show that our forecasting framework is economically useful, since different models provide superior after-cost profits depending on the economic use of the volatility forecasts. Should investors evaluate the forecasting models based on statistical loss functions, then their financial decisions would be sub-optimal. Thus, we maintain that volatility forecasts should be evaluated based on their economic use, rather than statistical loss functions. Several robustness tests confirm these findings.
C22|How to disappear completely: non-linearity and endogeneity in the new keynesian wage Phillips curve|We use a three-regime threshold regression model to assess the ability of the New Keynesian Wage Phillips Curve (NKWPC) to describe wage inflation in the U.S. over the 1965-2018 period. Non-linearity is clearly supported by the data and it easily resists an endogeneity correction. However, this correction exposes more clearly the shortcomings of the NKWPC as a successful description of wage dynamics in the extreme phases of the business cycles, when unemployment is either low or high. In both cases it becomes completely flat.
C22|Does environmental awareness determine GDP growth ? evidence from Singapore based on ARDL and NARDL approaches|Global environmental pollution has been rapidly growing over the past few years, causing global warming and drastic climate changes. There are efforts carried out by individuals and entities to minimize the level of pollution worldwide. This study attempts to investigate the nexus relationship between carbon emissions, FDI inflows, exports and GDP. Having an open economic setting, heavy reliance on FDI and exports, as well as high rate of carbon emissions, Singapore appears to suit the study. The analysis is carried out using standard time-series techniques, supplemented by ARDL and NARDL tests on annual data spanning from 1970 to 2017. The empirical results tend to suggest that the nexus relationship is statistically significant, the rate of carbon emissions really influences GDP through FDI and that the CO2 emission is the most exogenous among the variables. This study is consistent with the “no pain all gain” slogan by which implementation of policies related to carbon emissions is expected to expand GDP growth due to the awareness of investors regarding environmental issues. Our findings are of great importance to the development policies in countries facing similar challenges.
C22|Intuitive and Reliable Estimates of Output Gap and Real Exchange Rate Cycles for Turkey|Decomposing time series data into trend and cyclical components is among the top priorities for policy maker institutions. Comparing with the unrestricted Beveridge-Nelson decomposition and Hodrick-Prescott filter, we implement a restricted Beveridge-Nelson filter developed by Kamber et. al. (2018) which limits the volatility of trend component. Utilizing the quarterly real GDP series and monthly real exchange rate data for Turkey, we find that Beveridge-Nelson filter provides more persistent and larger cyclical values than Beveridge-Nelson decomposition. Taking the output gap estimates of Central Bank of Turkey as a benchmark, our results indicate that Beveridge-Nelson filter method yields more sensible results. We also develop a measure to make an assessment on the end-point bias. Our results show that restricted Beveridge-Nelson filter performs better than Hodrick-Prescott filter regarding the magnitude of end point bias.
C22|On the (in)efficiency of cryptocurrencies: Have they taken daily or weekly random walks?|The legitimacy of virtual currencies as an alternative form of monetary exchange has been the centre of an ongoing heated debated since the catastrophic global financial meltdown of 2007-2008. We contribute to the relative fresh body of empirical research on the informational market efficiency of cryptomarkets by investigating the weak-form efficiency of the top-five cryptocurrencies. In differing from previous studies, we implement random walk testing procedures which are robust to asymmetries and unobserved smooth structural breaks. Moreover, our study employs two frequencies of cryptocurrency returns, one corresponding to daily returns and the other to weekly returns. Our findings validate the random walk hypothesis for daily series hence validating the weak-form efficiency for daily returns. On the other hand, weekly returns are observed to be stationary processes which is evidence against weak-form efficiency for weekly returns. Overall, our study has important implications for market participants within cryptocurrency markets.
C22|Cholesky-ANN models for predicting multivariate realized volatility|Accurately forecasting multivariate volatility plays a crucial role for the financial industry. The Cholesky-Artificial Neural Networks specification here presented provides a twofold advantage for this topic. On the one hand, the use of the Cholesky decomposition ensures positive definite forecasts. On the other hand, the implementation of artificial neural networks allows to specify nonlinear relations without any particular distributional assumption. Out-of-sample comparisons reveal that Artificial neural networks are not able to strongly outperform the competing models. However, long-memory detecting networks, like Nonlinear Autoregressive model process with eXogenous input and long shortterm memory, show improved forecast accuracy respect to existing econometric models.
C22|Oil and pump prices: Is there any asymmetry in the Greek oil downstream sector?|The aim of this study is to assess whether fuel prices in Greece respond asymmetrically to changes in the global oil prices. To do so, we depart from the current practice in the literature that focuses on fuel prices. Rather, we consider the mark-up of both the refineries and retailers. Even more, unlike the bulk of the existing literature, we take into consideration the whole supply chain, i.e. both the refineries and the retail fuel sector. Hence, we first assess whether the refineries’ mark-up responds asymmetrically to the global oil prices and subsequently whether the retailers’ mark-up shows an asymmetric behaviour relatively to changes in the refineries’ fuel prices. Our findings show that the Greek fuel retailers do not change their mark-up behaviour based on changes of the refined fuel price. By contrast, the asymmetric behaviour is evident in the refineries mark-up relatively to changes in the global oil prices, which is then passed through to the retailers and consumers. Finally, we convincingly show that weekly and monthly data mask any such asymmetric relationship. Thus, we maintain that unless the appropriate data frequency, fuel price transformations and the whole supply chain are considered, misleading findings could be revealed.
C22|Realized Volatility Forecasting with Neural Networks|In the last few decades, a broad strand of literature in finance has implemented artificial neural networks as forecasting method. The major advantage of this approach is the possibility to approximate any linear and nonlinear behaviors without knowing the structure of the data generating process. This makes it suitable for forecasting time series which exhibit long memory and nonlinear dependencies, like conditional volatility. In this paper, I compare the predictive performance of feed-forward and recurrent neural networks (RNN), particularly focusing on the recently developed Long short-term memory (LSTM) network and NARX network, with traditional econometric approaches. The results show that recurrent neural networks are able to outperform all the traditional econometric methods. Additionally, capturing long-range dependence through Long short-term memory and NARX models seems to improve the forecasting accuracy also in a highly volatile framework.
C22|Do presidential elections affect stock market returns in Nigeria?|Evidences thrive globally on the effects of political regimes, presidential elections, on stock market returns. In the same vein, this paper analyses the effects of general elections on stock returns and volatility around the election periods at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) market. The paper applies an event study approach to delineate event windows, a 5-month event window for each election was adopted comprising of an election month, and 2 months before and after each election. Returns were calculated using daily closing prices of NSE’s All Share Index (ASI) for a total of 6 elections held between 1999 and 2019. Asymmetric GARCH – EGARCH and TARCH and the Markov Switching autoregressive methodologies were applied. ASI exhibits nonlinearity and structural breaks across all the presidential elections which makes single regime model ill appropriate for modelling stock runs volatility. Evidence of an unstable and explosive conditional variance is noticeable in the 2015 presidential election market returns while leverage effect was found in the 1999 and 2007 elections, that is, bad news produces more volatility on stock returns than good news. The MS-AR (3) model neatly characterizes the NSE’s daily stock returns into bearish and bullish regime, i.e., high (low) volatility low (high) returns as regime 1 and 2, respectively. The time varying transition volatility and regime durations corroborate, in different magnitude, the regime characterization across the 6 time horizons. The paper pioneer’s an analysis of effects of elections on stock returns in Nigeria and a useful information to investors.
C22|The Relevance of Crude Oil Prices on Natural Gas Pricing Expectations: A Dynamic Model Based Empirical Study|The natural gas price is an important and often decisive variable for economic policy makers. Many studies have been developed in order to establish a stochastic process that can represent the movements or the returns of natural gas prices or variations of such prices time series to forecast price expectations. This work aims to study the relationship between natural gas and crude oil prices in the international market, proposing to investigate its nature and long term equilibrium, through the development of adequate econometric models for determining future expectations of major natural gas price benchmarks, or of their returns. In order to accomplish this, time series for both benchmark crude oil and natural gas prices are subjected to statistical tests with the purpose of verifying the underlying hypotheses behind the appropriate autoregressive dynamic models. The conditional heteroskedasticity and non-normality of the return series, which are prevalent characteristics in energy markets, are considered when elaborating these models. To reach the purpose of this work weekly natural gas and crude oil prices benchmarks traded in the international market were collected.
C22|The importance of being informed: forecasting market risk measures for the Russian RTS index future using online data and implied volatility over two decades|This paper focuses on the forecasting of market risk measures for the Russian RTS index future, and examines whether augmenting a large class of volatility models with implied volatility and Google Trends data improves the quality of the estimated risk measures. We considered a time sample of daily data from 2006 till 2019, which includes several episodes of large-scale turbulence in the Russian future market. We found that the predictive power of several models did not increase if these two variables were added, but actually decreased. The worst results were obtained when these two variables were added jointly and during periods of high volatility, when parameters estimates became very unstable. Moreover, several models augmented with these variables did not reach numerical convergence. Our empirical evidence shows that, in the case of Russian future markets, T-GARCH models with implied volatility and student’s t errors are better choices if robust market risk measures are of concern.
C22|A simple time-insensitive index of instability as a proxy for the “Africa dummy” variable – A Note|This paper calculates a simple time-insensitive index of instability using discrete series of events. The calculation of the index does not require complex statistical analysis of event series, discrete-event systems analysis, or categorical analysis. It uses a simple, single-equation regression to estimate the effects of instability on Africa’s per capita GDP over the 1961-2018 period. The results are mixed, with some showing that instability has constrained Africa’s performance and others implying it has helped. The findings are not quite econometrically pure, but reasonable given that many relevant variables are missing from the regression. Hence, I resist the temptation to comment further until at least conventional factors like capital are included in this regression, while I insist that the index itself is sound.
C22|Modelling cyclical variation in the cost pass-through: evidence from regime-dependent ARDL model|In this study we develop a regime-dependent ARDL model in order to investigate how labour costs feed through into prices conditional on the business cycle position. The estimation results allow us to make inference on the cyclical behaviour of markups. The proposed methodology is applied to Polish industrial sectors. The obtained estimates point to procyclicality as the prevailing pattern of markup adjustment. Thus, overall markups in Polish industry seem to have a mitigating effect on business cycle fluctuations. The degree of procyclicality seems, however, to be positively correlated with the industry's degree of competition.
C22|Maximum Likelihood Estimation for the Fractional Vasicek Model|This paper is concerned about the problem of estimating the drift parameters in the fractional Vasicek model from a continuous record of observations. Based on the Girsanov theorem for the fractional Brownian motion, the maximum likelihood (ML) method is used. The asymptotic theory for the ML estimates (MLE) is established in the stationary case, the explosive case, and the null recurrent case for the entire range of the Hurst parameter, providing a complete treatment of asymptotic analysis. It is shown that changing the sign of the persistence parameter will change the asymptotic theory for the MLE, including the rate of convergence and the limiting distribution. It is also found that the asymptotic theory depends on the value of the Hurst parameter.
C22|Estimation and Inference of Fractional Continuous-Time Model with Discrete-Sampled Data|This paper proposes a two-stage method for estimating parameters in a para-metric fractional continuous-time model based on discrete-sampled observations. In the ﬁrst stage, the Hurst parameter is estimated based on the ratio of two second-order diﬀerences of observations from diﬀerent time scales. In the second stage, the other parameters are estimated by the method of moments. All estimators have closed-form expressions and are easy to obtain. A large sample theory of the pro-posed estimators is derived under either the in-ﬁll asymptotic scheme or the double asymptotic scheme. Extensive simulations show that the proposed theory performs well in ﬁnite samples. Two empirical studies are carried out. The ﬁrst, based on the daily realized volatility of equities from 2011 to 2017, shows that the Hurst parameter is much lower than 0.5, which suggests that the realized volatility is too rough for continuous-time models driven by standard Brownian motion or fractional Brownian motion with Hurst parameter larger than 0.5. The second empirical study is of the daily realized volatility of exchange rates from 1986 to 1999. The estimate of the Hurst parameter is again much lower than 0.5. Moreover, the proposed frac-tional continuous-time model performs better than the autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (ARFIMA) model out-of-sample.
C22|On the Transfer of Technology from Universities: The Impact of the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 on the Institutionalization of University Research|While the academic and policy literature has focused on patent counts and patent quality as possible outcome measures to evaluate the impact of the U.S. Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, we argue that the impact of the Act on University effort to transfer its technology to the private sector might be seen more accurately by examining the trend in the initial establishment of technology transfer offices (TTOs). Using an econometric framework to identify the presence of multiple structural breaks in data on the annual number of university TTOs, we find multiple break dates over the period 1925 to 2014. One break date was in the late-1960s and a second break date occurred about 1982. We suggest, in contrast to previous findings in the literature, that the Act did have an impact on the formal internal transfer of technology from universities through patenting by providing an incentive for universities to invest in a TTO research infrastructure. We also suggest that our empirical methodology is applicable to an assessment of the impact of legislation similar to the Bayh-Dole Act in the many countries with such legislation.
C22|A Horse Race in High Dimensional Space|In this paper, we study the predictive power of dense and sparse estimators in a high dimensional space. We propose a new forecasting method, called Elastically Weighted Principal Components Analysis (EWPCA) that selects the variables, with respect to the target variable, taking into account the collinearity among the data using the Elastic Net soft thresholding. Then, we weight the selected predictors using the Elastic Net regression coefficient, and we finally apply the principal component analysis to the new “elastically” weighted data matrix. We compare this method to common benchmark and other methods to forecast macroeconomic variables in a data-rich environment, dived into dense representation, such as Dynamic Factor Models and Ridge regressions and sparse representations, such as LASSO regression. All these models are adapted to take into account the linear dependency of the macroeconomic time series. Moreover, to estimate the hyperparameters of these models, including the EWPCA, we propose a new procedure called “brute force”. This method allows us to treat all the hyperparameters of the model uniformly and to take the longitudinal feature of the time-series data into account. Our findings can be summarized as follows. First, the “brute force” method to estimate the hyperparameters is more stable and gives better forecasting performances, in terms of MSFE, than the traditional criteria used in the literature to tune the hyperparameters. This result holds for all samples sizes and forecasting horizons. Secondly, our two-step forecasting procedure enhances the forecasts’ interpretability. Lastly, the EWPCA leads to better forecasting performances, in terms of mean square forecast error (MSFE), than the other sparse and dense methods or naïve benchmark, at different forecasts horizons and sample sizes.
C22|Predictability, Real Time Estimation, and the Formulation of Unobserved Components Models|The formulation of unobserved components models raises some relevant interpretative issues, owing to the existence of alternative observationally equivalent specifications, differing for the timing of the disturbances and their covariance matrix. We illustrate them with reference to unobserved components models with ARMA(m;m) reduced form, performing the decomposition of the series into an ARMA(m; q) signal, q m, and a noise component. We provide a characterization of the set of covariance structures that are observationally equivalent, when the models are formulated both in the future and the contemporaneous forms. Hence, we show that, while the point predictions and the contemporaneous real time estimates are invariant to the specification of the disturbances covariance matrix, the reliability cannot be identified, except for special cases requiring q
C22|Modelling Opportunity Cost Effects in Money Demand due to Openness|We apply a novel model-based approach to constructing composite international financial indices (CIFIs) as measures of opportunity cost effects that arise due to openness in money demand models. These indices are tested on the Peopleâ€™s Republic of China (PRC) and Taiwan Province of China (TPC), two economies which differ substantially in size and degree of financial openness. Results show that a) stable money demand equations can be identified if accounting for foreign opportunity costs through CIFIs, b) the monetary policy intervention in the PRC over the global financial crisis period temporarily mitigated disequilibrating foreign shocks to money demand, c) CIFIs capture opportunity costs due to openness more adequately than commonly used US interest rates and d) CIFI construction provides valuable insights into the channels through which foreign financial markets affect domestic money demand.
C22|Characterizing growth instability: new evidence on unit roots and structural breaks in long run time series|In this paper we investigate whether long run time series of income per capita are better described by a trend-stationary model with few structural changes or by unit root processes in which permanent stochastic shocks are responsible for the observed growth discontinuities. To this purpose, we develop a methodology to test the null of a generic I(1) process versus a set of stationary alternatives with structural breaks. Differently from other tests in the literature, the number of structural breaks under the alternative hypothesis is treated as an unknown (up to some ex ante determined maximum). Critical values are obtained via Monte Carlo simulations and finite sample size and power properties of the test are reported. An application is provided for a group of advanced and developing countries in the Maddison dataset, also using bootstrapped critical values. As compared to previous findings in the literature, less evidence is found against the unit root hypothesis. Failures to reject the I(1) null are particularly strong for a set of developing countries considered. Finally, even less rejections are found when relaxing the assumption of Gaussian shocks.
C22|Yield Curve Dynamics and Fiscal Policy Shocks|We use an affine term structure model with time-varying macro trends and a vector autoregression model to investigate the response of the US Treasury yield curve to changes in fiscal policy. By accounting for the timing of the fiscal policy in the shock identification we can separate the effect of news about future increases in government spending from the effect of innovations in changes of current government expenditures. Further, we use the Baker, Bloom, and Davis (2016) uncertainty index dataset to explain the flight to quality type of events. By controlling for the low frequency movement in yields and the decomposition of yield to risk neutral rates and term premia we show that the news channel is driven by a cautious response of agents to an increase in projected future government spending and leads to a drop in yields. This result contrasts with shock into contemporaneous spending which has no significant impact on bond yields.
C22|An analysis to detect exuberance and implosion in regional house prices in Turkey|The aim of this paper is to find out whether there is exuberance in regional house prices in Turkey. For this purpose, we analyze real hedonic house prices and price to rent ratios countrywide as well as for 26 geographic regions at the NUTS2 level from January 2010 to January 2019. We perform the right-tailed unit root testing procedures developed by Phillips et al. (2015) and Phillips and Shi (2018) and use their real time date-stamping strategy to determine periods of explosiveness and implosion. Our empirical findings indicate that there were exuberance episodes in house prices in Turkey for multiple periods, where an important contributor to these dynamics was the largest housing market, Ä°stanbul. We also detect exuberance in some other regions, particularly in the neighboring NUTS2 regions of Ä°stanbul and in Ä°zmir after around 2014. However, we find out that explosive price behavior turned into implosion in many regions starting from 2018.
C22|Is There Asymmetry between GDP and Labor Market Variables in Turkey under Okun’s Law?|This study examines the long-term relationship in Turkey between Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and two labor market variables, employment and unemployment rate. Markov switching (MS) models are estimated to capture non-linear effects under Okun’s law, using quarterly data for 1989 to 2018. The aim is to determine whether these labor market variables exhibit asymmetric behavior in response to GDP changes. Asymmetric effects determine the course of the recovery in GDP and employment after a crisis, so it is important to determine elasticities among these variables to implement active labor market policies. This study is novel in that we investigate the existence of these asymmetric relationships in the Turkish economy while taking into consideration the expansion and recession phases of both variables. In a MS model with two states being expansion and recession, we find asymmetric relationships between labor market variables and GDP both within and between phases. In addition, labor market variables in Turkey respond more strongly to GDP changes during recessions.
C22|The Relationship between Monetary Policy and Uncertainty in Advanced Economies: Evidence from Time- and Frequency-Domains|In this work we offer new insight into the relationship between interest rates and uncertainty for several advanced economies (Canada, EU, Japan, UK, US) for the period 2003-2018. For this purpose, we utilize the wavelets methodology, which allows us to analyze how the relationship changes over time and across different frequencies and to make inference about causality. To analyze a wide range of frequencies, and because our analysis contains the post-2008 period as well, we use the daily shadow interest rate measure of Krippner (2012, 2013) to capture the stance of monetary policy making at the zero lower bound. We also use the daily uncertainty measure by Scotti (2016), which measures uncertainty related to the real economy. Our findings suggest that there is significant comovement across time and across different frequencies in all the countries we analyze. Corresponding to the similar, yet different conduct of monetary policy, we also find that the relationship exhibits different characteristics and causality in all the economies we analyze, implying that one must be careful not to draw generalized conclusions.
C22|Forecasting realized volatility of bitcoin returns: Tail events and asymmetric loss|We use intra-day data to construct measures of the realized volatility of bitcoin returns. We then use the heterogeneous autoregressive realized volatility (HAR-RV) model to study whether indices which capture the tail behaviour (heavy-tailedness and asymmetry) of the daily returns distribution help to forecast subsequent realized volatility. We find that mainly forecasters who suffer a higher loss in case of an underprediction of realized volatility than in case of an overprediction of the same absolute size benefit from using the tail indices as predictors of realized volatility at intermediate forecast horizons. This result is robust to controlling for realized skewness and realized kurtosis, and it also applies to “bad” and “good” realized volatility.
C22|Time-Varying Risk Aversion and the Predictability of Bond Premia|We show that time-varying risk aversion captures significant predictive information over excess returns on U.S. government bonds even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors. Including risk aversion improves the predictive accuracy at all horizons (one- to twelve-months ahead) for shorter maturity bonds and at shorter forecast horizons (one- to three-months ahead) for longer maturity bonds. Given the role of Treasury securities in economic forecasting models and portfolio allocation decisions, our findings have significant implications for investors, policy makers and researchers interested in accurately forecasting return dynamics for these assets.
C22|The effect of global crises on stock market correlations: Evidence from scalar regressions via functional data analysis|This paper presents a novel, mixed-frequency based regression approach, derived from functional data analysis (FDA), to analyze the effect of global crises on stock market correlations, using a long span of data, dating as far back as early 1800s, thus covering a wide range of global crises that have not yet been examined in the literature in this context. Focusing on the advanced nations in the G7 group, we observe heterogeneous effects of global crises on the convergence patterns across developed stock markets. While the post World War II period experienced a general rise in the level of correlations among developed stock market returns, we find that global crises in general have led to a stronger association of stock market returns in the US, UK and Canada, whereas the opposite holds when it comes to how European and Japanese stock markets co-move with the US. Overall, our results suggest that crises that are global in nature generally contribute to the convergence of global stock markets, while the effect largely depends on the context and nature of the crises that possibly drive the perception of risk and/or contagion in financial markets. From an investment perspective, our findings suggest that, in the wake of global crises, diversification benefits will be limited by moving funds across the US and UK stock markets whereas possible diversification benefits would have been possible during the crises-ridden period of the early twentieth century by holding positions in equities in the remaining G7 nations to supplement positions in the US. However, these diversification benefits seem to have frittered away in the post World War II period, highlighting the role of emerging markets and alternative assets to improve diversification benefits in the modern era.
C22|Variants of Consumption-Wealth Ratios and Predictability of U.S. Government Bond Risk Premia: Old is still Gold|This paper compares the ability of alternative consumption-wealth ratios, based on constant parameter (cay), Markov-switching (cayMS ) and time-varying parameter (cayTVP) cointegration estimation of the consumption function, for predicting in- and out-of-sample movements of quarterly excess returns of U.S. government bonds over 1953:Q2 to 2015:Q3. Our findings show that after controlling for standard financial and macroeconomic factors, cay outperforms the cayMS and cayTVP in predicting the path of excess returns on bonds. Implications of our results for academics, investors and policymakers are discussed.
C22|Contagion between Real Estate and Financial Markets: A Bayesian Quantile-on-Quantile Approach|We study contagion between REITs and the equity market in the U.S. over four subsamples covering January, 2003 to December, 2017, by using Bayesian nonparametric quantile-on-quantile regressions with heteroskedasticity. We find that the spillovers from the REITs on to the equity market has varied over time across the four sub-samples, though similarity is observed between the first and the last sub-samples. Further, barring the extreme ends of the two markets, contagion from REITs upon the stock market went down during the global financial crisis relative to the pre-crisis period, with the spillover picking-up during the European sovereign debt crisis.
C22|Contagion between Stock and Real Estate Markets: International Evidence from a Local Gaussian Correlation Approach|In this paper, we analyze contagion over the daily period of January 1, 1998 to September 13, 2018 between Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) and the equity markets of nineteen countries, which are at their different stages of development in terms of the REITs market. For our purpose, we use the local Gaussian correlation approach during the dot-com, global financial, European sovereign debt crises, and the more recent period involving the Brexit in the UK. In general, we find strong evidence of contagion between equities and REITs of not only matured and established markets, but also in economies with an emerging REITs sector, especially during the global financial and sovereign debt crises. Further, when we considered contagion across REITs of the US and the other countries, and between US REITs and equities of the remaining eighteen countries, a similar pattern emerges. Our results have important implications for investors and policymakers alike.
C22|Gold-Oil Dependence Dynamics and the Role of Geopolitical Risks: Evidence from a Markov-Switching Time-Varying Copula Model|This paper examined the dependence structure and dynamics between gold and oil prices. Specifically, we examined the hedge and safe haven ability of gold for oil prices using the time-varying Markov switching copula models and daily gold prices and West Texas Intermediate Institute (WTI) crude oil spot prices from 2 January 1985 to 30 November 2017. The heterogeneity of market agents is captured by decomposing the raw original series into different multi-resolution analysis (MRA) investment horizons (D1-S9). Further, we examined the effect of geopolitical risks on the dynamic dependence between gold and oil. We provide evidence of time-varying Markov tail dependence structure and dynamics between gold and oil. While our results showed that gold is a good hedge for oil returns and for short- and medium-term investors, it cannot protect long-term investors against losses arising from increasing oil prices. We also provide evidence in support of the safe haven ability of gold for oil. Further, we show that the inclusion of geopolitical risks in a pure gold and oil asset portfolio provides diversification benefits since the former has mostly negative effect on the dependence structure between gold and oil.
C22|Oil Price Uncertainty and Movements in the US Government Bond Risk Premia|In this paper, we analyze the predictability of the movements of bond premia of US Treasury due to oil price uncertainty over the monthly period 1953:06 to 2016:12. For our purpose, we use a higher order nonparametric causality-in-quantiles framework, which in turn, allows us to test for predictability over the entire conditional distribution of not only bond returns, but also its volatility, by controlling for misspecification due to uncaptured nonlinearity and structural breaks, which we show to exist in our data. We find that oil uncertainty not only predicts (increases) US bond returns, but also its volatility, with the effect on the latter being stronger. In addition, oil uncertainty tends to have a stronger impact on the shortest and longest maturities (2- and 5-year), and relatively weaker impact on bonds with medium-term (3- and 4-year) maturities. Our results are robust to alternative measures of oil market uncertainty and bond market volatility.
C22|Does U.K.’s Real GDP have a Unit Root? Evidence from a Multi-Century Perspective|We employ the nonlinear unit-root test recently developed by Omay et al. (2018), as well as other linear and nonlinear tests, to examine the stationarity of five multi-century historical U.K. series of real output compiled by the Bank of England (Thomas and Dimsdale, 2017). Three series span 1270 to 2016 and two series span 1700 to 2016. These datasets represent the longest span of historical real output data available and, thus, provide the environment for which unit-root tests are most powerful. A key feature of the Omay et al. (2018) test is its simulataneous allowance for two types of nonlinearity: time-dependent (structural breaks) nonlinearity and state-dependent (asymmetric adjustment) nonlinearity. The key finding of the test, contrary to what other more popular nonlinear unit-root tests suggest, provides strong evidence that the main structure of the five series is stationary with a sharp trend break and an asymmetric nonlinear adjustment. This finding is highly significant from the perspective of current macroeconomic debate because it refutes, for the historical U.K. series at least, the most stylized fact that real output follows a non-stationary process.
C22|Risk Aversion and Bitcoin Returns in Normal, Bull, and Bear Markets|We study whether level of risk aversion can be used to predict Bitcoin returns. Using a copula-quantile approach, we find evidence of predictability for the lower and upper quantiles of the conditional distribution of returns (i.e., in bull and bear markets). To reveal the sign of the predictability, we apply the cross-quantilogram approach and find that the cross-quantilogram is similar when risk aversion is at the low or medium level for various quantiles of Bitcoin returns. In particular, we find positive predictability when the risk aversion is very low and at the medium level. However, the predictability becomes negative when both the risk aversion and Bitcoin returns are very high, suggesting that very high levels of risk aversion are likely to drive down Bitcoin returns in a bull market.
C22|Monetary Policy Reaction to Uncertainty in Japan: Evidence from a Quantile-on-Quantile Interest Rate Rule|Japan’s episodes of lower bound of interest rates together with macroeconomic uncertainty for over the past two decades stands as a tremendous hurdle for the estimation of Taylor-type rule models. We demarcate our study from previous literature by conducting the estimations not only at various points on the conditional distribution of the interest rate but also at various quantiles of an additional regressor on top of inflation and output, viz., an uncertainty measure, by adopting a quantile nonseparable triangular system estimation. The results show that the reaction to uncertainty seems to have substituted the Bank’s reaction to inflation and output, lending support to the Brainard attenuation principle. In essence, faced with higher uncertainty, the monetary authority reacts by cutting (attenuating) its policy rate across all quantiles of uncertainty at all conditional quantiles of interest rate, with an increased response of the Bank of Japan to uncertainty at its lower quantiles when interest rate is at its lower conditional quantiles. A possible explanation is the greater concern of getting out from the lower bounds of interest rate.
C22|Historical Volatility of Advanced Equity Markets: The Role of Local and Global Crises|We use a nonparametric quantiles-based model to analyse the predictability of long-spans (nearly or over one century) of annual volatility of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US), based on information contained in domestic (banking, currency, inflation, sovereign debt, and stock market) and global crises. We find that, in general, global crises tends to have a stronger causal impact on market volatility than domestic crises, but domestic stock market crashes also plays an important role in explaining equity market volatility of Germany, the UK and the US. Interestingly, extreme ends of the conditional distribution of market volatility cannot be predicted, irrespective of whether domestic or global crises are used as predictors.
C22|Is the Housing Market in the United States Really Weakly-Efficient?|We analyze the directional predictability of a daily dataset of aggregate and regional (10 major metropolitan cities) housing markets of the United States using the quantilogram – a model-free procedure. We overwhelmingly reject the weak-form of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), which has been derived thus far by the extant literature based on unit root tests and long-memory models.
C22|The Role of Real Estate Uncertainty in Predicting US Home Sales Growth: Evidence from a Quantiles-Based Bayesian Model Averaging Approach|This paper investigates the role of real estate-specific uncertainty in predicting the conditional distribution of US home sales growth over the monthly period of 1970:07 to 2017:12, based on Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) to account for model uncertainty. After controlling for standard predictors of home sales (housing price, mortgage rate, personal disposable income, unemployment rate, building permits, and housing starts), and macroeconomic and financial uncertainties, our results from the quantile BMA (QBMA) model show that real estate uncertainty has predictive content for the lower and upper quantiles of the conditional distribution of home sales growth.
C22|Cross-Border Capital Flows and Return Dynamics in Emerging Stock Markets: Relative Roles of Equity and Debt Flows|This paper examines the wealth and risk effects of cross-border capital flows on emerging stock markets by distinguishing between equity and debt flows and using a panel GARCH approach. We find that both equity and debt flows possess incremental information over emerging stock market returns and volatility that is not captured by aggregate capital market risk factors. While the explanatory power of debt flows is relatively stronger and more robust, even after controlling for world market return, volatility as well as leverage and asymmetric effects, we find that equity flows assume significant explanatory power, particularly during the post-global financial crisis period. Further analysis also shows that changes in debt flows can serve as a significant determinant of crash risks in emerging stock markets. Finally, our findings indicate a robust effect of debt flows on idiosyncratic risks at the country level with significant implications for asset valuations in emerging stock markets.
C22|The Predictability of Stock Market Volatility in Emerging Economies: Relative Roles of Local, Regional and Global Business Cycles|This paper explores the role of business cycle proxies, measured by the output gap at the global, regional and local levels, as potential predictors of stock market volatility in the emerging BRICS nations. We observe that the emerging BRICS nations display a rather heterogeneous pattern when it comes to the relative role of idiosyncratic factors as a predictor of stock market volatility. While domestic output gap is found to capture significant predictive information for India and China particularly, the business cycles associated with emerging economies and the world in general are strongly important for the BRIC countries and weakly for South Africa, especially in the post-global financial crisis era. The findings suggest that despite the increase in the financial integration of world capital markets, emerging economies can still bear significant exposures to idiosyncratic risk factors, an issue of high importance for the profitability of global diversification strategies.
C22|Monetary Policy Uncertainty and Volatility Jumps in Advanced Equity Markets|We analyze the role of monetary policy uncertainty in predicting volatility jumps in nine advanced equity markets. The standard linear Granger causality test detects weak evidence of monetary policy uncertainty causing volatility jumps. But given the strong evidence of nonlinearity between jumps and monetary policy uncertainty, we next use a nonparametric causality-in-quantiles test, since the linear model is misspecified. Using this data-driven robust approach we find strong evidence of the role of monetary policy uncertainty in predicting volatility jumps, especially towards the lower end of the conditional distribution.
C22|Global Crises and Gold as a Safe Haven: Evidence from Over Seven and a Half Centuries of Data|Using annual data spanning the period of 1258-2018, we test the safe haven characteristic of gold in the wake of global crises. We find that, when we allow for regime-switching to capture nonlinearity and structural breaks, gold serves as a strong hedge against crises, especially during the bullish regime of the market, and in particular from the post-World War I period, as suggested by a time-varying model. In comparison, silver, however, does not seem to possess the safe haven property over the historical period of 1688-2018. Finally, we also find that global crises can accurately predict real gold returns over a long-span (1302-2018) out-of-sample period.
C22|Effect of Uncertainty on U.S. Stock Returns and Volatility: Evidence from Over Eighty Years of High-Frequency Data|In this paper, we analyse the asymmetric impact of financial uncertainty shocks on stock returns and volatility of the U.S. equity market over the period of 18th March, 1936 to 30th November, 2016, by controlling for impact of monetary policy shocks and recessions. We find that positive growth rates of uncertainty reduce stock returns and increases volatility, while, negative growth rates of uncertainty primarily reduce stock market variance. Further, the impact of changes in uncertainty on volatility is found to be asymmetric in the statistical sense. A rolling window estimation over the period of 30th June, 1954 to 30th November, 2016, shows that there is significant time variation in the impact of uncertainty, though the direction of impact largely confirms with the static case. Our study provides new evidence that the impact of financial uncertainty on the U.S. equity markets is intuitively consistent even in the historical and high-frequency context.
C22|How do Housing Returns in Emerging Countries Respond to Oil Shocks? A MIDAS Touch|In this study, we utilize the recent oil shock data of Baumeister and Hamilton (2019) to analyze how housing returns in China, India and Russia respond to different oil shocks. Given the available data for the relevant variables, the MIDAS approach which helps circumvent aggregation problem in the estimation process is employed. We also extend the MIDAS framework to account for nonlinearities in the model. Expectedly, the housing returns of the countries considered respond differently to the variants of oil shocks. More specifically, we find that the housing returns of India and China which are net oil-importing countries do not seem to possess oil risk hedging characteristics albeit with the converse for Russia which is a major net oil-exporter. We also find that modeling with the MIDAS framework offers better predictability than other variants with uniform frequency.
C22|Trade Uncertainties and the Hedging Abilities of Bitcoin|In this paper, we use daily data from October 2011 to May 2019 to estimate the monthly realized correlation between stock returns of the United States (US) and Bitcoin returns. Then, we relate the realized correlation with a news-based measure of the growth of trade uncertainty for the US. Our results show that the realized correlation is negatively impacted by increases in trade uncertainty, suggesting that Bitcoin can act as a hedge relative to the US stock market in the wake of heightened trade policy-related uncertainties, and can provide diversification benefits for investors.
C22|Forecasting Local Currency Bond Risk Premia of Emerging Markets: The Role of Cross-Country Macro-Financial Linkages|In this paper, we forecast local currency debt of five major emerging market countries (Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey) over the period of January 2010 to January 2019 (with an in-sample: March 2005 to December 2018). We exploit information from a large set of economic and financial time series to assess the importance of not only “own-country” factors (derived from principal component and partial least squares approach), but also create “global” predictors by combining the country-specific variables across the five emerging economies. We find that while information on own-country factors can outperform the historical average model, global factors tend to produce not only greater statistical and economic gains, but also enhances market timing ability of investors, especially when we use the target-variable (bond premium) approach under the partial least squares method to extract our factors. Our results have important implications for not only fund managers, but also policymakers.
C22|Gold, Platinum and the Predictability of Bond Risk Premia|We show that the ratio of gold to platinum prices (GP) contains significant predictive information for excess U.S. government bond returns, even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors. Including GP in the model improves the predictive accuracy, over and above the standard macroeconomic and financial predictors, at all forecasting horizons for the shortest maturity bonds and at longer forecasting horizons for bonds with longer maturities beyond 2 years. The findings highlight the predictive information captured by commodity prices on bond market excess returns with significant investment and policy making implications.
C22|The Role of an Aligned Investor Sentiment Index in Predicting Bond Risk Premia of the United States|In this paper, we develop a new investor sentiment index that is aligned with the purpose of predicting the excess returns on government bonds of the United States (US) of maturities of 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-year. By eliminating a common noise component in underlying sentiment proxies using the partial least squares (PLS) approach, the new index is shown to have much greater predictive power than the original principal component analysis (PCA)-based sentiment index both in- and out-of-sample, with the predictability being statistically significant, especially for bond premia with shorter maturities, even after controlling for a large number of financial and macro factors, as well as investor attention and manager sentiment indexes. Given the role of Treasury securities in forecasting of output and inflation, and portfolio allocation decisions, our findings have significant implications for investors, policymakers and researchers interested in accurately forecasting return dynamics for these assets.
C22|What can Fifty-Two Collateralizable Wealth Measures tell us about Future Housing Market Returns? Evidence from U.S. State-Level Data|"We use a novel U.S. state-level database to evaluate the role of housing wealth as a provider of collateral services. First, we estimate the cointegrating relationship between housing wealth and labour income for all 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia (D.C.), and overall U.S. We do not find evidence of a structural break in such link due to the presence of economic recessions or financial crises. Then, we assess the predictive ability of the housing wealth-to-income ratios (labelled by hwy) for state-level future real housing returns. We uncover: (i) positive estimates for the elasticity of housing wealth with respect to labour income, which are also largely heterogeneous across U.S. states; and (ii) a negative link between the housing wealth-to-income ratios and future housing returns, albeit the forecasting power of hwy also varies considerably across states. We conclude that country-level regressions typically ""mask"" this diversity of features surrounding the usefulness of housing in collateral provision and unfavourable labour income shock smoothing that state-level frameworks are able to recover."
C22|Testing for Episodic Predictability in Stock Returns|Standard tests based on predictive regressions estimated over the full available sample data have tended to find little evidence of predictability in stock returns. Recent approaches based on the analysis of subsamples of the data have been considered, suggesting that predictability where it occurs might exist only within so-called 'pockets of predictability' rather than across the entire sample. However, these methods are prone to the criticism that the sub-sample dates are endogenously determined such that the use of standard critical values appropriate for full sample tests will result in incorrectly sized tests leading to spurious findings of stock returns predictability. To avoid the problem of endogenously-determined sample splits, we propose new tests derived from sequences of predictability statistics systematically calculated over sub-samples of the data. Specifically, we will base tests on the maximum of such statistics from sequences of forward and backward recursive, rolling, and double-recursive predictive sub-sample regressions. We develop our approach using the over-identified instrumental variable-based predictability test statistics of Breitung and Demetrescu (2015). This approach is based on partial-sum asymptotics and so, unlike many other popular approaches including, for example, those based on Bonferroni corrections, can be readily adapted to implementation over sequences of subsamples. We show that the limiting distributions of our proposed tests are robust to both the degree of persistence and endogeneity of the regressors in the predictive regression, but not to any heteroskedasticity present even if the sub-sample statistics are based on heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. We therefore develop fixed regressor wild bootstrap implementations of the tests which we demonstrate to be first-order asymptotically valid. Finite sample behaviour against a variety of temporarily predictable processes is considered. An empirical application to US stock returns illustrates the usefulness of the new predictability testing methods we propose.
C22|A reexamination of inflation persistence dynamics in OECD countries: A new approach|This paper introduces a simple and easy to implement procedure to test for changes in persistence. The time-varying parameter that characterizes persistence changes under the alternative hypothesis is approximated by a parsimonious cosine function. The new test procedure is the minimum of a t-statistic, computed from a test regression that considers a set of reasonable values for a frequency term that is used to evaluate the time varying properties of persistence. The asymptotic distributions of the new tests are derived and critical values are provided. An indepth Monte Carlo analysis shows that the new procedure has important power gains when compared to the local GLS de-trended Dickey-Fuller (DFGLS) type tests introduced by Elliott et al. (1996) under various data generating processes with persistence changes. Moreover, an empirical application to OECD countries’ inflation series shows that for most countries analysed persistence was high in the first half of the sample and subsequently decreased. These results are compatible with modern macroeconomic theories that point to changes in inflation behavior in the early 1980s and also with recent empirical evidence against the I(1)-I(0) dichotomy.
C22|Testing for breaks in the cointegrating relationship: On the stability of government bond markets’ equilibrium|In this paper, test procedures for no fractional cointegration against possible breaks in the persistence structure of a fractional cointegrating relationship are introduced. The tests proposed are based on the supremum of the Hassler and Breitung (2006) test statistic for no cointegration over possible breakpoints in the long-run equilibrium. We show that the new tests correctly standardized converge to the supremum of a chi-squared distribution, and that this convergence is uniform. An in-depth Monte Carlo analysis provides results on the finite sample performance of our tests. We then use the new procedures to investigate whether there was a dissolution of fractional cointegrating relationships between benchmark government bonds of ten EMU countries (Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Belgium, Austria, Finland, the Netherlands and France) and Germany with the beginning of the European debt crisis.
C22|Hierarchical Time Varying Estimation of a Multi Factor Asset Pricing Model| This paper presents a new hierarchical methodology for estimating multi factor dynamic asset pricing models. The approach is loosely based on the sequential approach of Fama and MacBeth (1973). However, the hierarchical method uses very flexible bandwidth selection methods in kernel weighted regressions which can emphasize local, or recent data and information to derive the most appropriate estimates of risk premia and factor loadings at each point of time. The choice of bandwidths and weighting schemes, are achieved by cross validation. This leads to consistent estimators of the risk premia and factor loadings. Also, out of sample forecasting for stocks and two large portfolios indicates that the hierarchical method leads to statistically significant improvement in forecast RMSE.
C22|Long Memory, Realized Volatility and HAR Models| The presence of long memory in Realized Volatility (RV) is a widespread stylized fact. The origins of long memory in RV have been attributed to jumps, structural breaks, non-linearities, or pure long memory. An important development has been the Heterogeneous Autoregressive (HAR) model and its extensions. This paper assesses the separate roles of fractionally integrated long memory models, extended HAR models and time varying parameter HAR models. We find that the presence of the long memory parameter is often important in addition to the HAR models.
C22|A Practical Guide to Harnessing the HAR Volatility Model|The standard heterogeneous autoregressive (HAR) model is perhaps the most popular benchmark model for forecasting return volatility. It is often estimated using raw realized variance (RV) and ordinary least squares (OLS). However, given the stylized facts of RV and wellknown properties of OLS, this combination should be far from ideal. One goal of this paper is to investigate how the predictive accuracy of the HAR model depends on the choice of estimator, transformation, and forecasting scheme made by the market practitioner. Another goal is to examine the effect of replacing its high-frequency data based volatility proxy (RV) with a proxy based on free and publicly available low-frequency data (logarithmic range). In an out-of-sample study, covering three major stock market indices over 16 years, it is found that simple remedies systematically outperform not only standard HAR but also state of the art HARQ forecasts, and that HAR models using logarithmic range can often produce forecasts of similar quality to those based on RV.
C22|Bayesian combination for inflation forecasts: The effects of a prior based on central banks’ estimates|Typically, central banks use a variety of individual models (or a combination of models) when forecasting inflation rates. Most of these require excessive amounts of data, time, and computational power, all of which are scarce when monetary authorities meet to decide over policy interventions. In this paper we use a rolling Bayesian combination technique that considers inflation estimates by the staff of the Central Bank of Colombia during 2002–2011 as prior information. Our results show that: (1) the accuracy of individual models is improved by using a Bayesian shrinkage methodology, and (2) priors consisting of staff estimates outperform all other priors that comprise equal or zero vector weights. Consequently, our model provides readily available forecasts that exceed all individual models in terms of forecasting accuracy at every evaluated horizon.
