C24|Have Econometric Analyses of Happiness Data Been Futile? A Simple Truth about Happiness Scales|Econometric analyses in the happiness literature typically use subjective well-being (SWB) data to compare the mean of observed or latent happiness across samples. Recent critiques show that com-paring the mean of ordinal data is only valid under strong assumptions that are usually rejected by SWB data. This leads to an open question whether much of the empirical studies in the economics of happiness literature have been futile. In order to salvage some of the prior results and avoid future issues, we suggest regression analysis of SWB (and other ordinal data) should focus on the median ra-ther than the mean. Median comparisons using parametric models such as the ordered probit and logit can be readily carried out using familiar statistical softwares like STATA. We also show a previously as-sumed impractical task of estimating a semiparametric median ordered-response model is also possi-ble by using a novel constrained mixed integer optimization technique. We use GSS data to show the famous Easterlin Paradox from the happiness literature holds for the US independent of any paramet-ric assumption.
C24|Simple methods for consistent estimation of dynamic panel data sample selection models|We analyse the properties of generalised method of moments-instrumental variables (GMM-IV) estimators of AR(1) dynamic panel data sample selection models. We show the consistency of the first-differenced GMM-IV estimator uncorrected for sample selection of Arellano and Bond (1991) (a property also shared by the Anderson and Hsiao,1982, proposal). Alternatively, the system GMM-IV estimator (Arellano and Bover, 1995, and Blundell and Bond, 1998) shows a moderate bias. We perform a Monte Carlo study to evaluate the finite sample properties of the proposed estimators. Our results confirm the absence of bias of the Arellano and Bond estimator under a variety of circumstances, as well as the small bias of the system estimator, mostly due to the correlation between the individual heterogeneity components in both the outcome and selection equations. However, we must not discard the system estimator because, in small samples, its performance is similar to or even better than that of the Arellano-Bond. These results hold in dynamic models with exogenous, predetermined or endogenous covariates. They are especially relevant for practitioners using unbalanced panels when either there is selection of unknown form or when selection is difficult to model.
C24|Geographic spread of currency trading: the renminbi and other EM currencies|This paper studies the ongoing diffusion of renminbi trading across the globe, the first such research of an international currency. It analyses the distribution in offshore renminbi trading in 2013 and 2016, using comprehensive data from the Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign Exchange and Over-the-Counter Derivatives Market Activity. In 2013, Asian centres favoured by the policy of renminbi internationalisation had big shares in global renminbi trading. In the following three years, renminbi trading seemed to converge to the spatial pattern of all currencies, with a half-life of seven to eight years. The previously most traded emerging market currency, the Mexican peso, shows a similar pattern, although it is converging to the global norm more slowly. Three other major emerging market currencies show a qualitatively similar evolution in the geography of their offshore trading. Overall the renminbi's internationalisation is tracing an arc from the influence of administrative measures to the working of market forces.
C24|Fertility Cost, Intergenerational Labor Division, and Female Employment|China has set to increase the minimum retirement age, to ease the pressure from pension expenditure and the falling labor supply caused by the aging population. However, policy debates have so far neglected the crucial fact that families in China largely rely on retired grandparents for childcare. Using novel and high-quality survey data, we demonstrate that intrafamily downward labor transfer towards childcare significantly increases young females’ labor force participation rate and their labor income, and such effects do not exist for males. Furthermore, we show that the positive effects from grandparental childcare are higher for better-educated, urban females with younger children. This paper thus reveals a large, hidden cost in the new retirement policy — the reduced feasibility of grandparental support, due to postponed retirements, may crowd out productive labor of young females, — and rationalizes a series of social protection policies to accompany the phase-in of the new retirement scheme.
C24|Fertility Cost, Intergenerational Labor Division, and Female Employment|China has set to increase the minimum retirement age, to ease the pressure from pension expenditure and the falling labor supply caused by the aging population. However, policy debates have so far neglected the crucial fact that families in China largely rely on retired grandparents for childcare. Using novel and high-quality survey data, we demonstrate that intra-family downward labor transfer towards childcare significantly increases young females’ labor force participation rate and their labor income, and such effects do not exist for males. Furthermore, we show that the positive effects from grandparental childcare are higher for better-educated, urban females with younger children. This paper thus reveals a large, hidden cost in the new retirement policy — the reduced feasibility of grandparental support, due to postponed retirements, may crowd out productive labor of young females, — and rationalizes a series of social protection policies to accompany the phase-in of the new retirement scheme.
C24|Dynamic Tobit models|Score-driven models provide a solution to the problem of modelling time series when the observations are subject to censoring and location and/or scale may change over time. The method applies to generalized-t and EGB2 distributions, as well as to the normal distribution. A set of Monte Carlo experiments show that the score-driven model provides good forecasts even when the true model is parameterdriven. The viability of the new models is illustrated by fitting them to data on Chinese stock returns.
C24|What Happens When Voting Rules Change? The Case of New Zealand|This paper examines the impact of New Zealand’s 1996 adoption of a mixed member proportional (MMP) voting scheme on representation in the legislature, voter turnout, vote volatility and the likelihood of an incumbent party winning re-election. I then consider whether MMP has had any negative consequences for the effectiveness of government policy in relation to fiscal accountability and countercyclical intervention. The data used in the analysis begins from the formation of the party system in New Zealand (in 1890) and extends through the adoption of MMP to the present (2017). The data set covers 42 elections: 34 before 1996 and 8 after.
C24|Mortgage Loss Severities: What Keeps Them So High?|Mortgage loss-given-default (LGD) increased significantly when house prices plummeted and delinquencies rose during the financial crisis, but it has remained over 40 percent in recent years despite a strong housing recovery. Our results indicate that the sustained high LGDs post-crisis are due to a combination of an overhang of crisis-era foreclosures and prolonged foreclosure timelines, which have offset higher sales recoveries. Simulations show that cutting foreclosure timelines by one year would cause LGD to decrease by 5–8 percentage points, depending on the trade-off between lower liquidation expenses and lower sales recoveries. Using difference-in-differences tests, we also find that recent consumer protection programs have extended foreclosure timelines and increased loss severities in spite of their benefits of increasing loan modifications and enhancing consumer protections.
C24|Partial Identification of Population Average and Quantile Treatment Effects in Observational Data under Sample Selection|We partially identify population treatment effects in observational data under sample selection, without the benefit of random treatment assignment. We provide bounds both for the average and the quantile population treatment effects, combining assumptions for the selected and the non-selected subsamples. We show how different assumptions help narrow identification regions, and illustrate our methods by partially identifying the effect of maternal education on the 2015 PISA math test scores in Brazil. We find that while sample selection increases considerably the uncertainty around the effect of maternal education, it is still possible to calculate informative identification regions.
C24|Have Econometric Analyses of Happiness Data Been Futile? A Simple Truth About Happiness Scales|Econometric analyses in the happiness literature typically use subjective well-being (SWB) data to compare the mean of observed or latent happiness across samples. Recent critiques show that comparing the mean of ordinal data is only valid under strong assumptions that are usually rejected by SWB data. This leads to an open question whether much of the empirical studies in the economics of happiness literature have been futile. In order to salvage some of the prior results and avoid future issues, we suggest regression analysis of SWB (and other ordinal data) should focus on the median rather than the mean. Median comparisons using parametric models such as the ordered probit and logit can be readily carried out using familiar statistical softwares like STATA. We also show a previously assumed impractical task of estimating a semiparametric median ordered-response model is also possible by using a novel constrained mixed integer optimization technique. We use GSS data to show the famous Easterlin Paradox from the happiness literature holds for the US independent of any parametric assumption.
C24|Estimating Selection Models without Instrument with Stata|This article presents the eqregsel command for implementing the estimation and bootstrap inference of sample selection models via extremal quantile regression. The command estimates a semiparametric sample selection model without instrument or large support regressor, and outputs the point estimates of the homogenous linear coefficients, their bootstrap standard errors, as well as the p-value for a specification test.
C24|Bargaing power in apartment sales in Corsica:A latent class approach|This paper adds to the literature by extending the bargaining model of Harding, Rosenthal, and Sirmans (2003) to a latent class framework. We examine data on apartment sales in Corsica over the period 2006to 2016. Our results indicate that the Corsican housing market has two distinct segments and that bargaining power of buyers and sellers is not the same in these two segments.In particular,we find that the French mainlanders have morebargaining power when sellingin one market segment but they experience adecrease in bargaining power when buying in the other segment. Corsican buyers exhibit significant bargaining power in both sub-markets but local sellers exhibit significant bargaining power in just one segmentof the market.Auxiliary regressions indicate that the apartments associated with the first segment are more spacious, less likely to be new, more likely to have a garden, and typically have longer travel times to any of the local amenities like doctors, pharmacies and the downtown area. From this we conclude that apartments in one segment are more likely to be rural and at a greater distance from the coastcompared to the other segment.
C24|Towards resolving the Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) ‘puzzle’ in Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC’s)|The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) hypothesis represents one of the oldest existing economic doctrines and is plagued with empirical inconsistencies collectively labelled as ‘puzzles’. Our study resolves these ‘puzzles’ for 14 Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC) whose developmental strategies are impinged on the stability of real exchange rates which, in turn, validates the PPP hypothesis. We test for the stationarity of real exchange rates (RER’s) by applying an exponential smooth transition autoregressive unit root test augmented with a fractional frequency flexible Fourier form component (ESTAR-FFFFF) to capture heterogeneous smooth transition asymmetries and approximate unknown structural breaks in the time series. We find the RER’s in all 14 NIC’s are mean-reverting over monthly period of 1970:1-2018:12 which confirms the PPP hypothesis for these economies in the presence of exchange-rate regime shifts, oil and food shocks, financial crisis and other forms of asymmetries and structural breaks. Length: 29 pages
C24|Estimating Selection Models without Instrument with Stata|This article presents the eqregsel command for implementing the estimation and bootstrap inference of sample selection models via extremal quantile regression. The command estimates a semiparametric sample selection model without instrument or large support regressor, and outputs the point estimates of the homogenous linear coefficients, their bootstrap standard errors, as well as the p-value for a specification test.
C24|When the opportunity knocks: large structural shocks and gender wage gaps|Undergoing a large structural shock, labor markets may become less inclusive. We test for this thesis analyzing the behavior of adjusted gender wage gaps in a wide selection of transition countries. We estimate comparable measures of adjusted gender wage gaps for a comprehensive selection of transition countries over a period spanning nearly three decades. We combine these estimates with measures of labor market reallocation in transition economies to uncover the relation between worker flows and the gender wage gap. Results indicate that in periods of reallocation, the adjusted wage gaps increase. Distinguishing between flows according to their contribution to structural transformation reveals the distinctive role paid by separations from the state-owned manufacturing sector, usually leading to greater adjusted gaps. The emerging new sectors in the economy tend to be more inclusive in the short run, associated with a lower adjusted gender gap. In the medium run, the adverse effect of greater separations from the old sector is even more pronounced, while the emergence of the new sector is less relevant.
C24|Bitcoin and gold prices: A fledging long-term relationship|This study applies threshold regression model in a bivariate framework to explore the nonlinear and long-term relationship among daily Bitcoin and gold prices over the period April 2010 to December 2018. Our empirical results are threefold: first, we show that gold is a significant predictor of Bitcoin prices. Second, we find evidence of a non-linear relationship between Bitcoin and gold prices characterized rather by a two-regime relationship with a structural break occurring in October 2017. Third, we explain the existence at before the break, there is statistically significant, negative but weak causality indicating that Bitcoin is a speculative asset. However, after the break, the relationship becomes positive and strong revealing the diversifier and hedge properties of Bitcoin.
C24|Does deregulation drive innovation intensity? Lessons learned from the OECD telecommunications sector|The channel between innovation and industry regulation constitutes a non-lasting debate among the economists and researchers within the recent years. Despite the significant contributions on this field, mostly made from the empirical standpoint, the existing literature is still incomplete. This might be attributed to the fact that existing studies fail to combine a strong theoretical framework with the empirical scrutiny in order to exemplify and decompose the relationship between regulation intensity and innovation activity. We attempt to shed light on this limitation by theoretically modeling the telecommunications sector, in which access regulation impacts the non-separable activity in process and product innovation. We then empirically test our model by deploying an efficient panel threshold technique along the lines of Hansen (1999). Our balanced panel dataset comprises of 32 OECD countries over the period 1995-2012. The empirical results unveil a non-monotonic relationship of an “inverted V-shaped” form between regulation and innovation. We argue that beyond certain thresholds increasing the regulatory stringency further results in decreasing sector innovation. Our findings survive robustness checks after the inclusion of two alternative threshold variables (market structure and entry regulation) incurring significant implications for the policy makers and government officials.
C24|Дискретно-Событийная Модель Расчета Продолжительного Производственного Цикла Изготовления Партии Деталей<BR>[Discrete-Eventing Model Of Calculation Of The Duration Of The Production Cycle Of Manufacturing A Part Of Products]|The method of calculating the duration of the production cycle for manufacturing a batch of parts is considered. The production cycle of manufacturing the batch of parts is one of the main characteristics of the production system. It is used to calculate the important indicators of planning the production activity of the factory. At present, the task of calculating the duration of the production cycle for unsynchronized production lines remains relevant. The task takes on special relevance in the case when the processing time of a work item in a technological operation is a random quantity. The present work is devoted to the analysis of this case. To derive the equation of motion of labour objects for technological operations, a discrete-event model of the production process is used. The structure of the processing time of an object of labour on a technological operation is considered. The source of change in the value of inter-operational stocks at each technological operation is shown. The interrelation of the trajectories of the previous and after subjects of labour is analyzed. The equation of motion of a subject of labour on technological operations is recorded, taking into account the inter-operational stocks. Methods for its solution are proposed. Conditions for the applicability of the obtained results are considered. The analysis of the machine time spent on calculating the duration of the production cycle of manufacturing the batch of products for the factory of the semiconductor industry was carried out. Prospects for research have been determined.
C24|Threshold Effects of Inequality on Economic Growth in the US States: The Role of Human Capital to Physical Capital Ratio|Theory suggests that the effect of inequality on growth varies with the level of economic development, as captured by the ratio of human capital to physical capital. In particular, the effect is shown to be positive at lower levels of this ratio, and turns negative beyond a threshold in such models. Using a comprehensive panel of annual data for the 48 contiguous US states over the period 1948 to 2014, we find overwhelming evidence in support of this theory, unlike prior work on this topic. Hence, our paper highlights the importance of accurately measuring the process of economic development using data on human capital and physical capital, instead of using proxies that are not theoretically consistent. Understandably, if not done so, policymakers would end up undertaking incorrect decisions.
C24|Panel threshold regressions with latent group structures|In this paper, we consider the least squares estimation of a panel structure threshold re-gression (PSTR) model where both the slope coeﬃcients and threshold parameters may exhibit latent group structures. We study the asymptotic properties of the estimators of the latent group structure and the slope and threshold coeﬃcients. We show that we can estimate the latent group structure correctly with probability approaching 1 and the estimators of the slope and threshold coeﬃcients are asymptotically equivalent to the infeasible estimators that are obtained as if the true group structures were known. We study likelihood-ratio-based inferences on the group-speciﬁc threshold parameters under the shrinking-threshold-eﬀect framework. We also propose two speciﬁcation tests: one tests whether the threshold parameters are homogenous across groups, and the other tests whether the threshold eﬀects are present. When the number of latent groups is unknown, we propose a BIC-type information criterion to determine the number of groups in the data. Simulations demonstrate that our estimators and tests perform reasonably well in ﬁnite samples. We apply our model to revisit the relationship between capital market imperfection and the investment behavior of ﬁrms and to examine the impact of bank deregulation on income inequality. We document a large degree of heterogeneous eﬀects in both applications that cannot be captured by conventional panel threshold regressions.
C24|On the Transfer of Technology from Universities: The Impact of the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 on the Institutionalization of University Research|While the academic and policy literature has focused on patent counts and patent quality as possible outcome measures to evaluate the impact of the U.S. Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, we argue that the impact of the Act on University effort to transfer its technology to the private sector might be seen more accurately by examining the trend in the initial establishment of technology transfer offices (TTOs). Using an econometric framework to identify the presence of multiple structural breaks in data on the annual number of university TTOs, we find multiple break dates over the period 1925 to 2014. One break date was in the late-1960s and a second break date occurred about 1982. We suggest, in contrast to previous findings in the literature, that the Act did have an impact on the formal internal transfer of technology from universities through patenting by providing an incentive for universities to invest in a TTO research infrastructure. We also suggest that our empirical methodology is applicable to an assessment of the impact of legislation similar to the Bayh-Dole Act in the many countries with such legislation.
C24|Electoral Reform and Public Sector Efficiency. Some Evidence From Italian Municipalities|We study the effect of Law 81/1993, which introduced a different electoral rule for the election of the mayor, on the technical efficiency of Italian cities. Since 1993, municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants vote with a single-ballot system, whereas cities above 15,000 inhabitants threshold are subject to a double ballot. We first estimate the technical efficiency in 1994 (taken as a pre-change year), and 1999 and 2004 for a sample of Italian municipalities, through a non-parametric DEA, and then we perform on both input and output oriented efficiency scores a difference-in-differences analysis, through various panel techniques. We find evidence that, after the reform, municipalities voting under a double-ballot show low levels of efficiency compared to cities voting under a single-ballot, by about 16 (input oriented) and 4 percentage points (output oriented). We speculate that the difference in the level of efficiency among cities voting under a different electoral rule is essentially driven by a lower average quality of politicians elected under a double ballot compared to those elected with a single ballot.
C24|Charitable Behaviour and Political Ideology: Evidence for the UK|Using data from the most recent large scale UK household longitudinal survey (UKHLS), we explore the effects of political ideology on charitable behaviour, specifically monetary donations and time volunteered. The UKHLS contains detailed information on political preferences, in terms of: political affiliation; the strength of support for political parties; the level of interest in politics and the party an individual would vote for tomorrow. We employ a number of modelling frameworks including static and dynamic models and double hurdle models, which allow political influences to have differing effects across the decision to donate and the amount of money or time donated. The consistent finding across the different estimators is that being aligned to a stated political party is positively associated with donating time and money. In addition, we find that political liberalism has a larger effect on both types of philanthropic behaviour than political conservatism. The largest effects across specifications are generally for alignment with the Green Party. However, further analysis reveals that, during the period of the UK Coalition Government and after its collapse when the Conservative Party gained power, the effect of political affiliation to the Green Party on monetary donations is substantially reduced, whereas the opposite effect is found for the amount of time volunteered.
C24|Simple Methods for Consistent Estimation of Dynamic Panel Data Sample Selection Models|We analyse the properties of generalised method of moments-instrumental variables (GMM-IV) estimators of AR(1) dynamic panel data sample selection models. We show the consistency of the first-differenced GMM-IV estimator uncorrected for sample selection of Arellano and Bond (1991) (a property also shared by the Anderson and Hsiao,1982, proposal). Alternatively, the system GMM-IV estimator (Arellano and Bover, 1995, and Blundell and Bond, 1998) shows a moderate bias. We perform a Monte Carlo study to evaluate the finite sample properties of the proposed estimators. Our results confirm the absence of bias of the Arellano and Bond estimator under a variety of circumstances, as well as the small bias of the system estimator, mostly due to the correlation between the individual heterogeneity components in both the outcome and selection equations. However, we must not discard the system estimator because, in small samples, its performance is similar to or even better than that of the Arellano-Bond. These results hold in dynamic models with exogenous, predetermined or endogenous covariates. They are especially relevant for practitioners using unbalanced panels when either there is selection of unknown form or when selection is difficult to model.
C24|Forecasting with Unknown Unknowns: Censoring and Fat Tails on the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee|This paper considers the production and evaluation of density forecasts paying attention to if and how the probabilities of outlying observations are quantiﬁed and communicated. Particular focus is given to the ‘censored’ nature of the Bank of England’s fan charts, given that - which is commonly ignored - they describe only the inner 90% (best critical region) of the forecast distribution. A new estimator is proposed that ﬁts a potentially skewed and fat tailed density to the inner observations, acknowledging that the outlying observations may be drawn from a diﬀerent but unknown distribution. In forecasting applications, motivation for this could reﬂect the view that outlying forecast errors reﬂect (realised) unknown unknowns or events not expected to recur that should be censored before quantifying known unknowns.
C24|Regression Discontinuity with Integer Running Variable and Non-Integer Cutoff: Dental Care Program Effect on Expenditure|In regression discontinuity (RD), the treatment is determined by a continuous running variable G crossing a known cutoff c or not. However, often G is observed only as a rounded-down integer S (e.g., birth year observed instead of birth date), and c is not an integer. In this case, the â€œcutoff sampleâ€ (the observations with the same S value around c) cannot be used, because it is not clear whether their G actually crossed c or not. This paper shows that if the distribution of the measurement error e â‰¡ G âˆ’ S is specified, then despite non-integer c, the cutoff sample can be used fruitfully in estimating the treatment effect and in testing for the distributional assumption on e. Particularly, there are good reasons to believe that e is uniform on [0,1], not least because e is close to a popular way how pseudo uniform random numbers are generated in simulation studies. Also, whereas two-step estimation has been proposed in the RD literature, we show that the treatment effect can be estimated with single-step OLS/IVE as in typical RD with G observed. A simulation study and an empirical analysis for effects of a dental care support program on dental expenditure are provided.
C24|The Effects of Official and Unofficial Information on Tax Compliance|The administration of tax policy has shifted its focus from enforcement to complementary instruments aimed at creating a social norm of tax compliance. In this paper we provide an analysis of the effects of the dissemination of information regarding the past degree of tax evasion at the social level on the current individual tax compliance behavior. We build an experiment where, for given levels of audit probabilities, fines and tax rates, subjects have to declare their income after receiving either a communication of the official average tax evasion rate or a private message from a group of randomly matched peers about their tax behavior. We use the experimental data to estimate a dynamic econometric model of tax evasion. The econometric model extends the Allingham-Sandmo-Yitzhaki tax evasion model to include self-consistency and endogenous social interactions among taxpayers. We find four main results. First, tax compliance is very persistent. Second, the higher the official past tax evasion rate the higher the degree of persistence evaders are more likely to evade again, and compliant individuals are more likely to comply again. Third, when all peers communicate to have evaded (complied) in the past, both evaders and compliant individuals are more likely to evade (comply). Fourth, while both treatments, and especially the unofficial information treatment, are associated, in the context of our experiment, with a significantly larger growth in evasion intensity, the aggregate effect depends on the characteristics of the population. In countries with inherently low levels of tax evasion, official information can have beneficial effects by consolidating the behavior of compliant individuals. However, in countries with inherently high levels of tax evasion, official information can have detrimental effects by intensifying the behavior of evaders. In both cases, the impact of official information is magnified in the presence of strong peer effects.
C24|Voting Patterns and the Gender Wage Gap|Striving for gender equality presents major challenges but the benefits are vast, ranging from reduced conflict, both within and between communities, to higher economic growth. Unfortunately, Israel's gender wage gap remains one of the highest among developed countries, despite a growing reverse gender gap in educational attainment. Investigating the gender wage gap for the Jewish majority and for the Arab minority, we find evidence of gender segregation by industry and occupations in addition to a glass ceiling effect for Jewish and Arab women. Using data from the Israeli Household Income Survey and electoral data from the Israeli parliamentary elections (2009), this paper provides novel evidence of the role of voter preferences in explaining the persistence of gender pay gaps. Importantly, we find strong evidence of an association between a higher share of votes allocated to nationalist parties, in a given locality, and a larger, (adjusted), gender wage gap for both Jewish-Israelis and Arab-Israelis.
C24|Nonseparable Sample Selection Models with Censored Selection Rules: An Application to Wage Decompositions|We consider identification and estimation of nonseparable sample selection models with censored selection rules. We employ a control function approach and discuss different objects of interest based on (1) local effects conditional on the control function, and (2) global effects obtained from integration over ranges of values of the control function. We provide conditions under which these objects are appropriate for the total population. We also present results regarding the estimation of counterfactual distributions. We derive conditions for identification for these different objects and suggest strategies for estimation. We also provide the associated asymptotic theory. These strategies are illustrated in an empirical investigation of the determinants of female wages and wage growth in the United Kingdom.
C24|Bounds on Average and Quantile Treatment Effects on Duration Outcomes under Censoring, Selection, and Noncompliance|"We consider the problem of assessing the effects of a treatment on duration outcomes using data from a randomized evaluation with noncompliance. For such settings, we derive nonparametric sharp bounds for average and quantile treatment effects addressing three pervasive problems simultaneously: self-selection into the spell of interest, endogenous censoring of the duration outcome, and noncompliance with the assigned treatment. Ignoring any of these issues could yield biased estimates of the effects. Notably, the proposed bounds do not impose the independent censoring assumption|which is commonly used to address censoring but is likely to fail in important settings|or exclusion restrictions to address endogeneity of censoring and selection. Instead, they employ monotonicity and stochastic dominance assumptions. To illustrate the use of these bounds we assess the effects of the Job Corps (JC) training program on its participants' last complete employment spell duration. Our estimated bounds suggest that JC participation may increase the average duration of the last complete employment spell before week 208 after randomization by at least 5.6 log points (5.8 percent) for individuals who comply with their treatment assignment and experience a complete employment spell whether or not they enrolled in JC. The estimated quantile treatment effects suggest the impacts may be heterogeneous, and strengthen our conclusions based on the estimated average effects."
C24|A General Weighted Average Representation of the Ordinary and Two-Stage Least Squares Estimands|"It is standard practice in applied work to study the effect of a binary variable (""treatment"") on an outcome of interest using linear models with additive effects. In this paper I study the interpretation of the ordinary and two-stage least squares estimands in such models when treatment effects are in fact heterogeneous. I show that in both cases the coefficient on treatment is identical to a convex combination of two other parameters (different for OLS and 2SLS), which can be interpreted as the average treatment effects on the treated and controls under additional assumptions. Importantly, the OLS and 2SLS weights on these parameters are inversely related to the proportion of each group. The more units get treatment, the less weight is placed on the effect on the treated. What follows, the reliance on these implicit weights can have serious consequences for applied work. I illustrate some of these issues in four empirical applications from different fields of economics. I also develop a weighted least squares correction and simple diagnostic tools that applied researchers can use to avoid potential biases. In an important special case, my diagnostics only require the knowledge of the proportion of treated units."
C24|The Natural Rate of Interest: Information Derived from a Shadow Rate Model|The study proposes an estimation method of the natural rate of interest based on the shadow rate term structure of interest rates model and using information from nominal yields data. For the purpose of comparison and robustness check, different samples for the estimation of the natural rate of interest – three for the euro area and two for the US – are considered. The estimates based on all considered samples show a downturn trend in the estimated natural rates of interest for the euro area. However, since the beginning of 2013, this downward trend has levelled off. Compared to the results obtained by affine models, the shadow rate model produces lower estimates of natural rates of interest. From the beginning of 2013, the dynamics of estimated series of the US natural rate of interest closely follows the series produced by Laubach–Williams. However, before that the series are more divergent. In order to demonstrate the use of the natural rate of interest, we employ the estimated series of the natural rate of interest in the balance-approach version of the Taylor rule. The results imply that, at the end of the sample in July 2017, Taylor rule-suggested policy rates were in line with the actual ECB policy rates.
C24|A Sample Selection Model for Fractional Response Variables|This paper develops a sample selection model for fractional response variables, i.e., variables taking values in the [0, 1]-interval. It provides an extension of the Papke and Wooldridge (1996) fractional probit model to the case of non-random sample selectivity. The model differs from the Heckman sample selection model by specifying a main equation which is consistent with the bounded nature of the fractional outcome variable. The proposed model is parametric and does usually not require an exclusion restriction to hold, which makes is useful for empirical practice. A simulation study indicates that the gains of imposing a (valid) exclusion restriction are quite small, particularly with respect to the estimation of marginal effects, while imposing a wrong exclusion restriction leads to severely biased estimates. Finally, an empirical application to the impact of education on women’s perceived probability of job loss is provided, which illustrates that the choice of an appropriate model is important in practice. In particular, the Heckman selection model and the fractional probit model are found to underestimate (in absolute terms) the impact of education on the perceived probability of job loss.
C24|Testing Happiness Hypothesis among the Elderly|Se emplea un amplio conjunto de datos que permite evaluar de diferentes formas la hipótesis de la felicidad, empleando cuatro enfoques metodológicos. Se constata que las personas de mayor edad en Uruguay tienen una tendencia a reconocerse felices cuando están casadas, cuando tienen un buen estado de salud y si tienen altos ingresos monetarios o estiman que su ingreso es conveniente para su nivel de vida. Contrariamente, señalan niveles más bajos de felicidad cuando viven solos o cuando sunutrición es insuficiente. Se evidencia que la educación no tiene un impacto claro sobre su percepción de felicidad. Este trabajo es una contribución al estudio de los factores que pueden explicar la felicidad entre las personas de la tercera edad en los países de América Latina. El trabajo futuro seconcentrará sobre un análisis empírico mejorado y sobre la expansión del estudio a otros países.
C24|Estimation of Dynamic Stochastic Frontier Model using Likelihood-based Approaches|Almost all the existing panel stochastic frontier models treat technical efficiency as static. Consequently there is no mechanism by which an inefficient producer can improve its efficiency over time. The main objective of this paper is to propose a panel stochastic frontier model that allows the dynamic adjustment of persistent technical inefficiency. The model also includes transient inefficiency which is assumed to be heteroscedastic. We consider three likelihood-based approaches to estimate the model: the full maximum likelihood (FML), pairwise composite likelihood (PCL) and quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) approaches. Moreover, we provide Monte Carlo simulation results to examine and compare the finite sample performances of the three above-mentioned likelihood-based estimators. Finally, we provide an empirical application to the dynamic model.
C24|Re-examining the Asymmetric Gasoline Pricing Mechanism in EU: A Panel Threshold Analysis|We employ a pooled panel threshold model along the lines of Seo and Shin (2016) within an error correction framework to re-investigate the “rockets and feathers” hypothesis. The empirical results confirm the superiority of the threshold model compared to the baseline linear specifications, while attributing the asymmetric gasoline adjustment mechanism to Exchange Rate Pass Through (ERPT).
C24|On the Examination of Competition in the Petroleum Industry: A Pooled Panel Threshold Analysis|This paper contributes to the literature since it tries to link the Exchange Rate Pass-Through (ERPT) with the “rockets and feathers” hypothesis using a panel of EU-28 countries. Allowing for the existence of an endogenous threshold variable our empirical findings indicate that the threshold model is better suited to this analysis than the baseline linear adjustment model. This is the case since the latter restricts the threshold to be centered around zero and the dynamic response to cumulative shocks cannot be properly identified. The empirical findings reveal that the threshold variable expressed by the trade-weighted dollar exchange rate index is statistically significant only in the sample above the threshold (high regime). This means that for the net EU exporting countries, fluctuations in the real effective exchange rate of the US against its major EU trading partners does affect the level of pre-tax retail gasoline prices with the relevant elasticity exceeding unity (complete ERPT). Moreover, all the statistical tests reject the null hypothesis that there is no significant threshold and thus an asymmetric adjustment gasoline mechanism prevails.
C24|Threshold Effect of Scale and Skill in Active Mutual Fund Management|In this paper, we apply threshold estimation techniques to study the size-performance relation in the US mutual fund industry. The existing studies have found diseconomies scale, and we add our contribution to this by considering possible non-linear decreasing returns to scale caused by fund age and manager tenure. We find significant threshold effects of both fund age and manager tenure at approximately three to four years in the size-performance relation. Compared with younger funds, older funds have severe decreasing returns to scale as the industry size increases.
C24|Testing identifying assumptions in fuzzy regression discontinuity designs| We propose a new specification test for assessing the validity of fuzzy regression discontinuity designs (FRD-validity). We derive a new set of testable implications, characterized by a set of inequality restrictions on the joint distribution of observed outcomes and treatment status at the cut-off. We show that this new characterization exploits all the information in the data useful for detecting violations of FRD-validity. Our approach differs from, and complements existing approaches that test continuity of the distributions of running variables and baseline covariates at the cut-off since ours focuses on the distribution of the observed outcome and treatment status. We show that the proposed test has appealing statistical properties. It controls size in large sample uniformly over a large class of distributions, is consistent against all fixed alternatives, and has non-trivial power against some local alternatives. We apply our test to evaluate the validity of two FRD designs. The test does not reject the FRD-validity in the class size design studied by Angrist and Lavy (1999) and rejects in the insurance subsidy design for poor households in Colombia studied by Miller, Pinto, and Vera-Hernández (2013) for some outcome variables, while existing density tests suggest the opposite in each of the cases.
C24|Non-parametric identification of the extent of downward wage rigidities|We study the problem of identification of measures of the extent of individual types of downward wage rigidity from micro-level data on nominal wage growth rates, in the context of a wage adjustment process that may feature any number such rigidity types. For that purpose we develop a comprehensive framework for the modelling and measurement of wage rigidities in general. We show that the presence of measurement error does not alter fundamentally the nature of this identification problem, and develop an identification strategy that is applicable with measurement-error-free and measurement-error-contaminated data. This relies on weaker restrictions than those usually employed in the literature, including being non-parametric.
C24|Oil Price Changes and U.S. Real GDP Growth: Is this Time Different?|This paper contributes to the large debate regarding the impact of oil price changes on U.S. GDP growth. Firstly, it replicates empirical findings of prominent studies and finds that the proposed oil price measures have a dissipating effect with recent data up to 2016Q4. Secondly, it re-examines the issue and provides evidence that oil price decreases affect the GDP growth, when taking into consideration mixed data sampling technique. Finally, it puts particular focus on nonlinearity and a possible instability and shows that combining Markov switching and mixed data sampling models allows to identify different regimes permanently changing with the Great Moderation.
C24|Threshold Regression with Endogeneity for Short Panels|This paper considers the estimation of dynamic threshold regression models with fixed effects using short panel data. We examine a two-step method, where the threshold parameter is estimated nonparametrically at the N -rate and the remaining parameters are estimated by GMM at the N -rate. We provide simulation results that illustrate advantages of the new method in comparison with pure GMM estimation. The simulations also highlight the importance of the choice of instruments in GMM estimation.
C24|Working Paper 306 - Asymmetric Price Transmission of Rice in Togo|In this paper, we investigate the extent and the speed of adjustment of six domestic markets of imported rice and the local market of processed rice to rice price changes on the global market and how local paddy markets respond to changes in processed rice prices in Togo and we test for asymmetry in the adjustment process using both standard and threshold co-integration analyses. We estimate symmetric and asymmetric error correction models with respect to the linear and threshold cointegration relationships to investigate the short-run price dynamics. The results indicate that prices of central–local market pairings are co-integrated with relatively low-price transmission elasticities. Threshold cointegration analyses reveal that, in the long run, the local paddy market adjusts asymmetrically to price changes for processed rice and the Cinkasse and Lome domestic markets adjust asymmetrically to price changes on the global market. In the short run, there is asymmetric adjustment only between global and imported rice price dynamics. The results imply that oligopolistic middlemen in rice marketing in Togo are more sensitive to—and react quickly to— rice price changes on the global market that squeeze their margins than to changes that stretch them.JEL classification: Q13; D43; C24. Keywords: Agricultural markets and marketing, Asymmetric price transmission, threshold cointegration, Togo.
C24|Price asymmetry and retailers heterogeneity in Brazilian gas stations|In a competitive market situation, a symmetric price transmission is expected, and the speed of adjustment of the market should be equal, no matter in which direction input prices are going (up or down). When inputs' prices increase, firms need to pass on costs to avoid negative profit situation. When they go down, firms' reaction is in a direction to avoid market share losses. Therefore, if firms react faster when inputs' prices increase than when they decrease (positive asymmetry), it means a capture of consumers' surplus by the firms. When firms' reaction is slowly when inputs' prices decrease than when they decreases (negative asymmetry), the surplus transfer is from firms to consumers. So far, studies regarding price asymmetry in Brazil used only aggregated database, which likely suffers by summation bias. In a hypothetical city with just two gas stations, one with positive asymmetric behavior and other with negative one, there is high chance that this city accepts the null of a symmetric behavior. The present study will try to overcome this problem with a gas station level dataset. The National Agency for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP) has a detailed database with weekly information for gas stations in an unbalanced database, where more than 40% of population is covered every week. This firm-level database has information as purchase and selling price for gasoline, name of gas stations, brand and complete address. This information allows answering if there is price asymmetry in Brazil at firm level. Because database has more than 2 million of observations for more than 17.000 different gas stations, it is also possible to obtain results of price asymmetry against fixed effects to check which of these effects matter to change the likelihood of firms to have price asymmetry. Results indicate that there is heterogeneity regarding price transmission among firms: 71% of gas stations had no asymmetry, 23% had a positive asymmetry pattern and 6% of them had negative asymmetry. Regarding which fixed effects could explain the probability to have a positive asymmetry, higher margins, and a minor number of rivals nearby and be a non-white flag increase the probability of having positive asymmetry. These results strength relations between market power and positive asymmetry and inaugurate a link between spatial competition and price asymmetry transmission.
C24|Nonseparable Sample Selection Models with Censored Selection Rules|We consider identification and estimation of nonseparable sample selection models with censored selection rules. We employ a control function approach and discuss different objects of interest based on(1)local effects conditional on the control function, and (2)global effects obtained from integration over ranges of values of the control function. We provide conditions under which these objects are appropriate for the total population. We also present results regarding the estimation of counterfactual distributions. We derive conditions for identification for these different objects and suggest strategies for estimation. We also provide the associated asymptotic theory.These strategies are illustrated in an empirical investigation of the determinants of female wages and wage growth in the United Kingdom.
C24|A General Weighted Average Representation of the Ordinary and Two-Stage Least Squares Estimands|It is standard practice in applied work to study the effect of a binary variable (“treatment”) on an outcome of interest using linear models with additive effects. In this paper I study the interpretation of the ordinary and two-stage least squares estimands in such models when treatment effects are in fact heterogeneous. I show that in both cases the coefficient on treatment is identical to a convex combination of two other parameters (different for OLS and 2SLS), which can be interpreted as the average treatment effects on the treated and controls under additional assumptions. Importantly, the OLS and 2SLS weights on these parameters are inversely related to the proportion of each group. The more units get treatment, the less weight is placed on the effect on the treated. What follows, the reliance on these implicit weights can have serious consequences for applied work. I illustrate some of these issues in four empirical applications from different fields of economics. I also develop a weighted least squares correction and simple diagnostic tools that applied researchers can use to avoid potential biases. In an important special case, my diagnostics only require the knowledge of the proportion of treated units.
C24|A Dynamic Model of Political Party Equilibrium: The Evolution of ENP in Canada, 1870–2015|The effective number of political parties (ENP) in a first-past-the-post single member (SMP) electoral system is analyzed as a dynamic process whereby the tournament nature of the election contest induces excessive entry and sunk entry costs promote persistence even as Duverger-Demsetz type political competition works to winnow unsuccessful minor candidates and parties. The result is a fringe of parties circulating in long run equilibrium. The factors hypothesized to affect the entry and exit of candidates and parties are analyzed first using an auto-regressive distributed lag (ARDL) model that allows for the separation of an evolving equilibrium time path from short run variations in response to transitory changes in conditioning variables and the process of convergence back to the long run equilibrium. The possibility that the short run adjustment process is asymmetric either for parties or candidates is tested adopting panel estimation techniques. The results are consistent with an observed time path for parties that incorporates slower adjustment to positive as opposed to negative shocks. Variations in the size and trend of both the long and short run are then examined for ENP’s ability to predict changes in the competitiveness of the Canadian federal electoral system.
C24|Using Response Times to Measure Ability on a Cognitive Task|I show how using response times as a proxy for effort coupled with an explicit process-based model can address a long-standing issue of how to separate the effect of cognitive ability on performance from the effect of motivation. My method is based on a dynamic stochastic model of optimal effort choice in which ability and motivation are the structural parameters. I show how to estimate these parameters from the data on outcomes and response times in a cognitive task. In a laboratory experiment, I find that performance on a Digit-Symbol test is a noisy and biased measure of cognitive ability. Ranking subjects by their performance leads to an incorrect ranking by their ability in a substantial number of cases. These results suggest that interpreting performance on a cognitive task as ability may be misleading.
C24|Counterfactual Analysis Using Censored Duration Data|We propose standardization techniques for the duration distribution in a population with respect to another taken as standard using right censored data, which forms a basis for counterfactual comparisons between distributional features of interest. Alternative standardizations are based on either a proportional hazard semiparametric specification or a nonparametric specification of the underlying conditional distribution. Applications to the restricted mean survival time and the hazard rate are discussed in detail. The proposal is applied to the counterfactual analysis of spells of unemployment duration gender gaps in Spain between 2004-2007. The behavior in small samples is investigated using Monte Carlo experiments.
C24|Identification of Causal Intensive Margin Effects by Difference-in-Difference Methods|This paper discusses identification of causal intensive margin effects. The causal intensive margin effect is defined as the treatment effect on the outcome of individuals with a positive outcome irrespective of whether they are treated or not (always-takers or participants). A potential selection problem arises when conditioning on positive outcomes, even if treatment is randomly assigned. We propose to use difference-in-difference methods - conditional on positive outcomes - to estimate causal intensive margin effects. We derive sufficient conditions under which the difference-in-difference methods identify the causal intensive margin effect in a setting with random treatment.
C24|From residential energy demand to fuel poverty: income-induced non-linearities in the reactions of households to energy price fluctuations|The residential energy demand is growing steadily and the trend is expected to continue in the near future. At the same time, under the impulse of economic crises and environmental and energy policies, many households have experienced reductions in real income and higher energy prices. In the residential sector, the number of fuel-poor households is thus expected to rise. A better understanding of the determinants of residential energy demand, in particular of the role of income and the sensitivity of households to changes in energy prices, is crucial in the context of recurrent debates on energy efficiency and fuel poverty. We propose a panel threshold regression (PTR) model to empirically test the sensitivity of French households to energy price fluctuations Ð as measured by the elasticity of residential heating energy prices Ð and to analyze the overlap between their income and fuel poverty profiles. The PTR model allows to test for the non-linear effect of income on the reactions of households to fluctuations in energy prices. Thus, it can identify specific regimes differing by their level of estimated price elasticities. Each regime represents an elasticity-homogeneous group of households. The number of these regimes is determined based on an endogenously PTR-fixed income threshold. Thereafter, we analyze the composition of the regimes (i.e. groups) to locate the dominant proportion of fuel-poor households and analyse their monetary poverty characteristics. Results show that, depending on the income level, we can identify two groups of households that react differently to residential energy price fluctuations and that fuel-poor households belong mostly to the group of households with the highest elasticity. By extension, results also show that income poverty does not necessarily mean fuel poverty. In terms of public policy, we suggest focusing on income heterogeneity by considering different groups of households separately when defining energy efficiency measures. We also suggest paying particular attention to targeting fuel-poor households by examining the overlap between fuel and income poverty.
C24|From residential energy demand to fuel poverty: income-induced non-linearities in the reactions of households to energy price fluctuations|The residential energy demand is growing steadily and the trend is expected to continue in the near future. At the same time, under the impulse of economic crises and environmental and energy policies, many households have experienced reductions in real income and higher energy prices. In the residential sector, the number of fuel-poor households is thus expected to rise. A better understanding of the determinants of residential energy demand, in particular of the role of income and the sensitivity of households to changes in energy prices, is crucial in the context of recurrent debates on energy efficiency and fuel poverty. We propose a panel threshold regression (PTR) model to empirically test the sensitivity of French households to energy price fluctuations Ð as measured by the elasticity of residential heating energy prices Ð and to analyze the overlap between their income and fuel poverty profiles. The PTR model allows to test for the non-linear effect of income on the reactions of households to fluctuations in energy prices. Thus, it can identify specific regimes differing by their level of estimated price elasticities. Each regime represents an elasticity-homogeneous group of households. The number of these regimes is determined based on an endogenously PTR-fixed income threshold. Thereafter, we analyze the composition of the regimes (i.e. groups) to locate the dominant proportion of fuel-poor households and analyse their monetary poverty characteristics. Results show that, depending on the income level, we can identify two groups of households that react differently to residential energy price fluctuations and that fuel-poor households belong mostly to the group of households with the highest elasticity. By extension, results also show that income poverty does not necessarily mean fuel poverty. In terms of public policy, we suggest focusing on income heterogeneity by considering different groups of households separately when defining energy efficiency measures. We also suggest paying particular attention to targeting fuel-poor households by examining the overlap between fuel and income poverty.
C24|National and Regional Housing Vacancy: Insights Using Markov-switching Models|We examine homeowner vacancy rates over time and space using Markov-switching models. Our theoretical analysis extends the Wheaton (1990) search and matching model for housing by incorporating regime-switching behavior and interregional spillovers. Our approach is strongly supported by our empirical results. Estimations, using constant-only as well as Vector Autoregressions, allow us to examine differences in vacancy rates as well as explore the possibility of asymmetries within and across housing markets, depending on the state/regime (e.g., low or high vacancy) of a given housing market. Estimated vacancy rates, conditional on the vacancy regime, which are found to be persistent, vary across regions in all Markov-Switching Vector Autoregression (MS-VAR) models. Models allowing for interregional effects via lagged vacancy rates and controls relating to migration tend to perform better than models lacking this feature. These models track vacancies well. Noteworthy is their performance during the Great Recession/Financial Crisis. The importance and diversity of interregional effects are demonstrated, and vacancies in a specific Census region are affected by vacancies in other regions. Moreover, the sizes of these effects depend on the vacancy state of the specific region.
C24|Maximizing profit increase in manufacturing based on an Information Theory model|US Patent 10 054 929 B1
C24|Dynamics of Tokyo Electric Power Company and the Nikkei: 1985 to 2016 including the Fukushima disaster|From an asset portfolio management perspective, analyses of the correlations between returns are of great importance. This article investigates the correlations between the rates of return of Tokyo Electric Power Company stock and the Japanese Nikkei index over the lengthy period of 1985 to 2016. Using Markov-switching models, we seek to determine the effects of the Fukushima earthquake disaster compared with those of other shocks on the Japanese financial market. Although the Fukushima catastrophe resulted in more volatile stock prices, it had not changed the correlation structure among asset returns. In addition, both low- and high- volatility regimes, the Nikkei causes Tokyo Electric Power Company, but Tokyo Electric Power Company does not cause the Nikkei.
C24|Nonseparable Sample Selection Models with Censored Selection Rules|We consider identification and estimation of nonseparable sample selection models with censored selection rules. We employ a control function approach and discuss different objects of interest based on (1) local effects conditional on the control function, and (2) global effects obtained from integration over ranges of values of the control function. We provide conditions under which these objects are appropriate for the total population. We also present results regarding the estimation of counterfactual distributions. We derive conditions for identification for these different objects and suggest strategies for estimation. We also provide the associated asymptotic theory. These strategies are illustrated in an empirical investigation of the determinants of female wages and wage growth in the United Kingdom.
C24|The Ensemble Method For Censored Demand Prediction|Many economic applications, including optimal pricing and inventory management, require predictions of demand based on sales data and the estimation of the reaction of sales to price change. There is a wide range of econometric approaches used to correct biases in the estimates of demand parameters on censored sales data. These approaches can also be applied to various classes of machine learning (ML) models to reduce the prediction error of sales volumes. In this study we construct two ensemble models for demand prediction with and without accounting for demand censorship. Accounting for sales censorship is based on a censored quantile regression where the model estimation was split into two separate parts: a) a prediction of zero sales by the classification model; and b) a prediction of non-zero sales by the regression model. Models with and without censorship are based on the prediction aggregations of least squares, Ridge and Lasso regressions and the Random Forest model. Having estimated the predictive properties of both models, we empirically test the best predictive power of the model taking into account the censored nature of demand. We also show that ML with censorship provides bias corrected estimates of demand sensitivity to price change similar to econometric models
C24|Testing Identifying Assumptions In Fuzzy Regression Discontinuity Designs|We propose a new specification test for assessing the validity of fuzzy regression discontinuity designs (FRD-validity). We derive a new set of testable implications, characterized by a set of inequality restrictions on the joint distribution of observed outcomes and treatment status at the cut-off. We show that this new characterization exploits all the information in the data useful for detecting violations of FRD-validity. Our approach differs from, and complements existing approaches that test continuity of the distributions of running variables and baseline covariates at the cut-off since ours focuses on the distribution of the observed outcome and treatment status. We show that the proposed test has appealing statistical properties. It controls size in large sample uniformly over a large class of distributions, is consistent against all fixed alternatives, and has non-trivial power against some local alternatives. We apply our test to evaluate the validity of two FRD designs. The test does not reject the FRD-validity in the class size design studied by Angrist and Lavy (1999) and rejects in the insurance subsidy design for poor households in Colombia studied by Miller, Pinto, and Vera-HernÃ¡ndez (2013) for some outcome variables, while existing density tests suggest the opposite in each of the cases.
C24|The effects of official and unofficial information on tax compliance|The administration of tax policy has shifted its focus from enforcement to complementary instruments aimed at creating a social norm of tax compliance. In this paper we provide an analysis of the effects of the dissemination of information regarding the past degree of tax evasion at the social level on the current individual tax compliance behavior. We build an experiment where, for given levels of audit probabilities, fines and tax rates, subjects have to declare their income after receiving either a communication of the official average tax evasion rate or a private message from a group of randomly matched peers about their tax behavior. We use the experimental data to estimate a dynamic econometric model of tax evasion. The econometric model extends the Allingham-Sandmo-Yitzhaki tax evasion model to include self-consistency and endogenous social interactions among taxpayers. We find four main results. First, tax compliance is very persistent. Second, the higher the official past tax evasion rate the higher the degree of persistence: evaders are more likely to evade again, and compliant individuals are more likely to comply again. Third, when all peers communicate to have evaded (complied) in the past, both evaders and compliant individuals are more likely to evade (comply). Fourth, while both treatments, and especially the unofficial information treatment, are associated, in the context of our experiment, with a significantly larger growth in evasion intensity, the aggregate effect depends on the characteristics of the population. In countries with inherently low levels of tax evasion, official information can have beneficial effects by consolidating the behavior of compliant individuals. However, in countries with inherently high levels of tax evasion, official information can have detrimental effects by intensifying the behavior of evaders. In both cases, the impact of official information is magnified in the presence of strong peer effects.
C24|A regime-switching stochastic volatility model for forecasting electricity prices|In a recent review paper, Weron (2014) pinpoints several crucial challenges outstanding in the area of electricity price forecasting. This research attempts to address all of them by i) showing the importance of considering fundamental price drivers in modeling, ii) developing new techniques for probabilistic (i.e. interval or density) forecasting of electricity prices, iii) introducing an universal technique for model comparison. We propose new regime-switching stochastic volatility model with three regimes (negative jump, normal price, positive jump (spike)) where the transition matrix depends on explanatory variables. Bayesian inference is explored in order to obtain predictive densities. The main focus of the paper is on short-time density forecasting in Nord Pool intraday market. We show that the proposed model outperforms several benchmark models at this task.
C24|A dual early warning model of bank distress|We develop a model that estimates the joint determination of the probability of a distressed bank to go bankrupt or to be bailed out. We obtain precise parameter estimates and superior in- and out-of-sample forecasts, which demonstrate that the determinants of failures differ from those of bailouts. Overall, we provide a concrete and reliable mechanism for preventing welfare losses due to bank distress.
C24|The Effect of Labor Market Polarization on the College Students' Employment|This paper aims to assess the effect of the labor market environment on various aspects of college students' job market related behaviors. In some cases, college students hide or evade their unemployment status by extending school registration or transferring to another school. By estimating the effect of the macroeconomic variables on college students' labor market related outcomes, it is found that labor market polarization has a significant effect on both the nominal unemployment and the hidden actions of college students. It implies that the labor market structure is a key element in understanding youth employment, and the youth labor policy should focus more on micro and institutional level of labor market reform.
C24|Specification analysis in regime-switching continuous-time diffusion models for market volatility|We examine model specification in regime-switching continuous-time diffusions for modeling S&P 500 Volatility Index (VIX). Our investigation is carried out under two nonlinear diffusion frameworks, the NLDCEV and the CIRCEV frameworks, and our focus is on the nonlinearity in regime-dependent drift and diffusion terms, the switching components, and the endogeneity in regime changes. While we find strong evidence of regime-switching effects, models with a switching diffusion term capture the VIX dynamics considerably better than models with only a switching drift, confirming the presence and importance of volatility regimes. Strong evidence of nonlinear endogeneity in regime changes is also detected. Meanwhile, we find significant nonlinearity in the regime-dependent diffusion specification, suggesting that the nonlinearity in the VIX dynamics cannot be accounted for by regime-switching effects alone. Finally, we find that models based on the CIRCEV specification are significantly closer to the true data generating process of VIX than models based on the NLDCEV specification uniformly across all regime-switching specifications.
C24|An Analysis of Revenue Maximising Efficiency of Public Sector Banks in the Post-Reforms Period|The paper investigates and compares the performance of the Indian public sector banks (PSBs) based on revenue maximising efficiency in the deregulation period from 2001-02 to 2012-13. Several efficiency estimates viz., overall technical efficiency, pure technical efficiency and scale efficiency of individual banks are calculated using Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). The empirical findings indicate the presence of managerial and scale inefficiencies in the operation of the most of the PSBs. Applying the Tobit regression analysis, the paper also assesses the impact of different environmental factors, like profitability, the level of non-performing assets, size etc. on the efficiency of PSBs. It is observed that banks with high profitability, low level of non-performing assets, and relatively larger size are more technically efficient.
C24|Robust Inference and Testing of Continuity in Threshold Regression Models|This paper is concerned with inference in regression models with either a kink or a jump at an unknown threshold, particularly when we do not know whether the kink or jump is the true specification. One of our main results shows that the statistical properties of the estimator of the threshold parameter are substantially different under the two settings, with a slower rate of convergence under the kink design, and more surprisingly slower than if the correct kink specification were employed in the estimation. We thus propose two testing procedures to distinguish between them. Next, we develop a robust inferential procedure that does not require prior knowledge on whether the regression model is kinky or jumpy. Furthermore, we propose to construct confidence intervals for the unknown threshold by the bootstrap test inversion, also known as grid bootstrap. Finite sample performances of the bootstrap tests and the grid bootstrap confidence intervals are examined and compared against tests and confidence intervals based on the asymptotic distribution through Monte Carlo simulations. Finally, we implement our procedure to an economic empirical application
C24|Nonlinear and asymmetric pricing behaviour in the Spanish gasoline market|Over the last decades a transition from a state-own monopoly to a private business took place in the Spanish fuel sector. To figure out whether downstream prices react differently to upstream price increases than to price decreases, alternative dynamic nonlinear and asymmetric error correction models are applied to weekly price data. This paper analyse the existence of price asymmetries in the fuel market in Spain during the 2011–2016 period. In comparison with traditional asymmetric price theory literature, this paper introduces a new double threshold error correction (ECM) model (DT-ECM) and new double logistic ECM models and compares them with more common linear ECM, time varying parameter models (TV-ECM), threshold autoregressive models (T-ECM), smooth transition autoregressive (STAR) models and nonlinear error correction (Logistic-ECM) and double threshold Logistic (DT-Logistic ECM). The asymmetric results found in Spain in the oil sector, show that sophisticated bivariate short-run nonlinearities are present in the gasoline market prices and that those price reactions depend on two main aspects; whether the oil price increases or decreases and on the stage (above of below) of the prices of gasoline relative to their long-run expected crude oil prices (error correction term). Those empirical results are consistent with the economic explanations based on market power-collusion and/or with consumer having search costs.
C24|The role of counterparty risk and asymmetric information in the interbank market|We study the effect of counterparty risk on the ability of Italian banks to access the foreign unsecured interbank market during the sovereign debt crisis in the second half of 2011. With the onset of the crisis, interest rates in the Italian interbank market soared and foreign lending decreased significantly. To isolate the effect of the rise in counterparty risk, we compare the funding of Italian banks with that of foreign banks’ branches and subsidiaries in Italy, which were presumably unaffected by the sovereign crisis insofar as they could count on the actual or potential support of their parent bank. We find that the rise in counterparty risk substantially decreased the probability of obtaining funds from foreign banks. When the analysis is restricted to Italian and foreign banks with relatively comparable asset compositions, the result holds. In addition, where safer banks or more stable lending relationships are involved the effect is attenuated. JEL Classification: G21, G28, C23, C24
C24|Threshold effects of financial stress on monetary policy rules: A panel data analysis|This study tests for the state-dependent response of monetary policy to increases in overall financial stress and financial sector-specific stress across a panel of advanced and emerging economy countries. We use a factor-augmented dynamic panel threshold regression model with (estimated) common error components to deal with cross-sectional dependence. We find strong evidence of advanced economy countries' aggressive monetary policy loosening in response to stock market and banking stress but only in times of high financial market volatility. By comparison, evidence of threshold effects of financial stress is generally weak for emerging market countries’ interest rate decisions.
C24|Did the crisis permanently scar the Portuguese labour market? Evidence from a Markov-switching Beveridge curve analysis|In this paper we analyse to what extent the outward shift in the Portuguese Beveridge curve since 2007 has been due to structural or cyclical factors and how likely the outward shift will persist. We do this by empirically estimating the Beveridge curve in a Markov-switching panel setting with time-varying transition probabilities for the US, Portugal and Spain using monthly data for the period 1986m1-2014m12. These time-varying transition probabilities are in turn determined by a set of structural indicators which could affect the matching efficiency in the labour market. The results show that the sharp outward shift in the Portuguese Beveridge curve was to a large extent driven by cyclical factors. However, it was compounded by some structural factors, namely, the relatively high level of employment protection together with the relatively high minimum wage ratio and the relatively generous unemployment benefit system. JEL Classification: C23, C24, J63, J64, J65
C24|A new approach to estimating a profit frontier using the censored stochastic frontier model|The translog profit functional form is widely used to study technical efficiency for banks. Although this functional form is known as being flexible, it is not applicable to those banks incurring economic losses. The recently developed approach, i.e., the censored stochastic frontier model (CSFM), by Tsay et al. (2013) appears to be superior to existing approaches, since CSFM does not need to transform negative profit into positive profit before taking the natural logarithm. The transformation with respect to the profit variable tends to bias the parameter estimates of the profit frontier and the subsequent profit efficiency measure. We show that the parameter estimates of CSFM have the desirable statistical properties. Moreover, empirical results reveal that the mean profit efficiency of CSFM is more robust than those models using transformed profits across the sub-periods 1991–1998 and 1999–2009.
C24|Threshold Effects in Meta-Analyses With Application to Benefit Transfer for Coral Reef Valuation|Policymakers and advocates often use benefit transfers to estimate the economic value of environmental amenities when primary valuation studies are infeasible. Benefit transfers based on meta-analyses, which synthesize site and methodological characteristics from valuation studies of similar underlying amenities, generally outperform traditional site-to-site transfers. We build on earlier meta-analyses of willingness-to-pay for tropical coral reef recreation by introducing a meta-regression model with threshold effects, with a goal of increasing transfer reliability. We estimate a threshold in coral reef quality and find that increases in live coral cover have a large impact on individuals' WTP for recreation at degraded coral reefs. Relaxing the assumption of users' constant valuation across the distribution of this characteristic improves the performance of coral reef benefit transfers in some instances: tests of convergent validity reveal that including the threshold effect reduces the mean transfer error and the interquartile range of transfer errors in 5 out of 8 tests.
C24|A simple consistent test of conditional symmetry in symmetrically trimmed tobit models|We propose a “weighted and sample-size adjusted” Kolmogorov–Smirnov type statistic to test the assumption of conditional symmetry maintained in the symmetrically trimmed least-squares (STLS) approach of Powell (1986b), which is widely used to estimate censored or truncated regression models without making distributional assumptions. Our statistic is consistent and does not require any nonparametric smoothing, although we test the validity of a conditional feature. We also propose a bootstrap procedure to obtain the p-values and critical values that are required to carry out the test in practical applications. Results from a simulation study suggest that our test can work very well even in small to moderately sized samples. As an empirical illustration, we apply our test to two datasets that have been used in the literature to estimate censored regression models using Powell’s STLS approach, to check whether the assumption of conditional symmetry is supported by these datasets.
C24|Technical efficiency, unions and decentralized labor contracts|This paper explores the link between the presence of unions in the workplace, the adoption of decentralized labor agreements and technical efficiency, using a large sample of Italian manufacturing firms. We apply the Data Envelopment Analysis, and its robust version based on bootstrap theory, to get reliable estimates of technical efficiency at the firm level in a standard first stage. We devote particular attention to the specific technology adopted, by distinguishing 20 different sector frontiers, as well as to the presence of outliers. The obtained efficiency scores are analyzed in a second stage applying a truncated regression model estimated via Maximum Likelihood, following the Simar and Wilson (2007, 2011) methodology. Our results highlight that the presence of workplace unionization decreases the level of technical efficiency, while aspects limiting the unions’ power such as a strong exposure to international markets, high debt levels or the prevalence of flexible assets partially reduce the negative effect. However, when firms adopt decentralized labor contracts agreements, the effect on efficiency is positive and partially compensates the negative unions’ effect.
C24|To build above the limit? Implementation of land use regulations in urban China|This paper studies the implementation of land use regulations in urban China. In particular, we investigate land developers’ compliance with floor-to-area ratio (FAR) regulations using a unique set of residential land parcel data from 30 major Chinese cities matched with the corresponding residential development projects built on those parcels. In our sample, in more than 20% of the cases, developers built above the regulatory FAR limits in the ex post land development, and the total floor area built in those cases increased 21.5% over the regulatory limit. Our analysis finds that attractive land location attributes tend to induce developers to pursue upward adjustments of FAR. Moreover, developers who are more likely to have special relationships with government officials tend to make larger upward adjustments. Our estimates suggest that there exists a significant gap between the privately optimal FAR that maximizes land value and the regulatory FAR. This gap is only modestly reduced by corrupt ties with government officials, implying that FAR regulations have imposed a highly restrictive constraint on China's urban land development even given imperfect compliance.
C24|The Stability of Tax Elasticities over the Business Cycle in European Countries|We estimate short‐ and long‐run tax elasticities that capture the relationship between changes in national income and tax revenue. We show that the short‐run tax elasticity changes according to the business cycle. We estimate a two‐state Markov‐switching regression on a novel data set of tax policy reforms in 15 European countries from 1980 to 2013, showing that the elasticities during booms and recessions are statistically (and often economically) different. The elasticities of personal income taxes, corporate income taxes, indirect taxes and social contributions tend to be larger during recessions. Estimates of long‐run elasticities are in line with existing literature.
C24|Selectivity Problem in Demand Analysis: Single Equation Approach|This paper deals with a problem of censored data in the household demand analysis when budget survey data is used. Micro-data, in contrast with aggregated data, usually contains a significant portion of zero observations (no consumption recorded) that leads to censoring of data and potential selectivity problem resulting in biased estimates if inappropriate econometric model is used. We review different treatment methods available in the literature that control the selectivity problem. Concretely, it is Tobit model, Two-part model, Double-hurdle model, Sample selection model with three different estimators – FIML, Heckman two-step, and Cosslett’s semi-parametric estimator. On the empirical example we indeed show that firstly the treatment methods are necessary also for small levels of censoring and secondly the choice of treatment method matters even for different products within the same dataset. We compare performance over the above single-equation demand models together with OLS. The household demand is analysed for 13 different food products with high variety of level of censoring. We found that the Heckman two-step procedure and Cosslett’s semi-parametric estimators performed best among all examined techniques in our case and that these two estimators yield similar estimates of income and own-price elasticities. The Two-part model performs equivalently but the estimation results differ from the Heckman two-step and the Cosslett‘s estimator. The OLS estimates are biased and perform poorly together with Tobit model with weak performance.
C24|Financial variables and macroeconomic forecast errors|A large set of financial variables has only limited power to predict a latent factor common to the year-ahead forecast errors for real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, the unemployment rate, and Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation for three sets of professional forecasters: the Federal Reserve’s Greenbook, the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF), and the Blue Chip Consensus Forecasts. Even when a financial variable appears to be fairly robust across sample periods in explaining the latent factor, from an economic standpoint its contribution appears modest. Still, several financial variables retain economic significance over certain subsamples; when non-linear effects are accounted for, these variables have an improved ability to consistently predict the latent factor over the business cycle.
C24|Comparing cross‐country estimates of Lorenz curves using a Dirichlet distribution across estimators and datasets|Chotikapanich and Griffiths (Journal of Business and Economic Statistics, 2002, 20(2), 290–295) introduced the Dirichlet distribution to the estimation of Lorenz curves. This distribution naturally accommodates the proportional nature of income share data and the dependence structure between the shares. Chotikapanich and Griffiths fit a family of five Lorenz curves to one year of Swedish and Brazilian income share data using unconstrained maximum likelihood and unconstrained nonlinear least squares. We attempt to replicate the authors' results and extend their analyses using both constrained estimation techniques and five additional years of data. We successfully replicate a majority of the authors' results and find that some of their main qualitative conclusions also hold using our constrained estimators and additional data.
C24|The Effect of Public Debt on Growth in Multiple Regimes in the Presence of Long-Memory and Non-Stationary Debt Series|The study of the relationship between public debt and economic growth came again to the spotlight with the financial crisis (2007-2008) and with the sovereign debt crisis that followed in Europe. This literature aims to shed light about the sign, magnitude, mechanisms and threshold regimes relating debt to growth and to make policy recommendations with important consequences in terms of government’s policies. We empirically investigate this relationship for a group of 60 countries for a long-time period (the shorter one from 1970 to 2012) using the historical public debt database (HPDD) built by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and we defend that the empirical strategy underlying most of the studies on this topic should be revised. We claim that: a) the study of the long-memory property of the public debt GDP ratio and stationarity (using the last generation tests) has to be performed as a first step of the empirical analysis, what has been done using 87 countries; b) In the presence of a non-stationary public debt GDP ratio cointegration analysis was used to estimate the relationship between the public debt GDP ratio and output; c) under the no rejection of the null of no cointegration, the above mentioned relationship was studied between the public debt GDP ratio first difference and GDP growth rate using threshold models and searching for thresholds using a wide variety of variables. The main conclusions of this study are that the debt series have a long memory and should not be analyzed in a short-term framework; additionally, the non-stationarity of the debt series does not allow researchers to apply stationary econometrics methods to model its behavior. This finding implies that the relationship between economic growth and national debt that has been characterizing the literature on the subject, has disputable econometric foundations. We thus recommend our empirical strategy to overcome the above-mentioned drawbacks of the existent empirical literature. Finally, it should be mentioned that the relationship between the public debt GDP ratio first difference and GDP growth rate is always negative despite the different threshold regimes identified.
C24|The effect of fertility timing on labor market work duration|We provide a framework for the estimation of the impact of fertility timing on female long-term labor supply, measured as labor market work duration. We show that the genuine treatment is waiting time to birth rather than birth per se. In the application we control for the joint decision of fertility and labor supply by using the ‘same-sex’ instrument in a control function setting. We find that having a third child will in general reduce the labor market work duration. The magnitude of the effect depends to a large extent on the mothers’ age at second birth but also on the waiting time to the third child and the education level.
C24|Latitudinal Effect on Energy Savings from Daylight Savings Time|This paper looks at the potential systematic variation in energy savings resulting from daylight saving time(DST)in a number of geographic areas varying in latitude ranging from Northern to Southern Europe. We are using the same econometric specification and estimation method for a consistent dataset of electricity load covering 35 countries in Europe. Thus our results provide a comprehensive set of consistent and comparable estimates of the DST effect. The average treatment effect results obtained from difference-in-difference regression for 46 electricity load zones ranges from zero in northern most parts of Norway and Sweden to more than 2.5 % in a number of locations. We find some evidence that energy savings from DST decreases with latitude, and especially for homogeneous groups of countries. The diversity in estimated effects cuts across geographical, cultural and economic factors.
C24|The Portuguese Households' Indebtedness|Since the 2008's nancial crisis authorities have been particularly aware about the necessity of being provided with early warning indicators regarding nancial stability. In fact, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision suggests the analysis of the di erence between the private sector credit-to-GDP ratio and its own long-term trend. For the past two decades Portugal, has witnessed a dramatic indebtedness increase among household. Our objective is to examine the reasons for this increase by analysing the ratio of domestic credit to the private sector to GDP between 1961 and 2011. The main conclusions are the non-suitability of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision approach for Portugal and the break of the link between deposits and credit from 1992 onwards. Key Words : Households Indebtedness, Early Warning Indicators, Credit.
C24|The Assimilation of Young Workers into the Labour Market in France: A Stochastic Earnings Frontier Approach|Stochastic earnings frontiers have been used in a relatively small number of papers to analyse workers' ability to capture their full potential earnings in labour markets where there is inefficient job matching (due to lack of information, discrimination, over-education or during process of assimilation of migrants). Using a representative survey of young persons having left full-time education in France in 1998 and interviewed in 2001 and 2005, this paper examines the process of their assimilation into normal employment and the extent to which job matches are inefficient in the sense that the pay in a job is below an individual's potential earnings (determined by education, other forms of training and labour market experience). Our results suggest that young workers manage to obtain on average about 82% of their potential earnings three years after leaving full-time education and earnings inefficiency had disappeared four years later. The results are robust to the treatment of selectivity arising from the exclusion of the unemployed in the estimation of the frontier.
C24|Long-run effects of public expenditure on poverty|Abstract Household characteristics may have long-run effects on individual outcomes in adulthood. For instance, individuals who lived when young in households experiencing financial problems are more likely to be poor when adults. Governments try to reduce these effects and to promote equality of opportunity. The objective of this paper is to check whether public expenditure has a long-run effect in reducing the probability of being poor when adult, and to what extent. Our main finding is that public expenditure on education has a strong long-run effect on reducing incidence of poverty in adulthood. We also find that this effect is concentrated mainly among individuals who have parents with a low level of education.
C24|Long-run effects of public expenditure on poverty|Abstract Household characteristics may have long-run effects on individual outcomes in adulthood. For instance, individuals who lived when young in households experiencing financial problems are more likely to be poor when adults. Governments try to reduce these effects and to promote equality of opportunity. The objective of this paper is to check whether public expenditure has a long-run effect in reducing the probability of being poor when adult, and to what extent. Our main finding is that public expenditure on education has a strong long-run effect on reducing incidence of poverty in adulthood. We also find that this effect is concentrated mainly among individuals who have parents with a low level of education.
C24|Decomposing the structure of wages into firm and worker effects: Some insights from a high unemployment economy|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to show that for some key topics on labour economics such as the effect of seniority and job mobility in wages, it is important to explicitly consider firm fixed effects. The author also wants to test whether the importance of firm in explaining wage dispersion is higher or lower in Spain than in other European countries. Design/methodology/approach - The author estimates an individual wage equation where firm and workers effects are considered and the estimation process control for censored wages. This exercise is performed for the Spanish economy over the course of a whole business cycle, i.e., 2000-2015. Findings - The author demonstrates that Spanish firms contribute to explain around 27 per cent of the individual wage heterogeneity but more importantly around 74 per cent of inter-industry wage differentials. In both cases, this contribution is mainly related to large dispersion in firm’s wage policies. The process of positive sorting of workers across firms or industries does not play an important role. Interestingly, the importance of firm’s wage policies in explaining individual wage dispersion has increased over the current Big Recession. Practical implications - The results confirm that firms set wages and, henceforth, are partially responsible for individual wage heterogeneity but more importantly for inter-industrial wage dispersion. Originality/value - The exercise is performed under optimal conditions because the author uses a longitudinal matched employer-employee data set, observed wages are at a monthly frequency, and implements an estimation method suitable for censored models with two high-dimensional fixed effects. This is the first study that looks deeply into the role of firms in explaining wage heterogeneity at the individual and industry level in Spain and along the current Big Recession.
C24|Old-age Frailty Patterns and Implications for Long-term Care Programmes|Abstract This paper examines patterns in old-age frailty within a multistate model that characterises the stochastic process of biological ageing. Using aggregate population-level U.S. mortality data, we study differences in frailty by gender and cohort. Our results show that, on average, women tend to be frailer than men at older ages with the male–female divergence growing considerably past age 80. We also find that average frailty levels have fluctuated over time with a distinct peak-and-trough pattern. These cohort trends in frailty and the subsequent dynamic forecasts of frailty among newer cohorts closely mirror how late-life disability has evolved among older Americans in recent decades, underscoring the important connection between frailty conditions and disability among older adults. The implications of these findings on spending for long-term care programmes within the broader health insurance system are discussed.
C24|Eficiencia técnica en la producción de café en Nicaragua: Un análisis de fronteras estocásticas<BR>[Technical efficiency in coffee production: a stochastic frontier analysis for Nicaragua]|This article analyses the technical efficiency of coffee production in Nicaragua. We apply a stochastic frontier model to estimate the technical efficiency which reaches 60%; this means that Nicaraguan coffee producers have chances to improve the way they get things done. This level of efficiency prevents Nicaragua from capturing 340 million dollars for coffee exports. At the end of 2015, revenues from coffee exports represented 3.09 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), if 100 percent productive efficiency had been achieved, the relative importance of this item would have represented 5.77 percent of GDP. A counterfactual analysis shows the gains that would be derived from achieving technical efficiency.
C24|Does competition prevent industrial pollution? Evidence from a panel threshold model|The objective of this paper is to assess the impact of competition on industrial toxic pollution by using, for the first time, a panel threshold model which allows evaluations of the main drivers of toxic releases under two different market regimes. The empirical analysis is based on a micro‐level panel dataset over the five‐year period 1987–2012. We show that this relationship is statistically significant and robust above and below the threshold, even after accounting for alternative specifications of market concentration. Specifically, we unmask an inverted V‐shaped relationship between market concentration and industrial pollution. We argue that the increasing non‐parametric regression line up to a certain concentration (threshold) level indicates a negative effect on facilities' emissions levels, whereas a decreasing line indicates a positive effect. This relationship provides new insights into environmental policy design towards abatement of industrial releases and sustainability. Finally, our empirical model remains robust under different specifications properly accounted for possible endogeneity.
C24|Диффузионное Описание Производственного Процесса<BR>[Diffusion description of the production process]|В статье основное внимание уделяется построению стохастического уравнения для расчета производственного цикла изготовления партии изделий на предприятиях с поточным типом организации производства. В качестве базового подхода рассмотрен процесс движения предметов труда по синхронизованной поточной линии. Выполнена оценка размеров межоперационных заделов технологических операций, обеспечивающая бесперебойный режим функционирования поточной линии. Записано в канонической форме стохастическое уравнение и получено определение коэффициента диффузии.
C24|Endogeneity in Semiparametric Threshold Regression|In this paper, we investigate semiparametric threshold regression models with endogenous threshold variables based on a nonparametric control function approach. Using a series approximation we propose a two-step estimation method for the threshold parameter. For the regression coefficients we consider least-squares estimation in the case of exogenous regressors and two-stage least-squares estimation in the case of endogenous regressors. We show that our estimators are consistent and derive their asymptotic distribution for weakly dependent data. Furthermore, we propose a test for the endogeneity of the threshold variable, which is valid regardless of whether the threshold effect is zero or not. Finally, we assess the performance of our methods using a Monte Carlo simulation.
C24|The impact of a sick pay waiting period on sick leave patterns|Abstract This article assesses how a waiting period for sick pay impacts sick leave patterns. In the French private sector, statutory sick benefits are granted after 3 days. However, 60 % of employers in this sector provide complementary sick pay to cover this waiting period. Linked employee–employer survey data compiled in 2009 are used to analyze the impact of this compensation on workers’ sick leave behavior. The assessment isolates the insurance effect (moral hazard) from individual and environmental factors relating to sick leave (including health and working conditions). Results suggest that employees who are compensated during the 3-day waiting period are not more likely to have an absence. On the contrary, their sickness leaves are significantly shorter by 3 days on average. These results could be explained by consequences of presenteeism and ex post moral hazard when employees are exposed to a waiting period.
C24|Information as potential key determinant in switching electricity suppliers|Abstract In this paper, we investigate the drivers and obstacles to switch the electricity supplier for Austrian households. Since the liberalization of the market in 2001, the annual switching rates have remained at surprisingly low levels, leading to a loss of significant savings potential for Austrian households. The results of our exploratory study suggest that the knowledge about tariffs and electricity suppliers is the driving force for the decision to switch. The lack of information might also explain the low incentive effect of savings potentials. Thus, we suggest that for price competitive electricity suppliers, it might be more effective to familiarize customers with tariff structures and savings potentials than to advertise with “green electricity” as it is the common strategy at the moment.
C24|A regime-switching stochastic volatility model for forecasting electricity prices|In a recent review paper, Weron (2014) pinpoints several crucial challenges outstanding in the area of electricity price forecasting. This research attempts to address all of them by i) showing the importance of considering fundamental price drivers in modeling, ii) developing new techniques for probabilistic (i.e. interval or density) forecasting of electricity prices, iii) introducing an universal technique for model comparison. We propose new regime-switching stochastic volatility model with three regimes (negative jump, normal price, positive jump (spike)) where the transition matrix depends on explanatory variables. Bayesian inference is explored in order to obtain predictive densities. The main focus of the paper is on shorttime density forecasting in Nord Pool intraday market. We show that the proposed model outperforms several benchmark models at this task.
C24|Endogeneity in Semiparametric Threshold Regression|In this paper, we investigate semiparametric threshold regression models with endogenous threshold variables based on a nonparametric control function approach. Using a series approximation we propose a two-step estimation method for the threshold parameter. For the regression coefficients we consider least-squares estimation in the case of exogenous regressors and two-stage least-squares estimation in the case of endogenous regressors. We show that our estimators are consistent and derive their asymptotic distribution for weakly dependent data. Furthermore, we propose a test for the endogeneity of the threshold variable, which is valid regardless of whether the threshold effect is zero or not. Finally, we assess the performance of our methods using a Monte Carlo simulation.
C24|The role of bank credit allocation: Evidence from the Spanish economy|This paper investigates the determinants of bank credit allocation in Spain from 1999 to 2014, studying in particular the relation between bank credit and total assets in firms balance sheets. The main finding of the paper is that the allocation of bank credit to firms is strongly affected by firms’ size. We show that the amount of bank credit accumulated by a company is more that proportional than its total assets. This leaded in Spain to a notable concentration of bank credit in the hands of the biggest companies of the country. We also find that during the Spanish boom, from 1999 to 2007, bank credit sharply shifted from manufacturing to construction industry and in particular to the biggest companies of the last sector. In the same period, the concentration of bank credit continuously raised, reaching its peak in conjunction with the crisis of 2008. This process increased the leverage of big firms (especially in the construction sector), many of which defaulted during the crisis. The estimation of parametric and semiparametric selection models confirms our findings. Overall, paper’s results raise queries about the correct channelling of bank credit into the economy and about its consequences.
C24|Determinants of the Price-Premium for Green Energy: Evidence from an OECD Cross-Section|Abstract Using data from a survey of households in 11 OECD countries, this paper investigates the determinants of preferences for a completely green residential electricity system. Three important questions are addressed: (i) how much are households willing to pay to use only renewable energy? (ii) does willingness-to-pay (WTP) vary significantly across household groups and countries? and (iii) what drives the decision to enter the (hypothetical) market for green energy and, given entry, what drives the level of WTP? The analysis here differs from previous studies on green energy in two ways: first, data and analyses are comparable across countries and second, a comprehensive attempt is made to understand 0 WTP, and to accommodate—using a censored quantile regression (CQR) framework—unobserved heterogeneity. The survey data indicate a low WTP, at 11–12 % of current electric bill. This study also addresses a key question: how important is income for understanding WTP, relative to more “attitudinal” determinants? The effect of income overall appears ambiguous, with Tobit-like models indicating that income is not significant while the CQR indicates that income exerts a significant effect near the center of the distribution of WTP. Across all frameworks used, a key determinant of WTP appears to be environmental attitudes, particularly membership in an environmental organization.
C24|University and inter-firm R&D collaborations: propensity and intensity of cooperation in Europe|Abstract This paper investigates the determinants of firms’ decision to cooperate in R&D with universities and the intensity of the cooperation effort, in relation to the engagement in inter-firm R&D collaborations. Using novel survey data for seven EU countries between 2007 and 2009, our analysis accounts for unobservable factors influencing R&D cooperation forms and addresses the main endogeneity issues. We find that internal knowledge, appropriability conditions and incoming spillovers explain a large variation of the probability and of the intensity of R&D collaborations of European firms with universities (and comparably with unaffiliated companies).
C24|Lifecycle-consistent female labor supply with nonlinear taxes: evidence from unobserved effects panel data models with censoring, selection and endogeneity|This paper uses the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) from 1979 to 2007 to estimate within-period lifecycle-consistent labor supply elasticities of US females in a two-stage budgeting framework. The paper combines a variety of econometric approaches to estimate unobserved effects panel data models with censoring, selection and endogeneity. The paper finds evidence of substantial upward bias in estimated wage elasticities from pooled panel models which do not account for unobserved effects, as fixed effects and correlated random effects (CRE) specifications yield smaller elasticities. Estimates are also somewhat sensitive to using a lifecycle-consistent specification versus a standard static model. The lifecycle-consistent wage elasticity from a CRE model with instrumental variables is 0.56 on the extensive margin and 0.31 on the intensive margin for an overall wage elasticity of 0.87. The standard static model, on the other hand, yields a wage elasticity of 0.46 on the extensive margin and 0.13 on the intensive margin for an overall elasticity of 0.59. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
C24|Do initial financial conditions determine the fate of start-up firms?|Using a survival analysis approach, this paper investigates the impact of initial financial conditions on the post-entry performance of firms. We examine whether initial financial conditions affect the duration of survival among start-up firms in Japan, distinguishing between failure and merger. We provide evidence that start-up firms that rely more on equity than debt financing are less likely to fail within a shorter period, but we find little evidence that initial equity size has a significant effect on the likelihood of failure. Moreover, we find the negative effect of equity financing on the likelihood of failure to be greater for start-up firms founded following the abolition of regulations governing a minimum paid-in capital requirement. Furthermore, the results reveal that start-up firms with larger initial equity are more likely to exit through merger. Overall, the findings suggest that initial capital structure is a critical determinant of exit route.
C24|A Term Structure of Interest Rates Model with Zero Lower Bound and the European Central Bank's Non-standard Monetary Policy Measures|This paper proposes a ZLB/shadow rate term structure of interest rates model with both unobservable factors and those of non-standard monetary policy measures. The non-standard factors include the ECB's holdings of APP and LTROs as well as their weighted average maturities. The model is approximated by the Taylor series expansion and estimated by the extended Kalman filter, using the sample from July 2009 to September 2015. The results show that the 5-year OIS rate at the end of September 2015 was about 60 basis points lower than it would have been in the case of the absence of the non-standard monetary policy measures.
C24|Estimating Cost Efficiency of Turkish Commercial Banks under Unobserved Heterogeneity with Stochastic Frontier Models|This study aims to investigate the cost efficiency of Turkish commercial banks over the restructuring period of the Turkish banking system, which coincides with the 2008 financial global crisis and the 2010 European sovereign debt crisis. To this end, within the stochastic frontier framework, we employ a modified version of the true fixed effect model of Greene (2005), where the unobserved bank heterogeneity is integrated in the inefficiency distribution at a mean level. To select the cost function with the most appropriate inefficiency correlates, we first adopt a search algorithm and then utilize the model averaging approach of Huang and Lai (2012) to verify that our results are not exposed to model selection bias. Overall, our empirical results reveal that cost efficiencies of Turkish banks have improved over time, with the effects of the 2008 and 2010 crises remaining rather limited. Furthermore, not only the cost efficiency scores but also impacts of the crises on those scores appear to vary with regard to bank size and ownership structure, in accordance with much of the existing literature.
C24|Financial Development, Macroeconomic Stability and Growth|The present paper investigates the non-linear effects of financial development on economic growth, for a sample of 64 developed and developing countries from 1980 to 2010. Our analysis using traditional GMM techniques and panel smoothing transition regression model (PSTR), suggests that the benefits from financial development crucially depend on the level of economic and financial development. We find that, below a given level of income, financial development adversely affects growth. However, excessive finance tends to deter growth and increase macroeconomic instability.
C24|Measuring the natural rate of interest: International trends and determinants|U.S. estimates of the natural rate of interest – the real short-term interest rate that would prevail absent transitory disturbances – have declined dramatically since the start of the global financial crisis. For example, estimates using the Laubach–Williams (2003) model indicate the natural rate in the United States fell to close to zero during the crisis and has remained there into 2016. Explanations for this decline include shifts in demographics, a slowdown in trend productivity growth, and global factors affecting real interest rates. This paper applies the Laubach–Williams methodology to the United States and three other advanced economies – Canada, the Euro Area, and the United Kingdom. We find that large declines in trend GDP growth and natural rates of interest have occurred over the past 25years in all four economies. These country-by-country estimates are found to display a substantial amount of comovement over time, suggesting an important role for global factors in shaping trend growth and natural rates of interest.
C24|Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest: International Trends and Determinants|U.S. estimates of the natural rate of interest – the real short-term interest rate that would prevail absent transitory disturbances – have declined dramatically since the start of the global financial crisis. For example, estimates using the Laubach–Williams (2003) model indicate the natural rate in the United States fell to close to zero during the crisis and has remained there into 2016. Explanations for this decline include shifts in demographics, a slowdown in trend productivity growth, and global factors affecting real interest rates. This paper applies the Laubach–Williams methodology to the United States and three other advanced economies – Canada, the Euro Area, and the United Kingdom. We find that large declines in trend GDP growth and natural rates of interest have occurred over the past 25years in all four economies. These country-by-country estimates are found to display a substantial amount of comovement over time, suggesting an important role for global factors in shaping trend growth and natural rates of interest.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C24|Debt concentration and performance of European firms|This paper investigates the level of debt specialization across European firms relying on a cross-country comparable sample of manufacturing firms. We find a non-linear relationship between firm debt specialization (i.e. composition of the various types of debt) and firm size and age. In line with previous evidence for US firms, we observe that small and young firms have a more concentrated debt structure (i.e. they rely on few types of debt). Relying on quasi-experimental setting, we also find that firms having a diversified debt structure are less likely to experience a severe reduction in turnover.
C24|Analysing the Effect of Remittances on Rural Household in Pakistan|Rural households are more vulnerable to uncertain situations, for these uncertainty they diversify not only their resources but their income. Income receive to households is in three formats i.e. labour income, internal remittance income and external remittance income. Rural households invest for uncertain situation in future, rural households invest in assets in good time and this investment help them to tackle future uncertainty. Current paper investigates by using the data of PSLM that how remittances effect accumulation of assets, because remittances are utilise as transitory income. Results also explains that external remittances significantly affect the assets accumulation of rural households.
C24|PMI Thresholds for GDP Growth|In this study, we try to uncover the information capacity of the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) as a leading indicator of GDP growth of euro area. Our results show that PMI carries a significant amount of information that can be used to forecast the growth rate in the current as well as subsequent quarters. In particular, having verified that a PMI level around 50 works as the threshold distinguishing between positive and negative rates of GDP growth, we establish a sequence of other PMI thresholds to signify certain levels of GDP growth. Our estimation strategy reveals asymmetric responses of GDP growth to unit changes in PMI before and after the estimated threshold levels.
C24|Does economic growth really depend on the magnitude of debt? A threshold model approach|In recent economic literature it has been emphasized that across both advanced countries and emerging markets, high levels of debt-to-gross domestic product (GDP) ratio (90% and above) are associated with notably lower growth outcomes. On the other hand, much lower levels of external debt-to-GDP ratio (60% and below) are associated with adverse outcomes for emerging market growth. These findings have been broadly cited and used in practice. On the other hand, there is an opposite evidence, such that the initial level of debt-to-GDP ratio has no impact on economic growth rate. Taking both viewpoints into account, we propose to employ a time series-based nonlinear mechanism in the threshold autoregression form in order to examine the possible relationship between economic growth rate and its potential determinants included the mentioned debt-to GDP indicator. The originality of the study is that it employs threshold variables instead of exogenous variables and time-series data instead of panel data to reveal the economic instruments that have determined the business cycle in European countries for the last 2 decades -starting from 1995. The purpose of the study is to check the mechanism of growth (measured in terms of GDP growth rate and industrial production growth rate) depending on several important macroeconomic variables, such as public debt, rate of inflation, interest rate, and rate of unemployment with the level of growth itself serving as the threshold variable. We propose an efficient methodology for seeking the best specification of threshold autoregression model in terms of both goodness of fit and parsimony of parametrization. The data (quarterly and monthly) applied in the research cover the time period from the beginning of 1995 to the end of 2013. Such a long period is interesting because it allows investigation of the mechanism of growth under two different economic policy models. We identify that the exogenous monetary mechanism played an important role in diagnosing the phases of business cycle in most European economies which is in line with liberal economic policy dominating in the observed period. The initial level of debt-to-GDP ratio as its increase within the recession period was of no value for the economic growth pattern.
C24|Do good things come in small packages? Willingness to pay for pomegranate wine and bottle size effects|"""We evaluate the claim that bottle size formats signal quality changes, using a controlled laboratory experiment where we simultaneously auctioned two di erent sweet wines: a pomegranate wine and a grape wine. We varied on a between subjects basis the size of the bottle, from 500ml to 750ml, but kept the wine content of the bottle constant across bottle size formats. We also explored in a within subjects design the effect of expectations for the wines, blind tasting and information on willingness to pay. For the grape wine we nd evidence consistent with diminishing marginal utility while for the pomegranate wine we nd a premium for the smaller bottle size which is consistent with changes in perceived scarcity of the wine. We also find that information is adequate in o setting the negative effect from the tasting treatment."""
C24|Threshold effect of fiscal policy on private consumption : Evidence from Tunisia|Using a threshold regression model, we analyse the impact of fiscal policy on private consumption in Tunisia, over the 1975-2010 period. Our empirical results revealed that public expenditure and tax revenues have Keynesian effects on consumption, when private debt/GDP ratio is below 48 %. This effect becomes non-Keynesian once this threshold is exceeded. We provide empirical evidence that private consumption reacts in non-linear fashion to changes in fiscal policy.
C24|The elasticity of labor supply in Russia|The paper estimates the wage elasticity of labor supply in Russia. As a measure of labor supply elasticity, the percent change of the probability of having a job in response to wage change is used. The paper shows that an estimate of the elasticity can be obtained from the two-step Heckman’s procedure. Empirical analysis is based on the RLMS–HSE data for the period from 1994 to 2014. The main conclusion is that the estimate of labor supply elasticity in Russia is significantly higher than zero and lower than one.
C24|Is the Assumption of Linearity in Factor Models too Strong in Practice?| The assumption of linearity of factor models is implicit in all empirical applications used in macroeconomic analysis. We test this assumption in a more general setting than previously considered using a well-studied macroeconomic dataset on the U.S. economy, and find strong evidence in support for regime-switching type non-linearity. Furthermore, we show non-linearity is strongly concentrated in certain groups (such as financial variables). Our results, which are robust to serial dependence, suggest the assumption of linearity underpinning factor models might be too strong and gives further support towards developing models which explicitly account for non-linearity. Keywords: Factor Model Non-linearity, Regime Change, Transition Variables, LM test. JEL Classifications: C12; C18; C24; C33; C38.
C24|Forecasting electricity spot prices using time-series models with a double temporal segmentation| The French wholesale market is set to expand in the next few years under European pressure and national decisions. In this article, we assess the forecasting ability of several classes of time-series models for electricity wholesale spot prices at a day-ahead horizon in France. Electricity spot prices display a strong seasonal pattern, particularly in France, given the high share of electric heating in housing during winter time. To deal with this pattern, we implement a double temporal segmentation of the data. For each trading period and season, we use a large number of specifications based on market fundamentals: linear regressions, Markov-switching (MS) models and threshold models with a smooth transition. An extensive evaluation on French data shows that modelling each season independently leads to better results. Among nonlinear models, MS models designed to capture the sudden and fast-reverting spikes in the price dynamics yield more accurate forecasts. Finally, pooling forecasts give more reliable results.
C24|Estimating cost efficiency of Turkish commercial banks under unobserved heterogeneity with stochastic frontier models|This study aims to investigate the cost efficiency of Turkish commercial banks over the restructuring period of the Turkish banking system, which coincides with the 2008 financial global crisis and the 2010 European sovereign debt crisis. To this end, within the stochastic frontier framework, we employ true fixed effects model, where the unobserved bank heterogeneity is integrated in the inefficiency distribution at a mean level. To select the cost function with the most appropriate inefficiency correlates, we first adopt a search algorithm and then utilize the model averaging approach to verify that our results are not exposed to model selection bias. Overall, our empirical results reveal that cost efficiencies of Turkish banks have improved over time, with the effects of the 2008 and 2010 crises remaining rather limited. Furthermore, not only the cost efficiency scores but also impacts of the crises on those scores appear to vary with regard to bank size and ownership structure, in accordance with much of the existing literature.
C24|Information and Communication Technology-Enabled Modern Services Export Performances of Asian Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
C24|Markov Switching in Exchange Rate Models: Will More Regimes Help?|This paper examines the performance of Markov switching models (MSM) of the exchange rate using a data driven approach to determine the number of regimes. The analysis is conducted for the British pound/USD over the last thirty years with alternative specifications from the literature. A noteworthy finding is that there is a close correspondence among the number of regimes that minimizes mean square forecast errors, the number of regimes selected by traditional information criteria (but not Markov switching specific information criteria), and the fewest regimes with well-behaved residuals. Although allowing for more regimes yields improvement over single or two regime models, the MSM is still unable to outperform a random walk.
C24|Development of a load sharing policy by managing the residual life based on a stochastic process|In this paper, we analyze the time (viz., the number of cycles) to reach any given crack size in a fatigue life test using a gamma stochastic process. It is assumed that the time increments are nonstationary but independent for each specimen while the shape parameter of the gamma distribution is a function of the crack length. In addition, using a random effect model, the between-specimen variability is explained by modeling the scale parameter of the process with a gamma distribution. This yields explicit formulas for the marginal lifetime distributions, the associated mean and variance which boosts computational efficiency.
C24|Is the Assumption of Linearity in Factor Models too Strong in Practice?|The assumption of linearity of factor models is implicit in all empirical applications used in macroeconomic analysis. We test this assumption in a more general setting than previously considered using a well-studied macroeconomic dataset on the U.S. economy, and find strong evidence in support for regime-switching type non-linearity. Furthermore, we show non-linearity is strongly concentrated in certain groups (such as financial variables). Our results, which are robust to serial dependence, suggest the assumption of linearity underpinning factor models might be too strong and gives further support towards developing models which explicitly account for non-linearity.
C24|Pay less, consume more? Estimating the price elasticity of demand for home care services of the disabled elderly|"Although the consumption of home care is increasing with population ageing, little is known about its price sensitivity. This paper estimates the price elasticity of the demand for home care of the disabled elderly, using the French home care subsidy program (""APA""). We use an original dataset collected from a French District Council with administrative records of APA out-of-pocket payments and home care consumption. Identification primarily relies on inter-individual variations in producer prices. We use the unequal spatial distribution of producers to address the potential price endogeneity arising from non-random selection into a producer. Our results point to a price elasticity around -0.4: a 10% increase in the out-of-pocket price is predicted to lower consumption by 4%, or 37 minutes per month for the median consumer. Copayment rates thus matter for allocative and dynamic efficiencies, while the generosity of home care subsidies also entails redistributive effects."
C24|A Sample Selection Model for Fractional Response Variables|This paper develops a sample selection model for fractional response variables, i.e., variables taking values between zero and one. It is shown that the proposed model is consistent with the nature of the fractional response variable, i.e., it generates predictions between zero and one. A simulation study shows that the model performs well in finite samples and that competing models, the Heckman selection model and the fractional probit model (without selectivity), generate biased estimates. An empirical application to the impact of education on women's perceived probability of job loss illustrates that the choice of an appropriate model is important in practice. In particular, the Heckman selection model and the fractional probit model are found to underestimate (in absolute terms) the impact of education on the perceived probability of job loss.
C24|Testing Environmental Kuznets Curve in the Selected Transition Economies with Panel Smooth Transition Regression Analysis|The Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) introduces an inverted U-shaped relationship between environmental pollution and economic development. The inverted U-shaped curve is seen as complete pattern for developed economies. However, our study tests the EKC for developing transition economies of European Union, therefore, our results could make a significant contribution to the literature. In this paper, the relationship between carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, gross domestic product (GDP), energy use and urban population is investigated in the Transition Economies (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia). Environmental Kuznets Curve is tested by panel smooth transition regression for these economies for 1993 – 2010 periods. As a result of study, the null hypothesis of linearity was rejected and no-remaining nonlinearity test showed that there is a smooth transition exists between two regimes (below $5176 GDP per capita is first one and above $5176 GDP per capita is second one) in the related period for these economies.
C24|Non-Parametric Estimation of a Distribution Function with Interval Censored Data| Disjoint interval-censored (DIC) observations are found in a variety of applications including survey responses, contingent valuation studies and grouped data. Despite being a recurrent type of data, little attention has been given to their analysis in the nonparametric literature. In this study, we develop an alternative approach for the estimation of the empirical distribution function of DIC data by optimizing their nonparametric maximum likelihood (ML) function. In contrast to Turnbull’s standard nonparametric method, our estimation approach does not require iterative numerical algorithms or the use of advanced statistical software packages. In fact, we demonstrate the existence of a simple closed-form solution to the nonparametric ML problem, where the empirical distribution, its variance, and measures of central tendency can be estimated by using only the frequency distribution of observations. The advantages of our estimation approach are illustrated using two empirical datasets.
C24|Some Comments on the Current State of Econometrics|Regarding the current econometric scene, in this review I argue that (a) traditional econometric modeling approaches do not provide a reliable basis for making inferences about the causal effect of a supposed treatment of data in observational and quasi-experimental settings; and (b) the focus on conventional reductionist models and information recovery methods has led to irrelevant economic theories and questionable inferences and has failed in terms of prediction and the extraction of information relative to the nature of underlying economic behavior systems. Looking ahead, a nontraditional econometric approach is outlined. This method recognizes that our knowledge regarding the underlying behavioral system and observed data process is complex, partial, and incomplete. It then suggests a self-organized, agent-based, algorithmic-representation system that involves networks, machine learning, and an information theoretic basis for estimation, inference, model evaluation, and prediction.
C24|Do good things come in small packages? Willingness to pay for pomegranate wine and bottle size effects|We evaluate the claim that bottle size formats signal quality changes, using a controlled laboratory experiment where we simultaneously auctioned two different sweet wines: a pomegranate wine and a grape wine. We varied on a between subjects basis the size of the bottle, from 500ml to 750ml, but kept the wine content of the bottle constant across bottle size formats. We also explored in a within subjects design the effect of expectations for the wines, blind tasting and information on willingness to pay. For the grape wine we find evidence consistent with diminishing marginal utility while for the pomegranate wine we find a premium for the smaller bottle size which is consistent with changes in perceived scarcity of the wine. We also find that information is adequate in offsetting the negative effect from the tasting treatment.
C24|Pension fund investments in infrastructure and the global financial regulation|One common denominator observed in global financial regulation is the tendency to allow pension funds to invest more in infrastructure. Considering this, our study analyses what regulatory changes are currently taking place from a global perspective and what are the relevant factors that impacts on pension fundâ€™s decisions to invest in infrastructure.
C24|Distributional Policy Effects with Many Treatment Outcomes|Different segments of a population affected by the same policy intervention may have different responses. We study the role of equilibrium effects on explaining these differences. Our case study is the government's extension of guarantees during the Great Recession to certain debt issuers. We extend Athey and Imbens [2006] to a scenario of multiple outcome variables, and identify the counterfactual joint distribution. We find the intervention increased the funding for the treated segments, but at the cost of higher spreads. Finally, these equilibrium effects operate dissimilarly along the segments of the treated group, in the extreme, can produce undesired effects.
C24|Foreign exchange intervention revisited: A new way of estimating censored models|In this paper, we investigate a long‐standing issue in the international finance literature: namely, how to capture the behaviour of central banks when deciding foreign exchange policies. Essentially, the main empirical problem is that a researcher observes numerous large‐scale purchases of foreign currency but a general absence of sales. This asymmetry has motivated the use of heavily dependent parametric models. We take a fresh look at this problem by allowing for a more flexible estimation, robust to various model specifications. Our results indicate that our method outperforms some of the standard models used to date. Hence, our main contribution is to provide policymakers with an improved and readily accessible toolkit to evaluate their actions. To shed some light on this, we estimate policy functions for the cases of Turkey and Colombia and highlight marked differences with the related literature.
C24|Interest Rate Corridor, Liquidity Management, And The Overnight Spread|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12165-abs-0001""> We analyze the determinants of the overnight spread (the spread between the Borsa Istanbul overnight repo interest rate and the average funding rate of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey [CBRT]) using data from both the conventional and the new monetary policy episodes. We empirically document that the overnight spread has recently been influenced by various factors that are directly or closely related to the liquidity policy of the CBRT. (JEL E43, E52, C24)"
C24|Wage Expectations for Higher Education Students in Spain|We use data on expected wages self-reported by college students to assess the hypothesis that the positive gap between expected and actual wages would decrease as students approach graduation. Our estimation results confirm this hypothesis. The amount and the quality of student information, used to forecast wages, improves with student experience. We find that expected wages for first-year students are affected not only by the degree type and academic performance, but also by the variables determining their degree preferences and their household environment. In the case of junior students, the degree type and length affects expected wages, though neither pre-university performance nor household environment influence their wage forecasts<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C24|R&D Expenditures and Geographical Sales Diversification|This paper empirically examines the role of diversification in export markets on firm-level R&D activities. We show that geographical sales diversification across different regions of the world induces UK firms to increase their R&D expenditures, as firms must innovate and develop new products to maintain a competitive edge over their rivals. This finding is robust to a battery of sensitivity checks. Furthermore, we find no evidence of reverse causality between R&D and sales diversification.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C24|Testing the Labor Market Dualism in Korea|The existence of the dual labor market in Korea is tested under the two different definitions of the labor market dualism. First, the estimation results from widely used tools such as Heckman's sample selection model support the existence of two wage equations, advocating the presence of labor market dualism in Korea. Second, the labor market dualism index suggested by Hudson (2007) supports that there is some degree of bifurcation between the good job conditions and bad job conditions.
C24|Monetary and fiscal policy switching with time-varying volatilities|This paper extends the ongoing literature on regime change. The extension allows time variation in disturbance variances of interest rate rules for monetary policy and tax rules for fiscal policy that switch stochastically between two regimes. We achieve superior modelings of monetary and fiscal policy rules with quarterly US data.
C24|Oaxaca-Blinder Type Counterfactual Decomposition Methods for Duration Outcomes|Existing inference procedures to perform counterfactual decomposition of the difference between distributional features, applicable when data is fully observed, are not suitable for censored outcomes. This may explain the lack of counterfac- tual analyses using target variables related to duration outcomes, typically observed under right censoring. For instance, there are many studies performing counterfac- tual decomposition of the gender wage gaps, but very few on gender unemployment duration gaps. We provide an Oaxaca-Blinder type decomposition method of the mean for censored data. Consistent estimation of the decomposition components is based on a prior estimator of the joint distribution of duration and covariates under suitable restrictions on the censoring mechanism. To decompose other distribu- tional features, such as the median or the Gini coefficient, we propose an inferential method for the counterfactual decomposition by introducing restrictions on the func tional form of the conditional distribution of duration given covariates. We provide formal justification for asymptotic inference and study the finite sample performance through Monte Carlo experiments. Finally, we apply the proposed methodology to the analysis of unemployment duration gaps in Spain. This study suggests that factors beyond the workers' socioeconomic characteristics play a relevant role in explaining the difference between several unemployment duration distribution fea- tures such as the mean, the probability of being long term unemployed and the Gini coefficient.
C24|Modelling and Forecasting Business Cycle in CEE Countries using a Threshold Approach|We propose to apply a time-series-based nonlinear mechanism in the threshold autoregression (TAR) form in order to examine business cycles in Central and Eastern European economies and compare them to the entire EU business cycle. The threshold variables, such as consumer price index, short and long interest rates, unemployment rate and an exchange rate vs. the U.S. Dollar, have been considered. The purpose of the paper is to model and to predict business cycles in Central and East European (CEE) economies (the EU Member States) and compare them to business cycles of the entire EU28 area and Eurozone EU19. We found that the exogenous mechanism played an important role in diagnosing the phases of business cycles in CEE economies, which is in line with the entire EU economic area. The results of business cycle forecasting using bootstrap technique are quite promising, while bootstrap confidence intervals are used for diagnosis.
C24|Demand for Performing Arts: The Effect of Unobserved Quality on Price Elasticity|This paper studies behavior patterns among theater attendees in the process of ticket purchasing. Since the theater attempts to balance between a high occupancy and affordable prices, the purpose of the study is to reveal the effects of changes in prices on attendance. This project is conducted conjointly with the Perm Tchaikovsky Opera and Ballet Theater. Data are taken from the sales information system of the theater for four seasons 2011-2012/2014-2015. The data are disaggregated to the level of the seating area and performance and consist of the attendance rate, the set of prices and the performance characteristics. The research explores the determinants of demand using a censored quantile regression which accounts for the heterogeneity of effects on different levels of attendance rates and censoring. We estimate the parameters of the demand function and show that the aggregated demand is elastic by price, at the same time the elasticity varies across different seating areas. Moreover, demand for the more popular seats and performances is less elastic
C24|Lung Cancer Study with Tobit Regression Analysis: Sivas Case|: Tobit regression models are the limited dependent variable models in a statement which is widely used and is defined as a non-parametric alternative for the method of least squares regression. Model is known as knowledge of the dependent variable models for some samples containing censored observations. Some experimental process, cannot be achieved for all values of the dependent variable. Dependent variables for these models are called limited dependent variable which value limited by ordered models. In this study Tobit model is used for the analysis, which widely used in the statement in limited dependent variable models. Data taken from Sivas Cumhuriyet University Faculty of Medicine Research and Application Hospital Oncology Center, consists 535 patients who have lung cancer. Tobit regression analysis was applied in the measurement of lung cancer patients (the lifetime) was tried to measure the effect of certain arguments. Using right and left censored models, cancers that are thought to trigger the patient's age, stage of disease, determining the variables affecting the disease status variables , data infrastructure has been created for the disease. Tobit regression results when the dependent variable phase of the patient's disease, the patient's gender, patient's condition , the pathological consequences of the disease was found to be statistically significant variables. The sex of the patient, while a positive effect on the stage of disease, condition and pathological condition of the patients were found to negative influences.
C24|Regime Nonstationarity and Nonlinearity in the Turkish Output Level|In this paper, we investigate the nonlinearity and nonstationarity of Turkish output series applying a Markov regime switching augmented Dickey Fuller unit root test. We document that the output series are characterized by a two-regime Markov switching unit root process. We show that output series is stationary in one regime and nonstationary in the other one. Moreover, we observe that the nonstationary regime corresponds to the recessionary periods in the Turkish economy. That is, the shocks to output are highly persistent in the recession regime, but they are transitory in the expansion regime. In addition, the time period in which the output series is found as stationary is longer than the one in which the output series has a unit root.
C24|Modeling Stock Market Returns under Self-exciting Threshold Autoregressive Model: Evidence from West Africa|The study seeks to investigate whether non-linear patterns are present in the returns of two indices on the stock markets in Ghana and Nigeria between the period of 2011 and 2015. The results of applying four linearity tests on the returns concluded that the null of linearity is rejected on all four tests for the Ghanaian index but mixed for the Nigerian index. We modelled the indices under the non-linear self-exciting threshold autoregressive (SETAR) model. We compared the modelling performance of the non-linear SETAR model with that of the standard AR (1) and AR (2) by analyzing Akaike information criterion values of the respective models. Our results show that the SETAR model fits the data well. Hence, modelling stock market returns from Ghana and Nigeria using linear models might lead to spurious conclusions.
C24|The value of endangered forest elephants to local communities in a transboundary conservation landscape|This paper seeks to determine and characterize social and cultural preferences for the conservation of endangered forest elephants (EFEs) in the Congo Basins Tridom Landscape. Using unique data from a stratified, random, face-to-face survey with 1,035 households in 108 villages in 2014, we combine double-bounded dichotomous choice with open-ended elicitation formats to assess the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for EFE conservation. We find that local households are willing to pay CFA 1,139.4 (€1.74) per month to prevent EFE extinction. This totals CFA 753.9 million (€1.15 million) per year for all inhabitants. Indigenousness positively influences the WTP for EFE conservation. Spatial data suggest that local communities prefer that elephants remain far from their crops. The existence of human-elephant conflicts has a neutral effect on preferences for EFE conservation. Therefore, our study suggests that local communities would engage in biodiversity preservation when the public benefits of conservation are accompanied by private benefits, such as human-elephant conflict avoidance.
C24|Identification of panel data models with endogenous censoring|We study inference on parameters in linear panel data models when outcomes are censored. We allow the censoring to depend on both observable and unobservable variables in arbitrary ways. Generally, these models are set identified and the main contribution of this paper is to derive and characterize the identified sets under general conditions. Our main characterization theorems show that every parameter in the sharp set–and only those parameters–can generate the observed data under the maintained assumptions. In particular, we consider two separate sets of assumptions (2 models): the first uses stationarity on the unobserved disturbance terms. The second is a nonstationary model with a conditional independence restriction. Based on the characterizations of the identified sets, we provide an inference procedure that is shown to yield valid confidence sets based on inverting stochastic dominance tests. We also show how our results extend to empirically interesting dynamic versions of the model with both lagged observed outcomes, lagged indicators, and models with factor loads. In addition, we provide sufficient conditions for point identification in terms of support conditions. The paper then examines the size of the identified sets in particular designs, and a Monte Carlo exercise shows reasonable small sample performance of our procedures. We also apply our inference approach to two empirical illustrations that link endogenous censoring to treatment effects models.
C24|A test of asymmetric comovement for state-dependent stock returns|I propose a test of asymmetric stock return comovement across states. The test can be viewed as a variation of Kendall's τ conditional on the state and has an asymptotic χ2-distribution. A refined version of the test is derived based on the Markov chain theory of regenerative cycles which substantially improves finite sample size and power properties. I show that the test has power against local alternatives, which is nonetheless compromised due to a finite sample convergence bound put on the implied local alternative data generating process. I evaluate the new test against traditional correlation-based measures and demonstrate power attrition of a state-free tail dependence test as parameter values are varied. Broad market-based ETFs and international indices are studied and in most cases there is no compelling evidence for asymmetric comovement across states. A list of related tests is given as an extension at the end.
C24|Private information and limitations of Heckman's estimator in banking and corporate finance research|Private information is a common problem in banking and corporate finance research. Heckman's (1979) two-step estimator is commonly used to test for sample selection using a simple t-test on the inverse Mills ratio (IMR) coefficient. Following Puri (1996), this test is often interpreted as a test for private information. We conduct a series of Monte Carlo simulations to show that researchers can reliably use the Heckman estimator to test for private information when this private information is random. However, private information often takes the form of an omitted variable with a deterministic relationship to selection and outcomes. In this case, we show that the IMR coefficient is biased and inconsistent and that t-tests lead to incorrect conclusions regarding the significance of private information as well as its impact on selection and outcomes. We illustrate our results using a unique case in prior literature in which a bank's prior information was revealed. In conclusion, the Heckman model cannot be interpreted as a test for private information (or sample selection) when private information takes the form of an omitted variable in the first-stage regression.
C24|Co-movement of international crude oil price and Indian stock market: Evidences from nonlinear cointegration tests|This article explores nonlinear cointegration between international crude oil price and Indian stock market in a multivariate framework for the period January 2, 2003 to July 29, 2011 by threshold cointegration tests which determine the structural breaks endogenously. The tests reject any long-run equilibrium relationship among the variables for the entire data span. In order to get better insight, threshold cointegration tests have been applied on three sub-phases; prior (phase I) and post (phase III) to most volatile phase (phase II) spanning from July 2, 2007 to Dec 29, 2008. The tests suggest existence of cointegration in phase III only. Toda–Yamamoto version of Granger causality tests reveals that movements of international crude oil price have impact on Indian stock market in phases II and III with no feedback effect. The findings also suggest that global crude oil price is exogenously determined.
C24|Does Basel compliance matter for bank performance?|The global financial crisis underscored the importance of regulation and supervision to a well-functioning banking system that efficiently channels financial resources into investment. In this paper, we contribute to the ongoing policy debate by assessing whether compliance with international regulatory standards and protocols enhances bank operating efficiency. We focus specifically on the adoption of international capital standards and the Basel Core Principles for Effective Bank Supervision (BCP). The relationship between bank efficiency and regulatory compliance is investigated using the Simar and Wilson (2007. J. Econ. 136 (1), 31) double bootstrapping approach on an international sample of publicly listed banks. Our results indicate that overall BCP compliance, or indeed compliance with any of its individual chapters, has no association with bank efficiency.
C24|Financial openness, risk and bank efficiency: Cross-country evidence|This paper assesses the interrelationship between financial openness, bank risk and bank profit efficiency using a cross-country sample of 2007 commercial banks covering 140 countries over the period 1999–2011. To establish whether the impact of financial openness on both bank risk and profit efficiency occurs directly or through each one of the two bank characteristics (efficiency and risk, respectively), we begin our analysis by investigating the potential reverse Granger causality between profit efficiency and risk using a dynamic simultaneous model via system GMM estimation. We then account explicitly for the role of bank risk in the estimation of bank profit efficiency using stochastic frontier analysis, allowing for the influence of different measures of financial openness and risk alongside other control variables. Our results indicate that financial openness reduces bank profit efficiency directly, not through changes in bank risk. We also find that financial openness increases bank risk indirectly, through the decreased bank profit efficiency channel.
C24|Willingness-to-pay for road safety improvement|Few studies have explored, to date, the issue of the monetary valuation of non-fatal injuries caused by road traffic accidents. The present paper seeks to raise interest in this question and to estimate, by contingent valuation, French households’ willingness-to-pay (WTP) to improve their road safety level and reduce their risk of non-fatal injuries following a road accident. More precisely, a Tobit and a type-II Tobit model were estimated to identify factors for WTP. The results highlighted the significant positive influence of injury severity on WTP. Experience of road traffic accidents seemed to play an important role, positively influencing valuation of non-fatal injury.
C24|Empleo femenino, pobreza y desigualdad. Un análisis de microdescomposiciones. Uruguay (1991-2012)|This paper analyses the effect of the increase in female employment on income distribution in Uruguay between 1991 and 2012. In particular, this paper studies the impact on inequality and poverty. The methodology employed is a micro-decomposition proposed by Bourguignon et al. (1998). This methodology allows to partially capture the effect of the increase on female employment and to distinguish between effects generated by changes in employment status and those produced by changes in worked hours. Results suggest that, the increase in female employment has had statistically significant effects, despite not being the most important when it comes to explaining the evolution of income distribution. Changes in female employment contributed to reducing poverty levels throughout the period studied and, although it had modest results on de concentration of income at the beginning of the period, effects were more pronounced towards the end.// En este artículo se estudia el efecto del aumento del empleo femenino sobre la distribución del ingreso en Uruguay entre 1991 y 2012; en particular se analizan los efectos sobre la desigualdad y la pobreza. Asimismo, se aplica la metodología de microdescomposición propuesta por Bourguignon et al. (1998), la cual permite capturar parcialmente el efecto del aumento de la tasa de empleo femenino. Esta metodología permite distinguir el efecto generado por cambios en la condición de empleo y el producido por modificaciones en las horas trabajadas. Los resultados obtenidos muestran que, a pesar de no ocupar un lugar central cuando se busca explicar la evolución de la distribución del ingreso, el aumento del empleo femenino ha tenido efectos significativos desde el punto de vista estadístico. Si bien algunos resultados sobre la distribución del ingreso son modestos, los cambios en el empleo femenino contribuyeron en todo momento a reducir los niveles de pobreza y la desigualdad
C24|Demand for food away from home in Slovakia| We analyse demand for food away from home (FAFH) in Slovakia by double-hurdle model from the Household Budget Survey data covering period 2004-2010. Results reveal an increasing trend in food away from home expenditure between the two periods with a considerable heterogeneity among different household types. The estimated income elasticities of FAFH in Slovakia also differ among different household groups. For example, single person households perceive out of home eating as a necessity. On the other hand, households consisting of multiple adults without children, single parent with children, and traditional families with parents and children perceive eating out of home as a luxury. FAFH in Slovakia differs substantially between regions as well as between the annual seasons. Slovak households appear to have higher demand for FAFH in western regions and during the winter season. An important feature of the applied household model is to measure the effect of wife’s opportunity costs regarding the food preparation at home. Results reveal the fact that households with employed wife have significantly higher expenditure on FAFH than unemployed (housekeeping) wife.
C24|Nonlinearities, smoothing and countercyclical monetary policy|Empirical analysis of the Fed’s monetary policy behavior suggests that the Fed smooths interest rates– that is, the Fed moves the federal funds rate target in several small steps instead of one large step with the same magnitude. We evaluate the effect of countercyclical policy by estimating a Vector Autoregression (VAR) with regime switching. Because the size of the policy shock is important in our model, we can evaluate the effect of smoothing the interest rate on the path of macro variables. Our model also allows for variation in transition probabilities across regimes, depending on the level of output growth. Thus, changes in the stance of monetary policy affect the macroeconomic variables in a nonlinear way, both directly and indirectly through the state of the economy. We also incorporate a factor summarizing overall sentiment into the VAR to determine if sentiment changes substantially around turning points and whether they are indeed important to understanding the effects of policy.
C24|The impact of major life events on Australian household financial decision-making and portfolio rebalancing|No abstract is available for this item.
C24|On Specification and Inference in the Econometrics of Public Procurement|In Paper [I] we use data on Swedish public procurement auctions for internal regular cleaning service contracts to provide novel empirical evidence regarding green public procurement (GPP) and its effect on the potential suppliers’ decision to submit a bid and their probability of being qualified for supplier selection. We find only a weak effect on supplier behavior which suggests that GPP does not live up to its political expectations. However, several environmental criteria appear to be associated with increased complexity, as indicated by the reduced probability of a bid being qualified in the postqualification process. As such, GPP appears to have limited or no potential to function as an environmental policy instrument. In Paper [II] the observation is made that empirical evaluations of the effect of policies transmitted through public procurements on bid sizes are made using linear regressions or by more involved non-linear structural models. The aspiration is typically to determine a marginal effect. Here, I compare marginal effects generated under both types of specifications. I study how a political initiative to make firms less environmentally damaging implemented through public procurement influences Swedish firms’ behavior. The collected evidence brings about a statistically as well as economically significant effect on firms’ bids and costs. Paper [III] embarks by noting that auction theory suggests that as the number of bidders (competition) increases, the sizes of the participants’ bids decrease. An issue in the empirical literature on auctions is which measurement(s) of competition to use. Utilizing a dataset on public procurements containing measurements on both the actual and potential number of bidders I find that a workhorse model of public procurements is best fitted to data using only actual bidders as measurement for competition. Acknowledging that all measurements of competition may be erroneous, I propose an instrumental variable estimator that (given my data) brings about a competition effect bounded by those generated by specifications using the actual and potential number of bidders, respectively. Also, some asymptotic results are provided for non-linear least squares estimators obtained from a dependent variable transformation model. Paper [VI] introduces a novel method to measure bidders’ costs (valuations) in descending (ascending) auctions. Based on two bounded rationality constraints bidders’ costs (valuations) are given an imperfect measurements interpretation robust to behavioral deviations from traditional rationality assumptions. Theory provides no guidance as to the shape of the cost (valuation) distributions while empirical evidence suggests them to be positively skew. Consequently, a flexible distribution is employed in an imperfect measurements framework. An illustration of the proposed method on Swedish public procurement data is provided along with a comparison to a traditional Bayesian Nash Equilibrium approach.
C24|Demand for performing arts: the effect of unobserved quality on price elasticity|This paper studies the behavior patterns among the theatreâ€™s attendants in the process of ticketâ€™s purchase. Since the theatre attempts to balance between the high rate of occupancy and the affordable prices for the spectator, the purpose of the study is to reveal the effects of changes in prices on attendance rate on different levels of attendance. This project is conducted conjointly with the Perm Tchaikovsky Opera and Ballet Theater. Data is taken from the sales information system of the theater for four seasons 2011-2012/2014-2015. The data is disaggregated to the level of the seating area and performance and consists of the attendance rate, the set of prices and the performance characteristics. The research explores the determinants of demand using censored quantile regression that accounts for the heterogeneity of effects on different levels of attendance rates and censoring. We have estimated the parameters of demand function and revealed that the aggregated demand is elastic by price, at the same time the elasticity varies across different seating areas. Moreover, demand for the more popular seats and performances expectedly turns out to be the less elastic.
C24|Downside risk and stock returns: An empirical analysis of the long-run and short-run dynamics from the G-7 Countries|This paper This paper This paper This paper presents presents presents a fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrata fractionally cointegrat a fractionally cointegrated vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression ed vector autoregression (FCVAR) (FCVAR) (FCVAR) (FCVAR) model to examine to examine to examine to examine to examine to examine to examine various relations various relations various relations various relations various relations between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside riskbetween stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside riskbetween stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk between stock returns and downside risk . Evidence from major advance Evidence from major advance Evidence from major advanceEvidence from major advanceEvidence from major advance Evidence from major advanceEvidence from major advance Evidence from major advance Evidence from major advanceEvidence from major advanceEvidence from major advance Evidence from major advance Evidence from major advanced markets markets markets markets markets supports the supports the notion that notion that notion that downside risk measured by measured by measured by measured by measured by measured by measured by value value value-at -risk ( risk (VaRVaRVaR) has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information has significant information content content that reflects that reflects that reflects that reflects that reflects lagged long lagged long lagged longlagged long lagged long -run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and run variance and higher momentshigher moments higher moments higher moments higher moments higher momentshigher moments of risk for for predict redict ing stock returns. stock returns. stock returns. stock returns. The e The e vidence vidence vidence supports the positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesispositive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis positive tradeoff hypothesis and and the leverage effect leverage effect leverage effectleverage effectleverage effect leverage effectleverage effectleverage effectleverage effectleverage effect in the long in the long in the long run and and for for some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run. some markets in the short run.some markets in the short run. We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, We find that US downside risk accounts for 54.36% of price discovery, whereas the whereas the whereas the whereas the own effect from own effect from own effect from own effect from own effect from own effect from own effect from the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes the country itself contributes only only only 27.06%. 27.06%.
C24|Analysing the impact of renewable energy regulation on retail electricity prices|Retail electricity prices have substantially increased in the last decade in the European Union (EU) as a result of different regulations, raising the concern of policy makers. The growth in the support costs for electricity from renewable energy sources (RES-E) has often been singled out as a main driver of the increase in these prices. The aim of this paper is to analyse the degree of influence of RES-E promotion costs on the evolution of the retail price of electricity in the EU Member States. The analysis is carried out for households as well as for industry, with the help of a panel data econometric model. Our results show that the impact of renewable energy promotion costs on retail electricity prices is positive and statistically significant, although relatively small. Differences across consumer types can be observed. An increase of 1% in those costs induces an average increase of only 0.023% in industrial retail prices and 0.008% in the residential retail prices. This impact on retail prices is mediated by the type of support scheme which is adopted, with price-based support instruments showing a greater effect than quantity-based ones.
C24|Characterizations of identified sets delivered by structural econometric models| This paper develops characterizations of identified sets of structures and structural features for complete and incomplete models involving continuous and/or discrete variables. Multiple values of unobserved variables can be associated with particular combinations of observed variables. This can arise when there are multiple sources of heterogeneity, censored or discrete endogenous variables, or inequality restrictions on functions of observed and unobserved variables. The models generalize the class of incomplete instrumental variable (IV) models in which unobserved variables are single-valued functions of observed variables. Thus the models are referred to as Generalized IV (GIV) models, but there are important cases in which instrumental variable restrictions play no significant role. The paper provides the first formal definition of observational equivalence for incomplete models. The development uses results from random set theory which guarantee that the characterizations deliver sharp bounds, thereby dispensing with the need for case-by-case proofs of sharpness. One innovation is the use of random sets defined on the space of unobserved variables. This allows identification analysis under mean and quantile independence restrictions on the distributions of unobserved variables conditional on exogenous variables as well as under a full independence restriction. It leads to a novel general characterization of identified sets of structural functions when the sole restriction on the distribution of unobserved and observed exogenous variables is that they are independently distributed. Illustrations are presented for a parametric random coefficients linear model and for a model with an interval censored outcome, in both cases with endogenous explanatory variables, and for an incomplete nonparametric model of English auctions. Numerous other applications are indicated.
C24|Demand for Food Away from Home in Slovakia|We analyze demand for food away from home (FAFH) in Slovakia by means of a double-hurdle model using recent Slovak Household Budget Survey data covering the period 2006–2012. The estimated unconditional income elasticity of FAFH demand (1.37) demonstrates that away-from-home eating is still perceived as a luxury by Slovak households. An important feature of our applied theoretical framework is measurement of the effect of a wife's opportunity cost of time. Results indicate that households where the wife is employed have significantly higher expenditure on FAFH compared to households where the wife is unemployed or a housewife. Further FAFH market growth can be expected in Slovakia in the future, driven by rising GDP, increasing participation of women in the job market, demographic changes towards an increase in the proportion of single-person households, and adoption of more individualistic lifestyles.
C24|Reaction Functions of the Participants in Colombia’s Large-value Payment System|Large value payment flows can be disrupted by several types of failures such as operational incidents, problems experienced by the administrator of the payments settlement system, outages in the communications networks and the inability of a participant to submit payments due to insufficient liquidity. During any of these incidents, the participants of the system can either decide to stop, delay or continue sending payment orders, which fundamentally depends on the elements that originated the disruption, as well as on the alternative liquidity sources available to each entity. By means of Tobit models with random effects we evaluated the payments activity of Colombian financial institutions. Our results suggest that participants’ reaction vary in accordance with the type of incident, along with the type of entity and its role in the market.
C24|Household Alcohol And Tobacco Expenditures In Turkey: A Sample-Selection System Approach|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12093-abs-0001""> Household characteristics variables are used to quantify alcohol and tobacco participation and spending level decisions for households in Turkey using a sample-selection system. Statistical tests support separate analyses for urban and rural households and joint estimation of the equation system to ameliorate biases and improve statistical efficiency of estimates. Household characteristics play important roles in determining binary consumption decisions and levels of spending on tobacco but play less definitive roles in alcohol spending, for both urban and rural households. Differences are found in consumption behaviors between the two types of households . ( JEL C24, D12, I18)"
C24|Sharp Bounds on Causal Effects under Sample Selection|" type=""main"" xml:id=""obes12056-abs-0001""> In many empirical problems, the evaluation of treatment effects is complicated by sample selection so that the outcome is only observed for a non-random subpopulation. In the absence of instruments and/or tight parametric assumptions, treatment effects are not point identified, but can be bounded under mild restrictions. Previous work on partial identification has primarily focused on the ‘always observed’ (irrespective of the treatment). This article complements those studies by considering further populations, namely the ‘compliers’ (observed only if treated) and the observed population. We derive sharp bounds under various assumptions and provide an empirical application to a school voucher experiment."
C24|Spatial agglomeration and productivity in Italy: A panel smooth transition regression approach|The paper analyzes the impact of localization, urbanization and competition on firm-level TFP, using a large sample of Italian firm-level data from 1999 to 2007. In particular, the paper explores the nonlinearities of such effects, accounting for the possible presence of critical masses and/or congestion effects. We adopt a panel smooth transition regression model, so that the TFP elasticities are free to vary smoothly across two or more extreme values. Results show that localization economies and Jacobian externalities materialize only for values of, respectively, intra-industry spatial agglomeration and extra-sectoral local diversity above a certain threshold. Data instead shows no evidence of significant diseconomies. As for competition, we find a positive impact of local competition on productivity, even though such impact shrinks at high levels of competition.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C24|Political Parties in Canada: What Determines Their Entry, Exit and the Duration of Their Lives?|In this paper we consider two margins of individual political party life in Canada since Confederation—the extensive margin governing existence (the entry and exit decisions together with party turnover or churning) and the intensive margin determining lifespan or survival length. The results confirm in a more formal way many of the individual hypotheses advanced in the political literature for entry and exit—the importance of voter heterogeneity, minority governments, world wars, number of competitors and, to a lesser degree, economic circumstance. What stands out most strongly in the data is the introduction of public funding for established political parties following 1974 and immigration flows. The intensive margin is analyzed using a number of hazard models before focusing on semi-parametric models. These best capture the form of the empirical hazard and in the discrete form allows for the detection of party type heterogeneity. The results suggest presence of two distinct political party types in and, more generally, mirror those found for the entry/exit decision. The public funding and immigration flows variables again stand out as being particularly significant.
C24|Individual heterogeneity, nonlinear budget sets, and taxable income| Given the key role of the taxable income elasticity in designing an optimal tax system there are many studies attempting to estimate this elasticity. To account for nonlinear taxes these studies either use instrumental variables approaches that are not fully consistent, or impose strong functional form assumptions. None allow for general heterogeneity in preferences. In this paper we derive the mean and distribution of taxable income, conditional on a nonlinear budget set, allowing general heterogeneity and optimization errors for the mean. We find an important dimension reduction and use that to develop nonparametric estimation methods. We show how to nonparametrically estimate the conditional mean of taxable income imposing all the restrictions of utility maximization and allowing for measurement errors. We apply this method to Swedish data and estimate for prime age males a significant net of tax elasticity of 0.6 and a significant income elasticity of -0.08.
C24|Reaction Functions of the Participants in Colombia’s Large-value Payment System|Large value payment flows can be disrupted by several types of failures such as operational incidents, problems experienced by the administrator of the payments settlement system, outages in the communications networks and the inability of a participant to submit payments due to insufficient liquidity. During any of these incidents, the participants of the system can either decide to stop, delay or continue sending payment orders, which fundamentally depends on the elements that originated the disruption, as well as on the alternative liquidity sources available to each entity. By means of Tobit models with random effects we evaluated the payments activity of Colombian financial institutions. Our results suggest that participants’ reaction vary in accordance with the type of incident, along with the type of entity and its role in the market.
C24|El trabajo no remunerado como determinante de la duración del desempleo en Colombia, un análisis a nivel de género|Este documento analiza la relación que existe entre el trabajo no remunerado y la duración del desempleo desde una perspectiva de género, teniendo en cuenta que las mujeres tienen mayor participación y realizan más actividades de cuidado y trabajo doméstico no remunerado con respecto a los hombres. Para demostrar esta relación se estiman modelos no paramétricos y paramétricos a través de un análisis de supervivencia, también se estima un modelo de corrección de sesgo de selección. Los resultados muestran que el trabajo no remunerado tiene un impacto estadísticamente significativo en la duración del desempleo y el efecto es mayor en las mujeres, debido a su mayor participación y uso del tiempo en actividades de trabajo no remunerado.
C24|Salarios, incentivos y producción intelectual docente en la universidad pública en Colombia|En este artículo se estudian los determinantes de la productividad intelectual de los profesores de la universidad pública en Colombia, enfocándose en el efecto del incentivo salarial por productividad intelectual y el efecto salario. A partir de información del cuerpo de profesores de la Universidad del Valle, comprendida entre los años 2004-2012, se estimaron modelos econométricos de ciclo de vida del profesor universitario para cuantificar dichos efectos. Se encontró un efecto importante y significativo del valor presente del punto salarial, pero no se halló efecto positivo del salario sobre la producción intelectual. También se calculó el efecto del incentivo en función de la edad del investigador y el impacto de incrementos porcentuales en el valor del punto salarial.
C24|La eficiencia del gasto público en educación en Colombia|El trabajo analiza el uso de los recursos públicos destinados al sector educativo. El objetivo es evaluar la eficiencia del gasto territorial con recursos del Sistema General de Participaciones (SGP), específicamente, su eficiencia relativa. Para este fin se emplea la metodología del análisis envolvente de datos. Se encuentra que la eficiencia promedio en la cobertura se encuentra en 62,3 para educación. En calidad la eficiencia solo llega al 48,8%. Ello implica que, sobre todo en calidad, los municipios requieren esfuerzos para mejorar su desempeño y la eficiencia con que emplean los recursos provenientes del SGP
C24|A note on the Tobit model in the presence of a duration variable|The Tobit model (censored regression model) is an important basic model appearing in many applications in economics. In this paper we consider a duration Tobit model in which a duration variable which counts the number of times the data is being censored is included as a covariate. We show that in this case, the dependent variable eventually becomes degenerate, which makes the asymptotic Fisher information matrix singular, rendering the standard methods of asymptotic inference inapplicable. We provide a simulation study and an empirical application to support our results.
C24|Markov Switching And The Taylor Principle|Early research on the Taylor rule typically divided the data exogenously into pre-Volcker and Volcker-Greenspan subsamples. Â We contribute to the recent trend of endogenizing changes in monetary policy by estimating a real-time forward-looking Taylor rule with endogenous Markov switching coefficients and variance. The response of the interest rate to inflation is regime dependent, with the pre and post-Volcker samples containing monetary regimes where the Fed did and did not follow the Taylor principle. While the Fed consistently adhered to the Taylor principle before 1973 and after 1984, it followed the Taylor principle from 1975-1979 and did not follow the Taylor principle from 1980-1984. Â We also find that the Fed only responded to real economic activity during the states in which the Taylor principle held. Â Our results are consistent with the idea that exogenously dividing postwar monetary policy into pre-Volcker and post-Volcker samples misleading. The greatest qualitative difference between our results and recent research employing time varying parameters is that we find that the Fed did not adhere to the Taylor Principle during most of Paul Volckerâ€™s tenure, a finding which accords with the historical record of monetary policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C24|The risk management approach to monetary policy, nonlinearity and aggressiveness: the case of the US Fed|We estimate regime switching models where the strength of the response of monetary policy to macroeconomic conditions depends on the level of risk associated with the inflation outlook and risk in financial markets. Using quarterly data for the Greenspan period we find that: i) risk in the inflation outlook and volatility in financial markets are a powerful driver of monetary policy regime changes in the U.S.; ii) the response of the US Fed to the inflation outlook is invariant across policy regimes; iii) however, in periods of high economic risk, monetary policy tends to respond more aggressively to the output gap and the degree of inertia tends to be lower than in normal circumstances; and iv) the US Fed is estimated to have responded aggressively to the output gap in the late 1980s and begging of the 1990s, and in the late 1990s and early 2000s. JEL Classification: C24, C51, E52
C24|Determining the Effects of Factors on FDI in Global Crisis Period|The purpose of this study is to analyze factors affecting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in countries with a high rate of FDI from 2005 to 2011, by examining the effects of the 2008 crisis. A Panel Tobit model is estimated in order to see the effects on the whole period, and classical Tobit models for each year are estimated separately for the purpose of examining the effects prior to, after and during the crisis, in detail. In the Tobit models, estimated separately for each year, the labor rate and inflation rate variables that are significant in panel Tobit models are not found significant for any of the examined years. As the balance of current accounts is found to be significant both prior to and after the crisis, it can be said that the effect of this variable on FDI is not affected by the crisis. Although there are studies examining factors affecting the FDI in the crisis period, to the best of our knowledge this is the only study using panel Tobit and classical Tobit models to that end.
C24|Economic Valuation of Electrical Service Reliability for Households’ in Developing Country: A Censored Random Coefficient Model Approach|The paper investigates the households’ preference for electricity service reliability. Using a contingent valuation survey; we elicit Beninese urban households’ willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid power outages. In the study respondents are asked to state their WTP for avoiding six different unplanned outages. We therefore apply a random parameter Tobit model on a temporal panel data since there is cross-sectional heterogeneity and a proportion of zero responses. Based on the estimations, we find that the preference for electricity service reliability among household is higher during night time and weekend days and depends positively on the duration of the outages. These results tend to validate the thesis that households preference for electricity service reliability strongly depends on leisure time
C24|Evolution of Risks for Energy Companies from the Energy Efficiency Perspective: The Brazilian Case|This study aims to evaluate whether energy savings from energy efficiency programs in Brazil affected the risks taken by energy companies during the period 2000-2013, based on the following research question: can we assume that energy conservation programs affect return risks to electrical energy companies? The results obtained through risk assessment models, exponentially weighted moving averages, and the capital asset pricing model indicated that during periods of crisis, both volatility and required returns were higher, but during less difficult periods, risks taken were significantly reduced. Further, as research contribution, this research suggests the elimination the affirmative hypothesis that a possible increase in energy efficiency affects the risks taken by electrical energy companies.
C24|Empirical study of the local government deficit, land finance and real estate markets in China|The purpose of this study is to explore an important issue concerning the relationship among the local government deficit, land finance and real estate markets in China. This study uses a panel data of 30 provinces in China during 1999–2010 to estimate the panel smooth transition regression model. Since the estimated transition threshold value is 14.62, provinces with the ratio of fiscal deficits to GDP of greater than 14.62% are categorized as in the high fiscal difficulty (HFD) regime. Otherwise they are in the low fiscal difficulty (LFD) regime. The primary finding of this study is that the land leasing fee has a significantly positive influence on the total value of commodity buildings sold in the LFD regime. In addition, the local fiscal deficit has a significantly positive impact on the real estate market in the LFD regime, but this impact turns to be negative in the HFD regime.
C24|On the computation of LOT liquidity measure|Based on an extensive simulation study and a real data analysis, we show that the widely used estimation method of LOT liquidity model, i.e. the Mixed MLE method, is not consistent and the Y-split method should be used instead.
C24|Inference in semiparametric binary response models with interval data|This paper studies the semiparametric binary response model with interval data investigated by Manski and Tamer (2002). In this partially identified model, we propose a new estimator based on MT’s modified maximum score (MMS) method by introducing density weights to the objective function, which allows us to develop asymptotic properties of the proposed set estimator for inference. We show that the density-weighted MMS estimator converges at a nearly cube-root-n rate. We propose an asymptotically valid inference procedure for the identified region based on subsampling. Monte Carlo experiments provide supports to our inference procedure.
C24|A spatial autoregressive model with a nonlinear transformation of the dependent variable|This paper develops a nonlinear spatial autoregressive model. Of particular interest is a structural interaction model for share data. We consider possible instrumental variable (IV) and maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) for this model, and analyze asymptotic properties of the IV and MLE based on the notion of spatial near-epoch dependence. We also design a statistical test to compare the nonlinear transformation against alternatives. Monte Carlo experiments are designed to investigate finite sample performance of the proposed estimates and the sizes and powers of the test.
C24|Simulated maximum likelihood estimation for discrete choices using transformed simulated frequencies|Many existing methods of simulated likelihood for discrete choice models require additive errors that have normal or extreme value distributions. This paper focuses on a situation where the model does not admit such additive errors so that the popular method of GHK or logit estimation is not applicable. This paper proposes a new method of simulated likelihood that is free from simulation bias for each finite number of simulations, and yet flexible enough to accommodate various model specifications beyond those of additive normal or logit errors. The method begins with the likelihood function involving simulated frequencies and finds a transform of the likelihood function that identifies the true parameter for each finite simulation number. The transform is explicit, containing no unknowns that demand an additional step of estimation. The estimator achieves the efficiency of MLE when the simulation number increases fast enough. This paper presents and discusses results from Monte Carlo simulation studies of the new method.
C24|Maximum likelihood estimation of a spatial autoregressive Tobit model|This paper examines a Tobit model with spatial autoregressive interactions. We consider the maximum likelihood estimation for this model and analyze asymptotic properties of the estimator based on the spatial near-epoch dependence of the dependent variable process generated from the model structure. We show that the maximum likelihood estimator is consistent and asymptotically normally distributed. Monte Carlo experiments are performed to verify finite sample properties of the estimator.
C24|Estimation of panel data partly specified Tobit regression with fixed effects|This paper presents an estimation of a partly specified Tobit model with fixed effects by extending the symmetric trimming procedure proposed in Honoré (1992). Under some sufficient conditions, we present conditions to identify both the parametric and the nonparametric component of the unknown parameter. Under some sufficient conditions, we establish that the proposed estimates are consistent and the estimates of the parametric component are asymptotically normally consistent. Finally, we present some consistent covariance matrix for the estimates of the parametric component.
C24|Retail price effects of feed-in tariff regulation|The feed-in tariff regulation is the widest spread instrument used to promote electricity generation from renewable energy sources in the EU, with the costs of resources devoted to this promotion usually being borne by final consumers. Two components of the electricity retail price are expected to be influenced by the feed-in tariff regulation: the incentive to those firms producing electricity from renewable energy sources and the wholesale price of electricity. In this study we analyze the effects that the feed-in tariff regulation has on the electricity retail price for industrial consumers. We estimate the relative intensity of the impact of the cost of support electricity generation under the feed-in tariff and the electricity wholesale price on the Spanish industrial retail price. Special attention is devoted to technology-specific considerations, as well as short and long run effects. The results show that there is not a strong link between the retail and wholesale market for Spanish industrial consumers. Moreover, the results indicate that an increase of solar generation leads to a higher increase in the industrial retail price than in the case of a proportional increase of wind generation. This suggests that, when evaluating the feed-in tariff regulation impact on the retail price, the cost of incentives effect prevails over the wholesale price effect, and this is stronger for solar than for wind generation.
C24|Empirical assessment of e-learning on performance in principles of economics|This research assessed the effectiveness of online assignments in principles of macroeconomics classes. Students were divided into two groups where the first was required to submit online assignments (treatment) while the other was not (control). Standardized examinations were used as Pretest and Posttest to quantify the online assignments’ impact on students’ performance. Results showed no significant difference in performance between treatment and control groups. Furthermore, when looking closely at students’ performance within the treatment group, results indicate that neither the use of online assignments, nor the degree or intensity of their use tends to have significant impact on students’ performance.
C24|Risk management, nonlinearity and aggressiveness in monetary policy: The case of the US Fed|We contribute to the empirical literature on the risk-management approach to monetary policy by estimating regime switching models where the strength of the response of monetary policy to macroeconomic conditions depends on the level of risk associated with the inflation outlook and risk in financial markets. Using quarterly data for the Greenspan period we find that: (i) risk in the inflation outlook and in financial markets are a more powerful driver of monetary policy regime changes than variables typically suggested in the literature, such as the level of inflation and the output gap; (ii) estimation of regime switching models shows that the response of the US Fed to the inflation outlook is invariant across policy regimes; (iii) however, in periods of high economic risk monetary policy tends to respond more aggressively to the output gap and the degree of inertia tends to be lower than in normal circumstances; and (iv) the US Fed is estimated to have responded aggressively to the output gap in the late 1980s and beginning of the 1990s, and in the late 1990s and early 2000s. These results are consistent with Mishkin (2008)’s view that in periods of high economic risk monetary authorities should respond aggressively to changes in macroeconomic conditions while the degree of inertia should be lower than in normal circumstances.
C24|In Tandem for Cohesion? Synergies and Conflicts between Regional and Agricultural Policies of the European Union| Crescenzi, R., De Filippis, F. and Pierangeli, F. In tandem for cohesion? Synergies and conflicts between regional and agricultural policies of the European Union, Regional Studies . The paper analyses the financial allocations from the regional, rural development and agricultural policies of the European Union in order to assess their territorial coordination and synergies with the objective of territorial cohesion. Regression analysis is used to uncover the link between funds and territorial disadvantage for the 1994-2013 period. The analysis reveals that both coordination and compatibility with territorial cohesion have not always improved in response to major policy reforms. The territorial 'vocation' of overall community spending is weakly linked to its distribution among different policies, but it crucially depends upon appropriate 'place-based' allocation mechanisms.
C24|Stochastic levels and duration dependence in US unemployment|We introduce a new time series model that can capture the properties of data as is typically exemplified by monthly US unemployment data. These data show the familiar nonlinear features, with steeper increases in unem- ployment during economic downswings than the decreases during economic prosperity. At the same time, the levels of unemployment in each of the two states do not seem fixed, nor are the transition periods abrupt. Finally, our model should generate out-of-sample forecasts that mimic the in-sample properties. We demonstrate that our new and flexible model covers all those features, and our illustration to monthly US unemployment data shows its merits, both in and out of sample.
C24|Mexico and the United States: cycle synchronization,1980.1-2013.4|We estimated the progressive, structural synchronization of the Mexican growth cycle with that of the US (total and industrial) for 1980.1-2013.4. By applying the Quandt-Andrews (1993) and Bai-Perron (2003) unknown-breakpoint tests, we identified that before 1994.4 there was no statistically significant relationship between the Mexican GDP growth cycle and the US industrial output cycle, but a weak (statistically significant) relationship with total US GDP cycle. However, since 1997.4 and particularly since 2001.2, there is a vast and increasing synchronization and determination from the US industrial cycle to the Mexican cycle (R2 = 0.96). The degrees of freedom of Mexican domestic economic policy have thus drastically decreased.
C24|¿Tener obesidad es realmente una desventaja en el mercado laboral mexicano?|El presente estudio analiza el posible impacto que pudiera tener sobre las personas la condición de obesidad y sobrepeso en el mercado laboral en México. Específicamente, se estudia el efecto que tiene el hecho de contar con sobrepeso y obesidad sobre los salarios; así como, sobre la probabilidad de encontrar empleo. El grado de obesidad se mide a través de dos métodos: empleando el índice de masa corporal y la razón cintura-altura. Los resultados encontrados indican que, en los hombres, una vez que se corrige el sesgo de selectividad, no existen diferencias salariales, ni a favor ni en contra de las personas con sobrepeso u obesidad. En el caso de las mujeres, se encontraron diferenciales salariales positivos a favor de las mujeres con sobrepeso u obesidad en ciertos grupos (focalizados de acuerdo con el nivel educativo). En cuanto al empleo, no se encuentran diferencias en las probabilidades de encontrar empleo entre los grupos analizados, una vez que se controla por la posibilidad de que las personas hayan ganado peso después de haber sido contratadas.
C24|Child Work and Schooling in Pakistan— To What Extent Poverty and Other Demographic and Parental Background Matter?|Keeping into consideration the far-reaching social and economic impact of child work both for the children involved and society as a whole, in this study an attempt has been made to disentangle the child employment and schooling tradeoff with perspective to understand the effect of income deprivation measures and other non-income factors such as demographic and parental background information for Pakistan using Pakistan Panel Household Survey 2010 data set. At one level this research resolves empirically the debate that exist in literature whether child work is direct outcome of poverty or not in context of Pakistan through assessing the impact of the poverty channel for both likelihood of sending a child for paid work versus probability of enrolling a child into school and on other tries to connect the above line of reasoning with other non-income channels so as to build more enriching perspective. The consequences of household socioeconomic level in terms of its poor or non-poor status on child employment and child enrollment likelihood functions is assessed using both a direct measure of poverty based on household consumption expenditure information and also indirect measures based on access (or lack of it to be more specific) of household to electricity, sewerage system and to type of housing in terms of number of rooms and durability of house. In our empirical evidence, we do find strong support for poverty channel both directly and indirectly acting as defining force in decreasing his or her probability for school enrollment. However in context of effect of poverty on probability of child employment we do not find strong evidence through direct measure of poverty based on household consumption information, however the indirect proxies of poverty level of the household as child belonging to poor status in terms of access to certain type of living [living in house with no electricity, kaccha type of house (not bricked and hence vulnerable to fall), no sewerage system and with just one room] do provide strong evidence in support of poverty channel of impact on increasing the chances of child work. Further demographic information whether it is in form of increasing sibling size or impact of number of adult earners or parental background variables such as employment status of parents and their employment categories provides support for the significance of how being resource poor can be a binding constraint for the household and can act as an impetus to send a child towards paid work against schooling.
C24|Do central bank forecasts matter for professional forecasters?|This paper examines to what extent public information provided by the central bank affects the forecasts formulated by professional forecasters. We investigate empirically whether disclosing GDP and inflation forecasts by Narodowy Bank Polski (the central bank of Poland) reduces the disagreement in professional forecasters’ expectations. The results only partially support the hypothesis on the coordinating role of the central bank existing in the literature. The main finding is that by publishing its projection of future GDP growth, the central bank reduces the dispersion of one-year-ahead GDP forecasts. Moreover our study indicates that the role of the central bank in reducing the forecasts dispersion is strengthening over time. We also find using non-linear STR models that the extent to which the projection release affects the dispersion of GDP forecasts varies over the business cycle. By disclosing its own projection the central bank reduces the disagreement among the forecasters the most in the periods when the economy moves from one phase of the business cycle to another. On the contrary, the release of CPI projection by NBP affects neither the cross-sectional dispersion nor the level of forecasts formulated by professional forecasters.
C24|Endogeneity and Non-Response Bias in Treatment Evaluation: Nonparametric Identification of Causal Effects by Instruments|This paper proposes a nonparametric method for evaluating treatment effects in the presence of both treatment endogeneity and attrition/non-response bias, using two instrumental variables. Making use of a discrete instrument for the treatment and a continuous instrument for non-response/attrition, we identify the average treatment effect on compliers as well as the total population and suggest non- and semiparametric estimators. We apply the latter to a randomized experiment at a Swiss University in order to estimate the effect of gym training on students' self-assessed health. The treatment (gym training) and attrition are instrumented by randomized cash incentives paid out conditional on gym visits and by a cash lottery for participating in the follow-up survey, respectively.
C24|Seasonality in Australian capital city house and unit prices|No abstract is available for this item.
C24|Applying the Fractional Response Model to Survey Research in Accounting|Survey research studies make extensive use of rating scales to measure constructs of interest. The bounded nature of such scales presents econometric estimation challenges. Linear estimation methods (e.g. OLS) often produce predicted values that lie outside the rating scales, and fail to account for nonconstant effects of the predictors. Established nonlinear approaches such as logit and probit transformations attenuate many shortcomings of linear methods. However, these nonlinear approaches are challenged by corner solutions, for which they require ad hoc transformations. Censored and truncated regressions alter the composition of the sample, while Tobit methods rely on distributional assumptions that are frequently not reflected in survey data, especially when observations fall at one extreme of the scale owing to surveyor and respondent characteristics. The fractional response model (FRM) (Papke and Wooldridge 1996, 2008) overcomes many limitations of established linear and non-linear econometric solutions in the study of bounded data. In this study, we first review the econometric characteristics of the FRM and discuss its applicability to survey-based studies in accounting. Second, we present results from Monte Carlo simulations to highlight the advantages of using the FRM relative to conventional models. Finally, we use data from a hospital patient satisfaction survey, compare the estimation results from a traditional OLS method and the FRM, and conclude that the FRM provides an improved methodological approach to the study of bounded dependent variables.
C24|The Importance of Reallocation for Productivity Growth: Evidence from European and US Banking|This paper quantifies the effect of reallocation dynamics on aggregate productivity developments in the banking sectors of Europe and the United States. We document an increase in productivity over the period 1995-2009, on the order of 11 in the US and 19 in Europe. At an annual frequency, under-performing banks capture market share, while more productive banks lose market share, in particular in the US. The pattern of reallocation is markedly different between the geographical regions European productivity has grown by reallocating inputs through the first half of the sample, at the same time when reallocation diminished growth in the US. Within-firm growth has been rising steadily in both areas, largely due to technical change. The long- run positive effects of creative destruction are especially apparent in the US, where reallocation is an important driver of increases in aggregate productivity.
C24|Estimación de la demanda de uso de autos particulares en la zona metropolitana del valle de México: un análisis Tobit|En este trabajo se analiza el efecto del ingreso de los hogares, así como de variables socioeconómicas y geográficas sobre la demanda de uso de autos particulares en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de México. Se emplea un modelo Tobit a fin de captar los efectos de los hogares que demandan el uso de autos y de aquellos hogares que podrían ingresar al mercado. Los resultados muestran que la variable más importante en la determinación del uso de vehículos por parte de los hogares es el ingreso. Además, nuestro estudio muestra que variables como la edad, número de personas ocupadas y distancia, afectan significativamente a la demanda de uso de autos y que el efecto más importante sobre el uso de los mismos se debe a los nuevos consumidores que ingresan al mercado./ In this work the effect of household income is analyzed as well as socioeconomic and geographical demand for use of private cars in the MetropolitanZone of the Mexican Valley variables. A Tobit model to capture the effects of households that demand the use of cars and homes that could be used to enter the market. The results show that the most important in determining the variable vehicle use by households is income. In addition, our study shows that variables such as age, number of employed people and distance, significantly affect the demand for car use and that the most important on the use of the same is due to the new consumers entering the market.
C24|Asymmetric labour market reforms and wage growth with fixed-term contracts: does learning about match quality matter?|Empirical evidence suggests that fixed-term contracts tend to bear the adjustment cost of asymmetric reforms that increase the employment protection gap between fixed-term and open-ended contracts. However, previous studies did not take into account that fixed-term contracts can play different roles in the labour market and therefore the effect of this type of reform is heterogeneous. We estimate an endogenous regime switching model using rich administrative linked employer-employee data to study the impact of a change in Portuguese employment protection legislation that eased regulations on fixed-term contracts. Our results suggest that the implementation of this reform has a negative impact on match quality, proxied by the probability of conversion of fixed-term contracts. However, the conversion of the contract is associated with a significant increase in wage growth and not all fixed-term contracts are evenly affected by this type of reform. Everything else remaining constant, the wage growth of good matches, i.e. converted fixed-term contracts, was less penalised (-0.16 pp.) than that of non-converted fixed-term contracts (-0.55 pp.) in the years in which the changed legislation was in force. The change in legislation contributed to increase the wage growth differential between both groups in approximately 15%.
C24|Endogeneity and non-response bias in treatment evaluation - nonparametric identification of causal effects by instruments|This paper proposes a nonparametric method for evaluating treatment effects in the presence of both treatment endogeneity and attrition/non-response bias, using two instrumental variables. Making use of a discrete instrument for the treatment and a continuous instrument for nonresponse/attrition, we identify the average treatment effect on compliers as well as the total population and suggest non- and semiparametric estimators. We apply the latter to a randomized experiment at a Swiss University in order to estimate the effect of gym training on students› selfassessed health. The treatment (gym training) and attrition are instrumented by randomized cash incentives paid out conditional on gym visits and by a cash lottery for participating in the follow-up survey, respectively.
