C25|The Empirical Content of Binary Choice Models|Empirical demand models used for counterfactual predictions and welfare analysis must be rationalizable, i.e. theoretically consistent with utility maximization by heterogeneous consumers. We show that for binary choice under general unobserved heterogeneity, rationalizability is equivalent to a pair of Slutsky-like shape-restrictions on choice-probability functions.The forms of these restrictions differ from Slutsky-inequalities for continuous goods. Unlike McFadden-Richter's stochastic revealed preference, our shape-restrictions (a) are global, i.e. their forms do not depend on which and how many budget-sets are observed, (b) are closed-form, hence easy to impose on parametric/semi/non-parametric models in practical applications, and (c) provide computationally simple, theory-consistent bounds on demand and welfare predictions on counterfactual budget-sets.
C25|Income Effects and Rationalizability in Multinomial Choice Models|In multinomial choice settings, Daly-Zachary (1978) and Armstrong-Vickers (2015) provided closedform conditions, under which choice probability functions can be rationalized via random utility models. A key condition is Slutsky symmetry. We first show that in the multinomial context, Daly-Zachary’s Slutsky symmetry is equivalent to absence of income-effects. Next, for general multinomial choice that allows for income-effects, we provide global shape restrictions on choice probability functions, which are shown to be sufficient for rationalizability. Finally, we outline nonparametric identification of preference distributions using these results. The theory of linear partial differential equations plays a key role in our analysis.
C25|Random Forest Estimation of the Ordered Choice Model|In econometrics so-called ordered choice models are popular when interest is in the estimation of the probabilities of particular values of categorical outcome variables with an inherent ordering, conditional on covariates. In this paper we develop a new machine learning estimator based on the random forest algorithm for such models without imposing any distributional assumptions. The proposed Ordered Forest estimator provides a flexible estimation method of the conditional choice probabilities that can naturally deal with nonlinearities in the data, while taking the ordering information explicitly into account. In addition to common machine learning estimators, it enables the estimation of marginal effects as well as conducting inference thereof and thus providing the same output as classical econometric estimators based on ordered logit or probit models. An extensive simulation study examines the finite sample properties of the Ordered Forest and reveals its good predictive performance, particularly in settings with multicollinearity among the predictors and nonlinear functional forms. An empirical application further illustrates the estimation of the marginal effects and their standard errors and demonstrates the advantages of the flexible estimation compared to a parametric benchmark model.
C25|Composite Likelihood Estimation of an Autoregressive Panel Probit Model with Random Effects|Modeling and estimating persistent discrete data can be challenging. In this paper, we use an autoregressive panel probit model where the autocorrelation in the discrete variable is driven by the autocorrelation in the latent variable. In such a non-linear model, the autocorrelation in an unobserved variable results in an intractable likelihood containing high-dimensional integrals. To tackle this problem, we use composite likelihoods that involve much lower order of integration. However, parameter identification becomes problematic since the information employed in lower dimensional distributions may not be rich enough for identification. Therefore, we characterize types of composite likelihoods that are valid for this model and study conditions under which the parameters can be identified. Moreover, we provide consistency and asymptotic normality results of the pairwise composite likelihood estimator and conduct Monte Carlo simulations to assess its finite-sample performances. Finally, we apply our method to analyze credit ratings. The results indicate a significant improvement in the estimated transition probabilities between rating classes compared with static models.
C25|Indicadores de alerta temprana para el sector corporativo privado colombiano|Este documento valida la utilidad de algunas variables financieras en la identificación temprana de acumulación de vulnerabilidades para el sector corporativo privado en Colombia. Para esto, se estudia la evolución de varios indicadores para firmas que han entrado en distress financiero. Adicionalmente, se valida la capacidad predictiva de los indicadores in-sample y out-of-sample. Los resultados sugieren que la razón de endeudamiento y una medida de debt-to-cashflow son las que mejor información proveen. Asimismo, se encuentra que la desagregación de las firmas por sector económico y el uso de medidas conjuntas aumentan la capacidad de identificación de situaciones de vulnerabilidad en este sector. **** ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the usefulness of some financial variables in predicting episodes of vulnerability for the private corporate sector in Colombia. We analyse the evolution of several indicators for firms that have experienced episodes of distress. Additionally, we validate the predictive power of our indicators by using in-sample and out-of-sample tests. The results suggest that the ratio of financial obligations to assets, as well as a measure of debt-to-cashflow provide better information. Likewise, we find that classifying the firms by economic sector and the use of several variables at the same time improve the ability to detect changes in the financial health of firms.
C25|The Dynamics and Determinants of Bullying Victimisation|We study the determinants and longitudinal evolution of nine types of adolescent (verbal, physical, indirect) bullying at school and domestically using the Understanding Society dataset during 2009-13. Family support is the most prominent protective factor against bullying. Applying joint maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) for dynamic discrete responses, we investigate potential simultaneous determination of bullying and family support. The estimates indicate that bullying disclosure might be uncommon. The probability of escaping/suffering victimisation is inversely/positively related to previous bullying intensity, respectively. Family income increases domestic indirect aggression but, reduces direct aggression and non-domestic bullying as does living in a high income region.
C25|Identification of Dynamic Panel Binary Response Models|We analyze identification in dynamic econometric models of binary choice with fixed effects under general conditions. This class of models is often used in the literature to distinguish between state dependence (invariably referred to in the recent literature as switching costs, inertia or stickiness) and heterogeneity. We first characterize the sharp set for parameters in a dynamic panel of binary choice under conditional stationarity. The identified set can be characterized by a union of convex polyhedrons. We conduct the same exercise under the stronger assumption of conditional exchangeability, and establish its incremental identifying power. We extend our identification approach to study models with more time periods as well. We also provide sufficient conditions for point identification. For inference in cases with discrete regressors, we provide an approach to constructing confidence sets for the identified sets using a linear program that is simple to implement. The paper then provides simulation based evidence on the size and shape of the identified sets in varying designs to illustrate the informational content of different assumptions. We also illustrate the inference approach using a data set on women’s labor supply decisions.
C25|Inference on Semiparametric Multinomial Response Models|In this paper we explore inference on regression coefficients in semi parametric multinomial response models. We consider cross sectional, and both static and dynamic panel settings where we focus throughout on point inference under sufficient conditions for point identification. The approach to identification uses a matching insight throughout all three models and relies on variation in regressors: with cross section data, we match across individuals while with panel data we match within individuals over time. Across models, IIA is not assumed as the unobserved errors across choices are allowed to be arbitrarily correlated. For the cross sectional model estimation is based on a localized rank objective function, analogous to that used in Abrevaya, Hausman, and Khan (2010), and presents a generalization of existing approaches. In panel data settings rates of convergence are shown to exhibit a curse of dimensionality in the number of alternatives. The results for the dynamic panel data model generalizes the work of Honoré and Kyriazidou (2000) to cover the multinomial case. A simulation study establishes adequate finite sample properties of our new procedures and we apply our estimators to a scanner panel data set.
C25|On the preferences of CoCo bond buyers and sellers: a logistic regression analysis|This paper estimates the preference scores of CoCo bond buyers and sellers by running logistic regressions taking into account both bond and issuing bank’s characteristics, and also considers the role of country−specific CoCo bond market competitiveness. Buyers are found to be characterised by stronger preference responses to CoCo bond coupons and credit ratings, while sellers are more sensitive to CoCo bond issue size and financial characteristics including return on common equity, price−to−book ratio and total regulatory capital to risk−weighted asset ratio. Further, sizeable responses to CoCo bond and issuing bank’s characteristics are found in most European countries, Brazil, Mexico and China, the strongest responses being estimated in the case of the UK and China.
C25|Mostly Harmless Simulations? Using Monte Carlo Studies for Estimator Selection|We consider two recent suggestions for how to perform an empirically motivated Monte Carlo study to help select a treatment effect estimator under unconfoundedness. We show theoretically that neither is likely to be informative except under restrictive conditions that are unlikely to be satisfied in many contexts. To test empirical relevance, we also apply the approaches to a real-world setting where estimator performance is known. Both approaches are worse than random at selecting estimators which minimise absolute bias. They are better when selecting estimators that minimise mean squared error. However, using a simple bootstrap is at least as good and often better. For now researchers would be best advised to use a range of estimators and compare estimates for robustness.
C25|New Evidence On The Firm-University Linkages In Europe. The Role Of Meritocratic Management Practices|This paper investigates the determinants of university-industry links in five European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK), using internationally comparable firm-level data for the period 2007-2009. Besides the usual firm-specific variables, it examines the role of meritocratic management practices in firms’ decisions to collaborate in R&D. Firm innovative efforts, the export status and the R&D government support are positively related to business-university links in almost all countries, human capital and firms’ size in two out of five countries under scrutiny, while belonging to science-based sectors does not seem to play a significant role. Importantly, we find that meritocratic managerial practices positively affect the firm-university nexus in Germany, France and UK, while meritocracy does not appear to enhance businesses’ R&D collaboration in Italy and in Spain.
C25|The impact of lending standards on default rates of residential real estate loans|This paper analyses the impact of lending standards for residential real estate (RRE) loans on default rates, using a novel loan-level dataset from the European DataWarehouse (EDW) that covers eight euro area countries. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this paper is the first to use, for this purpose, a consistent set of loan-level data on loans originated in multiple euro area countries. Previous literature has used either national loan-level data, which does not allow for cross-country comparisons, or aggregate cross-country data. The dataset is first explored through an extensive descriptive analysis and this is followed by static probit regressions. The findings confirm the key influence of lending standards – in particular, loan-to-value and loan-to-income ratios at origination, original loan maturity and borrower employment status – on loan default rates. The impact of other variables, such as interest rate fixation and payment type, varies depending on the country of loan origination. These results are particularly relevant for microprudential supervisors in their ongoing assessment of banks’ credit policies. The highlighted country specificities should be taken into account in macroprudential policymaking. JEL Classification: C25, G21
C25|Effects of labour and product market regulation on worker flows: evidence for the euro area using micro data|Macroeconomic studies suggest that employment-output elasticities in the euro area increased during the recovery from the crisis, especially in those countries that implemented reforms. In this paper, we use micro (individual-level) data from the Eurostat Labour Force Survey to investigate whether a similar change can be found at the micro level. We estimate the probabilities of worker flows across employment and unemployment in euro area countries during the period 2000-2015 in response to GDP growth, structural reforms and individual socio-demographic characteristics. We find evidence of a higher responsiveness of individual worker flows to output changes after the crisis, particularly for a group of countries which implemented significant reforms during the crisis. Indicators of labour and product market rigidities provide a statistically significant direct indication that such increased responsiveness may be explained by reforms. Finally, our results are not only driven by workers hired on temporary contracts, but also apply to permanent contracts. JEL Classification: J21, J24, C25, K31
C25|New Misspecification Tests for Multinomial Logit Models|Misspecification tests for Multinomial Logit [MNL] models are known to have low power or large size distortion. We propose two new misspecification tests. Both use that preferences across binary pairs of alternatives can be described by independent binary logit models when MNL is true. The first test compares Composite Likelihood parameter estimates based on choice pairs with standard Maximum Likelihood estimates using a Hausman (1978) test. The second tests for overidentification in a GMM framework using more pairs than necessary. A Monte Carlo study shows that the GMM test is in general superior with respect to power and has correct size
C25|Procurement in Big Science Centres: politics or technology? Evidence from CERN|Procurement from Big Science Centers (BSC) yields a variety of spillover effects that can ultimately have growth enhancing consequences for their partner countries. We study the determinants of procurement for the biggest research infrastructure ever built: the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN. Using a unique cross-section database of firms that have registered to become industrial partners of the LHC program, we estimate the determinants for potential suppliers of receiving an order from CERN. We compare the relative weight of firms’ technological features and CERN’s procurement rules aimed at securing a juste retour for its Member States. Our results point to a strong impact of technological factors, while also highlighting the importance of political constraints related with CERN’s procurement rules as well as the presence of a home bias. Since the constraints related with the achievement of a juste retour affect–directly or indirectly–the procurement policy of many European BSCs, our results have policy implications that go beyond the CERN case study.
C25|Short-term household income mobility before and after the Great Recession: A four-country study|This paper analyses short-term intra-generational income mobility in France, Italy, Spain and the UK by exploiting the longitudinal component of EU-SILC for the periods 2005-2008 and 2012-2015. We investigate whether and to what extent the ability of households to move along the income distribution changed after the 2008 crisis and whether heterogeneities among countries exist. For this purpose, we employ mobility indexes and transition matrices as well as estimation of a 2SLS regression and of a dynamic ordered probit with random effects. Overall, indexes and transition matrices point to a decrease of mobility in the aftermath of the crisis. The econometric analyses suggest both the existence of a convergence process of incomes and state dependence of current and lagged income in both periods. We also observe sluggish income convergence and lower upward mobility in the second period. Among the microeconomic drivers, education and employment status are positive determinants of mobility. Finally, our results confirm cross-country heterogeneity.
C25|Optimal level of capital in the Polish banking sector|This study presents estimates of the optimal level of aggregate Tier 1 capital ratio in the Polish banking sector. The analysis takes into account macroeconomic benefits of raising Tier 1 capital ratio and macroeconomic costs related to it. The main macroeconomic benefit from a higher capital captured in the study is a higher resilience of the banking sector and consequently a reduction in the likelihood of a banking crisis. The benefit of higher capital ratios is expressed as the product of a decrease in the likelihood of a crisis and the expected cost of a crisis. The latter was calibrated based on the literature review. The probabilities of crisis for different levels of capital were calculated based on probit models estimated on macro data and a simulation model reflecting some of the main features of the banking sector in Poland. The SVAR model estimated on data for the Polish economy was used to assess the scale of the slowdown in GDP growth due to a rise of capital ratios. The net effect of an increase of capital ratios, expressed as a percentage of GDP, reflects the difference between their expected benefits due to the reduction in the probability of a crisis and their economic costs in the form of a decrease in the expected GDP growth rate. The level of Tier 1 ratio, at which the net effect, i.e. the difference between benefits and costs of raising capital ratios, is the largest, is called optimal from a macroeconomic perspective. The results indicate that the optimal level of aggregate Tier 1 ratio is in the range of 11%-23% with the expected value derived from this analysis and the literature at the level of 18%.
C25|A panel analysis of Polish regional cities: residential price convergence in the primary market|We employ two methodologies in order to identify groupings of cities and to analyse the factors which drive convergence in residential prices across Polish prime markets over the period 2007-2018. The Phillips and Sul (2007) methodology is first used to identify convergence in primary residential prices in the major Polish cities. The results indicate that residential prices do not converge to a single common trend. However, we find the existence of three distinct sub-groups of cities (‘clubs’), where residential prices converge to each club’s steady-state path. Using an ordered logit model, we investigate supply and demand factors determining club membership, the model allocating 13 out of the 15 cities as belonging to the clubs identified by the Phillips and Sul procedure.
C25|Evaluating Consumers' Choices of Medicare Part D Plans: A Study in Behavioral Welfare Economics|We propose new methods to model behavior and conduct welfare analysis in complex environments where some choices are unlikely to reveal preferences. We develop a mixture-of-experts model that incorporates heterogeneity in consumers’ preferences and in their choice processes. We also develop a method to decompose logit errors into latent preferences versus optimization errors. Applying these methods to Medicare beneficiaries’ prescription drug insurance choices suggests that: (1) average welfare losses from suboptimal choices are small, (2) beneficiaries with dementia and depression have larger losses, and (3) policies that simplify choice sets offer small average benefits, helping some people but harming others.
C25|Identification of a Class of Health-Outcome Distributions under a Common Form of Partial Data Observability|This paper suggests analytical strategies for obtaining informative parameter bounds when multivariate health-outcome data are partially observed in a particular yet common manner. One familiar context is where M>1 health outcomes' respective totals across N>1 time periods are observed but where questions of interest involve features—probabilities, moments, etc.—of their unobserved joint distribution at each of the N time periods. For instance, one might wish to understand the distribution of any type of unhealthy day experienced over a month but have access only to the separate totals of physically unhealthy and mentally unhealthy days that are experienced. After demonstrating methods to bound, or partially identify, such distributions and related parameters under several sampling assumptions, the paper proceeds to derive bounds on partial effects involving exogenous covariates. These results are applied in three empirical exercises. Whether the proposed bounds prove to be sufficiently narrow to usefully inform decisionmakers can only be determined in context, although it is suggested in the paper's conclusion that the issues considered in this paper are likely to become increasingly important for analysts.
C25|Modeling Imprecision in Perception, Valuation and Choice|Traditional decision theory assumes that people respond to the exact features of the options available to them, but observed behavior seems much less precise. This review considers ways of introducing imprecision into models of economic decision making, and stresses the usefulness of analogies with the way that imprecise perceptual judgments are modeled in psychophysics — the branch of experimental psychology concerned with the quantitative relationship between objective features of an observer's environment and elicited reports about their subjective appearance. It reviews key ideas from psychophysics, provides examples of the kinds of data that motivate them, and proposes lessons for economic modeling. Applications include stochastic choice, choice under risk, decoy effects in marketing, global game models of strategic interaction, and delayed adjustment of prices in response to monetary disturbances.
C25|An Early Warning System for banking crises: From regression-based analysis to machine learning techniques|Ten years after the outbreak of the 2007-2008 crisis, renewed attention is directed to money and credit fluctuations, financial crises and policy responses. By using an integrated dataset that includes 100 countries (advanced and emerging) spanning from 1970 to 2017, we propose an Early Warning System (EWS) to predict the build-up of systemic banking crises. The paper aims at (i) identifying the macroeconomic drivers of banking crises, (ii) going beyond the use of traditional discrete choice models by applying supervised machine learning (ML) and (iii) assessing the degree of countriesâ€™ exposure to systemic risks by means of predicted probabilities. Our results show that ML algorithms can have a better predictive performance than the logit models. All models deliver increasing predicted probabilities in the last years of the sample for the advanced countries, warning against the possible build-up of pre-crisis macroeconomic imbalances.
C25|Launch of a product and patents: evidence from the US cardiovascular pharmaceutical sector|Recent literature on the role of patents in shaping competition between incumbents and new entrants shows mixed evidence, as patents can discourage entry into markets but may also encourage potential entrants by increasing profitability from research and development. The increasing use of patents as strategic weapons motivates this investigation of the impact of innovation on competition. In a case study of US pharmaceutical cardiovascular submarkets over the period 1988-1998, we use a panel probit model to study the impact of a firm’s patents and rivals’ patents in the firm’s decision to launch new products. Our results show that the number of a firm’s lagged patents encourages the firm’s entry with new products, while rivals’ initial stock of patents discourages entry, but more recent patents promote entry by opening new technological opportunities.
C25|Demand for primary healthcare services in Greece based on general practice prescribing model|Analyze the demand for general practitioners and estimate trends in the demand for health care services, mostly based on demographic and epidemiological development. We sought to project the cost and volume of prescribing in primary care. We used the data from the National Organization for the Provision of Primary Healthcare Services (EOPYY) to design a model based on the number of prescriptions issued to a patient visit. The prescriptions are grouped by patients' age, sex, place of residence and their diagnostic evaluation. We selected eleven conditions, which are identified by the codes from the International Classification of Diseases. The forecasting model is based on the negative binomial regression. Projections are made for drug expenditure based on data taken from the World Bank and analysis of current utilization trends. We project an increase in drug expenditure in 2021, although it is expected population decline. Older adults use more health services than younger people. It is noted that female have higher medical care service utilization than male. Greeks living in rural areas have less healthcare utilization rates than their urban counterparts.
C25|Partial effects estimation for fixed-effects logit panel data models|We develop a multiple-step procedure for the estimation of point and average partial effects in fxed-effects logit panel data models that admit suffcient statistics for the incidental parameters. In these models, estimates of the individual effects are not directly available and have to be recovered by means of an additional step. We also derive a standard error formulation for the average partial effects. We study the finite-sample properties of the proposed estimator by simulation and provide an application based on unionised workers.
C25|Subjective health status and immigration: Evidence across Europe|Background: Subjective health status and migration are critical issues in healthcare policy and strategic decision making. There are many health challenges to resolve and at the same time, migration has reached to historic highs, leading to different views among immigrants and natives, policy makers and habitants. Objective: Our research focuses on the subjective health status reported by European habitants, on its differentiation with respect to participants origin, and on whether various demographic, macroeconomic and other factors, such as the foreigners’ presence in a country, affect it. Setting and participants: Using survey data of 227,200 respondents from 22 countries and over the period 2002-2016, and employing logit estimation techniques, we analysed the effect of demographic, macroeconomic and other factors in shaping respondents’ subjective health status. Results: Our results demonstrate the important role of all demographic factors in shaping respondents’ subjective health status. Immigrants report a higher subjective health status, while macroeconomic conditions and foreign presence in a country do play an important role. A country healthcare provision state and health expenditures can moderate the negative effect of foreigners’ presence and thus the reported health status of natives. Conclusions: The factors influencing subjective health status are complex and interdependent. However, government policies should increase social cohesion, since, the latter is not only related to health care outcomes but also can be a tool for disseminating social inequalities.
C25|The Impact of Bullying Victimisation on Mental Wellbeing|We investigate the impact of nine types of adolescent (verbal, physical, indirect) school/domestic bullying on life satisfaction, and two mental health outcomes (emotional symptoms and hyperactivity/inattention) using the Understanding Society dataset during 2009-13. Bullying significantly increases hyperactive, inattentive and emotional symptoms and reduces life satisfaction. Non-domestic bullying has a stronger adverse impact on all three mental wellbeing outcomes. Domestic sibling victimisation does not affect life satisfaction. Lower levels of family income increase adolescent hyperactive/inattentive symptoms and reduce life satisfaction. Females are more vulnerable to emotional symptoms while males report higher levels of life satisfaction. Initial conditions precondition hyperactive and inattentive symptoms.
C25|Migration and Production Structure in Europe with a Labor Task Approach|We assess the effect of migration on the production structure in a selection of European countries for the pre-Great Recession period 2001-2009. We propose a labor-task approach where the infl ow of migrants raises the relative supply of manual-physical (or simple) tasks and therefore favors simple-task intensive sectors. We use the US O*NET database in conjunction with European labor data to calculate the index of simple-task intensity at the industry and country level. The analysis confirms that a rise in employment migration rates has a generalized positive impact, but that value added increases significantly more in sectors that use more intensively simple tasks. A traditional shift-share instrument is used to overcome possible endogeneity problems.
C25|Residential Property Price Indexes: Spatial Coordinates versus Neighbourhood Dummy Variables|The paper addresses the following question: can satisfactory residential property price indexes be constructed using hedonic regression techniques where location effects are modeled using local neighbourhood dummy variables or is it necessary to use spatial coordinates to model location effects. Hill and Scholz (2018) addressed this question and found, using their hedonic regression model, that it was not necessary to use spatial coordinates to obtain satisfactory property price indexes for Sydney. However, their hedonic regression model did not estimate separate land and structure price indexes for residential properties. In order to construct national balance sheet estimates, it is necessary to have separate land and structure price indexes. The present paper addresses the Hill and Scholz question in the context of providing satisfactory residential land price indexes. The spatial coordinate model used in the present paper is a modification of Colwellâ€™s (1998) spatial interpolation method. The modification can be viewed as a general nonparametric method for estimating a function of two variables.
C25|Adoption of e-commerce by individuals and digital divide: Evidence from Spain|E-commerce penetration rates are distant among those groups of individuals with the lowest and the highest levels of online shopping adoption. This is an indicator of digital divide, having negative effects in terms of untapped opportunities for people, companies and the whole economy. Key socioeconomic and demographic determinants of adoption of ecommerce are explored, analyzing a dataset of 174,776 observations for the period 2008-2017 in Spain. The empirical analysis is based on a standard neoclassical utility maximization framework. Linear probability model, logistic regression, and Heckman’s sample selection correction model have been used. The results suggest that e-commerce adoption is positively related with being male, having higher levels of education, income and digital skills, being Spanish, and being employed; while being female, older and belonging to a household of two or more members have negative effects. An interaction between digital skills and age has been introduced in the model, where high digital skills seem to have a positive influence, partly counteracting the lower odds for some age groups. Policy recommendations related to demand and supply measures are suggested to foster the adoption of e-commerce.
C25|Increasing Cigarette Taxes is Unfair to the Poor? Evidence from Argentina|Raising cigarette taxes is an important public policy to reduce the use of tobacco. The appeal of increasing cigarette taxes is obvious. Since smoking is bad for one’s health and for that of others as well, increasing prices, via taxes, will induce people to quit or cut back smoking improving their health. However, increasing cigarette taxes could also have bad consequences: they can be regressive. Increasing taxes could result in poor people paying a higher percentage of their income in taxes than do the rich. How much the increment in taxes reduces consumption and if it’s regressive are empirical questions. This paper investigates those issues for Argentina estimating total demand price elasticity for the whole sample and by income groups and then simulating an increase in cigarette taxes. The main results are, (1) total demand price elasticity estimation is around -0.28 implying that increasing prices by 10 percent, via taxes, induce a reduction of consumption of about 2.8 percent; (2) demand price elasticity estimations by income groups suggest that richer individuals are more price sensitive, in absolute value, than poorer ones with respect to consumption but they are less price sensitive with respect to prevalence; (3) increasing taxes on tobacco consumption is unfair to the poor since their welfare loss, measured by the change in consumer surplus, is 61 percent larger than the loss experienced by the richer individuals in the sample; (4) overall, the main policy recommendation is that the increment in taxes should be complemented with public health policies targeted towards the poor.
C25|Random Forest Estimation of the Ordered Choice Model|In econometrics so-called ordered choice models are popular when interest is in the estimation of the probabilities of particular values of categorical outcome variables with an inherent ordering, conditional on covariates. In this paper we develop a new machine learning estimator based on the random forest algorithm for such models without imposing any distributional assumptions. The proposed Ordered Forest estimator provides a flexible estimation method of the conditional choice probabilities that can naturally deal with nonlinearities in the data, while taking the ordering information explicitly into account. In addition to common machine learning estimators, it enables the estimation of marginal effects as well as conducting inference thereof and thus providing the same output as classical econometric estimators based on ordered logit or probit models. An extensive simulation study examines the finite sample properties of the Ordered Forest and reveals its good predictive performance, particularly in settings with multicollinearity among the predictors and nonlinear functional forms. An empirical application further illustrates the estimation of the marginal effects and their standard errors and demonstrates the advantages of the flexible estimation compared to a parametric benchmark model.
C25|Valuing meteorological services in resource-constrained settings: Application to smallholder farmers in the Peruvian Altiplano|Changing climate and weather patterns have resulted in reduced agricultural productivity in some parts of the world and put pressure on global food security. Availability and improved quality of meteorological information is seen as a potentially propitious means of adaptation to changing climate conditions. Forecasts of extreme weather events are especially valuable in resource-poor settings where climate-related vulnerability is high, such as for smallholder farmers in the developing world. In this paper we provide estimates of frost warnings valuation in the context of small-scale quinoa production in the Peruvian Altiplano. We first present a detailed contextual assessment of quinoa production in the study region based on agrometeorological and socio-economic data that was obtained through a representative farm household survey conducted in December 2016. Building on this assessment, we propose a stochastic life-cycle model, replicating the lifetime cycle of a quinoa-producing household, in order to derive a theoretical valuation of frost warnings. Calibrating the model to our data we provide estimates of potential frost-warning valuation which are in the range of $30-50 per household and year, depending on the forecast accuracy and agents' risk aversion. In a last step, using the observational data from the farm household survey, we show that access to existing meteorological services is empirically associated with avoided losses in agricultural production that amount to $18 per average household and per year. Our findings point to high climate vulnerabilities of smallholders in the Peruvian Altiplano and potentially large welfare gains from incorporating improved meteorological services into their decision-making process.
C25|The Economics of Recycling Rate: new insights from a Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment|In this paper, we address the issue relative to the determinants of metal recycling rate. The literature on recycling flows is scarce and does not directly address the issue of achieving high recycling rate. In addition, the existing literature has not quantified the recycling rate response to metal price. This is why we explore factors of the recycling rate of different metals embodied in computer. We examine the effect of metal price, metal concentration in product, and relative concentration ratio (competition between primary and secondary supply) on recycling rate. Although we find a significant effect of metal price on recycling rate, the marginal response is very low across different type of models (OLS, GLM, FRMER, left censored Tobit). This effect is not surprising and in line with the existing literature relative to recycling flows. Conversely, it seems that recycling rate is more elastic to other technical factors like the metal concentration in products or the relative concentration ratio. We discuss public policies deriving from our results. We need more data and interdisciplinary studies to support these preliminary results.
C25|Duration Dependence, Monetary Policy Asymmetries, and the Business Cycle|We produce business cycle chronologies for U.S. states and evaluate the factors that change the probability of moving from one phase to another. We find strong evidence for positive duration dependence in all business cycle phases but find that the effect is modest relative to other state- and national-level factors. Monetary policy shocks also have a strong influence on the transition probabilities in a highly asymmetric way. The effect of policy shocks depends on the current state of the cycle as well as the sign and size of the shock.
C25|Working Paper 01-19 - Future evolution of the car stock in Belgium: CASMO, the new satellite of PLANET|The new Belgian CAr Stock MOdel, which is linked to the national transport demand model PLANET, is structured as follows: (a) The total desired car stock in each future year is a function of the country's population and GDP per capita. (b) The probability that a car is scrapped is modelled as a function of its age and accumulated mileage. The desired car stock is then confronted with the remaining car stock to determine total car purchases. (c) Total sales are allocated to individual emission classes, using the parameter values of a Stated Preference discrete choice model. The model is then calibrated in order to reflect the current market and policy context in Belgium (d) The results are mapped into an inventory that is aggregated according to the EURO emission class. (e) In order to represent that the non-price barriers to electrified cars will decrease over time, we have implemented an alternative approach where the perceived acquisition costs decrease over time. Alternatively, this approach can be used to explore what would be the required decrease in subjective costs to reach a given future market share.
C25|Neighbors' Income, Public Goods, and Well‐Being|How does neighbors' income affect individual well‐being? Our analysis is based on rich U.S. local data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, which contains information on where respondents live and their self‐reported well‐being. We find that the effect of neighbors' income on individuals' self‐reported well‐being varies with the size of the neighborhood included. In smaller areas such as ZIP codes, we find a positive relationship between median income and individuals' life satisfaction, whereas it is the opposite at the county, MSA, and state levels. We provide evidence that local public goods and local area characteristics such as unemployment, criminality, and poverty rates drive the association between satisfaction and neighbors' income at the ZIP code level. The neighbors' income effects are mainly concentrated among poorer individuals and are as large as one quarter of the effect of own income on self‐reported well‐being.
C25|Why do young people make atypical gender-related study choices? An analysis of French master’s graduates|Despite laws and educational reforms in favour of gender equality, in France both training courses and professions remain highly gendered. The educational system and the labour market continue to conform to stereotypes, and both girls and boys continue to base their educational choices on what society assigns their genders as areas of competence. However, about 10% of master’s graduates make atypical study choices, in the sense that they chose an orientation standardly chosen by the opposite gender. This paper proposes an empirical analysis of these ‘atypical’ students. Our results show that these individuals do not have specific profiles, either in terms of schooling background or social origin. By estimating a logistic regression, we highlight the importance of the expected returns and of the professional project in the atypical study choice. We also underline that although the unconventional choice allows a more rapid integration on the labour market and appears as a cost-effective solution for girls, it does not erase the wage inequalities between men and women.
C25|Household Preferences for Load Restrictions: Is There an Effect of Pro-Environmental Framing?|In this paper we investigate if a pro-environmental framing influences households' stated willingness to accept restrictions on their electricity use. We use a split-sample choice experiment (CE) and ask respondents to choose between their current electricity contract and hypothetical contracts featuring various load controls and a monetary compensation. Our results indicate that the pro-environmental framing have little impact on the respondents' choices. We observe a significant framing effect on choices and marginal willingness-to-accept (MWTA) for only a few contract attributes. The results further suggest that there is no significant framing effect among households that engage in different pro-environmental activities.
C25|Sovereign Ratings and Finance Ministers’ Characteristics|This paper empirically assesses the effect of a newly-compiled set of finance ministers´ characteristics on the setting by rating agencies of the long-term sovereign rating notations. Using a sample of 26 EU countries between 1980-2012, we find that the existence of more focused delegation-oriented fiscal framework, the Minister of Finance being a woman, and the Minister of Finance having a degree in the areas of finance or “hard sciences” seems to contribute to a better sovereign rating notation, and the opposite in the case of a Law background.
C25|Measuring Gender Disparities in Unemployment Dynamics during the Recession: Evidence from Portugal|We research gender differences in unemployment incidence and persistence during the debt crisis in Portugal. A dynamic random effects probit model is estimated to control for unobserved individual heterogeneity and for the ‘initial conditions’ problem. The estimation uses data from four waves of the Survey on Income and Living Conditions (ICOR) between 2010 and 2013. We find strong evidence of persistence in unemployment, and an indication that men are more prone to endure the negative implications of previous unemployment. Simultaneously, we found evidence of higher probabilities of unemployment for women through a fixed effect that aimed to capture gender discrimination in an unstable labour market. Results suggest that policies to boost employment should accommodate a gender dimension and also have a special focus on the long-term unemployed.
C25|The Impact of Bullying Victimisation on Mental Wellbeing|We investigate the impact of nine types of adolescent (verbal, physical, indirect) school/domestic bullying on life satisfaction, and two mental health outcomes (emotional symptoms and hyperactivity/inattention) using the Understanding Society dataset during 2009-13. Bullying significantly increases hyperactive, inattentive and emotional symptoms and reduces life satisfaction. Non-domestic bullying has a stronger adverse impact on all three mental wellbeing outcomes. Domestic sibling victimisation does not affect life satisfaction. Lower levels of family income increase adolescent hyperactive/inattentive symptoms and reduce life satisfaction. Females are more vulnerable to emotional symptoms while males report higher levels of life satisfaction. Initial conditions precondition hyperactive and inattentive symptoms.
C25|Ratings matter: announcements in times of crisis and the dynamics of stock markets|In this paper we propose a novel approach in analysing the impact of changes in sovereign credit ratings on stock markets. We study the evolution of a segmented form of the stock market index for several crisis-hit countries, including both European and Asian markets. Such evolution is modelled by a homogeneous Markov chain, where the transition probabilities from one starting level of the index to a new (lower or higher) level in the next period depend on some explanatory variables, namely the country’s rating, GDP and interest rate, through a generalised ordered probit model. The credit ratings turn out to be determinant in the dynamics of the stock markets for all three European countries considered - Portugal, Spain and Greece, while not all considered Asian countries show evidence of correlation of market indices with the ratings.
C25|Impact of social comparison on DSM in Poland|Poland’s energy strategy prioritizes long-term energy security, energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The country’s progress toward sustainable development requires in-depth analyses of possible solutions. In our study we investigate consumers’ preferences for Demand Side Management programs for electricity usage in Poland. We apply a discrete Choice Experiment framework for various electricity contracts implying the external control of electricity usage. The main objective of the study is to investigate the value of potential disutility of Polish households from the energy management. Additionally, we elaborate on the effect of social comparison between households’ electricity use on the acceptance of new electricity contracts. The results suggest that people require substantial compensations to accept the external control of electricity in extreme cases and in weekdays during certain hours. Turning to the social comparison, we were expecting that people with a higher electricity usage per person in a household will require lower compensations, however we observe the opposite result. The respondents who were informed that they use more electricity than an average person in his administrative district seem to feel higher discomfort from the external electricity control. This suggest that the effect of social comparison might be overbalanced by the differences in perceived utility from electricity usage.
C25|Nonparametric estimation of the random coefficients model: An elastic net approach|This paper investigates and extends the computationally attractive nonparametric random coefficients estimator of Fox, Kim, Ryan, and Bajari (2011). We show that their estimator is a special case of the nonnegative LASSO, explaining its sparse nature observed in many applications. Recognizing this link, we extend the estimator, transforming it to a special case of the nonnegative elastic net. The extension improves the estimator's recovery of the true support and allows for more accurate estimates of the random coefficients' distribution. Our estimator is a generalization of the original estimator and therefore, is guaranteed to have a model fit at least as good as the original one. A theoretical analysis of both estimators' properties shows that, under conditions, our generalized estimator approximates the true distribution more accurately. Two Monte Carlo experiments and an application to a travel mode data set illustrate the improved performance of the generalized estimator.
C25|A Monte Carlo investigation of the effects of spatial heterogeneity of preferences for discrete choice models|There are reasons researchers may be interested in accounting for spatial heterogeneity of preferences, including avoiding model misspecification and the resulting bias, and deriving spatial maps of willingness-to-pay (WTP), which are relevant for policy-making and environmental management. We employ a Monte Carlo simulation of three econometric approaches to parametrically account for spatial auto-correlation in discrete choice models. The first is based on the analysis of individual-specific estimates of the mixed logit model. The second extends this model to explicitly account for spatial correlation, instead of simply conditioning individual-specific estimates on population-level distributions and individuals’ choices. The third is the geographically weighted multinomial logit model, which incorporates spatial dimensions using geographical weights to estimate location-specific choice models. We analyze the performance of these methods in recovering population-, region- and individual-level preference parameter estimates and implied WTP in the case of spatial autocorrelation. We find that, although ignoring spatial autocorrelation did not significantly bias population-level results of the simple mixed logit model, neither individual-specific estimates nor the geographically weighted multinomial logit model was able to reliably recover the true region- and individual-specific parameters. We show that the spatially-autocorrelated mixed logit proposed in this study is promising and outline possibilities for future development.
C25|Taxes and the Location of Targets|This paper uses firm-level data to investigate the impact of taxes on the international location of targets in M&A. In principle, a higher tax rate in the target’s country could make an acquisition there more likely, less likely, or have no effect at all. We combine financial and ownership data for companies in ORBIS in 2005 with domestic and cross-border acquisitions in ZEPHYR between 2006 and 2008. We estimate a random parameters form of mixed logit model. We find that the statutory tax rate in the target country has a negative impact on the probability of an acquisition in that country, with an average elasticity of around 1. The size of the effect differs (i) between acquirers that were multinational or domestic in 2005; (ii) between domestic and cross-border acquisitions; and (iii) depending on whether the acquirer’s country has a worldwide or territorial tax system.
C25|Predicting fixed effects in panel probit models|We present a method to estimate and predict fixed effects in a panel probit model when N is large and T is small, and when there is a high proportion of individual units without variation in the binary response. Our approach builds on a bias-reduction method originally developed by Kosmidis and Firth (2009) for cross-section data. In contrast to other estimators, our approach ensures that predicted fixed effects are finite in all cases. Results from a simulation study document favorable properties in terms of bias and mean squared error. The estimator is applied to predict period-specific fixed effects for the extensive margin of health care utilization (any visit to a doctor during the previous three months), using German data for 2000-2014. We find a negative correlation between fixed effects and observed characteristics. Although there is some within-individual variation in fixed effects over sub-periods, the between-variation is four times as large.
C25|Constrained Potential: A Characterisation of Mexican Microenterprises|This paper investigates the existence and nature of constraints prevailing among Mexican microenterprises. It provides inter-temporal insights by relying on firm-level data spanning from 1994 to 2012. A performance index is defined based on firm levels of capital stock and monthly profits, and is used to estimate the empirical probability of a business's success. The predicted values are used to classify every microenterprise into one of three categories: upper, middle, or lower segment. Overall, the study provides evidence of constrained productivity and capital misallocation. Specifically, middle-segment firms exhibit entrepreneurial features and their average marginal returns are 15 percent. Because this segment faces mainly external constraints, cost-effective interventions are plausible. Regarding the lower-segment firms, it is estimated that their average monthly marginal returns are 30 per cent, compared to 1 per cent for the upper segment. It is also shown that, over time, the share that middle-segment firms represent relative to all microenterprises increased from 16 to 22 percent. Lastly, the sources of variation in monthly profits among segments are explored using the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition method.
C25|Who are the Joneses that You are Keeping up with? A Study about how Reference Groups are Determined|This study empirically investigates who is chosen as the reference group in the standard of living comparison and how it is chosen in Japan and the United States. The results show that majority people will compare to their neighbor instead of the average people in the nation (which is often assumed in the macro and finance literature), colleagues or friends (reference groups in income comparison) in both countries. This paper suggests that people may use the routine standards when facing the selection of reference groups in relative standard of living. In addition, this paper tests the influence of reference group itself on the standard of living. The result unveils that those who compare to their neighbor will rate the relative standard of living higher than the others.
C25|A Sample Selection Model for Fractional Response Variables|This paper develops a sample selection model for fractional response variables, i.e., variables taking values in the [0, 1]-interval. It provides an extension of the Papke and Wooldridge (1996) fractional probit model to the case of non-random sample selectivity. The model differs from the Heckman sample selection model by specifying a main equation which is consistent with the bounded nature of the fractional outcome variable. The proposed model is parametric and does usually not require an exclusion restriction to hold, which makes is useful for empirical practice. A simulation study indicates that the gains of imposing a (valid) exclusion restriction are quite small, particularly with respect to the estimation of marginal effects, while imposing a wrong exclusion restriction leads to severely biased estimates. Finally, an empirical application to the impact of education on women’s perceived probability of job loss is provided, which illustrates that the choice of an appropriate model is important in practice. In particular, the Heckman selection model and the fractional probit model are found to underestimate (in absolute terms) the impact of education on the perceived probability of job loss.
C25|Empirical analysis of the decisions of German citizens for environmental protection distinguishing between reward and public award: Results from a survey among citizens in a small German city|The core questions of this paper are: What are the determinants for the provisions of some public goods like environmental protection work by citizens and how can this work be delegated to the citizens? On the basis of a survey's micro data, we show which motives are relevant to the choice between a public award with no monetary value and a symbolic payment of €10. For these purposes, we apply the binary choice models. The results reveal several significant impacts where the age as continuous variable shows a stable quadratic-like shape with firstly decreasing and then increasing vigilance for moneyless participation in environmental protection regarding the age of a person. The intrinsic motivation itself seems to be another crucial positive factor. For example, the higher planed hypothetic free time measured in hypothetic hours for environmental protection, the higher the probability that this individual indeed would do it. Moreover, the one's reputation may influence positively the honorary contribution to environmental protection. On the other hand, the probability for an active honorary environmental protection is smaller by young people in training and in absence of social situations. Interestingly, we found that the gender plays no significant role in this context. Hence, we can provide an elaboration of an incentive system for environmental commitment of Kassel's citizens which can be a base for further regional economic policy in this context.
C25|Innovation and the economic downturn: Insights from Portuguese firms|Recent research has found evidence of a variety of business profiles regarding innovation during the economic downturn. Several studies reported that firms were reducing or abandoning innovation activities and dropping related expenses while other authors have found that some firms are exploring the economic turbulence as an opportunity for creative destruction and to gain competitive advantage. This article explores the data collected from the last waves of CIS (Community Innovation Survey) in Portugal (2006-2008-2010-2012) to understand the changes in the determinants of the development of innovation activities, product and process innovation, before, during and in the peak of the crisis. The empirical study presents limited dependent variable models to analyse the relevance of structural factors, absorptive capacity and strategic variables in the different periods. The article concludes with implications for the behaviour of firms and innovation resilience.
C25|Forecasting Deflation Probability in the EA: A Combinatoric Approach|This paper assesses and forecasts the probability of deflation in the EA at different horizons using a binomial probit model. The best predictors are selected among more than one-hundred variables adopting a two-step combinatoric approach and exploiting parallel computation in Julia language. The best-selected variables coincide to those standardly included in a small New Keynesian model. Also, the goodness of the models is assessed using three different loss functions: the Mean Absolute Error (MAE), the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and the Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristics (AUROC). The results are reasonably consistent among the three criteria. Finally, an index averaging the forecasts is computed to assess the probability of being in a deflation state in the next two years. The index shows that having inflation above the 2% level before March 2019 is extremely unlikely.
C25|Linguistic Distance, Languages of Work and Wages of Immigrants in Montreal|We use the Levenshtein linguistic distance measure to explore whether the distance between an immigrant’s mother tongue and a Canadian official language (English or French) has an impact on his/her economic integration into the labour market. Using microdata from the master files of the 2001 and 2006 Canadian censuses and from the 2011 National Household Survey, we investigate the relationship between linguistic distance and the intensity of use of English and French at work in the Montreal metropolitan area. That region is characterized by the presence of sizeable French and English speaking communities, as well as of a large number of immigrants from a wide variety of linguistic backgrounds. Those elements of linguistic diversity interact in the context of English being the lingua franca. We find that linguistic distances between immigrants’ mother tongues and English and French have an important impact on the relative intensities of use of the two Canadian official languages at work. We further investigate the role of the languages used at work on the earnings of immigrants by estimating earnings functions. We find that the use of both French and English are remunerated in the labour market, but that using English at work has a larger impact on earnings.
C25|Estimation of competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity using hsmlogit|This article presents hsmlogit, a new Stata command that estimates multispells discrete time competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity. hsmlogit allows for the estimation of one, two and up to three competing risks, as well as a maximum of ve points of support for the identication of unobserved heterogeneity distribution (Heckman and Singer, 1984). The main contribution of hsmlogit is that allows for exploiting the richness of large longitudinal micro datasets, by estimating competing risks duration models, instead of one-risk models (such as hshaz and hshaz2), as well as it takes into account the presence of unobserved heterogeneity affecting transition rates. In addition to this, and taking into account the larger size of longitudinal micro datasets used for the estimation of discrete time duration models, hsmlogit also provides the algebraic expressions of both rst and second order derivatives that, respectively, dene the gradient vector and Hessian matrix, which signicantly reduce time required to achieve model convergence.
C25|The impact of submarket concentration in the US pharmaceutical industry in 1987-1998|Global market concentration is the result of the interplay of different sub-markets. According to this view, empirical analysis on the role of concentration as an incentive or as a barrier to entry must be conducted on a sub-market level, where the sub-markets are identified as specific technological trajectories. In this paper we investigate the role of 3-digit submarket concentration in the US pharmaceutical sector in 1987-1998. We take into account several sources of potential entry deterrence including the relative company size to the largest incumbent firm and the number of competing products in each submarket. The estimates of a panel logit model show that a concentrated industry at submarket level seems to act like a barrier to entry. The relative company size is not significant while the number of competing products is significantly positive.
C25|Exact Likelihood Estimation and Probabilistic Forecasting in Higher-order INAR(p) Models|The computation of the likelihood function and the term structure of probabilistic forecasts in higher-order INAR(p) models are qualified numerically intractable and the literature has considered various approximations. Using the notion of compound autoregressive process, we propose an exact and fast algorithm for both quantities. We find that existing approximation schemes induce significant errors for forecasting.
C25|The international transmission of US fiscal shocks|We investigate the international propagation of fiscal policy shocks originated in the United States using a Global VAR framework. We identify shocks to US tax rates and government spending by using narrative series as external instruments, following the proxy SVAR methodology. The main results of the paper are the following: (1) the domestic effects of tax shocks are stronger than those of a government spending shock (2) spillovers are in most cases positive and significant, albeit of small size; (3) the boost to exports in recipient economies, stimulated both by stronger US demand and by real exchange rate depreciation vis-à-vis the US dollar, is the main transmission channel; financial channels (through long-term interest rates and equity prices) also play a role.
C25|Is information and communication technology satisfying educational needs at school?|This paper assesses how the integration of ICT in education has affected the mathematics test scores for Italian students measured by the Programme for International Student Assessment 2012 data. The problem of endogeneity that affects survey data in this area, is addressed by applying the Bayesian Additive Regression Trees (BART) methodology as in Cabras & Tena Horrillo (2016). The BART methodology needs a prior and likelihood functions using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm to obtain the posterior distribution. Controlling for socioeconomic, demographic and school factors, the predicted posterior distribution implies an increase, on average, of 16 points in the test scores. The result indicates that the use of ICT at school has a positive and strong impact on mathematic test scores.
C25|R&D cooperation in SMEs: the direct effect and the moderating role of human capital|We analyze the determinants of R&D cooperation for SMEs in Italy. We introduce in the literature human capital as one of the main determinants of R&D cooperation, concentrating on its moderating role, and specifically focusing on the high-tech sector. Using an extremely rich dataset, we improve the literature, building robust explanatory variables, and disaggregating the cooperation by partner. We find that human capital facilitates cooperation, but its moderating role depends on the type of disaggregation and/or the partner.
C25|Mother‘s Empowerment and Child Malnutrition: Evidence from Pakistan|The objective of this paper is to explore the relationship between mothers’ socioeconomic empowerment and malnutrition of children under age five in the context of Pakistan. At the first step, a composite empowerment index is developed by incorporating various characteristics of mothers; such as educational attainment, labor force participation, involvement in household decisions, asset ownership, freedom of movement and perceptions regarding domestic violence. Instead of using additive methods or assigning subjective weights to different aspects of mothers’ empowerment, statistical weights,derived though Principal Component Analysis technique are applied. Nationally representative rich data of Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2012-13 is used to quantify the nature and direction of relationship between empowerment and child malnutrition in terms of stunting, wasting and underweights in a multivariate logistic regression framework.The estimated results indicate that empowerment is relatively more important than mothers’ health and household poverty in determining nutritional status of children.
C25|"The Interaction Effect in a Nonlinear Specification of Bank Lending: A Reexamination of ``Unnatural Selection"""|Peek and Rosengren (2005) suggested the mechanism of ``unnatural selection,'' where Japanese banks with impaired capital increase credit to low-quality firms because of their motivation to pursue balance sheet cosmetics. In this study, we reexamine this mechanism in terms of the interaction effect in a nonlinear specification of bank lending, using data from 1994 to 1999. We rigorously demonstrate that their estimation results imply that Japanese banks allocated lending from viable firms to unviable ones regardless of the degree of bank capitalization.
C25|Accès au Crédit Bancaire des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises au Sénégal<BR>[Access to Bank Credit for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Senegal]|"The purpose of our work is to identify and understand the explanatory factors of a possible satisfaction of the demand for SME bank credit. To carry out this work, we used a multinomial logit model with as endogenous variable the different types of companies having accessed the credit ""TPE, PE, ME, GE"" and as base 0 that is to say companies belonging to these categories of companies and did not obtain bank financing. The estimate is based on LAREM survey data from 673 companies located in the region of Dakar, Thiés and SaintLouis. Estimates reveal that the cost of financing the loan is a constraint for Senegalese SMEs when they want to use bank credit to finance their activities while the level of study of the manager and the profitability of the activities through the net profits released impact positively the probability of accessing bank credit."
C25|Mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia: desigualdades territoriales en el acceso a los servicios de salud|A pesar de los esfuerzos realizados para reducir la mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, y de la implementación del Seguro Universal Materno Infantil (SUMI), los datos revelan que el progreso ha sido más lento que lo logrado en cuanto a la reducción de la mortalidad infantil en general. En ese contexto, el interés principal de esta investigación es definir las características de la mortalidad neonatal en el país. El estudio parte del análisis econométrico de los datos de la Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (ENDSA) de 2008. El objetivo es visualizar cómo el lugar de procedencia incide en el riesgo de muerte del recién nacido. Los hallazgos revelan que, en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, el riesgo de muerte neonatal está condicionado por el acceso a los servicios de salud, debido a las disparidades territoriales a nivel urbano y rural. Estas disparidades se traducen en barreras de acceso económicas, geográficas y de exclusión que disminuyen la equidad en el acceso y la utilización de los servicios de salud, refuerzan los determinantes sociales que inciden en la muerte del recién nacido y limitan el acceso a intervenciones oportunas y adecuadas en la atención materno-neonatal.
C25|Urbanization and Food Security: Empirical Evidence from Households in Urban Southwest Nigeria| Abstract Rapid urban growth changes the composition as well as diversification of the food consumed among urban households. Achieving food security in the midst of rapid urbanization require understanding how urban and food consumption intertwined. Thus this paper uses combined measure of food security to determine urban household food security status as influenced by extent of urbanization in Nigeria. Results show that urban effect generated through urbanicity index using principal component analysis revealed that most households were in low urban category. On the average, most urban household had diverse diet. However, combining per capita expenditure and dietary diversity index as measure of household food security revealed different level of food security status. Multinomial logit regression results reveals that gender of household head, employment status, educational status, household income, occupational status and urbanicity index significantly determine the probability of urban household being food secured at different levels of food security status. Relevant policy interventions that aim at securing sustainable food security were identified. Keywords: Food security, Dietary diversity, Food expenditure, Urbanicity index, Urban Nigeria JEL classification code: D12, R22, C25, C38, Acknowledgement :
C25|Dynamic panel probit: finite-sample performance of alternative random-effects estimators|"Estimation of random-effects dynamic probit models for panel data entails the so-called ""initial conditions problem"". We argue that the relative finitesample performance of the two main competing solutions is driven by the magnitude of the individual unobserved heterogeneity and/or of the state dependence in the data. We investigate our conjecture by means of a comprehensive Monte Carlo experiment and offer useful indications for the practitioner."
C25|Combating Child Chronic Malnutrition and Anemia in Peru: Simulations based on the Achievement of Sustainable Development Goals|Chronic child malnutrition and anemia are among the main risk factors for child development across the developing world. In Peru, 14.7% of children under 5 years of age are chronically malnourished and 36.4% of children between 6 and 36 months of age show some degree of anemia. In this paper, we estimate the improvements that can be expected in child malnutrition and anemia in Peru, if Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are achieved for a set of health determinants. The study contributes to the literature in two ways. First, it is the first study to offer improvement scenarios for SDG-related health outcomes based on shifts produced in other SDG-related variables. This can be informative to policy if some of these SDG-related determinants have a direct connection to policy action. Second, we use the insights of a simple economic model describing families’ behavior to choose the empirical strategy less prone to biases and interpret the improvement scenarios. Our results indicate that important reductions of 8.9 and 15.7 percentage points can be achieved in child chronic malnutrition and anemia, respectively, if all their SDG-related determinants reach their targets. Importantly, at least half of these reductions can be produced by closing gaps in access to observable inputs that have a direct influence on health and that can be directly influenced by policy.
C25|Statistical and economic evaluation of time series models for forecasting arrivals at call centers|Abstract Call centers’ managers are interested in obtaining accurate point and distributional forecasts of call arrivals in order to achieve an optimal balance between service quality and operating costs. We present a strategy for selecting forecast models of call arrivals which is based on three pillars: (i) flexibility of the loss function; (ii) statistical evaluation of forecast accuracy; and (iii) economic evaluation of forecast performance using money metrics. We implement fourteen time series models and seven forecast combination schemes on three series of daily call arrivals. Although we focus mainly on point forecasts, we also analyze density forecast evaluation. We show that second-moment modeling is important for both point and density forecasting and that the simple seasonal random walk model is always outperformed by more general specifications. Our results suggest that call center managers should invest in the use of forecast models which describe both first and second moments of call arrivals.
C25|Sufficient Statistics for Unobserved Heterogeneity in Structural Dynamic Logit Models|We study the identification and estimation of structural parameters in dynamic panel data logit models where decisions are forward-looking and the joint distribution of unobserved heterogeneity and observable state variables is nonparametric, i.e., fixed-effects model. We consider models with two endogenous state variables: the lagged decision variable, and the time duration in the last choice. This class of models includes as particular cases important economic applications such as models of market entry-exit, occupational choice, machine replacement, inventory and investment decisions, or dynamic demand of differentiated products. The identification of structural parameters requires a sufficient statistic that controls for unobserved heterogeneity not only in current utility but also in the continuation value of the forward-looking decision problem. We obtain the minimal sufficient statistic and prove identification of some structural parameters using a conditional likelihood approach. We apply this estimator to a machine replacement model.
C25|A panel quantile approach to attrition bias in Big Data: Evidence from a randomized experiment|This paper introduces a quantile regression estimator for panel data models with individual heterogeneity and attrition. The method is motivated by the fact that attrition bias is often encountered in Big Data applications. For example, many users sign-up for the latest program but few remain active users several months later, making the evaluation of such interventions inherently very challenging. Building on earlier work by Hausman and Wise (1979), we provide a simple identification strategy that leads to a two-step estimation procedure. In the first step, the coefficients of interest in the selection equation are consistently estimated using parametric or nonparametric methods. In the second step, standard panel quantile methods are employed on a subset of weighted observations. The estimator is computationally easy to implement in Big Data applications with a large number of subjects. We investigate the conditions under which the parameter estimator is asymptotically Gaussian and we carry out a series of Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the finite sample properties of the estimator. Lastly, using a simulation exercise, we apply the method to the evaluation of a recent Time-of-Day electricity pricing experiment inspired by the work of Aigner and Hausman (1980).
C25|How Long Does It Take You to Pay? A Duration Study of Canadian Retail Transaction Payment Times|Using an exclusive data set of payment times for retail transactions made in Canada, I show that cash is the most time-efficient method of payment (MOP) when compared with payments by debit and credit cards. I model payment efficiency using Cox proportional hazard models, accounting for consumer choice of MOP. I propose two instruments to identify and estimate the causal relationship between MOP and payment time: (1) the value of the transaction, and (2) the duration of the payment preceding the one under observation. Discounting consumer selection underestimates the efficiency of cash relative to cards. Overall, the efficiency of MOPs is an important component of the private and social costs of making and accepting payments. The efficiency of cash helps explain its continued use in Canada, which is motivated by its low cost in terms of payment time for consumers and merchants.
C25|Short-time work in the Great Recession: firm-level evidence from 20 EU countries|Abstract Using firm-level data from a large-scale European survey among 20 countries, we analyse the determinants of firms using short-time work (STW). We show that firms are more likely to use STW in case of negative demand shocks. We show that STW schemes are more likely to be used by firms with high degrees of firm-specific human capital, high firing costs, and operating in countries with stringent employment protection legislation and a high degree of downward nominal wage rigidity. STW use is higher in countries with formalised schemes and in countries where these schemes were extended in response to the recent crisis. On the wider economic impact of STW, we show that firms using the schemes are significantly less likely to lay off permanent workers in response to a negative shock, with no impact for temporary workers. Relating our STW take-up measure in the micro data to aggregate data on employment and output trends, we show that sectors with a high STW take-up exhibit significantly less cyclical variation in employment.
C25|Multidimensional media slant: complementarities in news reporting by US newspapers|Are editors’ choices of front page news based on the potential complementarities between the news items? This paper studies front page choices made by editors of major newspapers in the US. I document that newspapers front pages are biased to certain combinations of news on top of biased to certain news. To identify my measures of bias, I exploit the variation in news relevance across different topics and days. To measure the news relevance I use lead news choices of other US mass media. As a consequence, my measures of bias are relative to the overall media bias. I also provide a reader-maximization model for front page decisions that I use to interpret the empirical biases of the newspaper as preferences of its population of target readers. From my estimation, I recover maps of complementarities among pairs of topics for each of the major US newspapers. I fi nd that complementarities between news contribute in a large portion to the probability that news on a topic appears in the front page.
C25|Uncertainty, firm heterogeneity and labour adjustments. Evidence from European countries|Firms are significantly affected by uncertainty about economic activity. Recent literature has shown that uncertainty is a factor of increasing importance in a globalized world, especially after its sharp increase during the last crisis. However, uncertainty did not impact all the firms in the same way. In this paper, we analyze if uncertainty may have different effects depending on firms’ characteristics. We would also like to understand how firms react to uncertainty diversely. Using data from the 3rd wave of the Wage Dynamic Network Survey for 25 European countries, we first construct a set of uncertainty indicators exploiting firms environment. We combine variability from country, sector and size at the firm level in order to disaggregate microeconomic uncertainty, which offers richer information than the traditional macroeconomic indicators. Secondly, we estimate the effect of uncertainty on labour adjustments. Results reveal that firms reduce hiring and increase the adjustment of labour demand with more frequency when uncertainty is higher. An increase of 1% in our uncertainty indicator increases the probability of having frozen hiring in between 21% to 35% during the period 2010-2013. Furthermore, other labour strategies have been also taken by firms, such as altering labour workforce: the more the uncertainty is, the more probability of recurring to individual layoffs. Significant effects have been found in firms subject to credit constraints, and country heterogeneity has also been studied: when EPL is stricter, labour response to uncertainty is also more significant.
C25|eSports: profile of participants, complementarity with sports and its perception as sport. Evidence from sports video games|Research question: This study investigates three issues associated to the growing industry of eSports: the picture of participants in eSports and the correlates of the intensity of this participation; the complementary/substitutability relationship between eSports and traditional sports; and the perception of eSports as sport by the population. Research methods: Discrete choice, two-part and regression models are estimated using a sample of 11,018 individuals from the Survey on Sports Habits in Spain 2015. Results and Findings: The association of the correlates follows different patterns depending on whether considering participation or the intensity of this participation in eSports and also in terms of gender. Using different approaches, a significant degree of complementarity between participation and interest in eSports and traditional sports is estimated. For young people interested in eSports seems to an element influencing the overall interest in sports. Implications: Taking into account the different association of the correlates with the participation and the intensity of participation in eSports, this information could be used by firms in order to define marketing and brand investment strategies. The estimated complementarity between eSports and traditional sports should influence how the actual stakeholders in traditional sports define future strategies to favour the growth of both industries. The fact that eSports is increasingly perceived as a sport should have an influence, among others, in the collection of data on sports habits, in the way these activities are regulated and in the organization of multi-sport events, like the Olympic Games.
C25|Exclusion Restrictions in Dynamic Binary Choice Panel Data Models|In this note we revisit the use of exclusion restrictions in the semiparametric binary choice panel data model introduced in Honore and Lewbel (2002). We show that in a dynamic panel data setting (where one of the pre-determined explanatory variables is the lagged dependent variable), the exclusion restriction in Honore and Lewbel (2002) implicitly re- quires serial independence condition on an observed regressor, that if violated in the data will result in their procedure being inconsistent. We propose a new identification strategy and estimation procedure for the semiparametric binary panel data model under exclusion restrictions that accommodate the serial correlation of observed regressors in a dynamic setting. The new estimator converges at the parametric rate to a limiting normal distribution. This rate is faster than the nonparametric rates of existing alternative estimators for the binary choice panel data model, including the static case in Manski (1987) and the dynamic case in Honore and Kyriazidou (2000).
C25|Mostly Harmless Simulations? On the Internal Validity of Empirical Monte Carlo Studies|In this paper we evaluate the premise from the recent literature on Monte Carlo studies that an empirically motivated simulation exercise is informative about the actual ranking of various estimators when applied to a particular problem. We consider two alternative designs and provide an empirical test for both of them. We conclude that a necessary condition for the simulations to be informative about the true ranking is that the treatment effect in simulations must be equal to the (unknown) true effect. This severely limits the usefulness of such procedures, since were the effect known, the procedure would not be necessary.
C25|Objective vs. Subjective Fuel Poverty and Self-Assessed Health|Policies towards fuel poverty often use relative or absolute measures. The effectiveness of the official indicators in identifying fuel poor households and assessing its impact on health is an emerging social policy issue. In this paper we analyse objective and perceived fuel poverty as determinants of self-assessed health in Spain. In 2014, 5.1 million of her population could not afford to heat their homes to an adequate temperature. We propose a latent class ordered probit model to analyse the influence of fuel poverty on self-reported health in a sample of 25,000 individuals in 11,000 households for the 2011-2014 period. This original approach allows us to include a ‘subjective’ measure of fuel poverty in the class membership probabilities and purge the influence of the ‘objective’ measure of fuel poverty on self-assessed health. The results show that poor housing conditions, fuel poverty, and material deprivation have a negative impact on health. Also, individuals who rate themselves as fuel poor tend to report poorer health status. The effect of objective fuel poverty on health is stronger when unobserved heterogeneity of individuals is controlled for. Since objective measures alone may not fully capture the adverse effect of fuel poverty on health, we advocate the use of approaches that allow a combination of objective and subjective measures and its application by policy-makers. Moreover, it is important that policies to tackle fuel poverty take into account the different energy vectors and the prospects of a future smart and integrated energy system.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C25|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|External information (e.g., monetary and opportunity costs, retailer messaging), internal information (e.g., consumer knowledge, information processing), and the interaction between different forms of information can affect consumer engagement in markets. We employ an analytical framework which embraces both economic and psychological motives behind consumer behavior to investigate the motives and obstacles associated with household behavior in energy markets, using data from over 18,000 randomly selected responses drawn from three annual surveys of British households commissioned by the UK energy regulator. Three forms of household engagement – switching to a new electricity and/or gas supplier, changing electricity or/and gas tariffs, and changing payment methods of energy bills – are explored using a multiple-discrete choice framework. We find that internal information pathways have robust and strong effects on switching suppliers and tariffs. Concretely, a lack of belief in tariff differences discourages participation in energy markets. By contrast, professed knowledge of household energy spending and familiarity with energy tariffs drives consumer engagement. External information – supplier messages and Internet information may enhance each other in promoting market participation, conditional on message source and participation form. We also find that engagement by incumbent retailers (such as through consumer messages) can be effective in discouraging households from switching suppliers.
C25|Applied Welfare Analysis for Discrete Choice with Interval-data on Income|"This paper concerns empirical measurement of Hicksian consumer welfare under intervalreported income. Bhattacharya (2015) has shown that for discrete choice, welfare distributions resulting from a hypothetical price-change can be expressed as closed-form transformations of choice probabilities. However, when income is interval-reported, as is the case in many surveys, the choice probabilities, and hence welfare distributions are not point-identified. We derive bounds on average welfare in such scenarios under the assumption of a normal good. A finding of independent interest is a set of Slutsky-like shape restrictions which are linear in average demand, unlike those for continuous choice. A parametric specification of choice probabilities facilitates imposition of these Slutsky conditions, and leads to computationally simple inference for the partially identified features of welfare. In particular, the estimand is shown to be directionally differentiable, so that recently developed bootstrap methods can be applied for inference. Under mis-specification, our results provide a ""best parametric approximation"" to demand and welfare. These methods can be used for inference in more general settings where a class of set-identified functions satisfy linear inequality restrictions, and one wishes to conduct inference on functionals thereof. We illustrate our theoretical results using a simulation exercise based on a real dataset where actual income is observed. We artificially introduce interval-censoring of income, calculate bounds for the average welfare effects of a price-subsidy using our methods, and find that they perform favorably in comparison with estimates obtained using actual income."
C25|Is the Anchoring of Consumers' Inflation Expectations Shaped by Inflational Experience?|In this paper, we explore the degree of anchoring of consumers’ individual long-run inflation expectations utilizing the University of Michigan Survey of Consumer’s rotating panel micro-structure. Our results indicate that long-run inflation expectations became more anchored over the last decades, as the degree of co-movement between short- and long-run expectations fell significantly. While we observe that the anchoring of expectations increases for all age and birth cohorts, it seems that older cohorts, who experienced the high inflation period of the 1970s, remain less anchored in their long-run inflation expectations as compared to the young cohorts. Older cohorts show a higher volatility in their degree of anchoring and react more to adverse news shocks. This alludes to potentially long-lasting costs of high inflation spells.
C25|Validating Structural Labor Supply Models|Although discrete hours choice models have become the workhorse in labor supply analyses. Yet, they are often criticized for being a black box due to their numerous underlying modeling assumptions, with respect to, e.g., the functional form, unobserved error components or several exogeneity assumptions. In this paper, we open the black box and show how these assumptions affect the statistical fit of the models and, more importantly, the estimated outcomes, i.e., estimated labor supply elasticities. In total we estimate 2,219 different model specifications. Our results show that the specification of the utility function is not crucial for performance and predictions of the model. We find however that the estimates are extremely sensitive to the treatment of the wages a neglected dimension so far. We show that, e.g., the choice between predicting wages for the full sample instead of using predicted wages only for non-workers two methods frequently used increases labor supply elasticities by up to 100 percent. As a consequence, we propose a new estimation strategy which overcomes the highly restrictive but commonly made assumption of independence between wages and the labor supply decision.
C25|Conditional Independence in a Binary Choice Experiment|Experimental and behavioral economists, as well as psychologists, commonly assume conditional independence of choices when constructing likelihood functions for structural estimation. I test this assumption using data from a new experiment designed for this purpose. Within the limits of the experiment’s identifying restriction and designed power to detect deviations from conditional independence, conditional independence is not rejected. In naturally occurring data, concerns about violations of conditional independence are certainly proper and well-taken (for well-known reasons). However, when an experimenter employs contemporary state-of-the-art experimental mechanisms and designs, the current evidence suggests that conditional independence is an acceptable assumption for analyzing data so generated.
C25|Employee Involvement and Job Satisfaction: A Tale of the Millennial Generation|The purpose of this paper is to empirically study the effect of employee involvement in the workplace on job satisfaction for millennial workers in Colombia. Data were obtained from a sample of 2103 millennial employees working in 11 companies of different sectors located in the five main cities of Colombia. Ordered probit models were estimated to study the effect of employee involvement on job satisfaction, in general, and how different forms of participative decision-making in the workplace produce different impacts on individual satisfaction with objective and intrinsic aspects of the job, in particular. The empirical results show that, for millennial workers, there is a positive link between employee involvement and job satisfaction. Moreover, there is a higher positive impact on job satisfaction when millennial workers participate in decisions on general aspects of the company than when they participate in specific decisions such as those concerning teamwork or main tasks at work. Another interesting result is that millennial workers attach high importance to intrinsic aspects of their jobs (such as the possibility to use their knowledge in the work), which may improve their satisfaction in a higher participative environment.
C25|Informalidad laboral en el sector rural colombiano|El presente documento tiene por objetivo realizar un análisis sobre la informalidad laboral en el sector rural colombiano y encontrar la mejor definición para lograr una acertada medición. Con el fin de tener niveles de comparación con la informalidad rural, se investiga la informalidad en otras regiones del mundo, así como la total nacional. Los resultados muestran que, aunque los niveles de informalidad total y rural han bajado principalmente por la reforma tributaria de 2012, el 85% de la población ocupada rural es informal, un nivel muy alto comparado con el de regiones de ingresos bajos como África central o Asia meridional. La investigación presenta las causas estructurales e institucionales que han generado estos niveles tan bajos.
C25|Efectividad de los mecanismos de búsqueda de empleo en el mercado laboral mexicano|No abstract is available for this item.
C25|Estimation of Factor Structured Covariance Mixed Logit Models|Mixed logit models with normally distributed random coefficients are typically estimated under the extreme assumptions that either the random coefficients are completely independent or fully correlated. A factor structured covariance provides a middle ground between these two assumptions. However, because these models are more difficult to estimate, they are not frequently used to model preference heterogeneity. This paper develops a simple expectation maximization algorithm for estimating mixed logit models when preferences are generated from a factor structured covariance. The algorithm is easy to implement for both exploratory and confirmatory factor models. The estimator is applied to stated-preference survey data from residential energy customers (Train, 2007). Comparing the fit across five different models, which differed in their assumptions on the covariance of preferences, the results show that all three factor specifications produced a better fit of the data than the fully correlated model measured by BIC and two out of three performed better in terms of AIC.
C25|Sufficient Statistics for Unobserved Heterogeneity in Structural Dynamic Logit Models|We study the identification and estimation of structural parameters in dynamic panel data logit models where decisions are forward-looking and the joint distribution of unobserved heterogeneity and observable state variables is nonparametric, i.e., fixed-effects model. We consider models with two endogenous state variables: the lagged decision variable, and the time duration in the last choice. This class of models includes as particular cases important economic applications such as models of market entry-exit, occupational choice, machine replacement, inventory and investment decisions, or dynamic demand of differentiated products. The identification of structural parameters requires a sufficient statistic that controls for unobserved heterogeneity not only in current utility but also in the continuation value of the forward-looking decision problem. We obtain the minimal sufficient statistic and prove identification of some structural parameters using a conditional likelihood approach. We apply this estimator to a machine replacement model.
C25|The Slope of the Term Structure and Recessions: The Pre-Fed Evidence, 1857-1913|This paper studies the information content of the slope of the term structure for recessions, using monthly US data spanning 1857-1913. We find that the term spread predicts future recessions up to about 12 months ahead, as does the current value of the recession dummy. We also find that stock prices are significant in the probit models we use to predict future recessions, but that business failures and growth in industrial production are generally insignificant. Overall, the results give broad support to the findings of Bordo and Haubrich (2004, 2008a, 2008b), who use quarterly data from 1875 to study the ability of the term structure to forecast real GNP growth. C25
C25|Drivers of renewable technology adoption in the household sector|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we undertake a simultaneous assessment of the importance of factors that are individually found to be significant for the adoption of renewable energy systems by households but are not yet tested jointly. These are sociodemographic and housing characteristics, environmental concern, personality traits, and economic factors; i.e. the expected costs of and revenues from the investment. Our results suggest that household decisions to invest in photovoltaic systems and solar thermal facilities are mainly driven by economic factors. Taking account of sociodemographic and housing characteristics, environmental concern, or personality traits has comparatively little relevance, while the quantitative nexus between the decision to invest and returns on the investment is robust to their inclusion.
C25|Early Warning System of Government Debt Crises|The European debt crisis has revealed serious deficiencies and risks on a proper functioning of the monetary union. Against this backdrop, early warning systems are of crucial importance. In this study that focuses on euro area member states, the robustness of early warning systems to predict crises of government debt is evaluated. Robustness is captured via several dimensions, such as the chronology of past crises, econometric methods, and the selection of indicators in forecast combinations. The chosen approach is shown to be crucial for the results. Therefore, the construction of early warning systems should be based on a wide set of variables and methods in order to be able to draw reliable conclusions.
C25|I will survive. Pricing strategies of financially distressed firms|We consider a standard result of customer market theory: if firms have stable customer relations and face financial frictions, they may keep prices relatively high in times of low demand and vice versa. Indeed, during recessions, when firms have low cash flow and greater difficulty in raising external funds, they may set higher prices on their locked-in shoppers to maintain short-term profits at the expense of future market shares. We extend this theoretical framework so that the countercyclical behaviour of price margins is strengthened by the expected persistence of the downturn and the procyclicality of competitive pressures. We test these predictions for Italian firms participating in the 2014 Wage Dynamics Network Survey. All things being equal, financially constrained firms charge higher markups when faced with low demand; this behaviour is more evident when demand is perceived as being persistent. Our findings suggest that the severity of financial constraints in Italy was one of the causes of the sustained growth of prices in 2010-2013, notwithstanding the considerable slack in the economy.
C25|Innovation and business performance for Spanish SMEs: new evidence from a multi-dimensional approach|This paper examines the impacts of product, process, and organisational innovations on two alternative dimensions of business performance: finance and operations. Two indicators capture financial performance: sales increase and production cost reduction. Operational firm performance is captured by two alternative indicators: productive capacity augmentation and quality improvement of product/service provided by the firm. Using a wide-ranging sample of Spanish SMEs, our findings highlight the existence of significant impacts of innovation on both these dimensions of business performance, although these impacts differ regarding the type of innovation and the performance indicator considered. Furthermore, our results indicate that the relationship between innovation choices in SMEs and business performance should be analysed from a multidimensional approach. These findings reveal significant implications for innovation policies and innovation strategies for SMEs.
C25|Industrial relatedness and regional resilience in the European Union|The 2008 Great Recession prompted interest in the concept of regional resilience. This paper discusses and empirically investigates the relationship between industrial relatedness and economic resilience across European Union regions over the 2008–2012 crisis period. The analysis focuses on two types of industrial relatedness: technological and vertical (i.e., market‐based). The empirical analysis is performed on a sample of 209 NUTS 2 regions in 16 countries. Our results highlight a positive effect of technological relatedness on the probability of resilience in the very short run (i.e., the 2008–2009 period), while the negative effect of vertical relatedness seems to persist for longer. La Gran Recesión de 2008 despertó el interés por el concepto de resiliencia regional. Este artículo analiza e investiga empíricamente la relación entre la relación industrial y la resiliencia económica en las regiones de la Unión Europea durante el período de crisis 2008‐2012. El análisis se centra en dos tipos de relación industrial: tecnológica y vertical (es decir, basada en el mercado). El análisis empírico se realizó sobre una muestra de 209 regiones NUTS 2 en 16 países. Nuestros resultados destacan un efecto positivo de la relación tecnológica sobre la probabilidad de resiliencia a muy corto plazo (es decir, en el período 2008‐2009), mientras que el efecto negativo de la relación vertical parece persistir por más tiempo. 2008年のグレート・リセッションによって、地域のレジリエンスという概念に対する関心が急激に高まった。本稿では、2008年~2012年の経済危機の期間を通しての欧州連合の地域全体における産業間の連関性と経済レジリエンスの関連性を考察し、実証的に検討する。技術的と垂直的 (すなわち、市場ベース)という2つの産業間の連関性のタイプを中心に分析を行う。実証分析は、16カ国における209のNUT2の地域のサンプルを対象に実施する。結果から、技術的な連関性は、垂直的連関性の負の効果はより長く持続するようであるが、非常に短期的 (すなわち、2008年~2009年)なレジリエンスの可能性に対して正の効果を与えていることが明確に示された。
C25|Corporate tax and location choice for multinational firms| This article examines the effects of corporate tax on these location decisions of newly established multinational subsidiaries across 26 European countries over an 8-year period. We contribute to the existing literature by examining the effects of a non-linear response of firm location decisions to changes in the tax rate. We also show that there are large variations in the sensitivity to tax rates across sectors and firm size groups. In particular, financial sector firms are more than twice as sensitive to changes in corporation tax rates relative to other sectors. Our baseline result is a finding that a 1% increase in the statutory or policy rate of corporation tax would lead to a reduction in the conditional location probability of 0.68%. Using the effective average tax rate, the marginal effect implies a reduction in the location probability of 1.15% following a 1% increase in the tax rate. Although overall tax has the expected negative effect on location probability, the marginal effect of an increase is lower at higher rates of tax.
C25|The Migration of Fear: An Analysis of Migration Choices of Syrian Refugees|The current literature on forced migration offers only limited knowledge of how each of the different consequences of war, such as damage to property and casualties to family members, and the services provided to the refugees in the host country, affect the difficult choices that refugees subsequently must make as to when and where to migrate once again. This paper contributes to the literature on forced migration by studying the effects of armed violence in the country that has given rise to the largest number of refugees in the world in the last decade, namely Syria, on those various migration-related decisions. The study is based on all three waves (2013, 2014 and 2015) of a survey conducted of Syrian refugees in Turkey, the country with the largest number of Syrian refugees. The study first examines the various impacts of war (property damage, casualties, sleeping disorders) on the refugees by gender, age, education, income and other characteristics. More importantly, it then investigates the consequences of these different impacts of war as well as the duration of the refugee’s stay in Turkey, the quality of services provided to these refugees and the individual characteristics of the refugees on various alternative choices about the timing and destination of future migration by refugees using a logit model. The results show that (1) the longer and greater the level of violence in the country of origin, and the longer the time spent outside of Syria, the lower the likelihood of the choice to return to the country of origin; (2). the longer the time the refugee has spent in Turkey, the higher is the probability of permanent settlement in another European country; and (3) the more and higher quality of services provided to the refugees, the more likely they are to remain in Turkey While females are more likely to want to return to Syria, men and especially those with greater education, higher income and personal networks are more likely to want to relocate somewhere in Europe or elsewhere.
C25|Objective vs. Subjective Fuel Poverty and Self-Assessed Health|Policies towards fuel poverty often use relative or absolute measures. The effectiveness of the official indicators in identifying fuel poor households and assessing its impact on health is an emerging social policy issue. In this paper we analyse objective and perceived fuel poverty as determinants of self-assessed health in Spain. In 2014, 5.1 million of her population could not afford to heat their homes to an adequate temperature. We propose a latent class ordered probit model to analyse the influence of fuel poverty on self-reported health in a sample of 25,000 individuals in 11,000 households for the 2011-2014 period. This original approach allows us to include a ‘subjective’ measure of fuel poverty in the class membership probabilities and purge the influence of the ‘objective’ measure of fuel poverty on self-assessed health. The results show that poor housing conditions, fuel poverty, and material deprivation have a negative impact on health. Also, individuals who rate themselves as fuel poor tend to report poorer health status. The effect of objective fuel poverty on health is stronger when unobserved heterogeneity of individuals is controlled for. Since objective measures alone may not fully capture the adverse effect of fuel poverty on health, we advocate the use of approaches that allow a combination of objective and subjective measures and its application by policy-makers. Moreover, it is important that policies to tackle fuel poverty take into account the different energy vectors and the prospects of a future smart and integrated energy system.
C25|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|No abstract is available for this item.
C25|Tarification incitative et gestion des Déchets Ménagers : études du comportement des collectivités locales françaises|Although the evidence of the incentive-based pricing effectiveness to reduce the production of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) and to increase the recycling, its adoption in France has been barely developed over the two last decades. This paper analyses the determinants of incentive-based pricing adoption by French local governments. We investigate the effect of the MSW management cost on the decision of the local government in two ways. First we estimate the effect of the variation of the MSW management total cost on the probability to observe an incentive-based pricing and second, we estimate the effect of the incentive-based pricing on the MSW management total cost. Results highlight that the decision of the local government is subjected to the cost-benefit analysis and the decision of neighboring local governments. Further, results show that the French regulation has skewed the cost-benefit analysis of local government and consequently has slow down incentive-based pricing adoption.
C25|Very Simple Markov-Perfect Industry Dynamics: Empirics|This paper develops an econometric model of firm entry, competition, and exit in oligopolistic markets. The model has an essentially unique symmetric Markov-perfect equilibrium, which can be computed very quickly. We show that its primitives are identified from market-level data on the number of active firms and demand shifters, and we implement a nested fixed point procedure for its estimation. Estimates from County Business Patterns data on U.S. local cinema markets point to tough local competition. Sunk costs make the industry's transition following a permanent demand shock last 10 to 15 years.
C25|Traffic noise in Georgia: Sound levels and inequality|Using Lorenz-type curves, means tests, ordinary least squares, and locally weighted regressions (LWR), we examine the relative burdens of whites, blacks, and Hispanics in Georgia from road and air traffic noise. We find that whites bear less noise than either blacks or Hispanics and that blacks tend to experience more traffic noise than Hispanics. While every Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) showed that blacks experienced relatively more noise than average, such a result did not hold for Hispanics in roughly half of the MSAs. We find much heterogeneity across Census tracts using LWR. For most Census tracts, higher black and Hispanic population shares are associated with increased noise. However, 5.5% of the coefficients for blacks and 18.9% for Hispanics are negative, suggesting larger population shares are associated with less noise. The noise LWR marginal effects for black populations across most tracts in the state are consistent with diminishing marginal noise from additional black population, while those in Atlanta exhibit diminishing marginal noise for Hispanics. In many regions of the state where the potential for health-damaging noise exists, we find relatively high disproportionality in noise experienced by the black and Hispanic populations compared to the rest of the overall population. Our findings underscore the importance of using nonparametric estimation approaches to unveil spatial heterogeneity in applied urban and housing economics analyses.
C25|Integrated choice and latent variable models: A literature review on mode choice|Mode choice depends on observable characteristics of the transport modes and of the decision maker, but also on unobservable characteristics, known as latent variables. By means of an integrated choice and latent variable (ICLV) model, which is a combination of structural equation model and discrete choice model, it is theoretically possible to integrate both types of variables in a psychologically and economically sound mode choice model. To achieve such a goal requires clear positioning on the four dimensions covered by ICLV models: survey methods, econometrics, psychology and economics. This article presents a comprehensive survey of the ICLV literature applied to mode choice modelling. I review how latent variables are measured and incorporated in the ICLV models, how they contribute to explaining mode choice and how they are used to derive economic outputs. The main results are: 1) the latent variables used to explain mode choice are linked to individual mental states, perceptions of transport modes, or an actual performed behaviour; 2) the richness of structural equation models still needs to be explored to fully embody the psychological theories explaining mode choice; 3) the integration of latent variables helps to improve our understanding of mode choice and to adapt public policies.
C25|The Effect of Family Ownership, Control and Management on Corporate Debt Structure– Evidence from Panel Fractional Data|The present study examines the impact of family involvement on the debt structure of family businesses. Family corporate involvement is considered in three related but distinct dimensions: capital ownership, firm’s management and corporate control. The marginal effect of each of these three dimensions is specified as a unique regression parameter in a conditional mean model for the proportion of medium- plus long-term debt to total debt. This general strategy calls for an appropriate modelling and estimation approach, taking due account of the response variable’s inherent fractional definition and consequential nonlinear functional form of its conditional expectation, given covariates. Such an approach, combining a probit model for the equation of interest with a control function estimation method, is applied to a panel data set on Portuguese family businesses. Estimation results confirm the uniqueness of the impact of each of the three considered dimensions of families’ corporate involvement on the debt structure of firms.
C25|Copula-based Tests for Nonclassical Measurement Error – The Case of Fractional Random Variables|This paper addresses measurement error (ME) of double bounded variables, of which fractional variables, defined on the interval [0,1], constitute a prominent example. The text discusses consequences of ME and suggests a specification test sensitive to ME of such variables. Given the latter’s bounded support, ME is not independent of the original error-free variate, a fact that invalidates classical ME assumptions as a framework for the test. This is circumvented with a score test of independence between the error-free variate and ME, under which the latter becomes degenerate at zero and their joint distribution, specified as a copula function, reduces to the original variable’s distribution. This procedure yields a specification test of the distribution of the error-free variable, valid under mild assumptions on the marginal distribution of ME and under departures from the specified copula. The test’s finite-sample behaviour is also evaluated through a set of simulation experiments.
C25|Why are credit booms sometimes sweet and sometimes sour?|This paper investigates the commonalities and differences between benign credit booms and those that end up in banking crises by employing a Multinomial and a Sequential Logit model over a panel of industrial and developing countries. Some economic, political and institutional factors are found to play an important role in understanding the credit booms dynamics. In particular, this study shows that the quantity and price of credit, liquidity in the economy, economic growth, openness of the economy, government orientation, political stability and Central Bank independence are relevant to explain not only the occurrence of credit booms but also – and most importantly – whether they end up in a systemic banking crisis or not. While a better economic environment and Central Bank independence are essential for both industrial and developing countries to avoid credit booms from going badly, political factors seem to exert a stronger influence in developing countries.
C25|Endogeneity Issues in the Empirical Assessment of the Determinants of Loan Renegotiation|The present text is focused on the evaluation of the influence that determinants of loan contracts’ design may have on loan renegotiation. This general purpose is faced with the possible simultaneity of determination of some such factors (namely the use of collaterals and loan interest rate) and the likelihood of contract renegotiation. Naturally, this simultaneity corresponds to an issue of endogeneity of these factors within econometric models of the conditional probability of renegotiation. If neglected, covariates’ endogeneity causes model misspecification, translating into unreliable empirical assessments of the marginal effects of all renegotiation determinants on the probability of loan redesign. Building on the theory of incomplete contracts, suggesting that the possibility of contract renegotiation is already anticipated at the contracting date, the empirical findings of the paper, based on a dataset provided by a Brazilian bank, provide strong indication that this can indeed be the case. Accordingly, the empirical assessment of the marginal contributions of important variables to the likelihood of renegotiation is revisited, thereby enabling a deeper understanding of renegotiation processes.
C25|Toward generalization of futures contracts for raw materials: A probabilistic answer applied to metal markets|In this paper, we aim at identifying root causes linked to presence or absence of futures contracts for raw materials. Unlike previous analyses focused on the success of futures contracts via exchange volume and open interest, we offer an alternative logit model applied to the presence or absence of futures contracts for 53 metal markets. We use different factors (price and physical quantities produced, geographical concentration…) and several combinations of variables in order to explore the root causes of futures contracts. The model shows both great explaining capability and a good prediction power which are robust to data resampling. According to the model, it is unlikely that minor metals successfully introduce futures contracts in the coming years. We also discuss the use and interest of this model by institutions and financial authorities devoted to the development of futures contracts for raw material markets.
C25|Value of commuting time saving in Beijing: a stated preference study|We estimate the value of travel time savings with a discrete choice model using data from choice experiments on both car drivers and public transport users in Beijing. We find that, compared with public transport users, car drivers would be willing to pay more to save one hour during their commute; crowding inside the bus and subway carriage is very important for public transport users; the value of time saving is higher in the morning than in the evening; and the marginal willingness to pay for commuting time savings varies according to gender, income, education, and time flexibility. Moreover, we compare results from a model addressing attribute non-attendance and a standard model. The results from the model addressing non-attendance are more plausible, with higher consistency in estimated parameters and lower standard deviations.
C25|Policy discontinuity and duration outcomes|A comparison of hazard rates of duration outcomes before and after policy changes is hampered by non-identification if there is unobserved heteogeneity in the effects and no model structure is imposed. We develop a discontinuity approach that overcomes this by exploiting variation in the moment at which different cohorts are exposed to the policy change, i.e. by considering spells crossing the policy change. We prove identification of average treatment effect on hazard rates without model structure. We estimate these effects by local linear kernel hazard regression. We use the introduction of the NDYP programme for young unemployed individuals to estimate average programme participation effects on the exit rate to work.
C25|The Effects of Day Care on Health During Childhood: Evidence by Age|This paper studies the effects of day care exposure on behavioral disorders and mental and physical health at various ages during childhood. We draw on a unique set of merged population register data from Sweden over the period 1999-2008. This includes merged information at the individual level from the inpatient and outpatient registers, the population register and the income tax register. The outpatient register contains all ambulatory care contacts including all contacts with physicians and therapists. Visits are recorded by day, and comprehensive diagnoses are recorded for each visit. By exploiting variation in day care exposure by age generated by a major day care policy reform, we estimate cumulative and instantaneous effects on child health at different ages. We find a positive cumulative impact on behavior at primary school ages, in particular for children from low socio-economic status households, and substitution of infections from primary school ages to low ages. All this affects health care utilization and leads to a moderate reduction in health care costs. Results are confirmed by analyses based on a sibling design and on regional and household-specific components of day care fees.
C25|The Dynamics and Determinants of Bullying Victimisation|We study the determinants and longitudinal evolution of nine types of adolescent (verbal, physical, indirect) bullying at school and domestically using the Understanding Society dataset during 2009-13. Family support is the most prominent protective factor against bullying. Applying joint maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) for dynamic discrete responses, we investigate potential simultaneous determination of bullying and family support. The estimates indicate that bullying disclosure might be uncommon. The probability of escaping/suffering victimisation is inversely/positively related to previous bullying intensity, respectively. Family income increases domestic indirect aggression but, reduces direct aggression and non-domestic bullying as does living in a high income region.
C25|Thai Inflation Dynamics: A View from Micro CPI Data|This paper examines the patterns of price adjustment at the micro level in order to further our understanding of price rigidity at the aggregate level. We highlight 5 stylized facts: 1) Prices change infrequently with a mean duration of approximately 4 to 7 months between price changes; 2) Price decreases are common accounting for roughly 45 percent of all price changes; 3) Price changes, both increases and decreases, are sizable compared to the prevailing in ation rate; 4) The size of price changes covaries strongly with the rate of in ation, whereas the fraction of items changing prices does not; and 5) There is signi cant dispersion in price levels as well as in the synchronicity of price changes across geographical regions. Based on a dynamic factor model, we also utilize prices at the disaggregated level to perform an in ation decomposition to understand the underlying driving factors of in ation. The key ndings are: 1) Prices at the micro level are driven mainly by idiosyncratic shocks but these shocks become less important for CPI in ation at the aggregate level; 2) Pure in ation which drives long-term price movements in Thailand is responsible for approximately 10 percent of overall price movements; 3) More than half of all within-quarter uctuations can be classi ed as relative price changes in response to aggregate shocks; 4) The short-run in ation-output tradeoff which appears weak in aggregate data becomes much stronger once volatile idiosyncratic price changes are removed.
C25|Location choice and tax responsiveness of foreign multinationals: Evidence from ASEAN countries|This study uses a firm-level dataset to examine the impacts of taxation on multinationals' decisions to set up new foreign subsidiaries in developing ASEAN countries. It finds that taxes play a critical role in MNEs' location choice decision, with tax incentives being instrumental for maintaining location choice probabilities associated with each host country. The findings also indicate important heterogeneity in the tax responsiveness. First, the tax sensitivity for high-tech firms is significantly lower than that for low-tech firms. Second, having a prior presence in the respective host country is associated with substantially lower tax responsiveness. Finally, in accordance with international tax-avoidance considerations, the tax responsiveness is significantly diminished for affiliates with a connection to tax-haven countries. These provide important policy implications for developing-country governments that consider employing tax incentives to attract MNEs.
C25|Valuation of the Quality Attributes of Online Banking Services by Small and Medium Enterprises Engaged in International Trade|This study investigates the important attributes of online banking system for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and their willingness to pay for each attribute. Zero travel and waiting time, high security, and 24/7 accessibility are the key attributes for this service. The results show that SMEs engaged in international trade value online banking services significantly more than the others. Domestically focused firms value high‐quality service at about $163 a month, while import‐focused businesses value such a service at approximately US$646 per month. Export‐intensive SMEs value high‐quality online services 14% further, for an average of $736 per month.
C25|Fast and wild: Bootstrap inference in Stata using boottest|The wild bootstrap was originally developed for regression models with heteroskedasticity of unknown form. Over the past 30 years, it has been extended to models estimated by instrumental variables and maximum likelihood and to ones where the error terms are (perhaps multiway) clustered. Like boot- strap methods in general, the wild bootstrap is especially useful when conventional inference methods are unreliable because large-sample assumptions do not hold. For example, there may be few clusters, few treated clusters, or weak instruments. The package boottest can perform a wide variety of wild bootstrap tests, often at remarkable speed. It can also invert these tests to construct confidence sets. As a postestimation command, boottest works after linear estimation commands, in- cluding regress, cnsreg, ivregress, ivreg2, areg, and reghdfe, as well as many estimation commands based on maximum likelihood. Although it is designed to perform the wild cluster bootstrap, boottest can also perform the ordinary (non- clustered) version. Wrappers offer classical Wald, score/Lagrange multiplier, and Anderson–Rubin tests, optionally with (multiway) clustering. We review the main ideas of the wild cluster bootstrap, offer tips for use, explain why it is particularly amenable to computational optimization, state the syntax of boottest, artest, scoretest, and waldtest, and present several empirical examples.
C25|Forecasting of Recessions via Dynamic Probit for Time Series: Replication and Extension of Kauppi and Saikkonen (2008)|In this work we first replicate the results of the fully parametric dynamic probit model for forecasting US recessions from Kauppi and Saikkonen (2008) (which is in the spirit of Estrella and Mishkin (1995, 1998) and Dueker (1997)) and then contrast them to results from a nonparametric local-likelihood dynamic choice model for the same data. We then use expanded data to gain insights on whether these models could have warned the public about approach of the latest recession, associated with the Global Financial Crisis. Finally, we also apply both approaches to gain insights for 2018.
C25|Smokers Are Different: The Heterogeneity Of Smokers’ Responses To Price Increases|This paper contributes to the understanding of smokers’ responses to cigarette prices increases, with a focus on heterogeneity across individuals and over price changes. A stated preference quasi-experimental design grounded on a random utility framework is proposed, based on individual-level data drawn from a survey gathering detailed information on Italian smokers’ habits. On average, the predicted probability of reducing cigarettes consumption increases with the price variation, even though a huge heterogeneity of price responsiveness is found. In terms of potential price elasticity, a polarisation between low and high responsiveness individuals has also been identified. Finally, by comparing even and uneven price variations across price classes, it is shown that uniform across-brand price increases limit product substitutions and downtrading. Estimated heterogeneity provides information to forecast the effect on tax revenue of a tax-driven price change, and some guidance on how to design tax reforms to balance health and revenue goals.
C25|Unobserved Heterogeneity in Structural Behavioral Models Using Experimental Data|In this paper we compare a mixed logit model (MLM) and a latent class model (LCM) in the context of behavioral structural estimation using experimental data. By providing an instrument to deal with the intrinsic unobserved heterogeneity that characterizes experimental data, these alternative models have clear advantages compared with a multinomial logit model (MNL) typically used in structural estimation of behavioral models. We carry out our exercise by using experimental data that allows us estimation of distributional parameters related to risk and social preferences. Somehow coherently with the economic theory, the LCM identifies three classes of subjects (risk/ineq. lovers, risk/ineq. neutral, risk/ineq. averse). Moreover, estimates from both MLM and LCM somehow confirm the findings from a MNL model, that under the veil of ignorance (VOI) subjects’ variance aversion mostly reflects risk, rather than distributional concerns. By taking unobserved heterogeneity adequately into account in the estimation of our structural behavioral model, also provides new insights into individual behavior on the interplay between risk and inequality concerns. For example, we find that there is much more variability in individual behavior when subjects face pure inequality than under VOI. Moreover, in the case of pure inequality subjects are also more likely to be inequality lovers than under VOI.
C25|Influences of Entrepreneurial Competencies on Product Development Decision: Longan Processing Enterprises in Thailand|This research aims to evaluate the entrepreneurial competencies of longan processing entrepreneurs and analyze the impacts of entrepreneurial competencies on new product development decision. The 165 samples of longan processing entrepreneurs are selected by a purposive sampling method. The results of entrepreneurial competencies show that risk taking orientation and competitiveness orientation are the two lowest score competencies in which the longan processing entrepreneurs should be interested in. Moreover, the age of the entrepreneur and pro-activeness orientation of the entrepreneur have some negative impacts on the decision making probability of the new product development. The entrepreneurial competencies on risk taking, innovativeness and competitiveness have positive influences on new product development decision. The findings lead to a discussion about whether the longan processing entrepreneurs are ready to develop the new product, or not.
C25|Student Perceptions on the use of Student Response System in Higher Education in Hong Kong|The SRS (Student Response System) is a software tool that is designed to facilitate students to learn by making the lessons more interesting and interactive, quickly assessing their understanding of the subject, and inspiring discussions. While the traditional SRS makes use of custom-made devices called Clickers, recently there are many mobile phone-based SRSs developed and accessible through the Internet. However, many university teachers are hesitant to use SRS due to the lack of research about student perception of the application of SRS in higher education. Our study will report on the student perception of using mobile phone-based SRS in a self-financed higher education institution in Hong Kong. Data were collected from over 400 students using online surveys during the autumn semester in 2017.This paper will start a concise overview of the SRS technology. Then it will report the sampling method and survey procedure. Finally, it will show the analysis of the results using the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM). This research shows that the students have positive perceptions on the usefulness and ease of use of the SRS. However, the students in the early stage of study have a significantly more positive perception on the ease of use than the students in the final stage of study. All the students have positive intention to continue to use SRS. Hence, we recommend teachers should adopt SRS in their classroom teacher, with more attention in making questions easier to understand for final stage students.
C25|An up-to-date joint labor supply and child care choice model|Norwegian parents of preschool children base their care choices on a completely different choice set from their predecessor. Now there is essentially only one type of nonparental care – center-based care – and on the parental side fathers take a more pivotal role in early childhood care. In the present paper we develop and estimate a joint labor supply and child care choice model that takes account of these new characteristics, on the assumption that this model points to current and future modeling directions for several other economies too. Estimations suggest that the average wage elasticity for mothers is 0.25–0.30.
C25|Export Behavior of Turkish Manufacturing Firms Under Crises|Turkey experienced three economic crises in recent decades that provides natural experiment environment for researchers. In this paper, we studied the impact of recent three different economic crisis on export behavior of Turkish manufacturing firms using firm level annual panel data for 1990-2014 period. By investigating the impact of crisis on both the decision to become an exporter and volume of exports, export behavior of Turkish manufacturing firms under crisis is diagnosed. Estimation results reveal differentiated impact of different types of crisis on export behavior of Turkish manufacturing firms. According to the results, export boom observed with 1994 crisis was mainly due to the increase in extensive margin. Devaluated currency together with shrinking domestic demand in 1994 crisis lead to an increase in export propensity of the firms. Although sharp currency devaluation and domestic demand contraction supported incumbent exporters to increase their export volume, the accompanied credit crunch in 2001 crisis hindered entrance of new firms into export markets. Significant international trade collapse with 2008 global financial crisis caused declines in both export propensity and export volume of the Turkish manufacturing firms. These findings have implications on both what types of export promotion and incentives should be provided (or not) and to whom this assistance should be provided for dissimilar shocks in an emerging market economy like Turkey.
C25|Hamiltonian Sequential Monte Carlo with Application to Consumer Choice Behavior|Practical use of nonparametric Bayesian methods requires the availability of efficient algorithms for implementation for posterior inference. The inherently serial nature of Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) imposes limitations on its efficiency and scalability. In recent years there has been a surge of research activity devoted to developing alternative implementation methods that target parallel computing environments. Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC), also known as a particle filter, has been gaining popularity due to its desirable properties. SMC uses a genetic mutation-selection sampling approach with a set of particles representing the posterior distribution of a stochastic process. We propose to enhance the performance of SMC by utilizing Hamiltonian transition dynamics in the particle transition phase, in place of random walk used in the previous literature. We call the resulting procedure Hamiltonian Sequential Monte Carlo (HSMC). Hamiltonian transition dynamics has been shown to yield superior mixing and convergence properties relative to random walk transition dynamics in the context of MCMC procedures. The rationale behind HSMC is to translate such gains to the SMC environment. We apply both SMC and HSMC to a panel discrete choice model with a nonparametric distribution of unobserved individual heterogeneity. We contrast both methods in terms of convergence properties and show the favorable performance of HSMC.
C25|Inflation expectations in India: Learning from household tendency surveys|We use a large household survey that is being conducted by the Reserve Bank of India since 2005 to estimate the dynamics of aggregate inflation expectations over a volatile inflation regime. A simple average of the quantitative responses produces biased estimates of the official inflation data. We therefore estimate expectations by quantifying the reported directional responses. We perform quantification by using the hierarchical ordered probit model, in addition to the balance statistic. We find that the quantified expectations from qualitative forecasts track the actual inflation rate better than the averages of the quantitative forecasts, highlighting the filtering role of qualitative tendency surveys. We also report estimates of the disagreement among households. The proposed approach is particularly suitable in emerging economies, where inflation tends to be high and volatile.
C25|Impact of advertizing on brand’s market-shares in the automobile market:: a multi-channel attraction model with competition and carry-over effects|This article presents a new approach to measure the impact of multi-channel advertising investments on brands’ market shares in the main segment of the French automobile market. We propose a multi-channel attraction model with adstock, in order to take into account the advertising carryover effect and the competition. This model allows to distinguish between short term and long term effect of the advertising. As, from a mathematical point of view, a vector of market shares is a composition belonging to the simplex space, i.e. subject to positivity and summing up to one contraints, we take benefit from the compositional data analysis (CODA) literature to estimate properly this model. We show how to determine the carryover parameters for each channel (outdoor, press, radio and television) in a multivariate way. We consider several model specifications with more or less complexity (cross effects between brands), including Dirichlet models, and we compare them using goodness-of-fit and prediction accuracy measures. We explain how to built confidence and prediction ellipsoids in the space of market shares. The impact of each channel on market shares is measured in terms of direct and cross elasticities. We conclude that in this market, radio only has a contemporaneous impact whereas outdoor, press and television have a large decay effect. Moreover, the advertising elasticities vary across brands and channels, and can be negative. It also turns out that positive interactions do exist between certain brands for certain media.
C25|Variable Selection in Sparse Semiparametric Single Index Models|"In this paper we consider the ""Regularization of Derivative Expectation Operator"" (Rodeo) of Lafferty and Wasserman (2008) and propose a modified Rodeo algorithm for semiparametric single index models in big data environment with many regressors. The method assumes sparsity that many of the regressors are irrelevant. It uses a greedy algorithm, in that, to estimate the semiparametric single index model (SIM) of Ichimura (1993), all coefficients of the regressors are initially set to start from near zero, then we test iteratively if the derivative of the regression function estimator with respect to each coefficient is significantly different from zero. The basic idea of the modified Rodeo algorithm for SIM (to be called SIM-Rodeo) is to view the local bandwidth selection as a variable selection scheme which amplifies the coefficients for relevant variables while keeping the coefficients of irrelevant variables relatively small or at the initial starting values near zero. For sparse semiparametric single index models, the SIM-Rodeo algorithm is shown to attain consistency in variable selection. In addition, the algorithm is fast to finish the greedy steps. We compare SIM-Rodeo with SIM-Lasso method in Zeng et al. (2012). Our simulation results demonstrate that the proposed SIM-Rodeo method is consistent for variable selection and show that it has smaller integrated mean squared errors than SIM-Lasso."
C25|Determinantes del consumo de energía eléctrica del sector residencial en Uruguay|This research examines the determinants of residential electricity demand for Uruguay. Using extended demand models, it analyses several socio-economic factors affecting households' electricity consumption -per capita income, household composition, housing characteristic, equipment and the relative participation of some energy uses-. The data belong to the Demand and Use of Electricity Survey of the Urban Residential Sector carried out for Uruguay in 2015. First, using OLS we estimate the effects of the socio-economic variables for the average consumption and these results are compared with those that arise from the estimation of three socioeconomic levels -low, medium and high-. In addition, we study the impact of these variables along the distribution of consumption based on the quantile regression method. The results indicate that per capita income, household composition, housing characteristics, air conditioning and heating possession, are important to explain household electricity consumption. With regard to the share of energy uses, it is observed that those associated with thermal comfort, particularly heating, together with cooking, are those with the greatest effect on the consumption of electrical energy. These results vary depending on the household socioeconomic level and its location in the distribution of consumption of electricity. In particular, household composition variables have a greater impact on households with lower electricity consumption, while the variables associated with housing and heating use show a higher effect on high consumption levels. This is the first study that evaluates the electricity demand throughout the consumption distribution based on the quantile regression method for Uruguay. The existence of differences between the quantiles of consumption indicates the benefits of using this method for the residential demand analysis.
C25|eSports: Profile of Participants, Complementarity with Sports and its Perception as Sport. Evidence From Sports Video Games|Research question: This study investigates three issues associated to the growing industry of eSports: the picture of participants in eSports and the correlates of the intensity of this participation; the complementary/substitutability relationship between eSports and traditional sports; and the perception of eSports as sport by the population. Research methods: Discrete choice, two-part and regression models are estimated using a sample of 11,018 individuals from the Survey on Sports Habits in Spain 2015. Results and Findings: The association of the correlates follows different patterns depending on whether considering participation or the intensity of this participation in eSports and also in terms of gender. Using different approaches, a significant degree of complementarity between participation and interest in eSports and traditional sports is estimated. For young people interested in eSports seems to an element influencing the overall interest in sports. Implications: Taking into account the different association of the correlates with the participation and the intensity of participation in eSports, this information could be used by firms in order to define marketing and brand investment strategies. The estimated complementarity between eSports and traditional sports should influence how the actual stakeholders in traditional sports define future strategies to favour the growth of both industries. The fact that eSports is increasingly perceived as a sport should have an influence, among others, in the collection of data on sports habits, in the way these activities are regulated and in the organization of multi-sport events, like the Olympic Games.
C25|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved.Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
C25|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved. Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
C25|Adoption and Cooperation Decisions in Sustainable Energy Infrastructure: Evidence from a Sequential Choice Experiment in Germany|In this paper, we propose and apply the design of a sequential discrete choice experiment to examine homeowner preferences regarding the adoption of micro-generation systems and willingness to cooperate in sustainable energy infrastructure. Adoption and cooperation decisions of private households in the energy sector are complex, interlinked, and assumably sequential. A common design with single choice tasks reflecting both adoption and cooperation decisions is assumed as cognitively too burdensome for survey respondents. The objective of the proposed sequential choice task design is twofold. Firstly, reducing complexity for respondents. Secondly, reflecting a step-wise decision process as is appropriate for the studied decisions. Our application from the energy sector is motivated by the need for innovative business models for non-industrial prosumers providing flexibility services in (local) distribution grids, due to an increasing amount of volatile and decentrally generated electricity. Results indicate that respondents reveal more pronounced preferences when dealing with their decision in sequential steps and that the task design has a lasting effect on respondents’ choices. By estimating latent class logit models, five consumer classes are identified and labeled by their distinguished motivational foci: costs (1), climate protection (2), self-supply (3), local reference (4), and other (5).
C25|Analysing the Relevance of the MIP Scoreboard's Indicators|The EU established an early warning system by introducing the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) in the wake of the recent recession. Nevertheless, it has been found by some authors to be rather vague when launching the Excessive Imbalances Procedure. Performed analysis reflects on such views and treats the MIP indicators as a system while assessing the significance of all particular variables separately. This assessment was accomplished by applying a multivariate unbalanced logit model, utilising all 14 MIP headline indicators, using time horizons ranging from one to three years before crisis, which was represented by periods with output gap lower than negative 2 per cent. The approach was confronted with the estimates of a linear probability model to provide an idea about the robustness of the results. In the short term, activity rates, youth unemployment rates and private sector debt are the best performing indicators, complemented by current account balances in the long term.
C25|Investment in Education, Obesity and Health Behaviours|This study reports new evidence on the association between educational outcomes for young adults in Italy (in terms of both schooling levels and type of education) and selected health behaviours (simultaneously taken). The results indicate the following: i) individuals who decide to stay at school longer also do things that improve their own health, such as not smoking, practicing physical activity, maintaining a normal body weight and low consumption of unhealthy food (snacks, cakes, etc.), thereby confirming complementarities between investment in education and health (Fuchs, 2004, Becker 2007); and ii) particularly for females, a positive association is observed between the choice of Sciences vs. Humanities, a normal body weight and the adoption of healthy behaviours (not smoking, practising physical activity, and consuming healthy food).
C25|Econometric Analysis of Ratings - with an Application to Health and Wellbeing|We propose a new non-linear regression model for rating dependent variables. The rating scale model accounts for the upper and lower bounds of ratings. Parametric and semi-parametric estimation is discussed. An application investigates the relationship between stated health satisfaction and physical and mental health scores derived from self-reports of various health impairments, using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. We compare our new approach to modeling ratings with ordinary least squares (OLS). In one specification, OLS average effects exceed that from our rating scale model by up to 50 percent. Also, OLS in-sample mean predictions violate the upper bound of the dependent variable in a number of cases.
C25|Migration, Forced Displacement and Fertility during Civil War: A Survival Analysis|The civil war in Burundi (1993-2005) caused a mass flow of refugees into neighboring countries as well as a large number of internally dis- placed persons. In fact, half of the population was displaced at least once during the course of the conflict. The aim of this study is to explore to what extent migration during the conflict impacted fertility outcomes. Using retrospective data on birth and residential histories at the mother-year level from a nationally representative survey con- ducted in August 2002, we examine the impact of war and migration on the probability of first births and on birth spacing. A parametric survival regression model is adopted to predict the hazard of having an additional child on a sample of about 4,500 Burundian women. Our results suggest that the risk of an additional pregnancy is higher in years of forced displacement of the mother, whereas it is lower in the case of residence in the forced displacement site. We do not find a statistically significant effect different from no migration in the years that the women voluntary migrated. Fertility however sharply increases once the women resided in the migration site.
C25|Gender Inequality in Europe and the Life Satisfaction of Working and Non-working Women|Abstract Empirical analysis of data drawn from the European Social Survey reveals that—after individual characteristics are controlled for—women engaging in market work and housework have similar life satisfaction levels. Complementing the micro-level data from the survey with country-level variables, namely GDP per capita and gender inequality (measured by the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Index, GGGI), we estimate a multilevel regression model to shed light on the contextual factors of the life satisfaction of women in Europe. We find that working women’s well-being relative to housewives is greater in countries where the GGGI indicates a smaller gender gap, i.e. where women are in a better position in terms of equality with men in the public domains. We interpret this finding to mean that the so-called ‘paradox of declining female happiness’ is in part due to persistent gender roles which appear to have a larger impact on the well-being of working women.
C25|The heterogeneity of ethnic employment gaps|Abstract This paper investigates the heterogeneity of ethnic employment gaps using a new single-index based approach. Instead of stratifying our sample by age or education, we study ethnic employment gaps along a continuous measure of employability, the employment probability minority workers would have if their characteristics were priced as in the majority group. We apply this method to French males, comparing those whose parents are North African immigrants and those with native parents. We find that both the raw and the unexplained ethnic employment differentials are larger for low-employability workers than for high-employability ones. We show in a theoretical framework that this heterogeneity can be accounted for by homogeneous underlying mechanisms and is not evidence for, say, heterogeneous discrimination. Finally, we discuss our main empirical findings in the light of simple taste-based vs. statistical discrimination models.
C25|Prior education and entrepreneurial intentions: the differential impact of a wide range of fields of study|Abstract Studies on entrepreneurial intentions often neglect the heterogeneity of individuals’ education background. This paper develops an integrated intention-based framework and analyzes the impact of fields of study on entrepreneurial intentions. Based on a sample of 2423 final-year students, enrolled in 32 fields of study, and resorting to logistic estimations, we find that, beside the attitude towards starting a business, fields of study, considered at a highly detailed level, are relevant (direct and indirect) predictors of entrepreneurial intention. We unambiguously show that there is a huge hidden potential for new venture creation in fields of study related to creative and leisure activities (e.g., Arts and humanities, or, more specifically, Literature and linguistics, History and archaeology, Audio-visual techniques and media production, Sports, and Architecture and town planning), Law, and Health (most notably, Pharmacy and Veterinary). Significant differences in the level of intention between students of different fields of study indicate that universities should more extensively focus entrepreneurship education on students in other subject area than business or engineering/technology sciences.
C25|Moment-based estimation of nonlinear regression models with boundary outcomes and endogeneity, with applications to nonnegative and fractional responses| In this article, we suggest simple moment-based estimators to deal with unobserved heterogeneity in a special class of nonlinear regression models that includes as main particular cases exponential models for nonnegative responses and logit and complementary loglog models for fractional responses. The proposed estimators: (i) treat observed and omitted covariates in a similar manner; (ii) can deal with boundary outcomes; (iii) accommodate endogenous explanatory variables without requiring knowledge on the reduced form model, although such information may be easily incorporated in the estimation process; (iv) do not require distributional assumptions on the unobservables, a conditional mean assumption being enough for consistent estimation of the structural parameters; and (v) under the additional assumption that the dependence between observables and unobservables is restricted to the conditional mean, produce consistent estimators of partial effects conditional only on observables.
C25|Weighted-average least squares estimation of generalized linear models|The weighted-average least squares (WALS) approach, introduced by Magnus et al. (2010) in the context of Gaussian linear models, has been shown to enjoy important advantages over other strictly Bayesian and strictly frequentist model-averaging estimators when accounting for problems of uncertainty in the choice of the regressors. In this paper we extend the WALS approach to deal with uncertainty about the specification of the linear predictor in the wider class of generalized linear models (GLMs). We study the large-sample properties of the WALS estimator for GLMs under a local misspecification framework, and the finite-sample properties of this estimator by a Monte Carlo experiment the design of which is based on a real empirical analysis of attrition in the first two waves of the Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE).
C25|Very Simple Markov-Perfect Industry Dynamics (revision of 2017-021) : Empirics|This paper develops an econometric model of firm entry, competition, and exit in oligopolistic markets. The model has an essentially unique symmetric Markov-perfect equilibrium, which can be computed very quickly. We show that its primitives are identified from market-level data on the number of active firms and demand shifters, and we implement a nested fixed point procedure for its estimation. Estimates from County Business Patterns data on U.S. local cinema markets point to tough local competition. Sunk costs make the industry's transition following a permanent demand shock last 10 to 15 years.
C25|The Predictive Power of Subjective Probability Questions|This paper evaluates the predictive validity of stated intentions for actual behaviour. In the context of the 2017 Dutch parliamentary election, we compare how well polls based on probabilistic and deterministic questions line up with subsequent votes. Our empirical strategy is built around a randomised experiment in a representative panel. Respondents were either simply asked which party they will vote for, or were asked to allocate probabilities of voting for each party. The results show that for the large majority of the respondents, probabilities predict individual behaviour better than deterministic statements. There is, however, substantial heterogeneity in the predictive power of the subjective probabilities. We find evidence that they work better for those with higher probability numeracy, even though probability numeracy was measured eight years earlier.
C25|Very Simple Markov-Perfect Industry Dynamics : Theory|This paper develops a simple model of firm entry, competition, and exit in oligopolistic markets. It features toughness of competition, sunk entry costs, and market-level demand and cost shocks, but assumes that firms' expected payoffs are identical when entry and survival decisions are made. We prove that this model has an essentially unique symmetric Markov-perfect equilibrium, and we provide an algorithm for its computation. Because this algorithm only requires finding the fixed points of a finite sequence of contraction mappings, it is guaranteed to converge quickly.
C25|On the Worst-case Complexity of the Gradient Method with Exact Line Search for Smooth Strongly Convex Functions|We consider the gradient (or steepest) descent method with exact line search applied to a strongly convex function with Lipschitz continuous gradient. We establish the exact worst-case rate of convergence of this scheme, and show that this worst-case behavior is exhibited by a certain convex quadratic function. We also extend the result to a noisy variant of gradient descent method, where exact line-search is performed in a search direction that differs from negative gradient by at most a prescribed relative tolerance. The proof is computer-assisted, and relies on the resolution of semidefinite programming performance estimation problems as introduced in the paper [Y. Drori and M. Teboulle. Performance of first-order methods for smooth convex minimization: a novel approach. Mathematical Programming, 145(1-2):451-482, 2014].
C25|Using compositional and Dirichlet models for market share regression| When the aim is to model market shares, the marketing literature proposes some regression models which can be qualified as attraction models. They are generally derived from an aggregated version of the multinomial logit model. But aggregated multinomial logit models (MNL) and the so-called generalized multiplicative competitive interaction models (GMCI) present some limitations: in their simpler version they do not specify brand-specific and cross effect parameters. In this paper, we consider alternative models: the Dirichlet model (DIR) and the compositional model (CODA). DIR allows to introduce brand-specific parameters and CODA allows additionally to consider cross effect parameters. We show that these two models can be written in a similar fashion, called attraction form, as the MNL and the GMCI models. As market share models are usually interpreted in terms of elasticities, we also use this notion to interpret the DIR and CODA models. We compare the properties of the models in order to explain why CODA and DIR models can outperform traditional market share models. An application to the automobile market is presented where we model brands market shares as a function of media investments, controlling for the brands price and scrapping incentive. We compare the quality of the models using measures adapted to shares.
C25|Interpreting the impact of explanatory variables in compositional models|Regression models have been developed for the case where the dependent variable is a vector of shares. Some of them, from the marketing literature, are easy to interpret but they are quite simple and can only be complexified at the expense of a very large number of parameters to estimate. Other models, from the mathematical literature, are called compositional regression models and are based on the simplicial geometry (a vector of shares is called a composition, shares are components, and a composition lies in the simplex). These models are transformation models: they use a log-ratio transformation of shares. They are very flexible in terms of explanatory variables and complexity (component-specific and cross-effect parameters), but their interpretation is not straightforward, due to the fact that shares add up to one. This paper combines both literatures in order to obtain a performing market-share model allowing to get relevant and appropriate interpretations, which can be used for decision making in practical cases. For example, we are interested in modeling the impact of media investments on automobile manufacturers sales. In order to take into account the competition, we model the brands market-shares as a function of (relative) media investments. We furthermore focus on compositional models where some explanatory variables are also compositional. Two specifications are possible: in Model A, a unique coefficient is associated to each compositional explanatory variable, whereas in Model B a compositional explanatory variable is associated to component-specific and cross-effect coefficients. Model A and Model B are estimated for our application in the B segment of the French automobile market, from 2003 to 2015. In order to enhance the interpretability of these models, we present different types of impact assessment measures (marginal effects, elasticities and odds ratios) and we show that elasticities are particularly useful to isolate the impact of an explanatory variable on a particular share. We show that elasticities can be equivalently computed from the transformed model and from the model in the simplex and that they are linked to directional C-derivatives of simplex-valued function of a simplex variable. Direct and cross effects of media investments are computed for both models. Model B shows interesting non-symmetric synergies between brands, and Renault seems to be the most elastic brand to its own media investments. In order to determine if component-specific and cross-effect parameters are needed to improve the quality of the model (Model B) or if a global parameter is reasonable (Model A), we compare the goodness-of-fit of the two models using (out-of-sample) quality measures adapted for share data.
C25|Framing individual choice behaviour in uncertain environmental settings: An analysis of tourist preferences in the face of global warming|Unlike current stated preference studies, this paper examines the existence of framing effects from varying information about the environmental features characterizing the decision-making context where respondents are asked to state their preferences. Thus, it adds to the existing literature on framing effects which has usually been focused on analysing the welfare impacts derived from changing information relating to substitute goods and individuals’ budget constraint, the attributes defining the good to be valued and the complexity of the choice task. In particular, and through a novel choice experiment design, the paper investigates the impacts on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) from varying information about the degree of uncertainty over an expected global warming-derived increase in the temperature of a traditional summer holiday destination. Results show that the WTP increases with the magnitude of the expected temperature change and its associated probability of occurrence. Thus, they evidence that the degree of uncertainty over an expected environmental phenomenon can affect preferences for policies aimed at adapting to the environmental conditions resulting from such phenomenon. The implications of the results for decision-making in traditional sun and beach tourism destinations are also discussed.
C25|Policy Reform and Gender Inequality in French Higher Education: A Two-Generation Comparative Study|After a long historical process, the principle of coeducation became accepted within the French education system, and since the 1980s the fight against gender inequality has been at the heart of educational reforms. The rationale for equality is not simply moral: gender inequalities slow down human capital accumulation and thereby slow economic growth. The aim of this paper is to determine whether various recent reforms have led to a decrease in gender inequality, measured according to three dimensions: access to prestigious post-baccalaureate courses; access to “male” academic courses; and access to higher diplomas. We use a multinomial logistic regression to compare the Cereq databases Generation 1998 and 2010. Our results show that in spite of a reduction in inequality, access to prestigious courses and access to higher diplomas remain affected by gender inequality. We also show that some “male” academic courses remain highly gender-biased. In this sense, then, we can conclude that human capital accumulation in France is not yet optimal.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C25|Towards Sustainability: Effective Operations Strategies, Quality Management and Operational Excellence in Banking|This paper sets out to extend and deepen the understanding the ways toward economic sustainability through efficient and effective growth operations strategies, quality management and operational excellence in banking. In this study we define new quality management practices based on developed conceptual architecture of digital platform for operations function in banking. Additionally, we employ decision making framework consisted of two parts: introduction of new operations services using Total Unduplicated Reach and Frequency (TURF) statistical analysis and segregation of core from actual and augmented operations services utilizing Analytic Network Process (ANP) method based on BOCR model. Proposed quality management practices were used for the first time in this paper for particular purposes and have the high potential to impact the excellence in banking business. The study can contribute to operations management, quality management, innovation management, IT management, business process management and decision making in service organizations.
C25|Policy Reform and Gender Inequality in French Higher Education: A Two-Generation Comparative Study|After a long historical process, the principle of coeducation became accepted within the French education system, and since the 1980s the fight against gender inequality has been at the heart of educational reforms. The rationale for equality is not simply moral: gender inequalities slow down human capital accumulation and thereby slow economic growth. The aim of this paper is to determine whether various recent reforms have led to a decrease in gender inequality, measured according to three dimensions: access to prestigious post-baccalaureate courses; access to “male” academic courses; and access to higher diplomas. We use a multinomial logistic regression to compare the Cereq databases Generation 1998 and 2010. Our results show that in spite of a reduction in inequality, access to prestigious courses and access to higher diplomas remain affected by gender inequality. We also show that some “male” academic courses remain highly gender-biased. In this sense, then, we can conclude that human capital accumulation in France is not yet optimal.
C25|Forecast Evaluation in Call Centers: Combined Forecasts, Flexible Loss Functions and Economic Criteria|Accurate forecasts of incoming calls are crucial to optimal staffing decisions in call centers. This paper evaluates a wide range of models and forecast combination techniques by means of statistical and economic criteria. Relative to the previous literature, this paper is novel in several respects. In particular, the statistical evaluation of competing models is carried out by using a fl exible loss function as input to pairwise and joint forecast diagnostic checks. Informative rankings across alternative single models and different groups of models are obtained. Moreover, models are evaluated from the perspective of a manager, who needs reliable forecasts to dimension the call center. Money metrics of forecasting performance are computed, which are based on the economic value of information and the certainty equivalent.
C25|Demand for Yogurt in the Trend of Manufacturer Brand and Organic Information| The random coefficients multinomial logit model was used to study the demand for yogurt which is differentiated by manufacturer brands and organic information. For this purpose, we used the scanner-level data set collected by the Information Resource Incorporated at the chain level. General Mills and Danone are the two brands with the highest market shares. In general, demand for yogurt has found to be elastic for all brands. On average, consumers are more price-sensitive to non-organic brands than organic brands. Results revealed some degree of brand loyalty and the switching behavior among yogurt consumers.
C25|Fertility Regulation Behavior: Sequential Decisions in Tunisia|Fertility analysis in Tunisia is revisited by focusing on regulation instruments instead of the number of births or the number of children alive. In Muslim societies, in which marriage is the exclusive acknowledged childbearing context, a woman may be seen as starting her fertility regulation period by postponing her age at marriage. Once married, she can adjust the delay before her first birth control. Then, she can decide whether or not to use a contraceptive, and finally she can select a specific contraception method. These four decisions, approximately arranged sequentially, may somewhat interact with the sequential stages of the woman's lifecycle and involve distinct motivations: (1) enrolment in higher education; (2) participation in the labor market; (3) a given fertility objective; and (4) dealing with middle age and old age health problems. Using data from the 2001 Tunisian PAP-FAM survey data, we estimate econometric models that provide an approximate description of fertility regulation as an outcome of the above sequential decisions. Accordingly, the significant effects of our explanatory variables gradually arise and vanish across the models as the women proceeds in her fertility regulation process. Our findings suggest that family network and sociocultural environment greatly shape the household preference for children. Although strict causality inference is beyond the possibilities of a single cross-section, the elicited correlations point to suggestive explanations that call for additional collection efforts to better capture lifecycle decisions of family members and the interactions of the extended family across this lifecycle.
C25|Granger causality in dynamic binary short panel data models|Strict exogeneity of covariates other than the lagged dependent variable, and conditional on unobserved heterogeneity, is often required for consistent estimation of binary panel data models. This assumption is likely to be violated in practice because of feedback effects from the past of the outcome variable on the present value of covariates and no general solution is yet available. In this paper, we provide the conditions for a logit model formulation that takes into account feedback effects without specifying a joint parametric model for the outcome and predetermined explanatory variables. Our formulation is based on the equivalence between Granger's definition of noncausality and a modification of the Sims' strict exogeneity assumption for nonlinear panel data models, introduced by Chamberlain1982 and for which we provide a more general theorem. We further propose estimating the model parameters with a recent fixed-effects approach based on pseudo conditional inference, adapted to the present case, thereby taking care of the correlation between individual permanent unobserved heterogeneity and the model's covariates as well. Our results hold for short panels with a large number of cross-section units, a case of great interest in microeconomic applications.
C25|Inference on breakdown frontiers| A breakdown frontier is the boundary between the set of assumptions which lead to a specifi c conclusion and those which do not. In a potential outcomes model with a binary treatment, we consider two conclusions: First, that ATE is at least a specifi c value (e.g., nonnegative) and second that the proportion of units who bene fit from treatment is at least a speci c value (e.g., at least 50%). For these conclusions, we derive the breakdown frontier for two kinds of assumptions: one which indexes deviations from random assignment of treatment, and one which indexes deviations from rank invariance. These classes of assumptions nest both the point identifying assumptions of random assignment and rank invariance and the opposite end of no constraints on treatment selection or the dependence structure between potential outcomes. This frontier provides a quantitative measure of robustness of conclusions to deviations in the point identifying assumptions. We derive vN-consistent sample analog estimators for these frontiers. We then provide an asymptotically valid bootstrap procedure for constructing lower uniform confi dence bands for the breakdown frontier. As a measure of robustness, this confi dence band can be presented alongside traditional point estimates and con fidence intervals obtained under point identifying assumptions. We illustrate this approach in an empirical application to the e ffect of child soldiering on wages. We fi nd that conclusions are fairly robust to failure of rank invariance, when random assignment holds, but conclusions are much more sensitive to both assumptions for small deviations from random assignment.
C25|Discrete Choice and Rational Inattention: a General Equivalence Result|This paper establishes a general equivalence between discrete choice and rational inattention models. Matejka and McKay (2015, AER) showed that when information costs are modelled using the Shannon entropy, the resulting choice probabilities in the rational inattention model take the multinomial logit form. We show that when information costs are modelled using a class of generalized entropies, then the choice probabilities in any rational inattention model are observationally equivalent to some additive random utility discrete choice model and vice versa. This equivalence arises from convex- analytic properties of the random utility model. Thus any additive random utility model can be given an interpretation in terms of boundedly rational behavior. We provide examples of this equivalence utilizing the nested logit model, an empirically relevant random utility model allowing for flexible substitution possibilities between choices.
C25|Labour market access, family responsibilities and health perception of Italian women|The aim of this paper is to highlight the determinants of female employment in Italy in recent years, when education, costumes, family composition and social and individual preferences for family and work have considerably changed from the past. Nevertheless, the difficulties Italian women still experience in planning and carrying out their (potential) professional and private life have no similar explanations in other countries. We calculate the impact of several features of women’s life in determining their employment and we find highly significant results which help to explain the situation. Furthermore, we investigate what shape the perception of their health status using the same variables. We find significant results also for explaining the health status of women through the (multiple) family burdens and the chance to have a job.
C25|Active labour market policies and short-time work arrangements: evidence from a survey of Luxembourg firms|We analyse the use of active labour market policy (ALMP) measures and short-time work arrangements (STWAs) by Luxembourg firms during the years of economic and financial crisis (2008-09) and the subsequent European sovereign debt crisis (2010-13). About 34% of Luxembourg firms used ALMPs between 2008 and 2013. Economy-wide, use of ALMPs increased along both the extensive margin (more firms) and the intensive margin (more measures per firm). The likelihood that a firm hired with recourse to ALMPs is greater for large, domestically oriented, multiple establishment firms, firms facing strong demand, with concerns about labour cost pressures and unavailability of skilled labour. The crisis saw a surge in firms using STWAs. The likelihood of applying for STWAs increases with demand volatility, the share of workers with permanent contracts, export orientation and the inability to shift workers between establishments. Firms reported that 20-25% of jobs in STWAs were saved by this measure. JEL Classification: C25, J63, J68
C25|Pricing decisions under financial frictions: evidence from the wdn survey|I test the predictions from Duca, Montero, Riggi and Zizza (2017), who develop a customermarket model with consumer switching costs and capital-market imperfections in which price-cost markups behave countercyclically, with a subsample of European firms participating in the Wage Dynamics Network 2014 survey. I use a novel empirical approach developed by Aakvik, Heckman and Vytlacil (2005) for estimating discrete choice models with binary endogenous regressors that allows for selection on unobservables. Results show that firms subject to financial constraints had a significantly higher probability of raising markups than in a counterfactual scenario without such constraints. Moreover, the estimated partial effects for the main variables are in overall accordance with the predictions from the theoretical model.
C25|A Discrete Choice Model For Large Heterogeneous Panels with Interactive Fixed Effects with an Application to the Determinants of Corporate Bond Issuance|What is the effect of funding costs on the conditional probability of issuing a corporate bond? We study this question in a novel dataset covering 5610 issuances by US firms over the period from 1990 to 2014. Identification of this effect is complicated because of unobserved, common shocks such as the global financial crisis. To account for these shocks, we extend the common correlated effects estimator to settings where outcomes are discrete. Both the asymptotic properties and the small sample behavior of this estimator are documented. We find that for non-financial firms, yields are negatively related to bond issuance but that effect is larger in the pre-crisis period.
C25|The Recent Increase in Dual-Income Households and Its Impact on Consumption Expenditure|In recent years, the increase in dual-income households has been remarkable. The main factor in this increase has been the successful efforts of the government and firms in promoting female labor force participation in a tight labor market. In addition, negative factors such as the heightened concern of mainly middle-aged people regarding their financial situation in old age has also affected the increase in dual-income households. Looking at the effects of the increase on dual-income households' consumption expenditure and savings, it is clear that the increase in income corresponds with an increase in consumption expenditure. Meanwhile, the increase in dual-income households also contributes to a rise in the savings rate (a decline in propensity to consume), which is considered to be one reason why macroeconomic propensity to consume has declined since about 2013.
C25|A discrete choice model for large heterogeneous panels with interactive fixed effects with an application to the determinants of corporate bond issuance|What is the effect of funding costs on the conditional probability of issuing a corporate bond? We study this question in a novel dataset covering 5,610 issuances by US firms over the period from 1990 to 2014. Identification of this effect is complicated because of unobserved, common shocks such as the global financial crisis. To account for these shocks, we extend the common correlated effects estimator to settings where outcomes are discrete. Both the asymptotic properties and the sample behaviour of this estimator are documented. We find that for non-financial firms, yields are negatively related to bond issuance but that effect is larger in the pre-crisis period.
C25|Decision to Emigrate Amongst the Youth in Lebanon|This paper studies the determinants of youth emigration decisions, which is considered to be one of the main causes of 'Brain Drain' in Arab Mediterranean Countries (AMCs). We focus on the case of Lebanon using a unique dataset covering young people aged 15 to 29 from the year 2016. The aim of the paper is to identify the profile of youth's propensity to emigrate from Lebanon. The empirical results indicate that youth from non-wealthy backgrounds living in smaller dwellings have a higher propensity to emigrate. It is also found that being male and unemployed has a positive incidence on migration. Moreover, university education promotes the willingness to emigrate; while residents of poor regions are more likely to express such willingness. Finally, the paper provides some insights for policymakers.
C25|Understanding Rating Movements in Euro Area Countries|This paper investigates the link between sovereign ratings and macroeconomic fundamentals for a group of euro area countries that recorded rating downgrades during the euro area sovereign debt crisis. We apply an elaborated econometric estimation technique, based on a Bayesian ordered probit model, to understand how the decisions of rating agencies can be explained by economic developments. The estimated model reproduces historical ratings by using a small number of economic and institutional variables which seem to effectively summarize the large number of criteria used by Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch in their assignment of sovereign ratings. Our results suggest that the size of the downgrades observed since the start of the sovereign crisis has been broadly in line with the deterioration of economic fundamentals for most countries.
C25|Cultural identity and willingness to protect and preserve art|The aim of this paper is to analyse the willingness to pay of art-goers for the protection and preservation of cultural artefacts. To this purpose, a discrete choice experiment approach is employed. The experiment took place in 2011 during a major exhibition dedicated to the artist Costantino Nivola (1911- 1988). His works, especially those based on the novel sand-casting technique, are known worldwide and many of them were produced after he moved from Sardinia (Italy) to the United States (where he lived from 1939 to his death in 1988). Over this period he never cut his ties with his native land. As a result, both the American and the Sardinian culture affect and show up in his works. In this context, the discrete choice experiments allowed us to estimate not only the price that people are prepared to pay for the security of Nivola's artefacts but also the contribution of non-market components, such as identity, to preserve those objects. Accounting for heterogeneity, the empirical findings show that among visitors there is a substantial willingness to partially cover the cost of preserving the cultural heritage, with significant differences related to the characteristics of the collections considered.
C25|Peace is much more than doves: The economic benefits of bird-based tourism as a result of the peace treaty in Colombia|Colombia has the greatest bird diversity of any country in the world, with approximately 1900 recorded species, equivalent to 20% of all bird species worldwide. Advances made by the Colombian government to achieve greater security within the country – putting an end to the long-standing armed conflict – and to promote ecotourism can help position Colombia as one of the most important bird watching destinations worldwide. This study estimates the economic benefits from bird-based tourism in post-war Colombia. In particular, we estimate the value that members of the US-based National Audubon Society place on a birding tour that includes the participation of local communities (some of whom were victims of the armed conflict), and visits to important areas for bird watching that are increasingly accessible. The study also approximates the demand for international bird watching tourism to the country. Through the application of the contingent valuation method, we show that birding enthusiasts would be willing to pay, on average, an additional $58 per person per day for a tour in Colombia, as compared to a similar tour in terms of duration and services in Costa Rica, currently one of the main tourism destinations for birdwatchers. Our analysis indicates that a total of 278,850 North American bird watchers would be interested in visiting the country, generating an annual profit of $9 million and 7516 new jobs. In addition to confirming demand for bird-based travel, the study provides information about potential visitors’ preferences, which can help guide the development of a strategy to promote bird-based tourism to Colombia.
C25|Multinomial choice with social interactions: occupations in Victorian London|This paper presents a multinomial choice model with social interactions in an incomplete network. Individuals form heterogenous rational expectations about the behavior of peers by taking into account their characteristics and the strength of their ties. We show the network conditions under which the endogenous and exogenous effects can be separately identified even in the presence of correlated effects at the group level. Conditions for unique equilibrium are established. We apply our empirical model to occupational choice in nineteenth century London. Thanks to a newly constructed dataset, we use ecclesiastical parish boundaries as proxies for social groups and geographic distances between individuals as measures of the strength of their ties. Our results show that endogenous network effects were important above and beyond correlated and exogenous effects. We uncover distinct impact by occupation type: peers in professional and industrial occupations have a positive impact on the likelihood of following a similar occupation while commercial have a negative one.
C25|Factores asociados a la pobreza subjetiva en Colombia: un estudio desde el enfoque de las capacidades y la economía de la felicidad|Este artículo busca examinar la asociación entre variables de satisfacción y características propias del individuo y su entorno con la percepción de pobreza de los colombianos. A partir de la Encuesta Nacional de Calidad de Vida (ENCV) del DANE del año 2011, se estima un modelo de elección discreta logit y coeficientes estandarizados para la pobreza subjetiva. Los resultados muestran que aunque el ingreso tiene el mayor peso en la percepción de pobreza, el estar bien nutrido se constituye como la capacidad más elemental para que un colombiano pueda desarrollar otras capacidades. Además, se encuentra que situaciones de violencia como el desplazamiento forzoso, tienen un peso significativo en la percepción de pobreza de aquellos que la padecen. Finalmente, se observa que los colombianos tienden a conformarse con sus vínculos sociales, mostrándose satisfechos con aspectos de su vida asociados a la capacidad de desenvolverse en sociedad, aun cuando se consideran pobres.
C25|An Uphill Battle: The Relationship Between Geography and Terrorism|Regarding the effect of geography on social violent behavior, this study introduces the idea that Geographic Fragmentation is associated with more terrorism, given its close relationship with the role of the government and socioeconomic conditions of people. We consider a panel of 128 countries between 1971 and 2005 using count data methodologies. This allows us to provide robust evidence for a consistent effect, even when different controls are included. Our baseline estimate indicates that one country with a 1% higher measure of Geographic Fragmentation is associated with an increment of 1.38 in the number of terrorist attacks on average.
C25|Exact Nonlinear and Non-Gaussian Kalman Smoother for State Space Models with Implicit Functions and Equality Constraints|In this paper, I present a novel implementation of the exact nonlinear and non-Gaussian Kalman smoother that can also deal with implicit functions in the measurement and/or state equations as well as equality constraints. Read the accompanying paper CPB Discussion Paper 360 . My approach has the additional advantage that it can be fully automated, on the basis of which I have developed a toolbox that can handle a wide class of discrete-time state space models. The toolbox is documented in an accompanying paper, while the technical details are presented in the current one.
C25|SMOOTHIES: A Toolbox for the Exact Nonlinear and Non-Gaussian Kalman Smoother|In this paper, I present a new toolbox that implements the exact nonlinear and non-Gaussian Kalman smoother for a wide class of discrete-time state space models, including models with implicit functions and equality constraints. Read also CPB Discussion Paper 359 . The technical details are presented in an accompanying paper, while the toolbox is documented in the current one. The toolbox, which is built on top of Dynare, is very user-friendly and only requires the user to provide the state space model to be analyzed, while the toolbox automatically solves the smoothing problem. The toolbox can also be applied for conditional forecasting, which is demonstrated on the basis of a nonlinear macroeconomic model with forward-looking variables.
C25|How much consumers value on-line privacy? Welfare assessment of new data protection regulation (GDPR)|Our paper analyses upcoming personal data protection reform in the EU from the perspective of user preferences. Our aim is to estimate monetary valuation of the core instruments envisaged in the General Data Protection Regulation and assess potential welfare gain from this policy intervention. On methodological grounds, we utilize stated preference discrete choice experiment. Our final dataset consisted of 4390 choices made by 143 respondents. We used these data to estimate the mixed logit model. Our study for the first time analyses the broader spectrum of privacy control mechanisms and provides estimates of welfare gain from policy intervention in privacy domain. By taking this perspective we fill a gap in literature and provide insights into users’ preferences towards particular instruments, such as right to be forgotten, right to object profiling and personal data portability. The main finding from the analysis is that implementation of enhanced privacy control mechanisms will generate positive welfare effect. The size of estimated welfare gain from policy intervention of the same scope as GDPR amounts to 6.5 EUR per capita monthly. This result proves that there is a ‘demand’ for privacy reform driven by both concerns related to disclosing personal data as well as shortage of effective tools for privacy management.
C25|The Role of Structural Funding for Stability in the German Banking Sector|We analyze whether, and if so by how much, stable funding would have contributed to the financial soundness of German banks in the time period between 1995 and 2013, before the Basel III liquidity regulation to address excessive maturity mismatches in the wake of the financial crisis via the Net Stable Funding Ratio can be expected to have been fully implemented. Using a dataset that contains information on critical events of German banks, we find that financing loans using fewer customer deposits would have been associated with a higher probability of financial distress for savings banks and credit cooperatives. A one percent rise in the loanto- deposit ratio from 1995 to 2013 corresponds to an increase in the probability of experiencing a critical event, implying approximately two additional savings banks and two additional credit cooperatives in financial distress. No such effect can be detected for commercial banks (excluding big banks), which are found to be far more heterogeneous with respect to their business models.
C25|Overeducation at a Glance. Determinants and Wage Effects of the Educational Mismatch Based on AlmaLaurea Data|Abstract This essay delivers two main innovations with respect to the existing literature. First, and foremost, by extending the work of Nicaise (2010) relative to the reservation wage to the case of overeducation, we propose a statistical test to discriminate between alternative theoretical interpretations of the determinants of overeducation through the Heckman sample selection procedure. Second, the essay provides the first available economic analysis of the consequences of the educational mismatch in Italy as based on AlmaLaurea data, the largest and richest data bank available in the country. The data includes a large number of university graduates enrolled in a given year before the Bologna reform and asks a large number of questions allowing us measuring among others the quality of education from high school. This wealth of information is a condition to provide the most comprehensive, accurate and reliable assessment of overeducation in the country. The educational mismatch 5 years from graduation is relatively high—at 11.4 and 8% for overeducation and overskilling, respectively—by EU standards. Ceteris paribus the parents of the mismatched have lower educational levels according to school tracking. Most humanities and social sciences degrees but also geology, biology and psychology are associated with both types of mismatch. The quality of education also correlates to the educational mismatch. We find a non-conditional wage penalty associated to overeducation and overskilling of 20 and 16% and a conditional one of about 12 and 7%, respectively. The Heckman sample selection model returns a slightly higher sample selection corrected wage penalty, supporting not only the job competition and job assignment models, but also the human capital model. Other concurrent statistical tests point to the difficulty that the educational system faces in providing work-related skills to graduates.
C25|Why they keep missing: An empirical investigation of rational inattention of rating agencies|Sovereign ratings have frequently failed to predict crises. However, the literature has focused on explaining rating levels rather than the timing of rating announcements. We fill this gap by explicitly differentiating between a decision to assess a country and the actual rating decision. Thereby, we account for rational inattention of rating agencies that exists due to costs of reassessment. Exploiting information of rating announcements, we show that (i) the proposed differentiation significantly improves estimation; (ii) rating agencies consider many nonfundamental factors in their reassessment decision; (iii) markets only react to ratings providing new information; (iv) developed countries get preferential treatment.
C25|The role of structural funding for stability in the German banking sector|We analyze whether, and if so by how much, stable funding would have contributed to the financial soundness of German banks in the time period between 1995 and 2013, before the Basel III liquidity regulation to address excessive maturity mismatches in the wake of the financial crisis via the Net Stable Funding Ratio can be expected to have been fully implemented. Using a dataset that contains information on critical events of German banks, we find that financing loans using fewer customer deposits would have been associated with a higher probability of financial distress for savings banks and credit cooperatives. A one percent rise in the loanto-deposit ratio from 1995 to 2013 corresponds to an increase in the probability of experiencing a critical event, implying approximately two additional savings banks and two additional credit cooperatives in financial distress. No such effect can be detected for commercial banks (excluding big banks), which are found to be far more heterogeneous with respect to their business models.
C25|Energy transition in Germany and regional spillovers: What triggers the diffusion of renewable energy in firms?|The success of an energy turnaround towards renewables highly depends on the willingness and ability of firms to adopt energy technologies using renewable sources. Existing studies focused on the role of regulation and energy markets (e.g. the price for fossil energy) to explain the diffusion of green energy technologies. The present paper tries to give a more comprehensive view on the determinants of renewable energy innovations focusing on the crucial role of firms' regional environment (role of regional spillover effects, the greenness of a region and the regional endowment with green energy plants). We use a unique database combining the Community Innovation Survey 2014 for Germany and NUTS 3 data on renewable energy plants, the greenness of a region and other economic control variables. We find that geographical proximity to electricity production based on renewable energy sources and the orientation of a region towards 'green issues' (measured by the share of green party voters) are both major drivers for such innovations. Furthermore, our results show that in addition to regulation, government subsidies for eco-innovation, high energy costs and regional knowledge spillovers contribute to a rapid adoption of renewable energy. The reinforcing nature of this process leads to a diverging regional development of renewable energy innovations.
C25|Evaluating mobile number portability policy in the Thai mobile telecommunications market|Abstract Mobile number portability (MNP), which allows consumers to retain their mobile numbers when switching service providers, is expected to promote competition by lowering switching costs. This paper estimates switching costs and switching costs reduction from the MNP policy in Thailand using the mixed logit model with preference heterogeneity on a nationwide survey of mobile telecommunications service usages. The estimation result shows that the MNP policy reduces switching costs by 37% on average and that this benefit is heterogeneous across consumers. The considerable and persistent switching costs call for additional measures to facilitate switching.
C25|Discrete Choice and Rational Inattention: A General Equivalence Result|This paper establishes a general equivalence between discrete choice and rational inattention models. Matejka and McKay (2015, AER) showed that when information costs are modelled using the Shannon entropy function, the resulting choice probabilities in the rational inattention model take the multinomial logit form. By exploiting convex-analytic properties of the discrete choice model, we show that when information costs are modelled using a class of generalized entropy functions, the choice probabilities in any rational inattention model are observationally equivalent to some additive random utility discrete choice model and vice versa. Thus any additive random utility model can be given an interpretation in terms of boundedly rational behavior. This includes empirically relevant specifications such as the probit and nested logit models.
C25|DFEL-RTN, a set of TSP programs for root-N consistent estimations of dynamic fixed effects logit models|gDFEL-RTN (version 0.0.0) h is a set of TSP programs for root-N consistently estimating the dynamic fixed effects logit model with strictly exogenous continuous explanatory variables and/or time dummies. This set facilitates the researchers exploring the binary choice panel data.
C25|Cultural identity and willingness to protect and preserve art|The aim of this paper is to analyse the willingness to pay of art-goers for the protection and preservation of cultural artefacts. To this purpose, a discrete choice experiment approach is employed. The experiment took place in 2011 during a major exhibition dedicated to the artist Costantino Nivola (1911-1988). His works, especially those based on the novel sand-casting technique, are known worldwide and many of them were produced after he moved from Sardinia (Italy) to the United States (where he lived from 1939 to his death in 1988). Over this period he never cut his ties with his native land. As a result, both the American and the Sardinian culture affect and show up in his works. In this context, the discrete choice experiments allowed us to estimate not only the price that people are prepared to pay for the security of Nivola's artefacts but also the contribution of non-market components, such as identity, to preserve those objects. Accounting for heterogeneity, the empirical findings show that among visitors there is a substantial willingness to partially cover the cost of preserving the cultural heritage, with significant differences related to the characteristics of the collections considered.
C25|Migration, Labor Tasks and Production Structure in Europe|This paper assesses the effect of the immigration on the production structure in a selection of European countries in 2001-2009 with a task-based approach. The infl ow of immigrants represents an increase in the relative supply of manual-physical (or simple) tasks, hence favoring simple-task intensive sectors. We use a new OECD dataset, PIAAC, to calculate the index of simple-task intensity at the country-industry level. The analysis confirms that the increase in migration stocks caused a positive impact on the value added of sectors that use more intensively simple tasks. These effects are more intense when considering countries as Italy and Spain characterized by a recent, rapid and intense in flow of migrants. Endogeneity issues are discussed and instruments based on a gravity approach are used in estimation.
C25|Monotonicity of Probit Weights|We demonstrate that the probit weight function is U-shaped on R, i.e., it is decreasing on (infinity,0), strictly increasing on [0,infinity), and strictly convex on R. Knowledge of the shape of the probit weight function can resolve any confusion that may arise from a result in the classic paper of Sampford (1953).
C25|Economic calculus or personal and social values? A micro-econometric analysis of the acceptance of climate and energy policy measures|Based on data from a representative survey among more than 2200 households, this paper empirically examines the agreement to the German energy transition in total and to six single energy policy measures, which are components of this challenging national policy approach. Our micro-econometric analysis with uni- and multivariate binary and ordered probit models reveals that both economic calculus and personal and social values are relevant for this agreement. An expected future electricity price increase due to the energy transition (which especially incorporates the price expectations in the hypothetical case that the measures of the energy transition are withdrawn) is significantly negatively correlated with the agreement to the two core measures of the energy transition, namely the nuclear phase-out and the financial support of the expansion of renewable energies. While other economic variables like income and energy expenditures also have some significant effects, our estimation results especially reveal that political identification and other personal values are at least equally relevant. For example, an overall left-green orientation is significantly positively correlated with the agreement to the energy transition in total and especially to the aforementioned core measures of the energy transition, which are also significantly positively affected by strong environmental values. Our econometric analysis suggests that studies that only include economic variables or only include personal and social values in order to explain the acceptance of policy measures can lead to biased estimation results and thus distorted conclusions. For policy makers our study additionally identifies important skeptical population groups which might be addressed in order to increase the acceptance of climate and energy policy measures like the German energy transition.
C25|The Moral-Hazard Effect of Liquidated Damages: An Experiment on Contract Remedies|Recent evidence suggests that liquidated-damages clauses provide efficiencyadvantages by crowding out contracting parties' deontological concerns about efficient breach. In this paper we highlight an important downside to damage stipulations by parties. Based on findings obtained in a controlled laboratory experiment, we suggest that express damage stipulations trigger negative reciprocity and moral hazard, reducing performance by contract promisors. Such negative effects are absent when damages are exogenously imposed. Moreover, our results indicate that when stipulating damages, contract parties attain less cooperative surplus than when they are subject to an exogenously imposed remedy. Principals, not agents, bear this loss.
C25|A Deeper Analysis on Pharmaceutical Submarket Concentration: the US market in 1987-1998|We investigate the impact of submarket concentration on launches of new products in the US pharmaceutical 3 digit submarkets during the period 1987-1998. In addition to the typical specification of entry- exit standard reduced form models, we introduce additional decision drivers from data on submarkets, including concentration, company size relative to incumbent firms and the number of competing products. The estimates of a logit model, based on company panel data for various submarkets measured yearly, show that a concentrated industry at submarket level is a barrier to entry.
C25|Entry and Patents: Evidence from the US Cardiovascular Pharmaceutical Sector|The goal of this study is to analyze the impact of innovation on entry, that is, the launch of a new product, for some specific three digit cardiovascular sector in the US pharmaceutical market, for the period 1988-1998. We have a panel data obtained by crossing-check IMS Health Data on sales with data on patents for companies selling products into those submarkets. We estimate a logit panel model by controlling for endogeneity, adopting submarket and firm specific variables. Our results show that own patents don’t clearly encourage entry, while patent holdings by incumbents have contrasting effects: on one hand the initial stock act as a barrier to entry, on the other hand they promote entry through the opening of new technological opportunities.
C25|Individual heterogeneity and pension choices: How to communicate an effective message?|We use the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) to explain how communication influences the heterogeneity in pension choices. To this end we exploit the 2007 Italian reform that allowed transferring future severance pay contributions into a pension fund and was accompanied by an information campaign with a clear message. According to ELM, individuals follow either a “central route” or a “peripheral route” depending on their motivation and ability to think, and eventually change or retain their initial attitude. Based on Logit models and data from the Bank of Italy Survey on Household Income and Wealth, we find that the decision to transfer the severance pay into a pension fund was taken by more educated and older individuals, with high household income. Since the reform was mainly directed at low income and younger individuals, this result suggest that the information campaign was not very effective. Moreover, our findings show that generic financial literacy does not significantly affect decision consciousness, pointing at a more relevant role in the elaboration process for: the individual’s comprehension of the specific choice object (pension funds), cognitive skills, and influential contextual factors (i.e., unions and employer’s pressure).
C25|Past Income Scarcity and Current Perception of Financial Fragility|The aim of this paper is to test whether a temporary experience of income scarcity in the recent past affects the individual’s assessment of financial fragility over time. Using EU-SILC (European Union Statistics on Income and Living Condition) longitudinal data in 2010-2013 period, our results highlight that individuals who transited out of a short spell of scarcity tend to record a lower subjective ability to make ends meet than those who never experienced it during the reference period, even after two years and controlling for the current level of household income. When a more objective measure of household financial health is taken, the effect is weaker and disappears when current income is accounted for. Our results, which are robust to various robustness checks, have implications for public policies since they question the idea that helping people to leave an objective condition of income scarcity is enough to address poverty and social exclusion.
C25|A Note on Nonparametric Identification of Distributions of Random Coefficients in Multinomial Choice Models|I prove that the joint distribution of random coefficients and additive errors is identified in a mulltinomial choice model. No restrictions are imposed on the support of the random coefficients and additive errors. The proof uses large support variation in choice-specific explanatory variables following Lewbel (2000) but does not rely on an identification at infinity technique where the payoffs of all but two choices are set to minus infinity.
C25|It's a cruel summer: Household responses to reductions in government nutrition assistance|The appropriate size and scope of government nutrition assistance programs is a regular source of debate among policy-makers, and with calls to reduce government benefits, a clear understanding of household responses to any proposed benefit reduction is critical. Exploiting the design of U.S. nutrition assistance programs, we examine how low-income households reallocate their budgets following an exogenous reduction in nutrition assistance benefits. The magnitude of our results suggests that the budget for an average low-income household with children is severely inflexible and likely unable to absorb more than a $2 to $3 reduction in nutrition benefits per child per week.
C25|Mis-classified, Binary, Endogenous Regressors: Identification and Inference|This paper studies identification and inference for the effect of a mis-classified, binary, endogenous regressor when a discrete-valued instrumental variable is available. We begin by showing that the only existing point identification result for this model is incorrect. We go on to derive the sharp identified set under mean independence assumptions for the instrument and measurement error, and that these fail to point identify the effect of interest. This motivates us to consider alternative and slightly stronger assumptions: we show that adding second and third moment independence assumptions suffices to identify the model. We then turn our attention to inference. We show that both our model, and related models from the literature that assume regressor exogeneity, suffer from weak identification when the effect of interest is small. To address this difficulty, we exploit the inequality restrictions that emerge from our derivation of the sharp identified set under mean independence only. These restrictions remain informative irrespective of the strength of identification. Combining these with the moment equalities that emerge from our identification result, we propose a robust inference procedure using tools from the moment inequality literature. Our method performs well in simulations.
C25|Traffic Safety in Korea: Understanding the Vulnerability of Elderly Pedestrians|Pedestrians are vulnerable in traffic, with frequently reported injuries and fatalities. These risks are believed to be correlated with socio-economic attributes such as age, income or education levels. For Korea, it is shown that elderly pedestrians have a higher mortality risk than other road users. On a municipal level, risk factors are high car ownership, an aging population and low population density; factors associated with rural areas. Some tentative evidence also points to financially stronger municipalities having better traffic safety, which could reflect a larger capacity to maintain roads and implement road safety measures.
C25|Specification and Estimation of Network Formation and Network Interaction Models with the Exponential Probability Distribution|In this paper, we model network formation and network interactions under a unified framework. The key feature of our model is to allow individuals to respond to incentives stemming from interaction benefits on certain activities when they choose friends (network links), while capturing homophily in terms of unobserved characteristic variables in network formation and activities. There are two advantages of this modeling approach: first, one can evaluate whether incentives from certain interactions are important factors for friendship formation or not. Second, in addition to homophily effects in terms of unobserved characteristics, inclusion of incentive effects in the network formulation also corrects possible friendship selection bias on activity outcomes under network interactions. A theoretical foundation of this unified model is based on a complete information cooperative game. A tractable Bayesian MCMC approach is proposed for the estimation of the model. We apply the model to empirically study American high school students' friendship networks with the Add Health data. We consider two activity variables, GPA and smoking frequency, and find a significant incentive effect from GPA, but not from smoking, on friendship formation. These results suggest that the benefit of interactions in academic learning is an important factor for friendship formation, while the interaction benefit in smoking is not, even though homophily in smoking behavior is important for a smoker to link to other smokers. On the other hand, from the perspective of network interactions, both GPA and smoking frequency are subject to significant positive interaction (peer) effects.
C25|Measuring the Distributions of Public Inflation Perceptions and Expectations in the UK|The Bank of England/GfK NOP Inflation Attitudes Survey asks individuals about their inflation perceptions and expectations in eight ordered categories with known boundaries except for an indifference limen. With enough categories for identification, one can fit a mixture distribution to such data, which can be multi-modal. Thus Bayesian analysis of a normal mixture model for interval data with an indifference limen is of interest. This paper applies the No-U-Turn Sampler (NUTS) for Bayesian computation, and estimates the distributions of public inflation perceptions and expectations in the UK during 2001Q1--2015Q4. The estimated means are useful for measuring information rigidity.
C25|What Shapes Europeans’ Attitudes toward Xeno-philia(/phobia)?|"Migration has strongly manifested itself to historic highs, creating divisive views among politicians, policy makers and individuals. The present paper studies the Europeans’ attitudes toward immigration and the contextual factors that shape these attitudes. Based on 267,282 respondents from 22 countries and over the period 2002-2014, we find that despite the eventful past years, Europeans, on average, are still positive toward immigrants with the North European countries to be the most xenophile to immigrants of all backgrounds. High educational level and political orientation (right-wing) are among the most important individual characteristics that associate with xenophile and xenophobic sentiments, respectively. Macroeconomic conditions and ethnic diverse environments play a very important role in shaping public attitudes. A salient finding of our analysis is that regardless of the impact of other contextual factors, individuals (and countries) with high social capital do exhibit more positive attitudes toward immigration than the rest of the population (countries). Social capital further moderates the negative effects of any ""perceived threat"" on people’s opinions about immigrants."
C25|Discrete Choice and Rational Inattention: a General Equivalence Result�|This paper establishes a general equivalence between discrete choice and rational inattention models. We show that the choice probabilities emerging from any random utility discrete choice model can be obtained from a class of suitably generalized rational inattention models, and vice versa. Thus any discrete choice model can be given an interpretation in terms of boundedly rational behavior. The underlying idea is that the surplus function of a discrete choice model has a convex conjugate that is a generalized entropy (which is a suitable generalization of the Shannon entropy function). These generalized entropies are used to construct an information cost function for a generalized rational inattention model. We denote this class of rational inattention problems as Generalized Entropic Rational Inattention (GERI) models.
