C29|istinguishing Incentive from Selection Effects in Auction-Determined Contracts|This paper develops a novel approach to estimate how contract and principal-agent characteristics influence an ex-post performance outcome when the matching between agents and principals derives from an auction process. We propose a control-function approach to account for the endogeneity of contracts and matching. This consists of, first, estimating the primitives of an interdependent values auction model - which is shown to be non-parametrically identified from the bidding data - second, constructing control functions based on the distribution of the unobserved private signals conditional on the auction outcome. A Monte Carlo study shows that our augmented outcome equation corrects well of the endogeneity biases, even in small samples. We apply our methodology to a labor market application: we estimate the effect of sports players’ auction-determined wages on their individual performance.
C29|An introduction to flexible methods for policy evaluation|This chapter covers different approaches to policy evaluation for assessing the causal effect of a treatment or intervention on an outcome of interest. As an introduction to causal inference, the discussion starts with the experimental evaluation of a randomized treatment. It then reviews evaluation methods based on selection on observables (assuming a quasi-random treatment given observed covariates), instrumental variables (inducing a quasi-random shift in the treatment), difference-in-differences and changes-in-changes (exploiting changes in outcomes over time), as well as regression discontinuities and kinks (using changes in the treatment assignment at some threshold of a running variable). The chapter discusses methods particularly suited for data with many observations for a flexible (i.e. semi- or nonparametric) modeling of treatment effects, and/or many (i.e. high dimensional) observed covariates by applying machine learning to select and control for covariates in a data-driven way. This is not only useful for tackling confounding by controlling for instance for factors jointly affecting the treatment and the outcome, but also for learning effect heterogeneities across subgroups defined upon observable covariates and optimally targeting those groups for which the treatment is most effective.
C29|Labor Productivity and Firm-Level TFP with Technology-Specific Production Function|We investigate the technological dimension of productivity, presenting an empirical methodology based on mixture models to disentangle the labor productivity differences associated with the firm's choice of technology (BTFP) and those related to the firm's ability to exploit the adopted technology (WTFP). The estimation endogenously determines the number of technologies (in the sector) and degree of technology sharing across firms (i.e., for each firm, the probability of using a given technology). By using comparable data for about 35,000 firms worldwide distributed across 22 (two-digit) sectors, we show BTFP to be at least as important as WTFP in explaining the labor productivity gaps across firms. Intra-sectoral and inter-sectoral heterogeneity is substantial and, even in sectors in which BTFP dominates on average, we find a considerable number of firms for which labor productivity is mostly determined by the ability to use the adopted technology. Hence, dissecting the labor productivity gaps is crucial to achieving more targeted innovation policies. The estimated number of technologies ranges from one (in only three industries) to five, being three in most cases. The suggested estimation strategy takes simultaneity into account. The BTFP measure is unaffected by omitted price bias. The presence of BTFP dispersion can be associated with the action of frictions preventing firms from switching to superior and more productive technologies. Eliminating BTFP does not eliminate misallocation. (Copyright: Elsevier)
C29|Aglomeración empresarial y eficiencia técnica: un enfoque de frontera estocástica en la producción para Bogotá D.C|En este documento se presenta una metodología para identificar y delimitar las aglomeraciones urbanas en la ciudad de Bogotá D.C. Sumado a lo anterior, se estiman dos modelos de frontera estocástica de producción para evaluar la situación de eficiencia técnica entre firmas ubicadas en zonas de la ciudad altamente aglomeradas y zonas no aglomeradas. La evidencia encontrada sugiere que, la distribución de la actividad económica comercial, industrial y de servicios no es aleatoria, por el contrario se encuentran concentradas en 80 aglomeraciones que comprenden el 22.1% del perímetro urbano de la ciudad. Por otro lado, se encuentra que índices de eficiencia técnica en la producción para el sector industrial y de servicios exhiben un comportamiento creciente en la medida que se incrementa el grado de aglomeración; para el sector comercial, dada su naturaleza se encuentra gran dispersión de su localización en el territorio y no se aprecian diferencias significativas de mayor eficiencia según se incrementa el grado de aglomeración empresarial.
C29|Do redlisted species follow Benford's law?|"Benford's law describes how different numbers are distributed as first figures in statistics. The law states, for example, that the number 1 should be the first digit in 30.1% of cases, the figure 2 in 17.6% of the cases and the figure 9 in 4.6% of the cases. If Benford's law is violated, it may be an indication that the numbers may be manipulated, or more generally of low quality. Possibly the most high-profile case is the investigation of the Greek macroeconomic accounts. The Stability and Growth Pact of the EU imposes certain constraints on member countries budget deficits, and there were concerns about the Greek economy in the 2000s. According to some observers, it was ""well-known"" among EU-officials that the Greece numbers were ""cooked"". It is then of some interest to note that the Greek macroeconomic data were those that showed the most significant deviation from Benford's law, compared to all other EU-countries, according to the analysis of Rauch et al (2011). Analysis of the law has used different data sets: Sandron (2003) studies the population of 198 countries (good agreement); Ley (1996) finds that one-day returns for some American indexes follow the law; Gonzalez-Garcia and Pastor (2010) shows that macroeconomic data generally follows Benford's law. Nigrini & Mittelmaier (1997) produces a test for accounting fraud analysis. According to Stigler's (1980) law, the name of the discoverer is often different from the name of the law; it is seemingly widely acknowledged that Newcomb (1881) already made the discovery. Fellman (2014) provides a comprehensive review of the literature. Intuitively, the law does not work well for certain types of data, such as length of humans, where the majority of the numbers start with 1 and a few with 2. We must also have a large data base, so that we have ""enough"" variation in the data. It is not a very intuitive law, although there are some attempts to show that the law follows from certain mathematical arguments. Our approach here is just to apply the law to a certain data-set and explore whether or not it holds true. The law does not prove that the quality of data is bad, but it is sufficiently well tested in so many contexts that a deviation from the law merits a closer investigation of the data generating process."
C29|La elasticidad precio de la demanda de transporte aéreo de pasajeros en los Estados Unidos<BR>[The price elasticity of demand for air travel in the United States]|The object of this work is to estimate the price elasticity of demand for air transport of passengers in the United States, and review the adequacy of the various methods used to make a quantification of the elasticity of demand for a good or service. The problems to make a robust quantification of that value are classic and well-known. There are omitted variables, on both the demand and supply sides, and the problem of identifiability seems to be serious. The simple regression, which is the most common method, is analyzed. As well as the method of instrumental variables: using the price of oil. But the conclusion reached is that those procedures yield unreliable results. Through the quasi-experimental procedure, I get an estimate of the price elasticity of demand, with the drawback that includes the ability to switch between air routes. It offers a close, reliable quantification of the demand for air routes. Finally, harmonic analysis does suggest a value of the elasticity for the market as a whole. Both methods would give a solution to this econometric problem.
C29|Education and wage inequality before and during the fiscal crisis: A quantile regression analysis for Greece 2006-2016|The Greek labour market has undergone dramatic changes during the last 10 years. Wage inequality, especially at the bottom end of the earnings distribution, increased sharply. At the same time, the past trend towards educational upgrading of the labour force has further been boosted. In this paper, we analyze the relationship between education and the dispersion of male earnings, using Labour Force Survey data for years 2006 and 2016. We address the issue of unobserved heterogeneity by employing a quantile regression approach. We also account for potential endogeneity by employing the IVQR approach introduced by Chernozhukov and Hansen (2008). Our best estimates suggest that education exerts a negative effect on earnings inequality in the pre-crisis period. However, during the recession, the returns to education appear to be significantly higher at the upper end of the wage spectrum, thereby contributing to increased inequality. We also find evidence that the impact of education on the dispersion of earnings is stronger in the private sector. Finally, we also account for the incidence of over-education. Interestingly, the penalty that overqualified workers suffer, declines across the conditional earnings distribution and disappears completely at the highest quantile in 2016.
C29|Negative advertising and electoral rules: an empirical evaluation of the Brazilian case|This paper assesses how electoral institutions shape candidatesâ€™ incentives about their political advertising strategies. Taking advantage of a discontinuity in the assigment of brazilian municipal election rules, we use a RDD approach to assess how the candidates campaign tone is affected by a shift from a single-ballot to a runoff system. Using an unique database about litigations involving mayor candidates in the elections of 2012 and 2016, results show that 2nd and 3rd placed candidates in the first round of a runoff election have a probability more than 50 p.p. higher of being part in a litigation regarding negative advertising when compared to a single round election.
C29|Is a peaceful cohabitation between living species possible? An empirical analysis on the drivers of threatened species|Some scientific views argue that human population and economic activities might be expanding at the cost of other biological species. Hence, this paper proposes an empirical analysis on the case of threatened animal and plant species, exploiting an international panel dataset to test whether there is a peaceful cohabitation with human activities. Applying count data regression techniques we show, on the one hand, that human population growth and agricultural production harm animal and plant species. On the other hand, our results indicate that the number of threatened animal and plant species depicts an inverted U-shaped curve with income per capita. Our analysis further suggests that the more biological species-rich a region is, the more threatened species it holds, other things being equal. Globally compared to developing countries, developed countries definitely appear to be threatening fewer animal and plant species, suggesting a possible peaceful cohabitation between living species.
C29|Measuring the Effect of Agricultural Extension on Technical Efficiency in Crop Farming: Meta-Regression Analysis|Agricultural extension services have been dominated by development programs to improve the productivity of crops and to increase farmers’ income. The virtues and limitations of these programs ignite a debate among scholars from distinct strands of research. How effective are agricultural extension services in improving the productivity level of the agricultural output? We examine the key determinants driving systematic variations in the obtained technical efficiency estimates from all relevant crop farming studies. A weighted least square meta-regression analysis is conducted by using 193 observations from 96 farm level studies to evaluate the estimates of technical efficiency in crop farming and to review the relationship between agricultural extension services and farm performance. Evidence for the absence of a publication bias in the farm studies used in the meta-analysis is identified. The empirical results manifest that there is a positive and significant effect of extension services on technical efficiency estimates. Farm productivity is significantly influenced by country level characteristics, sample size of farm studies and type of crops. Our empirical findings are robust when replacing missing observations with imputed values applying the multiple imputation method.
C29|Technology-specific Production Functions|"We rely on mixture models to estimate technology-specific production functions avoiding any type of ex-ante assumption on the degree of technological sharing across firms and leaving the number of available technologies unconstrained. Internationally comparable firm-level data are used, to potentially capture all possible technologies available worldwide. Differently from conventional TFP estimates, where the terms ""TFP"", ""productivity"" and ""technology"" are often used interchangeably, our approach enables us to isolate the contribution to labour productivity stemming from technology (i.e. between-technology TFP) from the contribution associated to idiosyncratic productivity shocks not related to technology (i.e. within-technology TFP). While we find the former to be much larger than the latter in most sectors, the relative role of these two dimensions varies considerably across firms, being often reversed. We also find that the firm-level gaps are non-linearly correlated with the international flows of technology, as measured by the OECD country-sector technology payments and receipts. In particular, we show higher incoming (outcoming) flows of technology to be associated to higher (lower) average and dispersion of the between-technology TFP gaps. This stresses the growing importance of the availability of internationally comparable data in dealing with the technological dimension of firm-level productivity."
C29|Factores asociados a la pobreza subjetiva en Colombia: un estudio desde el enfoque de las capacidades y la economía de la felicidad|Este artículo busca examinar la asociación entre variables de satisfacción y características propias del individuo y su entorno con la percepción de pobreza de los colombianos. A partir de la Encuesta Nacional de Calidad de Vida (ENCV) del DANE del año 2011, se estima un modelo de elección discreta logit y coeficientes estandarizados para la pobreza subjetiva. Los resultados muestran que aunque el ingreso tiene el mayor peso en la percepción de pobreza, el estar bien nutrido se constituye como la capacidad más elemental para que un colombiano pueda desarrollar otras capacidades. Además, se encuentra que situaciones de violencia como el desplazamiento forzoso, tienen un peso significativo en la percepción de pobreza de aquellos que la padecen. Finalmente, se observa que los colombianos tienden a conformarse con sus vínculos sociales, mostrándose satisfechos con aspectos de su vida asociados a la capacidad de desenvolverse en sociedad, aun cuando se consideran pobres.
C29|The Stability of Tax Elasticities over the Business Cycle in European Countries|We estimate short‐ and long‐run tax elasticities that capture the relationship between changes in national income and tax revenue. We show that the short‐run tax elasticity changes according to the business cycle. We estimate a two‐state Markov‐switching regression on a novel data set of tax policy reforms in 15 European countries from 1980 to 2013, showing that the elasticities during booms and recessions are statistically (and often economically) different. The elasticities of personal income taxes, corporate income taxes, indirect taxes and social contributions tend to be larger during recessions. Estimates of long‐run elasticities are in line with existing literature.
C29|Stock Prices Predictability at Long-horizons: Two Tales from the Time-Frequency Domain|Accepting non-linearities as an endemic feature of financial data, this paper re-examines Cochrane's “new fact in finance” hypothesis (Cochrane, Economic Perspectives-FRB of Chicago 23, 36-58, 1999). By implementing two methods, frequently encountered in digital signal processing analysis, (Undecimated Wavelet Transform and Empirical Mode Decomposition both methods extract components in the time-frequency domain), we decompose the real stock prices and the real dividends, for the US economy, into signals that correspond to distinctive frequency bands. Armed with the decomposed signals and acting within a non-linear framework, the predictability of stock prices through the use of dividends is assessed at alternative horizons. It is shown that the “new fact in finance” hypothesis is a valid proposition, provided that dividends contribute significantly to predicting stock prices at horizons spanning beyond 32 months. The identified predictability is entirely non-linear in nature.
C29|Does good governance attract tourists?|No effort has been made to connect good governance and the perfor- mance of the tourism industry at the country level. We take a first step to provide empirical evidence of this positive effect. Based on a data set of 100 countries between 2002 and 2012, the impact of the Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) on the tourism industry is analyzed. Us- ing a dynamic panel data approach, we highlight the role played by good governance in explaining differences in countries' tourism performances.
C29|Nonparametric Kernel Estimation of the Impact of Tax Policy on the Demand for Private Health Insurance in Australia|This paper is motivated by our attempt to answer an empirical question: how is private health insurance take-up in Australia affected by the income threshold at which the Medicare Levy Surcharge (MLS) kicks in? We propose a new difference de-convolution kernel estimator for the location and size of regression discontinuities. We also propose a bootstrapping procedure for estimating confidence bands for the estimated discontinuity. Performance of the estimator is evaluated by Monte Carlo simulations before it is applied to estimating the effect of the income threshold of Medicare Levy Surcharge on the take-up of private health insurance in Australia using contaminated data.
C29|Technology-specific Production Functions|"We rely on mixture models to estimate technology-specific production functions avoiding any type of ex-ante assumption on the degree of technological sharing across firms and leaving the number of available technologies unconstrained. Internationally comparable firm-level data are used, to potentially capture all possible technologies available worldwide. Differently from conventional TFP estimates, where the terms ""TFP"", ""productivity"" and ""technology"" are often used interchangeably, our approach enables us to isolate the contribution to labour productivity stemming from technology (i.e. between-technology TFP) from the contribution associated to idiosyncratic productivity shocks not related to technology (i.e. within-technology TFP). While we find the former to be much larger than the latter in most sectors, the relative role of these two dimensions varies considerably across firms, being often reversed. We also find that the firm-level gaps are non-linearly correlated with the international flows of technology, as measured by the OECD country-sector technology payments and receipts. In particular, we show higher incoming (outcoming) flows of technology to be associated to higher (lower) average and dispersion of the between-technology TFP gaps. This stresses the growing importance of the availability of internationally comparable data in dealing with the technological dimension of firm-level productivity."
C29|Determinants and Effects of Negative Advertising in Politics|This paper assesses the determinants of negative advertising between candidates in electoral races ruled by majority vote, and also the effects of this type of advertising in the voter’s behavior. We evaluate, for example, how the number of candidates and how electoral rules (single-ballot versus runoff election) affects the negativity level of campaigns. We use data from Brazil’s Judiciary system for 2012 mayors election, which allows us to assess how these determinants affect differently the decision of going negative when attacker-attacked candidates were 1st-2nd or 2nd-3rd, for example, in the final vote share.
C29|Factores condicionantes de la divergencia publico-privado en desempeño escolar: Colombia en las pruebas SABER11|El presente trabajo identifica las causas que dan origen a las brechas en desempeño escolar entre los colegios públicos y privados en Colombia. Para este propósito, se emplea la información de los resultados en las pruebas SABER 11 del año 2014, y se aplica la descomposición de Oaxaca-Blinder, combinada con estimaciones de la Función de Producción Educativa, a partir de la metodología propuesta por Heckman, para corregir el sesgo de selección. Se encuentran diferencias significativas en todas las áreas evaluadas en estas pruebas, en favor de los centros privados. Particularmente, en el área de inglés, se da la mayor divergencia. Los colegios privados obtienen, en promedio, 6,1 puntos más que los públicos. Estas brechas se originan, principalmente, por el efecto dotación. Específicamente, se deben, en primer lugar, por las diferencias en recursos escolares, seguido de las divergencias en el estatus socioeconómico y cultural del hogar, y en último lugar, por las diferencias en características individuales.
C29|Modelling effective legal aid system|Aim: This article presents a theoretical model that enables achievement of macroeconomic efficiency of the legal aid system by means of adjusting supply to the pre-determined demand. Results: Main deterministic components of aggregate demand for legal aid are defined using a shift-share type framework. The knowledge of its parameters makes it possible to estimate expected demand for legal aid in response to various formulae of possible reforms of the system. Motivation: Estimates of demand serve to compute legal aid supply that minimizes social costs of legal aid provision. This task is accomplished by means of the so called assignment problem originating the field of operational research. Providers are divided in line with their average productivities in solving appropriate legal cases and the aggregate personal costs of legal aid provision are subject to minimization.
C29|"The Multi-Criteria Fractional Transportation Problem With Fuzzy ""Bottleneck"" Condition"|The paper proposes a new approach to the multi-criteria fractional transportation problem with the same bottleneck denominators, additionally criterion for is also time constraint, i.e. the type bottleneck. We propose to study the case when the bottleneck criterion is not deterministic, but of fuzzy type. In this paper I propose an iterative algorithm for solving the model. It generates the crowds efficient model solutions for different types of approaches to the time required for transport from optimistic to pessimistic, using for this purpose the possible ranges of variation thereof. The algorithm was tested on several examples and was found to be quite effective.
C29|Educational inequalities in Latin America, PISA 2012: causes of differences in school performance between public and private schools|The paper notes and explains the causes of the differences in school performance between public and private schools in Latin America. It uses information from the 8 Latin American countries that participated in PISA 2012. The estimations, two steps with instrumental variables, combined with the technique of the Oaxaca-Blinder’s decomposition, reveal that Uruguay and Brazil had the highest education gap, and Colombia and Mexico the lowest. These differences are explained, mainly, by the observed component of the model. Specifically, the differences in individual characteristics explain the greater proportion of the gaps in performance; followed by family characteristics and resources of the schools. In addition, the decomposition in the no-observed component suggests that students from private schools make better use of the educational resources, both in their homes and in their schools.
C29|Main determinants acquisition of skills in Latin America: a multilevel analysis from the results PISA 2012|Using a random predictor model, on two levels, to analyze the PISA 2012 for the Latin American countries results we found that the main determinants of school performance are gender, condition of not repeater and quality of school materials. In addition, it was determined that the variability in skills acquisition is explained, in a smaller proportion, by the heterogeneity in the characteristics of the students. Finally, it was estimated that private schools have a better performance than public ones, where Brazil, Costa Rica and Uruguay were the countries with the highest educational inequality. Keywords: skills acquisition, educational production function, multilevel models, PISA, Latin America.
C29|Causas de las diferencias en desempeño escolar entre los colegios públicos y privados: Colombia en las pruebas SABER11 2014|This paper identifies the causes that give rise to gaps in school performance between public and private schools in Colombia and five major cities. For this purpose, the information on tests SABER 11 of 2014 is used, and the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition is applied, combined with estimates of educational production function, based on the methodology proposed by Heckman, for correct selection bias. In the national context, significant differences were found in all areas assessed in these tests, in favor of private schools. Particularly in the area of English, the greatest divergence occurs. Private schools get, on average, 6.1 points more than the public. These gaps originate mainly by the endowment effect. Specifically, it must, first, by differences in school resources, followed by differences in socioeconomic and cultural status of the home, and finally, by differences in individual characteristics. Regarding the results for cities, it is determined that Cartagena is the city with greater educational inequality in the five skills assessed, and Medellin is the lowest. For Cali, performance gaps were in favor of public schools. These differences are caused, significantly, the observed part of the model, except in Cali, where gaps in favor of public schools in general are explained the net effect model (unobserved variables). Finally, in these cities, the difference in school resources remains the most significant in the private-public gaps followed by differences in individual and family characteristics factor.
C29|Old and new factors affecting corruption in Europe: Evidence from panel data|Assuming cross-sectional dependence across data, this study employs a version of Pesaran’s Common Correlated Effects (CCE) model to explore old and new hypotheses on the determinants of perceived corruption in the public and political sectors in 31 European countries. In particular, this study analyzes the relationship between risk of poverty and corruption and shows that social distress increases corruption at any level of per capita income and significantly interacts with economic, political, and cultural variables. Public expenditure has an adverse effect on corruption but the perception of a high level of effectiveness and efficiency of public policy counterbalances the negative volume effect of public expenditure and reduces the undesirable influence of poverty on corruption. The strength of cross-sectional dependence across countries that emerged from CCE estimates is interpreted as an effect (inter alia) of the uneven adoption and implementation by European countries of EU anticorruption measures. Policy implications of the results are also discussed.
C29|Quantiles, corners, and the extensive margin of trade|We develop a simple method for the estimation of quantile regressions for corner solutions data (i.e., fully observed non-negative data that have a mixed distribution with a mass-point at zero), focussing particular attention on the case where the domain of the variate of interest is bounded both from below and from above. We use the proposed method to study the determinants of the extensive margin of trade and find that most regressors have very different impacts on different parts of the distribution.
C29|An entropy-based analysis of the relationship between the DOW JONES Index and the TRNA Sentiment series| This article features an analysis of the relationship between the DOW JONES Industrial Average (DJIA) Index and a sentiment news series using daily data obtained from the Thomson Reuters News Analytics (TRNA) provided by SIRCA (The Securities Industry Research Centre of the Asia Pacific). The recent growth in the availability of on-line financial news sources, such as internet news and social media sources provides instantaneous access to financial news. Various commercial agencies have started developing their own filtered financial news feeds which are used by investors and traders to support their algorithmic trading strategies. TRNA is one such data set. In this study, we use the TRNA data set to construct a series of daily sentiment scores for DJIA stock index component companies. We use these daily DJIA market sentiment scores to study the relationship between financial news sentiment scores and the stock prices of these companies using entropy measures. The entropy and mutual information (MI) statistics permit an analysis of the amount of information within the sentiment series, its relationship to the DJIA and an indication of how the relationship changes over time.
C29|Returns to Schooling among Immigrants in Spain: A Quantile Regression Approach|This paper explores the impact of educational attainment on immigrant earnings in Spain using a Quantile Regression approach. Most of the previous research on the impact schooling on earnings has focused on the mean effect neglecting the discrepancies that arise from unobserved heterogeneity. This paper uses the Spanish National Immigrant Survey (NIS), a large-scale immigration survey published by the Spanish National Statistics Institute in 2008. We find that the return to higher education is on average roughly 17%. Interestingly, the impact is twice as strong (20.7%) for immigrants at the top two quintile(s) of the conditional earnings distribution than for those at the bottom of the distribution (10%). This result suggests that the benefits derived from higher education are particularly relevant for individuals with stronger unobserved abilities and marketable skills. By contrast, individuals in the middle and particularly lower quintiles fail to reap a significant return. The large degree of heterogeneity for the returns to schooling found in our research suggests that higher education may be less effective among specific population groups.
C29|Determinants of Regional Differences in Rates of Overeducation in Europe|This paper examines the factors determining variations in spatial rates of overeducation. A quantile regression model has been implemented on a sample of region-yearly data drawn from the EU Survey on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) and several institutional and macroeconomic features captured from other data-sets. Potential determinants of overeducation rates include factors such as labour market risk, financial aid to university students, excess labour demand and institutional factors. We find significant effects both for labour market structural imbalances and institutional factors. The research supports the findings of micro based studies which have found that overeducation is consistent with an assignment interpretation of the labour market.
C29|Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Economic Growth with a Search for Takeoffs from Stagnation to Growth|Data describing historical economic growth are analysed. Included in the analysis is the world and regional economic growth. The analysis demonstrates that historical economic growth had a natural tendency to follow hyperbolic distributions. Parameters describing hyperbolic distributions have been determined. A search for takeoffs from stagnation to growth produced negative results. This analysis throws a new light on the interpretation of the mechanism of the historical economic growth and suggests new lines of research.
C29|To export or not to export? The link between the exporter status of a firm and its technical efficiency in Russia’s manufacturing sector|"Is it generally true that being an exporter for a firm is associated with a higher productivity? We study the relationship between firms’ export status and their technical efficiency in Russian manufacturing sector in 2004—2013 using the data from the Bureau van Dijk database ""Ruslana"". To estimate the exporter status effect we apply two methods, both based on the stochastic frontier analysis. The first approach estimates the effect as the marginal effect of the exporter status on technical efficiency. The second approach is based on the propensity score matching of exporting firms with non-exporting firms. We obtain robust results which suggest that the relationship between the exporter status and technical efficiency is positive. In both cases the exporter status’ effect is up to 0.03 (3 p. p.)."
C29|Likelihood Estimation of the Systemic Poison-Induced Morbidity in an Adult North Eastern Romanian Population|Purpose - Acute exposure to a systemic poison represents an important segment of medical emergencies. We aimed to estimate the likelihood of systemic poison-induced morbidity in a population admitted in a tertiary referral center from North East Romania, based on the determinant factors. Methodology - This was a prospective observational cohort study on adult poisoned patients. Demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics were recorded in all patients. We analyzed three groups of patients, based on the associated morbidity during hospitalization. We identified significant differences between groups and predictors with significant effects on morbidity using multiple multinomial logistic regressions. ROC analysis proved that a combination of tests could improve diagnostic accuracy of poison-related morbidity. Main findings - Of the 180 patients included, aged 44.7 ± 17.2 years, 51.1% males, 49.4% had no poison-related morbidity, 28.9% developed a mild morbidity, and 21.7% had a severe morbidity, followed by death in 16 patients (8.9%). Multiple complications and deaths were recorded in patients aged 53.4 ± 17.6 years (p .001), with a lower Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score upon admission and a significantly higher heart rate (101 ± 32 beats/min, p .011). Routine laboratory tests were significantly higher in patients with a recorded morbidity. Multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that a GCS
C29|The determinants of trade costs: a random coefficient approach|This paper assesses whether the sensitivity of bilateral trade volumes to various trade cost factors is constant or varies across countries. It utilizes a random coefficient model and analyzes a cross-sectional sample of bilateral trade data for 96 countries in 2005. We expect the elasticity of trade to vary particularly with bilateral distance and bilateral tariffs due to measurement error about these factors. Indeed, the variability of coefficients is significant for these trade cost measures. The results indicate that the elasticity of trade with respect to tariffs in different countries varies relatively more than that with respect to distance. This is consistent with there being a host of sources of measurement error about bilateral tariffs (due to strategic or non-strategic mis-reporting; the potential inappropriateness of the weighting of disaggregated tariffs; etc.). Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
C29|Non-monotonic Selection Issues in Electoral Regression Discontinuity Designs|The Regression Discontinuity Design (RDD) has become a popular method for program evaluation in recent years. While it is compelling in its simplicity and requires little in terms of a priori assumptions, it is vulnerable to bias introduced by self-selection into treatment or control group. The purpose of this article is to discuss the issue of non-monotonic self-selection, by which similar numbers of individuals select into and out of treatment simultaneously. This kind of selection has not been discussed in detail so far in the literature, and can be hard to detect with the commonly used methods for data-driven RDD specification testing. The focus of this article lies on selection in the context of close elections, since those are popular natural experiments for RDD applications, and because in this context the issue of non-monotonic selection is rarely considered in practise. I will present a slightly modified approach to specification testing, designed to detect non-monotonic self selection and based on the density test by McCrary (2008). In order to demonstrate how RDDs can be affected by the issue, two existing RDD applications are analysed with respect to non-monotonic sorting. In the first, this article follows up and expands on the remarks made by Caughey & Sekhon (2011) about selection issues in the well known RDD application by D. Lee (2008). The second application is based on the Mexican mayoral election RDD by Dell (2015).
C29|Education and earnings: how immigrants perform across the earnings distribution in Spain|This paper explores the impact of educational attainment on immigrant earnings in Spain using a Quantile Regression approach. Most of the previous research on the impact schooling on earnings has focused on the mean effect neglecting the discrepancies that arise from unobserved heterogeneity. The paper uses the Spanish National Immigrant Survey (NIS), a large-scale immigration survey released by the Spanish National Statistics Institute. We find that the return to higher education is on average roughly 17%. Interestingly, the impact is twice as strong (20.7%) for immigrants at the top two quintile(s) of the conditional earnings distribution than for those at the bottom of the distribution (10%). This result suggests that the benefits derived from higher education are particularly relevant for individuals with stronger unobserved abilities and marketable skills. By contrast, individuals in the middle and particularly lower quintiles fail to reap a significant return. The large degree of heterogeneity in the returns to schooling found in our research suggests that higher education may be less effective among specific population groups.
C29|The Association Between Physician Supply And The Mix Of Generalist And Specialist Services Used|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12090-abs-0001""> Variations in physician supply, and the impact on a patient's use of physicians, remains a concern. This article asks how the supply of physicians is associated with both the number of visits and the dollar value of services received from general practitioners and specialists. Ontario respondents in the Canadian Community Health Survey 2000/2001 are linked to their Ontario Health Insurance Program claims for 3 years (1999–2002). A geographic weighting method is employed to account for physician supply in surrounding jurisdictions. The results are consistent with the conclusion patients substitute one physician type for another when physician supply is constrained. ( JEL I10 , I12 , C29 , C39 , C52)"
C29|Unbundling Technology Adoption and tfp at the Firm Level: Do Intangibles Matter?|" type=""main""> We use a panel of European firms to investigate the relationship between intangible assets and productivity. We distinguish between total factor productivity (tfp) and technology adoption, whereas standard estimations consider only a notion of productivity that conflates the two effects. Although we are unable to address simultaneity, we allow for the existence of multiple technologies within sectors through a mixture model approach. We find that intangible assets have nonnegligible effects that both push firms toward better technologies (technology adoption effects) and allow for more efficient exploitation of a given technology (tfp effects)."
C29|Do Economic Crises Lead Tourists to Closer Destinations? An Analysis of Italy's Regional Data|This article investigates whether the distance between origin and destination has played an increased role in shaping Italy’s domestic tourism flows during the recent years of economic recession. Indeed, the occurrence of closer tourism destinations, as a consequence of the economic crisis, has been recently suggested by a number of authors who obtain their results from micro-data and, more specifically, from surveys. Differently, we study this issue through aggregate official data. Our dataset is made of inter-regional tourism flows among Italian regions over the 2000-12 period; across this period, 2008 to 2012 are years of economic recession. The analytical tool employed is a gravity model. Our results document that distance played a more and more relevant role during the recession.
C29|The Impact Of The Exchange Rate On The Commercials Flows|The liberalization of capital movements between states and of the trade of goods and services, are one of the most important phenomena in the current world economy. The purpose of the present study, in the case of Romania, is to answer the question whether the interventions by means of the exchange rate of the national currency contributes to the fluidization and improvement of the commercial trades. The study demonstrates that the leu devaluation does not lead to a substantial increase of the exports. As a mechanism of influence of the commercials flows, the exchange rate has a short-term influence and the economy requires structural reforms, meant to stimulate the growth of the economic competitiveness.
C29|Valuing convertible bonds and the option to exchange bonds for stock|The value of a conventional convertible bond is the value of a straight bond plus the value of the option to exchange it for a specified number of shares of common stock. First, I develop a closed-form contingent-claims convertible bond valuation model that quantifies the value of the exchange option when the short-term riskless rate, the firm's credit spread, and its share price are stochastic. I model the firm's decision to force early conversion as a stopping time problem in which the firm forces conversion as soon as the conversion value reaches the forced conversion barrier. I empirically validate the model by comparing model and market prices for a sample of 148 corporate convertible bonds issued between 2006 and 2010. The average median and mean pricing errors are −0.18% and 0.21%, respectively, which are within the average bid–ask spread for convertible bonds during the sample period. I use the model to quantify the disruptive impact that the prohibition on short selling during the recent financial crisis had on convertible bond prices.
C29|WACC the dog: The effect of financing costs on the levelized cost of solar PV power|The adoption of solar photovoltaic (PV) technologies has expanded rapidly in recent years, leading to suggestions that this growth, which occurred mostly in high-latitude countries with often low levels of sunshine, may have come at an unnecessarily high price. However, the factors influencing the cost of solar PV, and the subsidies required to sustain its uptake, include more than just the level of sunshine. While cross-country differences in technology costs are hard to ascertain, it is possible to account for the cost of capital on a country-by-country basis. In this paper, we therefore map the cost of solar PV globally, accounting for differences in both the solar resource and the financing cost in order to calculate the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) from solar PV systems in 143 countries. In contrast to the work of other researchers who typically treat financing costs as uniform across countries, our results suggest that the LCOE of solar PV systems in northern countries may in fact be lower than in equatorial countries, and high latitude countries may thus not have been an unwise location to subsidize the adoption of solar PV technologies in the past. Our results further suggest that efforts to expand PV installation in equatorial developing countries may benefit greatly from policies designed to make low cost finance more widely available, which underlines on-going efforts to “de-risk” low carbon investments.
C29|Cultural Norms and Identity in Coordination Games|We run experiments with a stag hunt and bargaining coordination game. Using a between-subjects design, we vary the identity of the opponent between someone of the same culture or a different culture. The idea is to see whether cultural norms or identity play a part in coordination decisions. We compare the responses of British and Asian students at the University of Exeter and show the cultural identity of the opponent by physical appearance. The players appear to use cultural stereotypes to predict behaviour, especially in the bargaining game which may require more strategic thought than the stag hunt game. In particular, the British act in way that indicates they believe the Asians will behave more cautiously than other British. According to our results, the stereotype of Asians being cautious is misleading.
C29|Analysis Of Beta Coefficients In The Brazilian Stock Market Using Fuzzy Linear Regression Methodology|With the aim of using all the information provided by the market to determine the systematic risk, we intend to continue the study of Terceño et al. (2011, 2014) using fuzzy linear regression to calculate the sectors betas of the Brazilian Stock Market. The analysis with fuzzy regression can be applied which crisp data, uncertain or with a mixture of both. The objective of this work is, precisely, to compare the obtained results using the fuzzy regression with crisp data and uncertain data. After that, we make a comparison with the results obtained by using ordinary least squares. The comparison allows us to determine which of the systems allows a better adaptation of reality. As we will show, fuzzy regression is in many ways more versatile than conventional linear regression because functional relationships can be obtained when the independent variables, dependent variables, or both, are not crisp values but intervals or fuzzy numbers.
C29|The Employment Effects of the Minimum Wage: A Selection Ratio Approach to Measuring Treatment Effects|This paper studies the employment effects of the minimum wage using a novel empirical strategy which can allow the researcher to identify treatment effects when more than one control group is available but each such control group is imperfect. Expanding on previous researchers who have compared regions which increase the minimum wage with nearby regions which do not change the minimum wage, I compare border counties in which the minimum wage increases to the set of neighboring counties, the set of neighbor-of-neighboring counties, etc. The key innovation is to model the ratio of the bias of these comparisons. The model I select uses the relative similarity of control groups to the treated group on observables as a guide to their relative similarity on unobservables. Crucially, models of this type have a testable implication when there are enough control groups. Using data from the United States, I find that recent minimum wage increases have produced modest or zero disemployment effects for teenagers.
C29|Determinants of Housing Prices in Hong Kong: A Box-Cox Quantile Regression Approach|This paper analyzes the determinants of housing prices in Hong Kong by using property transaction data of condominium units from Taikoo Shing, one of the largest real estate properties in Hong Kong. We use a hedonic pricing model for the empirical analysis and estimate the model by using the Box-Cox quantile regression method. The empirical results show that this method provides a more comprehensive description of housing price determinants. Housing prices and characteristics have a nonlinear relationship, and this relationship varies across all quantiles. In addition, the response of housing prices to various housing characteristics varies across quantiles. For example, an increase in the size of the gross floor area is more valued at higher quantiles. Other variables have differential effects on housing prices across the distribution of housing prices. We also perform a simple simulation for model predictability and show that our model outperforms other models which have been frequently used in the previous studies. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C29|Nonparametric Kernel Estimation of the Impact of Tax Policy on the Demand for Private Health Insurance in Australia|This paper is motivated by our attempt to answer an empirical question: how is private health insurance take-up in Australia affected by the income threshold at which the Medicare Levy Surcharge (MLS) kicks in? We propose a new difference de-convolution kernel estimator for the location and size of regression discontinuities. We also propose a bootstrapping procedure for estimating confidence bands for the estimated discontinuity. Performance of the estimator is evaluated by Monte Carlo simulations before it is applied to estimating the effect of the income threshold of Medicare Levy Surcharge on the take-up of private health insurance in Australia using contaminated data.
C29|Wesentliche Fakten zur „Investitionsschwäche“ in Deutschland|Widely independent from the specific economic structure of a country, investment is indispensable for economic development. Against this background, backlogs in private and public investment, especially in fields which are critical for future growth, are often seen as a cause for concern. This paper deals with the development of private and public investment activity in Germany since 1991. Using a probit model, we observe for small and medium-sized businesses that their probability of investing seems to increase with higher profit margins, equity capital ratios and employment growth, as well as with better business expectations. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C29|Entwicklung der Investitionstätigkeit in Deutschland|Die nachfolgende Analyse zeigt, in welchem Sinne und in welchen Bereichen die Investitionsentwicklung in Deutschland als „schwach“ eingestuft werden kann. Dabei werden die unterschiedlichen Trends auf verschiedenen staatlichen Ebenen und in einzelnen Wirtschaftsbereichen näher herausgearbeitet. Darüber hinaus wird die Reagibilität der Investitionstätigkeit auf den Konjunkturverlauf sowie Bestimmungsgründe für das Investitionsverhalten von Unter-nehmen unter Verwendung von ökonometrischen Verfahren untersucht.
C29|Disentangling irregular cycles in economic time series|Cycles play an important role when analyzing market phenomena. In many markets, both overlaying (weekly, seasonal or business cycles) and time-varying cycles (e.g. asymmetric lengths of peak and off peak or variation of business cycle length) exist simultaneously. Identification of these market cycles is crucial and no standard detection procedure exists to disentangle them. We introduce and investigate an adaptation of an endogenous structural break test for detecting at the same time simultaneously overlaying as well as time-varying cycles. This is useful for growth or business cycle analysis as well as for analysis of complex strategic behavior and short-term dynamics.
C29|El desempeño educativo escolar en Colombia: factores que determinan la diferencia en rendimiento académico entre las escuelas públicas y privadas|El presente trabajo busca identificar los principales determinantes de las diferencias en el desempeño educativo entre las escuelas públicas y privadas en Colombia, utilizando los datos del Programa Internacional de Evaluación de Alumnos –PISA, 2009-. Se aplica la descomposición de Oaxaca-Blinder, haciendo uso de la metodología de variables instrumentales para solucionar el problema de endogeneidad. Los resultados obtenidos sugieren principalmente que las diferencias en compresión lectora se explican, de forma significativa, por el efecto dotaciones, en particular por las diferencias en dotación individual y no por las diferencias en dotación escolar.
C29|Examining the energy-related CO2 emissions using Decomposition Approach in EU-15 before and after the Kyoto Protocol|This study breaks down carbon emissions into six effects within the European group - EU-15 countries – and analyses their evolution before and after the Kyoto Protocol in order to determine which of them has more impact in the intensity of emissions in those countries. The 'complete decomposition' technique was used to examine the CO2 emissions and its components: carbon intensity,(CI effect), the changes in fossil fuels consumption towards total energy consumption,(EM effect), the change in energy intensity effect,(EG effect), the average renewable capacity productivity (GC effect), the change in capacity of renewable energy per capita (CP effect), and the change in population, (P effect). It is shown that in both periods (before and after Kyoto protocol) for Germany, Denmark and Sweden reductions in CO2 emissions; in particular, with higher levels of differentiation in Germany and Sweden, before Kyoto commitment, it was explained by the predominance of negative effects on the negative variations of three effects decomposed. In the post Kyoto period there is even a greater differential in the negative changes in CO2 emissions, which were caused by the negative contribution of the intensity variations of the effects EM, GC, CP and P that exceeded the positive changes occurred in CI and EG effects. It seems also important to stress the fluctuations in CO2 variations before and after Kyoto, turning positive changes to negative changes, especially in France, Italy and Spain.
C29|Exploring The Role Of Labour Market Uncertainty In Explaining Differences In Rates Of Return To Education In Europe|This paper explores whether international differences in rates of return to education reflect variations in the level of risk associated with educational investments. We find no consistent evidence supporting that international differences in the rates of return to education are explained by variations in the level of market risk. For males we find that higher returns to ISCED-5 qualifications were related to a higher rate of dispersion in both the graduate and lower qualified labour markets, whereas for females we find that higher rates of return to ISCED-5 are more heavily related to general wage dispersion within the economy.
C29|Estimating base temperatures in econometric models that include degree days|Heating and cooling degree days are in common use in conditional demand models, billing analysis, and large-scale energy forecasts. The implications of either choosing an ex-ante base temperature, or scanning over the base temperatures, as suggested in Fels (1986) and recommended by some evaluation protocols, are infrequently considered. These procedures result in biased estimates of weather-driven loads because of correlated errors-in-variables, and impart a downward bias to the variance of those estimates by a factor of two. A non-linear estimation procedure that corrects for these biases and an ex-ante correction factor for evaluating prior evaluations are offered.
C29|The forward looking information content of equity and bond markets for aggregate investments|The literature on aggregate investment has recently shifted attention away from the stock market in favor of the bond market as a consequence of the disappointing empirical results of stock market's Q and the ability of credit spreads to forecast investment and output growth. In this paper we examine the different information content of Tobin's Q and corporate bond spread for aggregate investments in the US by means of wavelet analysis. The evidence shows that equity and bond markets’ information contents are complementary each other rather than alternative. In particular, a progressive shift in the respective contributions of stock market's Q and the relative price of corporate bonds for aggregate investments emerges when moving from higher to lower scales, the contribution of stock market's Q being predominant at higher scales, whereas that of the relative price of corporate bonds has a tendency to increase as the time scale decreases.
C29|Are we there yet? Improving solar PV economics and power planning in developing countries: The case of Kenya|Despite the rapid decline in the cost of solar photovoltaic (PV) systems in the past five years, even recent academic research suggests that the cost of generating PV electricity remains too high for PV to make a meaningful contribution to the generation of grid electricity in developing countries. This assessment is reflected in the views of policymakers throughout Africa, who often consider PV as a technology suited only to remote locations and small-scale applications. This paper therefore analyzes whether, in contrast to conventional wisdom, PV is already competitive with other generation technologies. Analytically, the paper is based on a levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) model to calculate the cost of PV electricity in Kenya, which serves as a case study. Based on actual technology costs and Kenya's solar resource, the LCOE from PV is estimated at USD 0.21/kWh for the year 2011, with scenario results ranging from USD 0.17–0.30/kWh. This suggests that the LCOE of grid-connected PV systems may already be below that of the most expensive conventional power plants, i.e. medium-speed diesel generators and gas turbines, which account for a large share of Kenya's current power mix. This finding implies that researchers and policymakers may be mistaken in perceiving solar PV as a costly niche technology, rather than a feasible option for the expansion of power generation in developing countries.
C29|Improving Environmental Performance: A Challenge for Romania|The transition process in Central and Eastern Europe was associated with growing environmental awareness. This paper analyses the determinants of pollution abatement and control expenditure at plant level in the case of Romania using survey data and a multilevel regression model. Our findings suggest that, although Romania has improved its environmental performance, formal and informal regulations are still only partially developed owing to the difficulties of economic transition, and heterogeneity across regions remains considerable. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
C29|Estimating scale economies in financial intermediation: a doubly indirect inference|This paper provides a vertically integrated modelling of the financial production process. In a first stage the activity of commercial banks or insurance companies embodies some technical and commercial aspects such as services to depositors or mutualization of risk through distribution of contracts of insurance. In the second stage banks are involved in the intermediation activity. By using a simulation and the doubly indirect inference method for the estimation we were able to resolve two main econometric problems: decomposition of aggregated data over two vertically integrated stages of production and inconsistency of the estimators due to endogeneity and misspecification. An application to French Banking industry is provided. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C29|Hong Kong: A Bridge Connecting Mainland China and the International Market|Chow et al. (2011) apply three time-varying parameter methods to investigate the relationship between the stock markets of Shanghai and New York and find that the mutual influence between the two markets has increased since 2002. We reconsider their approaches and find that two suffer from parameter underidentification and all three from underspecification of the parameter variation. We include Hong Kong in an analysis based on standard and partial correlations over a running window in order to depict the change in the mutual relationships between these three markets. It is found that the observed increasing co-movement between Shanghai and New York is mainly due to the channel of Hong Kong. So Hong Kong appears to connect mainland China with the global market.
C29|Language and (the estimates of) the gender wage gap|In this paper we link the estimates of the gender wage gap with the gender sensitivity of the language spoken in a given country. We find that nations with more gender neutral languages tend to be characterized by lower estimates of GWG. The results are robust to a number of sensitivity checks.
C29|Improved Lagrange multiplier tests in spatial autoregressions| For testing lack of correlation against spatial autoregressive alternatives, Lagrange multiplier tests enjoy their usual computational advantages, but the (χ-super-2) first‐order asymptotic approximation to critical values can be poor in small samples. We develop refined tests for lack of spatial error correlation in regressions, based on Edgeworth expansion. In Monte Carlo simulations, these tests, and bootstrap tests, generally significantly outperform χ-super-2‐based tests.
C29|Fatigue and Team Performance in Soccer: Evidence from the FIFA World Cup and the UEFA European Championship|"We investigate the role of fatigue in soccer (football). Although this issue is important for the ""productivity"" of players and the optimal organization of national and international championships, empirical evidence is lacking. We use data on all the matches played by national teams in all the tournaments of the FIFA Soccer World Cup (from 1930 to 2010) and the UEFA European Football Championship (from 1960 to 2012). We relate team performance (in terms of points gained and goals scored and conceded) to the respective days of rests that teams have had after their previous match, controlling for several measures of teams' abilities. Using different estimators we show that, under the current structure of major international tournaments, there are no relevant effects of enjoying different days of rest on team performance. However, we find that before Nineties days of rest had a positive impact on performance, presumably because athletic preparation of players was less effective. Furthermore, we show that the advantage of additional rest is quite relevant, when rest time of one of the opposing teams is three days or less."
C29|Neighborhood effects of civil conflict. (1990 -2012)|Abstract: There have been many papers which have studied the causes of conflict, taking into account causes like natural resources, ethnicity, political problems, and commitment problems, among others. This paper focus on the Law of Universal Gravity of Newton (1687) for trying to see if there could be a neighboring country effect on the probability of a conflict or civil war onset and continuity in a given country, and the effect of the size of the border, and find significant evidence about the distance between countries in the probability of onset a conflict. This may suggest that peaceful countries must be very careful with the relationships with neighbors that are having an armed conflict. Resumen: Existe una cantidad considerable de trabajos que analizan de las causas del conflicto. Entre estas causas encontramos los recursos naturales, las diferencias étnicas y los problemas políticos, etc. Este artículo toma como punto de partida la ley universal de la gravedad propuesta por Newton (1687), con el fin de identificar la existencia de un efecto país vecino y un efecto distancia, en la probabilidad de que un país pueda entrar en guerra civil o tener un conflicto armado. Se demuestra que la distancia entre los países juega un papel en la probabilidad de entrar en guerra. Concluimos que un país en paz debe ser muy cuidadoso en sus relaciones diplomáticas con los países vecinos que tienen conflictos armados.
C29|Bond vs stock market's Q: Testing for stability across frequencies and over time|In this paper we revisit the evidence recently provided by Philippon (2009) about the relationship among bond market's Q, stock market's Q and aggregate investments for the US. Specifically, we analyze the stability of the relationship between aggregate investment and the two measures of Q across frequencies and over time. We find that the relationship between aggregate investment and stock market's Q, in contrast to that with bond market's Q, is both frequency-dependent and time-varying. Both the successfulness of bond market's Q and the poor performance of the usual Tobin's Q can be explained by taking into account stability across frequencies of the first and instability over time of the latter.
C29|Nonlinear analysis among crude oil prices, stock markets' return and macroeconomic variables|This paper has two aims. First, we study the impact of oil price variables (change and volatility) on stock market returns under regime shifts in the case of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. We employ a Markov regime-switching model to generate regime probabilities for oil market variables. We use two state Markov switching models: crisis regime and non-crisis regime. Second, we investigate the non-linear relationship among oil price, interest rates and inflation rates before and during the subprime crisis. We consider several Archimedean copula models with different tail dependence structures, namely, Gumbel, Clayton and Frank copulas. We find evidence that the relationship between GCC stock market returns and OPEC oil market volatility is regime dependent (excluding Oman in the low volatility state). We also find that the dependence structure between inflation rates and crude oil prices is asymmetric and orients toward the upper side during the recent financial crisis. Furthermore, we find evidence of significant symmetric dependence between crude oil prices and the short-term interest rate during the financial crisis. These paper's results have practical significance and important implications for both GCC economic policy and financial stability.
C29|Structural change and phase variation: A re-examination of the q-model using wavelet exploratory analysis|This paper uses the structural change model and wavelet exploratory analysis to re-examine Tobin's q theory of investment. There are two main results. First, wavelet exploratory analysis provides a useful complementary approach to standard confirmatory statistical analysis. Specifically, using energy and time scale decomposition analyses, we find that the long-run is the dominant scale of variation for both aggregate investment and “measured” Tobin's q, and that for most of the sample there is a stable in-phase relationship between the smooth components of investment rate and q, with q slightly leading investments. Moreover, the analysis of the shift of the phase relationship of the long-term components reveals a “pure” smooth break occurring in the late 1970s, and a “spurious” smooth break in the early 1990s when the two smooth components resume their normal in-phase relationship. Second, when we combine the results from wavelet exploratory analysis and the multiple structural breaks test approach, we find that, contrary to the conventional literature, Tobin's q is an important determinant of aggregate investment, and its estimated coefficient can provide a plausible value for the implied adjustment cost of investment. Most importantly, we discover that the relationship depends on time scale; long time scales are more important than short.
C29|Are Voters Rational?| We test whether voters are rational in the sense that their decision to cast a vote depends on its expected impact on the election outcomes. We provide causal evidence on this rational voting hypothesis by using exogenous variation in pivotal probabilities that arise at population thresholds determining council sizes in Finnish municipal elections. First, we document statistically significant, economically relevant and robust effects of crossing the threshold on turnout. Second, we use simulations to measure the pivotal probabilities. Finally, we use a novel instrumental variables design to show that the changes in the pivotal probabilities rather than simultaneous changes in the number of available candidates or their quality explain the changes in turnout. Moreover, we document that turnout responds only to such pivotal probabilities that are salient to the voters, and that the effect of district magnitude on the election closeness in general or the proportionality of elections is not behind the response in turnout. Thus, the rational voter exists. This version (January 19, 2016) replaces the September 27, 2013 version.
C29|Doğrusal Olmayan Yumuşak Geçişli Modeller ile Türkiye Emeklilik Fonları için Piyasa Zamanlaması Analizi|Bu makale emeklilik fonu yöneticilerinin piyasa zamanlama stratejisi uygulayıp uygulamadıklarını doğrusal olmayan yumuşak geçişli modeller yöntemiyle araştırmakta ve piyasa zamanlama stratejisi uygulayan fonların değişen risk ve getiri performansını günlük veri kullanarak incelemektedir. Doğrusal olmayan yumuşak geçişli modeller klasik piyasa zamanlama modellerindeki kısıtlamalara bağlı olmadığından fon yöneticilerinin yatırım davranışları daha doğru analiz edilebilmiştir. Doğrusallık göstermeyen ve portföy yapısını piyasanın yönüyle birlikte değiştirerek getiri elde etmeyi amaçlayan fonların doğru piyasa zamanlaması yapamadıkları gözlemlenmiştir. Sonuç olarak yatırımcıların daha yüksek getiriler sağlama beklentisi ile piyasa zamanlama stratejisi uygulayan daha riskli portföylere yatırım yapması ve bu fonlara göreli olarak daha yüksek yönetim komisyonu ödemesini haklı gösterecek sonuçlar elde edilememiştir.
C29|Automatic and Probabilistic Foehn Diagnosis with a Statistical Mixture Model|Diagnosing foehn winds from weather station data downwind of topographic obstacles requires distinguishing them from other downslope winds, particularly nocturnal ones driven by radiative cooling. We present an automatic classification scheme to obtain reproducible results that include information about the (un)certainty of the diagnosis. A statistical mixture model separates foehn and no-foehn winds in a measured time series of wind. In addition to wind speed and direction, it accommodates other physically meaningful classifiers such as relative humidity or the (potential) temperature difference to an upwind station (e.g., near the crest). The algorithm was tested for the central Alpine Wipp Valley against human expert classification and a previous objective method (Drechsel and Mayr 2008), which the new method outperforms. Climatologically, using only wind information gives nearly identical foehn frequencies as when using additional covariables, making the method suitable for comparable foehn climatologies all over the world where station data are available for at least one year.
C29|Fatigue And Team Performance In Soccer: Evidence From The Fifa World Cup And The Uefa European Championship|We investigate the role of fatigue in soccer (football). Although this issue is important for the “productivity” of players and the optimal organization of national and international championships, there is a lack of empirical evidence. We use data on all the matches played by national teams in all the tournaments of the FIFA Soccer World Cup (from 1930 to 2010) and the UEFA European Football Championship (from 1960 to 2012). We relate team performance (in terms of goal difference and points gained) to the respective days of rests that teams have had after their previous match, controlling for several measures of teams’ abilities. Using different estimators we show that, under the current structure of major international tournaments, there are no relevant effects of enjoying different days of rest on team performance.
C29|Valuing wind farms’ environmental impacts by geographical distance: A contingent valuation study in Portugal|Wind energy is currently one the most important energy sources in the production of electricity. In this study, we use the CVM to elicit the monetary value attached to wind power’s environmental impacts from three different groups of individuals: local residents, residents in a nearby town, and residents outside the area of a wind farm located in Portugal, one of the top 10 countries in the world with the highest cumulative wind power capacity to date. In each case, our empirical analysis employs a novel likelihood function that is constructed to be appropriate for the type of data collected. The main results are supportive of a NYMBY effect, but also indicate that the amount needed to compensate local residents for the negative impacts caused by the wind farm can be raised by the constitution of a compensation fund paid by non-residents, thereby overcoming the inefficiency caused by the NYMBY effect.
C29|A Tale Of Two Cycles In Developing And Advanced Economies: A Country Case Study Comparison|This research aims at performing an econometric analysis on the credit cycle and business cycle from a comparative perspective, with a focus on ten developing and advanced economies from the area of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, in order to better understand their behaviour and the impact of the interactions between them. To achieve this aim, the study focuses on two strategic objectives: a) on the one hand, it analyzes the short-term dynamics (from one quarter to the other) of the relationships between credit expansion and economic growth in order to better grasp which variable influences the other; and b) on the other hand, the research investigates the cyclical components of the data sets (after extracting them from the real GDP and the total volume of credits given by the banking system to the non-governmental sector), i.e. it performs statistical analysis on the medium-term relationships between the business cycle and the credit cycle for each of the ten European economies. The findings revealed in the first phase of the investigation that we cannot speak of a relation of unidirectional causality between credit expansion and economic growth across countries (not even across geographical regions). In Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia, economic growth had an important influence over the crediting activity, thus â€œguidingâ€ it, whereas in the case of Poland, Romania and Slovakia, Granger-type causality relations were registered from the crediting expansion process towards economic growth. The second part of the investigation revealed that sometimes the credit cycle seems to be independent from the business cycle, manifesting an amplitude, a synchronicity and a volatility that is different from and superior to that of business cycle in all the analyzed countries (â€œhaving a mind of its ownâ€ ). Moreover, there is evidence of important spill-over effects of the credit activity across banking systems at national and regional level thus confirming the international feature of the credit cycle.
C29|Matlab code for bivariate Gaussian kernel regression|bivkern is a Matlab function that returns the marginal kernel densities of the two input data series, the bivariate kernel density, the conditional kernel densities, the conditional expectations (aka Nadaraya-Watson kernel regression), and selected conditional percentiles. The kernel is Gaussian.
C29|Matlab code for bivariate Gaussian kernel regression with restrictions|bivkernrest is a Matlab function that returns the marginal kernel densities of the two input data series, the bivariate kernel density, the conditional kernel densities, and the conditional expectations. The kernel is Gaussian; bandwidth Silverman. Unlike standard kernel regression, restrictions can be added to the otherwise free functional form.
C29|Foreign direct investment (FDI) determinants and spatial spillovers across Mexico's states| This article studies the location pattern of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Mexico for the period 1994-2004. An empirical model is specified based on recent FDI theories. This model is estimated using state-level data and employing spatial econometric techniques. Results suggest that higher education levels and lower delinquency rates are important determinants to attract FDI. Results also suggest a relationship of complementarity between inbound FDI to the host state and inward FDI to its neighboring states.
C29|Co-movements of Shanghai and New York stock prices by time-varying regressions|We use time-varying regression to model the relationship between returns in the Shanghai and New York stock markets, with possible inclusion of lagged returns. The parameters of the regressions reveal that the effect of current stock return of New York on Shanghai steadily increases after the 1997 Asian financial crisis and turns significantly and persistently positive after 2002 when China entered WTO. The effect of current return of Shanghai on New York also becomes significantly positive and increasing after 2002. The upward trend has been interrupted during the recent global financial crisis, but reaches the level of about 0.4–0.5 in 2010 for both markets. Our results show that China’s stock market has become more and more integrated to the world market in the past twenty years with interruptions occurring during the recent global economic downturn.
C29|Repeat‐Sales Indexes: Estimation without Assuming that Errors in Asset Returns Are Independently Distributed|This paper proposes an alternative specification for the second stage of the Case-Shiller repeat sales method. This specification is based on serial correlation in the deviations from the mean one-period returns on the underlying individual assets, whereas the original Case-Shiller method assumes that the deviations from mean returns by the underlying individual assets are i.i.d. The methodology proposed in this paper is easy to implement and provides more accurate estimates of the standard errors of returns under serial correlation. The repeat sales methodology is generally used to construct an index of prices or returns for unique, infrequently traded assets such as houses, art, and musical instruments which are likely to be prone to exhibit serial correlation in returns. We demonstrate our methodology on a dataset of art prices and on a dataset of real estate prices from the city of Amsterdam.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Spatial differences in the quality of university patenting: Do regions matter?|This paper uses patent citation data to analyze the quality of university technology across European regions. The empirical analysis draws on a panel dataset of 4580 European university-owned patents classified by 202 European regions over the period 1998–2004. The methodology involves a multilevel framework to identify the effects of factors at three hierarchical levels (individual, university, and regional) on the quality of university patenting. The results suggest that regional factors, such as the level of development, industrial potential, and regional higher education R&D expenditure, do not play any significant role in determining the quality of European university patents. We instead find that the factors affecting patent quality stem from their specific characteristics. We also find that university size does not explain the quality of patents. However, there is significant unobserved heterogeneity at the university level in all models, suggesting that differences in other university characteristics explain a substantial part of the variance in patent quality.
C29|Has the Financial Crisis Changed the Business Cycle Characteristics of the GIPSI Countries?| Since the financial crisis erupted in 2008, the governments of Portugal, Ireland, Italy Greece and Spain (GIPSI) find themselves in a position where financing their debts has become increasingly difficult. As a result, these governments reduced government expenditure and/or increased taxes in order to reduce their deficits. Hence, whilst other countries in the Eurozone – notably Germany - enjoy a recovery from the financial crisis, the GIPSI countries remain in recession. It is therefore no surprise that the business cycles of the northern and southern European countries have increasingly diverged. This in itself poses already a risk for the Eurozone, as it makes the common monetary policy less effective. In this paper we analyse these business cycles in detail. We ask whether the financial crisis has changed the characteristics of the business cycles of the GIPSI countries. For example, the austerity measures in Greece may lead to a convergence of government spending between Germany and Greece and to greater convergence of business cycles in both countries. If this is the case, then at least there is some hope that the common monetary policy will be more effective in the future. But the austerity measures could also lead to greater divergence between Greece and Germany, in which case leaving the monetary Union would not only be beneficial for Greece. It might be unavoidable.
C29|Quality Of Civil Administration And Economic Growth: A Threshold Analysis|The paper distinguishes between 'immediate measures of the quality of civil administration' (IM-QCA), such as corruption, and the 'final measure of the quality of civil administration' (FM-QCA), which is the growth performance of an economy. The paper argues that, instead of being monotonic and linear, the relationship between civil service compensation and economic growth is characterized by vicious and virtuous circles, which are indicative of multiple equilibria. The paper uses the threshold regression methodology to test the multiple equilibria hypothesis and finds support for it. This finding questions the appropriateness of across-the-board salary reduction of civil servants as part of budget balancing austerity measures. Instead, the results of the paper suggest that civil service compensation can be an important policy tool for promoting economic growth, provided the complex, non-linear nature of the compensation-performance relationship, as revealed in this paper, is properly understood and taken into account.
C29|Measurement of causal effects|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Skill mismatches and wages among European university graduates| This article uses comparable international data to examine the extent and wage effects of skill mismatches among European university graduates. The results show that the mismatched earn on average 11.7% less than their well-matched counterparts. This effect, however, cannot be regarded as constant across the conditional earnings distribution: workers with lower unobserved earnings capacity tend to be exposed to greater wage losses when they end up in mismatched jobs.
C29|Influence of generalized trust on Canadian consumers’ reactions to the perceived food risk of three recurring BSE cases| Interest in the influence of trust on consumers’ responses to food risk perceptions associated with Canadian instances of BSE motivates this study, in which Canadian households’ expenditures on fresh meat are assessed in the context of the first three recurring risk events in which bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was found to have affected Canadian cows. Engel Curve analysis focusing on the dynamics of the monthly meat expenditure shares for a selected sample of 437 Canadian households for 2002 through 2005 is applied based on data on household expenditures for meat purchased by a national sample of Canadian households from the Nielsen Homescan® Canadian panel, supplemented by survey responses on BSE risk perceptions and measures of trust. Two sets of models are estimated: Engel curves in differences with instruments in levels and Engel curves in levels with instruments in differences. It is found that habit persistence limited households’ reductions of beef purchases following the first BSE event and that that trust limited households’ reduction in beef expenditure shares following the subsequent two BSE cases. Significant seasonal effects and a significant negative influence on beef expenditure shares are also found, consistent with the trend of declining consumption of beef in Canada since the late 1990s.
C29|Ciclos econômicos e a composição da pobreza no Brasil: uma análise para as décadas recentes|This work assesses the impact of macroeconomic cycles on poverty composition in the Brazilian economy (1987 – 2005). Specifically, it intends to find answers to three questions: first, who are the demographic groups that are most harmed in the recessive cycles; second, if economic growth in itself sufficient to benefit the groups most associated with poverty; third, which are the macroeconomic policies most associated with poverty and with its alleviation. The study used an interaction of micro data form PNAD with macroeconomic data from sources such as IPEA-DATA, Brazilian Central Bank and Secretariat of the Federal Revenue of Brazil. Using logistical regressions with pooled micro-data banks, the work found two main results. First, recession and economic downturns, are more harmful to people with less schooling. Second, tax policy significantly affects poverty: firstly the primary surplus is associated with lower levels of well-being of the population and, on the other hand, the welfare expenditure of the Union may be used to alleviate poverty during the critical stages of the cycles.
C29|Análisis Empírico De La Relación Entre La Actividad Económica Y La Violencia Homicida|El objetivo de este artículo es examinar la relación causal entre asesinatos y actividad económica en Colombia durante las décadas recientes. El análisis saca provecho de que la actividad económica en el resto de América Latina está altamente correlacionada con la actividad económica en Colombia, pero no es afectada directamente por la violencia homicida en Colombia. El uso de este instrumento permite establecer una fuerte relación causal que va de la actividad económica a los homicidios. Un análisis de series de tiempo da sustento adicional a la hipótesis de que hay una relación de largo plazo entre homicidios y actividad económica.
C29|Modelos y mecanismos de interacción universidad-empresa-Estado: retos para las universidades colombianas|Las interacciones entre las universidades y el entorno han sido objeto de estudio en las últimas décadas, sobre todo en el marco de la nueva economía, donde se toma el conocimiento como factor estratégico para la generación de riqueza, y a las universidades como las organizaciones que deben producirlo. El objeto de este artículo es presentar una revisión de literatura alrededor de los principales modelos y mecanismos de interacción Universidad-entorno, con el fin de identificar algunos retos para las universidades colombianas. Esta revisión se realizó en fuentes secundarias, principalmente en bases de datos científicas, y arrojó como resultado que estos modelos y mecanismos han tendido a homogeneizarse, aplicándose indistintamente en los contextos particulares de cada región, produciendo resultados positivos especialmente en Estados Unidos y otros países industrializados, y, por el contrario, fuertes diferencias ideológicas y limitaciones en las interacciones entre los diferentes actores, así como en las capacidades en términos de ciencia, tecnología e innovación de los países en desarrollo, como Colombia. Algunos de los retos que tienen las universidades colombianas están relacionados con el desafío de incrementar sus capacidades de investigación, su acumulación y transferencia de conocimiento, mejorar sus políticas de propiedad intelectual y construir su propio modelo de interacción a partir de sus capacidades internas y del contexto en el cual están inmersas.
C29|Trans-Pacific Economic Relations and US-China Business Cycles: Convergence within Asia versus US Economic Leadership|This paper tests the hypothesis that the links and leadership/dependency relationships between the People’s Republic of China (PRC), the United States (US), and the other large Asian economies have changed over the past 20 years with the industrialization of the PRC economy. We use time-varying spectral methods to decompose the links between seven advanced Asian economies and the US. We find: (a) the links with the US have been weakening, while those within a bloc based on the PRC have strengthened; (b) that this is not new—it has been happening since the 1980s, but has been partly reversed by the recent surge in trade; (c) that there are two blocs within the Asian economic area: one based on Japan and the Republic of Korea and the other on the PRC and her satellites; (d) that product composition is responsible for this division (and for some movement between the blocs); and (e) that the links between the PRC and the US are rather complex, with the US able to shape the cycles elsewhere through her control of monetary conditions, but the PRC able to control the size of the cycles at home and (to some extent) abroad.
C29|Trans-Pacific Economic Relations and US-China Business Cycles : Convergence within Asia versus US Economic Leadership|This paper tests the hypothesis that the links and leadership/dependency relationships between the Peopleâ€™s Republic of China (PRC), the United States (US), and the other large Asian economies have changed over the past 20 years with the industrialization of the PRC economy. We use time-varying spectral methods to decompose the links between seven advanced Asian economies and the US. We find : (a) the links with the US have been weakening, while those within a bloc based on the PRC have strengthened; (b) that this is not newâ€”it has been happening since the 1980s, but has been partly reversed by the recent surge in trade; (c) that there are two blocs within the Asian economic area : one based on Japan and the Republic of Korea and the other on the PRC and her satellites; (d) that product composition is responsible for this division (and for some movement between the blocs); and (e) that the links between the PRC and the US are rather complex, with the US able to shape the cycles elsewhere through her control of monetary conditions, but the PRC able to control the size of the cycles at home and (to some extent) abroad.
C29|Mixture models of choice under risk|This paper is concerned with estimating preference functionals for choice under risk from the choice behaviour of individuals. We note that there is heterogeneity in behaviour between individuals and within individuals. By ‘heterogeneity between individuals’ we mean that people are different, in terms of both their preference functionals and their parameters for these functionals. By ‘heterogeneity within individuals’ we mean that the behaviour may be different even by the same individual for the same choice problem. We propose methods of taking into account all forms of heterogeneity, concentrating particularly on using a Mixture Model to capture the heterogeneity of preference functionals.
C29|Mixture models of choice under risk|This paper is concerned with estimating preference functionals for choice under risk from the choice behaviour of individuals. We note that there is heterogeneity in behaviour between individuals and within individuals. By 'heterogeneity between individuals' we mean that people are different, in terms of both their preference functionals and their parameters for these functionals. By 'heterogeneity within individuals' we mean that the behaviour may be different even by the same individual for the same choice problem. We propose methods of taking into account all forms of heterogeneity, concentrating particularly on using a Mixture Model to capture the heterogeneity of preference functionals.
C29|Stealing History: How does Provenance Affect the Price of Antiquities?|In 1982, the United States passed legislation that partially implemented the UNESCO Treaty, the Cultural Property Implementation Act. Despite the fact that the United States signed onto this treaty, it was common knowledge in the antiquities world that the enforcement of these laws has been lax, and the illegal sale of artifacts has continued. In December 2005, the Italian government took the Curator of Antiquities at the Getty Museum Marion True and Robert Hecht (a well-known antiquities dealer) to trial for conspiracy to buy and sell looted artifacts. This paper tests whether a good provenance increases the price of an antiquity and also whether the impact of appropriate provenance has changed since the trial began. To test these hypotheses, a hedonic regression on sales prices of provenanced and unprovenanced artifacts is estimated. We find that provenanced items are indeed selling for higher prices after 2005, ceteris paribus, which is evidence that the art market has responded to the law suits.
C29|A new method for detecting differential item functioning in the Rasch model|Differential item functioning (DIF) can lead to an unfair advantage or disadvantage for certain subgroups in educational and psychological testing. Therefore, a variety of statistical methods has been suggested for detecting DIF in the Rasch model. Most of these methods are designed for the comparison of pre-specified focal and reference groups, such as males and females. Latent class approaches, on the other hand, allow to detect previously unknown groups exhibiting DIF. However, this approach provides no straightforward interpretation of the groups with respect to person characteristics. Here we propose a new method for DIF detection based on model-based recursive partitioning that can be considered as a compromise between those two extremes. With this approach it is possible to detect groups of subjects exhibiting DIF, which are not prespecified, but result from combinations of observed ovariates. These groups are directly interpretable and can thus help understand the psychological sources of DIF. The statistical background and construction of the new method is first introduced by means of an instructive example, and then applied to data from a general knowledge quiz and a teaching evaluation.
C29|University spillovers and new business location in high-technology sectors: Spanish evidence|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Are the New Member States Converging on the Euro Area?: A Business Cycle Analysis for Economies in Transition|The Optimal Currency Area theory stresses the importance of co-movement of the business cycles of member states in order for the common currency to be successful. Yet, the identification of (European) business cycles has been inconclusive and is complicated by the enlargement to the new member states in 2004 and their transition to market economies. In this paper, we show how to decompose a business cycle into a time-frequency framework in a way that allows us to compare the growth rate spectra and coherences for the Hungarian, Polish, Czech, German and French economies. We find that, since joining the EU, there has been convergence on the euro area economy at short cycle lengths, but little convergence in long cycles. We argue that this shows evidence of nominal convergence, but little real convergence. The standard Maastricht convergence criteria for membership of the euro therefore need to be adapted to test for real convergence. JEL Classification: C22, C29, C49, F43, O49 Keywords: Time-Frequency Analysis, Coherence, Growth Rates, Business Cycles
C29|Using Spline Functions For The Substantiation Of Tax Policies By Local Authorities|The paper aims to approach innovative financial instruments for the management of public resources. In the category of these innovative tools have been included polynomial spline functions used for budgetary sizing in the substantiating of fiscal and budgetary policies. In order to use polynomial spline functions there have been made a number of steps consisted in the establishment of nodes, the calculation of specific coefficients corresponding to the spline functions, development and determination of errors of approximation. Also in this paper was done extrapolation of series of property tax data using polynomial spline functions of order I. For spline impelementation were taken two series of data, one reffering to property tax as a resultative variable and the second one reffering to building tax, resulting a correlation indicator R=0,95. Moreover the calculation of spline functions are easy to solve and due to small errors of approximation have a great power of predictibility, much better than using ordinary least squares method. In order to realise the research there have been used as methods of research several steps, namely observation, series of data construction and processing the data with spline functions. The data construction is a daily series gathered from the budget account, reffering to building tax and property tax. The added value of this paper is given by the possibility of avoiding deficits by using spline functions as innovative instruments in the publlic finance, the original contribution is made by the average of splines resulted from the series of data. The research results lead to conclusion that the polynomial spline functions are recommended to form the elaboration of fiscal and budgetary policies, due to relatively small errors obtained in the extrapolation of economic processes and phenomena. Future research directions are taking in consideration to study the polynomial spline functions of second-order, third-order, Hermite spline and cubic splines of class C2 .
C29|An Empirical Study Regarding the Impact of Foreign Direct Investments over the Gross Domestic Product of Central and Eastern Europe Countries|This paper aims to explain if there is a connection between foreign direct investments (FDI) and gross domestic products (GDP) of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) countries. Through a regression model we look for a correlation between these two indicators. CEE region has always been attracting investors in order to invest here. It has always been a magnet for investors who wanted to expand and to grow their businesses. Is there a significant relationship between FDI and GDP? What is its impact? Does FDI have a direct impact over GDP in CEE countries?
C29|Educational Qualifications And Wage Inequality: Evidence For Europe|In this paper we investigate the connection between education and wage inequality in nine European countries. We exploit the quantile regression technique to calculate returns to lower secondary, upper secondary and tertiary education at different points of the wage distribution. Using data from the last few decades, we describe changes in the conditional wage distribution of the surveyed countries. We find that in most European countries the amount of conditional wage dispersion within education groups is substantially higher and has grown faster among college-educated workers than among less educated workers.
C29|A survival analysis of the approval of US patent applications| We model the length of time that it takes for a patent application to be granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), conditional on the patent actually being awarded eventually. Survival analysis is applied and both the nonparametric Kaplan-Meier and parametric accelerated failure time models are used to analyse the data. We find that the number of claims a patent makes, the number of citations a patent makes, the patent's technological category, and the type of applicant all have significant effects on the duration that a patent is under consideration. A log-normal survival model is the preferred parametric specification, and the results suggest that the hazard function is nonmonotonic over time.
C29|Heterogeneity of demand for tourist accommodation services in the state of Mérida, Venezuela: a latent class analysis|This paper uses latent class analysis to study the heterogeneity of demand for tourist accommodation services in the State of Merida and rank users according to common characteristics in each group. According to the results, the demand for such services is very heterogeneous and users may be grouped into four classes or segments along with various features, such as visiting purpose, age, monthly-income level, gender, group size, length of stay, category and location of the selected accommodation, tourism season, quality levels of the service, and satisfaction and return intention. Recognizing these groups is a crucial requirement for the design of marketing strategies that allow to increasing tourism demand in Merida State.
C29|Funciones de producción y eficiencia técnica en el eje cafetero colombiano: una aproximación con frontera estocástica|Este estudio estimó la forma funcional de producción cafetera en Colombia mediante fronterasestocásticas (FEP). Con esto, se analizó la importancia de los principales insumos empleados en la producción de café (cantidad de hectáreas cultivadas, mano de obra utilizada, maquinaria requerida y cantidad de fertilizantes aplicados), que afectan la productividad. Igualmente, se determinó la existencia de economías a escala en productores pequeños, medianos, grandes y sector general cafetero; ubicados en Caldas, Quindío y Risaralda. Finalmente, fue evaluada la eficiencia técnica (ET) en la producción.Entre los principales resultados, se destaca que la función de producción cafetera tiene una forma funcional Translog minflex Laurent para pequeños, medianos, grandes y sector general del eje cafetero colombiano. Así, para pequeños, medianos y sector general de cafeteros existe ineficiencia técnica y estocástica en la actividad agrícola; caso contrario, en grandes que son eficientes técnicamente aunque no estocásticamente.Por consiguiente, la medida de eficiencia técnica obtenida mediante FEP, indica que el promedio de rendimiento para el sector general es de 70%, en pequeños 70%, medianos 66% y grandes del 99%.Dada la heterogeneidad, en la producción de café, los pequeños, medianos y sector general decaficultores presentan rendimientos crecientes a escala, mientras los grandes cafeteros exhibenrendimientos decrecientes a escala; en el eje cafetero colombiano. De acuerdo con estos resultados, el insumo más importante en el sector cafetero, unidades medianas y pequeñas es el área productiva en café, mientras para los grandes es la mano de obra empleada en el cultivo.
C29|Determinants of Pollution Abatement and Control Expenditure in Romania: A Multilevel Analysis|The transition process in Central and Eastern Europe was associated with growing environmental awareness. This paper analyses the determinants of Pollution Abatement and Control Expenditure (PACE) at plant level in the case of Romania using survey data and a Multilevel Regression Model (MRM). Our findings suggest that, although Romania has improved its environmental performance, formal and informal regulation are still only partially developed due to the difficulties of economic transition, and heterogeneity across regions remains considerable.
C29|Funciones de producción y eficiencia técnica en el eje cafetero colombiano: una aproximación con frontera estocástica| Este estudio estimó la forma funcional de producción cafetera en Colombia mediante fronteras estocásticas (FEP). Con esto, se analizó la importancia de los principales insumos empleados en la producción de café (cantidad de hectáreas cultivadas, mano de obra utilizada, maquinaria requerida y cantidad de fertilizantes aplicados), que afectan la productividad. Igualmente, se determinó la existencia de economías a escala en productores pequeños, medianos, grandes y sector general cafetero; ubicados en Caldas, Quindío y Risaralda. Finalmente, fue evaluada la eficiencia técnica (ET) en la producción. Entre los principales resultados, se destaca que la función de producción cafetera tiene una forma funcional Translog minflex Laurent para pequeños, medianos, grandes y sector general del eje cafetero colombiano. Así, para pequeños, medianos y sector general de cafeteros existe ineficiencia técnica y estocástica en la actividad agrícola; caso contrario, en grandes que son eficientes técnicamente aunque no estocásticamente. Por consiguiente, la medida de eficiencia técnica obtenida mediante FEP, indica que el promedio de rendimiento para el sector general es de 70%, en pequeños 70%, medianos 66% y grandes del 99%. Dada la heterogeneidad, en la producción de café, los pequeños, medianos y sector general de caficultores presentan rendimientos crecientes a escala, mientras los grandes cafeteros exhiben rendimientos decrecientes a escala; en el eje cafetero colombiano. De acuerdo con estos resultados, el insumo más importante en el sector cafetero, unidades medianas y pequeñas es el área productiva en café, mientras para los grandes es la mano de obra empleada en el cultivo.
C29|El consumo de droga en Colombia|El presente documento analiza la evolución del consumo de drogas en Colombia durante los últimos años. El análisis, realizado con base en las encuestas de la Dirección Nacional de Estupefacientes, muestra que el consumo de drogas creció de manera sustancial entre 1996 y 2008. El crecimiento se dio para ambos géneros, todas las edades, estratos y tipos de ocupación. Los resultados sugieren además que los hombres de estratos altos que consumen asiduamente alcohol y cigarrillos y que están entre los 18 y los 24 años de edad son los más propensos a consumir drogas. Finalmente, el documento presenta algunos indicios indirectos que contradicen los supuestos efectos de la Sentencia de la Corte Constitucional (Sentencia C-221 de Mayo de 1994) que despenalizó la dosis personal sobre el consumo de drogas en Colombia.
C29|Calidad del empleo y segmentación laboral: un análisis para el mercado laboral colombiano 2001-2006|Este documento aborda el fenómeno de la calidad del empleo desde dos perspectivas: a) la teoría de los mercados de trabajo segmentados y b) las mediciones empíricas propuestas por la Organización Internacional del Trabajo (oit), junto con las de autores nacionales e internacionales. Para contrastar la hipótesis de mercados segmentados se utilizan dos métodos de estimación: el modelo switching regression y el modelo quantile regression. Los resultados muestran evidencia a favor de las principales proposiciones de la teoría de mercados de trabajo segmentados; en especial, se observa cómo las valoraciones de las características de los individuos cambian significativamente a través de la distribución de ingresos, particularmente la educación universitaria.El enfoque empírico de la calidad del empleo incluye un cálculo del índice de calidad del empleo (ice) para Colombia y un modelo de regresión con variable dependiente binaria que permite identificar los factores asociados a un empleo de calidad. Los resultados sugieren que la calidad del empleo tiene una estrecha relación con la educación universitaria, el tamaño de la firma, los empleos en el sector financiero y la localización en Medellín y Bogotá.
C29|Lo dicen los datos: La violencia homicida en Colombia es un resultado del ciclo económico|En éste documento Juan Esteban Carranza, Ximena Dueñas Herrera y Carlos Giovanni González pretenden mostrar de una forma casi formal, que los datos agregados revelan cómo la violencia homicida en Colombia es un resultado del ciclo económico. Para el análisis de la causalidad se usa una regresión por variables instrumentales (VI) con datos de series de tiempo. Debido a la estructura de los datos y para evitar un problema de regresión espuria se usa el análisis multivariante de series de tiempo que permite confirmar estadísticamente la existencia de una relación de largo plazo entre las dos series.
C29|Is the spurious regression problem spurious?|"So-called ""spurious regression"" relationships are generally accompanied by clear signs of residual autocorrelation. A conscientious researcher would likely re-estimate with an autocorrelation correction. Simulations indicate that resulting test statistics are close to true values, so do not yield spurious results."
C29|Distance matters in away games: Evidence from the German football league|This paper assesses the role of distance in professional team sports, taking the example of football (soccer). We argue that a team's performance in terms of scored and conceded goals decreases with the distance to the foreign playing venue. To test this hypothesis empirically, we investigate 6389 away games from the German Football Premier League ('Erste Deutsche Bundesliga') between the playing seasons 1986-87 and 2006-07. We find that distance increases a guest team's propensity to concede goals and exhibits a negative but insignificant impact on the ability to score goals. The parameter estimates of the squared distance terms indicate that the effects of distance on team performance are non-monotonic. Further, focusing on the outcome of the game (i.e., win, draw or defeat) as a measure of the overall success of a football team we observe significantly negative effects of distance.
C29|The links between inflation and inflation uncertainty at the longer horizon|In this paper I examine the Okun-Friedman hypothesis of the link between inflation and inflation uncertainty using historical international data on the monthly CPI. An indicator of inflation uncertainty at the two-years-ahead horizon is derived from a time-series model of inflation with time-varying parameters by means of Monte-Carlo simulations. This indicator is compared to other uncertainty measures, with the short forecast horizon and based on simpler GARCH-type models. The analysis convincingly demonstrates that both the longer horizon and changing parameters are important for the regularity. The evidence obtained strongly supports the Okun-Friedman hypothesis both in the time dimension for most countries and across countires.
C29|Pollution Abatement And Control Expenditure In Romania: A Multilevel Analysis|The transition process in Central and Eastern Europe was associated with growing environmental awareness. This paper analyses the determinants of Pollution Abatement and Control Expenditure (PACE) at plant level in the case of Romania using survey data and a Multilevel Regression Model (MRM). Our findings suggest that, although Romania has improved its environmental performance, formal and informal regulation are still only partially developed due to the difficulties of economic transition, and heterogeneity across regions remains considerable.
C29|Using “shares” vs. “log of shares” in fixed-effect estimations|This paper looks at potential implications emerging from including “shares” as a control variable in fixed effect estimations. By shares we refer to the ratio of a sum of units over another, such as the share of immigrants in a city or school. As will be shown in this paper, a logarithmic transformation of shares has methodological merits compared to the use of shares defined as mere ratios.
C29|Indonesian Economy: Contagion of World Financial Crisis and Policy Response|We focus on the impact of the sub-prime financial crisis contagion on Indonesia and the Indonesian government’s policy response. Indonesia was one of the worst affected emerging countries in the Asian crisis of 1997. Since then, the Indonesian economy has gone through a far-reaching adjustment process to overcome the legacy of that crisis.2 In spite of this, the recent sub-prime crisis contagion has seen a marked increase in financial market stress in Indonesia, leading to substantially decelerated export growth, and causing a significant slow-down in economic growth. We examine several factors which may have contributed to increased volatility in the dollar-rupiah exchange rate. These include the roles of foreign and domestic investors, the real exchange rate realignment and the dominance of commercial banks in financial markets. Results of an econometric study confirm that the foreign exchange rate volatility acquired the nature of a “long memory” after the Asian crisis. This inherited volatility may have amplified the impact of the sub-prime contagion. Indonesian authorities have responded quickly and decisively to the situation, adopting a series of financial measures since October 2008. In January 2009, the Indonesian President announced new fiscal stimulus measures and in February the Indonesian congress approved a supplementary budget to enact these measures
C29|The links between inﬂation and inﬂation uncertainty at the longer horizon|In this paper I examine the Okun–Friedman hypothesis of the link between inﬂation and inﬂation uncertainty using historical international data on the monthly CPI. An indicator of inﬂation uncertainty at the two-years-ahead horizon is derived from a time-series model of inﬂation with time-varying parameters by means of Monte Carlo simulations. This indicator is compared to other uncertainty measures, with the short forecast horizon and based on simpler GARCH-type models. The analysis convincingly demonstrates that both the longer horizon and changing parameters are important for the regularity. The evidence obtained strongly supports the Okun–Friedman hypothesis both in the time dimension for most countries and across countries.
C29|Regional Inequality of Medical Doctors in Turkey (1897-2004)]|This paper looks at long-term change of inter-regional human utility from medical doctors in provinces between Ottoman and Modern Turkey. Using data from the first statistical yearbook of the Ottoman Empire for dynastic period and TUIK web side for republic period and applying method is based on Atkinson inequality index. The indices have revealed that there is imbalance in the regional distribution of doctors when compared to the population in the 1897. It is mean that there are dramatic declines in the rate of social utility for the people. According to that have been calculated for people, level of social utility from pshycians had been found out to be 49.2% for all over the Empire and 41.5% for the provinces in the border of Turkey in the 1897. In contrary to the Ottomans period, there exist high levels of improve in social utility of health service in modern Turkey. Level of social utility from specialized pshycians have been found out to be 64.3%; from medical doctors 84, and from both of doctors 77.3% in the 2004. It is shown that the inter-regional social utility from medical doctors has improved between two periods.
C29|Are there asymmetries in the effects of training on the conditional male wage distribution?|Recent studies have used quantile regression (QR) techniques to estimate the impact of education on the location, scale and shape of the conditional wage distribution. In our paper we investigate the degree to which work-related training – another important form of human capital – affects the location, scale and shape of the conditional wage distribution. Using the first six waves of the European Community Household Panel, we utilise both ordinary least squares and QR techniques to estimate associations between work-related training and wages for private sector men in ten European Union countries. Our results show that, for the majority of countries, there is a fairly uniform association between training and hourly wages across the conditional wage distribution. However, there are considerable differences across countries in mean associations between training and wages.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Within-groups wage inequality and schooling: further evidence for Portugal| This article provides further evidence on the positive impact of schooling on within-groups wage dispersion in Portugal, using data on male workers from the 2001 wave of the European Community Household Panel. The issue of schooling endogeneity is taken into account by using the latest available instrumental-variable technique for quantile regression, i.e. the control-function estimator due to Lee (2007). The findings are compared with earlier results based on different techniques, i.e. the instrumental-variable estimator due to Arias et al. (2001) and the standard exogeneity-based estimator due to Koenker and Bassett (1978).
C29|Pollution Abatement and Control Expenditure in Romania: A Multilevel Analysis|The transition process in Central and Eastern Europe was associated with growing environmental awareness. This paper analyses the determinants of Pollution Abatement and Control Expenditure (PACE) at plant level in the case of Romania using survey data and a Multilevel Regression Model (MRM). Our findings suggest that, although Romania has improved its environmental performance, formal and informal regulation are still only partially developed due to the difficulties of economic transition, and heterogeneity across regions remains considerable.
C29|Correlation Testing in Time Series, SpatialandCross-Sectional Data|We provide a general class of tests for correlation in time series, spatial, spatiotemporaland cross-sectional data. We motivate our focus by reviewing howcomputational and theoretical difficulties of point estimation mount as one movesfrom regularly-spaced time series data, through forms of irregular spacing, and tospatial data of various kinds. A broad class of computationally simple tests isjustified. These specialize to Lagrange multiplier tests against parametric departuresof various kinds. Their forms are illustrated in case of several models for describingcorrelation in various kinds of data. The initial focus assumes homoscedasticity, butwe also robustify the tests to nonparametric heteroscedasticity.
C29|Is the US no longer the economy of first resort? Changing economic relationships in the Asia-Pacific region|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Has there been any structural convergence in the transmission of European monetary policies?|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Test of Higher Moment Capital Asset Pricing Model in Case of Pakistani Equity Market|In this study we test the mean-variance capital asset pricing model (CAPM) developed by Sharpe (1965) Lintner (1966) on individual stocks traded at Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE), the main equity market in Pakistan for the period 1993-2004 using daily and monthly data. The empirical findings do not support standard CAPM as a model to explain assets pricing in Pakistani equity market. In response to this finding first, we have extended the model to mean-variance-skewness and mean-variance-skewness-kurtosis model following Kraus and Litzenberger (1976). In the second step we allow the covariance, coskewness and cokurtosis to vary over time in autoregressive context leading to conditional three-moment CAPM and conditional four-moment CAPM. The results of unconditional and conditional higher-moments CAPM reveal that three-moment CAPM performed relatively well in explaining risk-return relationship in Pakistan during the sample period However, the results of higher-moment model indicate that systematic covariance and systematic cokurtosis have marginal role in explaining the asset price behavior in Pakistan.
C29|Fonds souverains et fonds de pension : conceptualiser les implications pour l’« investissement responsable »|"[fre] Cet article examine la croissance récente des fonds souverains, leur impact potentiel sur la gouvernance d'entreprise et leur impact sur l'investissement responsable. Ce dernier englobe les aspects pouvant affecter significativement la valorisation de l'entreprise en fonction des impacts environnementaux, sociaux et de gouvernance. L'article comble une lacune dans la littérature récente sur les fonds souverains au regard de leur signification dans le cadre de [' investissement responsable et des facteurs environnementaux, sociaux et de gouvernance. Il examine les fonds souverains dans le contexte de la croissance d'autres formes de fonds publics d'investissement, en particulier l'essor des fonds de pension souverains jusqu'à la mi-2008. Il fournit également une nouvelle typologie pour classifier les fonds souverains. . Classification JEL : F30, C23, C29 [eng] Sovereign Wealth and Pension Funds : Conceptualizing Implications for "" Responsible Investment"" . This paper examines the recent growth of sovereign wealth funds (SWFs), their potential impact on corporate governance, and their impact on what has come to be known as responsible investment (RI). Responsible investment encompasses aspects which may materially affect firm valuation from environmental, social and governance impacts, collectively known as ESG (environmental, social and governance) factors. The paper fills a gap in the recent literature on SWFs in terms of their significance for RI/ESG considerations. We view SWFs in the context of the growth of other forms of government investment funds, in particularly the growth of sovereign pension funds (SPFs), through mid-2008. It provides a new typology for classifying SWFs and the likely evolution of such funds based on this typology and RI/ ESG considerations. . JEL Classification : F30, G23, G29"
C29|Fonds souverains : quelle réglementation européenne ?|[eng] Sovereign Wealth Funds : what Regulations Should Europe Set in Place ? . The publicity that has surrounded sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) since the beginning of 2008 attests to the varied sentiments they have incited. Some view them as a threat, motivated by the strategic aims of outside countries. Others seek them out for liquidity amid market turmoil. Still others welcome the State's return to the arena of international finance and hold out hope for better market regulation. . JEL Classification : F30, G28, G29, N24 [fre] La publicité faite autour des fonds souverains depuis le début 2008 est révélatrice des sentiments divers qu'ils inspirent. Certains y voient la menace de visées stratégiques de la part de gouvernements de pays tiers. D'autres y recherchent des liquidités dans un marché déjà perturbé. D'autres enfin saluent le retour de l'État dans la finance internationale et l'espoir d'une meilleure régulation du marché. . Classification JEL : F30, C28, C29, N24
C29|Competing Risk Proportional Hazard Models of Farm Service Agency Direct Operating Loans| The USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) direct farm loan program is designed to provide credit to family-sized farms unable to obtain credit from conventional sources at reasonable rates and terms despite having sufficient cash flow to repay and an ability to fully securitize the loan. FSA policy encourages borrowers to exit the program as soon as possible. This study uses Cox proportional hazard models in a competing risks framework to identify predictive factor of: (1) loan success or default, and (2) length of time to loan termination. Survey data from 1925 direct loans originated in federal fiscal years 1994-95 are used for analysis. Only data available to FSA at time of origination were collected. Since these data are all the information FSA has at time of loan origination, the competing risk models provide an alternative method for measuring priori relative riskiness indicated by borrower and loan characteristics. Results indicate that borrower financial strength, intensity of borrowers' current relationship with FSA and loan characteristics are significant measures of loan risk.
C29|La curva de rendimientos: una revisión metodológica y nuevas aproximaciones de estimación|La curva de rendimientos es una herramienta utilizada ampliamente, por quienes toman las decisiones de política monetaria o planifican sus inversiones, de acuerdo con la valoración, negociación o cobertura sobre instrumentos financieros. Debido a su importancia, el interés del artículo es evaluar el esempeño de un conjunto de modelos econométricos en el ajuste de la estructura a plazos de las tasas de interés (en el escenario del mercado de deuda pública en Colombia y en Estados Unidos), y en las distintas formas que pueden tomar las curvas de rendimientos. Los resultados revelan las bondades en el ajuste de las redes neuronales artificiales (RNA), la curva de Svensson, la curva de Nelson-Siegel y los polinomios locales. No obstante, se recomienda utilizar la curva de Svensson en la estimación de las tasas de interés, debido a la interpretabilidad de sus parámetros y a su superioridad sobre la Curva de Nelson-Siegel.
C29|Education, educational mismatch, and wage inequality: Evidence for Spain|In this paper, we explore the connection between education and wage inequality in Spain for the period 1994-2001. Drawing on quantile regression, we describe the conditional wage distribution of different populations groups. We find that higher education is associated with higher wage dispersion. A contribution of the paper is that we explicitly take into account the fact that workers who are and workers who are not in jobs commensurate with their qualifications have a different distribution of earnings. We differentiate between three different types of educational mismatch: 'over-qualification', 'incorrect qualification', and 'strong mismatch'. We find that while over-qualification and incorrect qualification are not associated with lower wages, strong mismatch carries a pay penalty that ranges from 13% to 27%. Thus, by driving a wedge between matched and mismatched workers, the incidence of strong mismatch contributes to enlarge wage differences within education groups. We find that over the recent years, the proportion of strongly mismatched workers rose markedly in Spain, contributing toward further within-groups dispersion.
C29|Correlation testing in time series, spatial and cross-sectional data|We provide a general class of tests for correlation in time series, spatial, spatiotemporal and cross-sectional data. We motivate our focus by reviewing how computational and theoretical difficulties of point estimation mount as one moves from regularly-spaced time series data, through forms of irregular spacing, and to spatial data of various kinds. A broad class of computationally simple tests is justified. These specialize to Lagrange multiplier tests against parametric departures of various kinds. Their forms are illustrated in case of several models for describing correlation in various kinds of data. The initial focus assumes homoscedasticity, but we also robustify the tests to nonparametric heteroscedasticity.
C29|Analyse économétrique des coûts des services d'eau potable et qualité des prestations offertes aux usagers|Issues on service quality are crucial for water utility management and regulation. Omitting these aspects can lead to possible bias in estimating the efficiency of services. We integrate in a Translog cost function variables proxying this multi-dimensionality. Empirical results show that taking into account the level of quality of the delivered services has a significant impact on the measure of the efficiency computed from a stochastic frontier. Moreover we highlight that efficiency depends on ownership (public vs. private) and level of quality.
C29|Distance Matters - Evidence from Professional Team Sports|This paper assesses the role of distance in professional team sports, taking the example of football (soccer). We argue that a teamï¿½s performance in terms of scored and conceded goals decreases with the distance to the foreign playing venue. To test this hypothesis empirically, we investigate 6,389 away games from the German Football Premier League (ï¿½Erste Deutsche Bundesligaï¿½) between the playing seasons 1986-87 and 2006-07. We find that distance contributes significantly in explaining a guest teamï¿½s propensity to concede goals, but not so for scoring goals. Focusing on the difference between scored and conceded goals (ï¿½goal differenceï¿½) as a measure of the overall success of a football team, we observe a significant and non-monotonic impact of distance on team performance.
C29|Have the Eurozone economies converged on a common European cycle?|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Determinants of House Prices: A Quantile Regression Approach|OLS regression has typically been used in housing research to determine the relationship of a particular housing characteristic with selling price. Results differ across studies, not only in terms of size of OLS coefficients and statistical significance, but sometimes in direction of effect. This study suggests that some of the observed variation in the estimated prices of housing characteristics may reflect the fact that characteristics are not priced the same across a given distribution of house prices. To examine this issue, this study uses quantile regression, with and without accounting for spatial autocorrecation, to identify the coefficients of a large set of diverse variables across different quantiles. The results show that purchasers of higher-priced homes value certain housing characteristics such as square footage and the number of bathrooms differently from buyers of lower-priced homes. Other variables such as age are also shown to vary across the distribution of house prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Effects of Education on Earnings Inequality in Urban China: 1988-2003|"Using annual urban household survey data from 6 provinces in different regions of China, we analyze the rapid increase in earning inequality of urban China from 1988 to 2003. We describe overall and residual inequality trends and use quantile regression to address the relationship between education and earning inequality. We find that returns to education are higher for the low earning individuals in the first half of this period conditional on their observable characteristics. This suggests that education has a negative impact upon within-group earning inequality. However, the situation is reversed during the recent half period. Using the Quantile-JMP decomposition technique we partition the observed distribution of earnings into ""price"" components (earning coefficients) and ""quantity"" components (labor force composition) and calculate, through simulation, the impact of education on changes in overall earning dispersion. The decomposition shows that the rise of earning dispersion between 1988 and 2003 is almost entirely accounted for by prices rather than quantities, and it attributes a large proportion to the overall effect of education. From 1988 to 1997 education serves as the equalizing force to decrease earning inequality but it is the primary driving force which increases the earning inequality between 1997 and 2003. The empirical analysis also reveals that the overall effect of college and above education category on the growth of earning inequality is the most pronounced one."
C29|Test of Multi-moment Capital Asset Pricing Model: Evidence from Karachi Stock Exchange|This study examines the Capital Asset Pricing Model of Sharpe (1964) Lintner (1965) and Black (1972) as the benchmark model in the asset pricing theory. The empirical findings indicate that the Sharpe-Lintner-Black CAPM inadequately, particularly the explains Pakistan’s equity market economically and statistically significant role of market risk for the determination of expected returns. Instead of identifying more risk factors, a detailed analysis of a single risk factor is undertaken. We have concentrated on two main extensions of the standard CAPM model. First, the standard model is extended by taking higher moments into account. Second, the risk factors are allowed to vary over time in the autoregressive process. The result of unconditional non-linear generalisation of the standard model reveals that in the higher-moment CAPM model the investors are rewarded for co-skewness risk. However, the test provides marginal support for rewards of the co-kurtosis risk. Finally, the empirical usefulness of conditional higher moments in explaining the cross-section of asset return is investigated. The results indicate that the conditional co-skewness is an important determinant of asset pricing, and the asset pricing relationship varies through time. The conditional covariance and the conditional co-kurtosis explain the asset price relationship in a limited way. It is concluded that Kraus and Litzenberger (1976) attempts to develop a modified form of the Sharpe- Lintner-Black CAPM and is more successful with KSE data.
C29|Are There Cost Differences in the Argentinean Pension Fund Industry? An Efficiency Frontier Analysis|The purpose of this paper is to study the existence of differences in costs between pension fund administrators (PFAs) through the estimation of an econometric cost frontier for Argentina. Like in other eleven Latin American, and some other Central Asian and Eastern Europe countries, the social security has been privatized, and the individual accounts of defined contribution plans are managed by PFAs. The issue is relevant because of its potential regulatory implications. Cost savings (efficiency gains) could be passed-through to contributors, increasing their pension funds (that is, their pensions at retirement). The concept is applied to utilities’ regulation in countries where price-caps are applied, and an X-factor is set by the regulator to distribute the efficiency gains, but it is not the practice in privatized social security systems. In Argentina a price-cap has been introduced in pension funds markets since a 2007 reform. Though it allows the regulator to modify that cap, in doing that no provision was established for a technically acceptable methodology. We show that the use of efficiency frontiers could fill the gap, because it provides a technical tool to help in that key resource allocation decision. From the empirical work, it is found that there are important differences in efficiency among PFAs. This gives some clues to the regulator for implementing sector policies.
C29|Non-linearity in the determinants of capital structure: evidence from UK firms|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Argentinean real exchange rate 1900-2006, test purchasing power parity theory|This paper tests the Purchasing Power Parity Theory of Exchange Rates dealing with Argentinean data for the period 1900-2006. This is equivalent to testing if the Real Exchange Rate is a stationary variable or if its components (the nominal exchange rate and the relative prices) are cointegrated. Since most works study developed countries or developing countries but with short span data, this paper aims to fill a gap in the wide PPP literature by studding a developing country with a long-run approach. This country is particularly interesting since during 20th century “Argentine economic performance tells a story of decline unparalleled in modern times” (Taylor 1992). The downfall of this once developed country has probably affected the behavior of its RER and the validity of PPP. To check this, we use a wide set of econometric techniques and found that the PPP theory is not verified in Argentina, since its RER appears as a non-stationary variable, and there is no evidence of cointegration between the nominal exchange rate and the relative prices. In particular, the Argentinean RER appears to be trend-stationary under structural breaks with a continuous real depreciation of the Argentinean currency, especially in the first half of XX century, which is consistent with theories that relate the secular impoverishment of a country with the depreciation of its RER, as the Balassa-Samuelson effect.
C29|Overeducation and Wages in Europe: Evidence from Quantile Regression|The overeducation literature has typically assumed that the effect of overeducation on wages is constant across the conditional wage distribution. In this paper we use quantile regression and data from 12 European countries to show that differences across segments of the distribution are indeed large. Moreover, we investigate to what extent overeducation is related to (the lack of) unobserved skills. By differentiating between segments of the distribution, we discriminate between groups of workers with different skills. We find that the detrimental effects of overeducation among the high-skilled are even larger than among the low-skilled. This finding lends support to the view that overeducation is an event that reduces the workerís potential productivity, regardless of his skills.
C29|Negociación de portafolios de acciones|ResumenEste documento presenta una metodología para conformar portafolios de acciones. En él se exponela técnica usada para inferir precios partiendo de un proceso de preselección a través de un análisisfundamental, seguido de un análisis técnico, posteriormente, se proyectan los precios esperados conla simulación de Monte Carlo para cada acción, tomando cuatro posibles precios para cada unode los días proyectados, luego se procede a la dinámica de negociación con la matriz de preciosproyectados de las acciones de alta bursatilidad, con la aplicación de una meta heurística hibridaconformada por las meta-heurísticas de recocido simulado, búsqueda dispersa y búsqueda tabú,para determinar el volumen de cada una de las acciones en la solución robusta.STOCK PORTFOLIOS NEGOTIATIONS USING A PUT-HEURISTICHYBRID OF THE DISPERSED SEARCH, SIMULATED,AND SEARCH TABOOAbstractThis document shows a methodology to conform stock portfolios. It depicts the technique used toinfer prices starting from a process of preselection through a basic analysis followed by a technicanalysis, after this, the prices are projected waited with the simulation of Monte Carlo for every stock,taking four possible prices for each one of the projected days, then it is proceeded the dynamic ofnegotiation with the matriz of projected prices of the shares of high stock-market.
C29|Consideraciones metodológicas para el análisis de la competitividad en empresas de base tecnológica|ResumenEste artículo contribuye con la identificación de algunos elementos que deben estar presentes ala hora de estudiar la competitividad de las empresas de base tecnológica (EBT) en economíasemergentes. El objetivo es mostrar que son múltiples los factores que inciden en el análisis de lacompetitividad de dichas empresas, al igual que los actores o responsables de buscarla. Para ellose analizan los resultados de varias investigaciones realizadas en empresas colombianas de los sectoresbiotecnológico, software y electrónico. Dichos resultados indican que las empresas de estossectores tienen características genéricas comunes y un comportamiento similar tanto en el manejogerencial como tecnológico que requieren unas condiciones especiales para su desarrollo y buenMETHODOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE ANALYSISOF TECHNOLOGICALLY-BASED FIRMS COMPETITIVENESSAbstractThis article contributes to the identification of some elements that must be present when consideringcompetitiveness in technologically-based firms (TBFs) in emerging economies. The objective is toshow that are multiple the factors that impact the analysis of the competitiveness of these firms,likewise the actors or responsible people that interact looking for them. To do so, results of different researches carried out in Colombian companies of the biotechnological, software and electronicsectors are analyzed. Such results indicate that companies in this sector have common genericcharacteristics and a similar behavior both in the managerial handling as well as in the technologicalone, thus demanding special conditions for development and good performance.
C29|Correlation testing in time series, spatial and cross-sectional data|We provide a general class of tests for correlation in time series, spatial, spatio-temporal and cross-sectional data. We motivate our focus by reviewing how computational and theoretical difficulties of point estimation mount as one moves from regularly-spaced time series data, through forms of irregular spacing, and to spatial data of various kinds. A broad class of computationally simple tests is justiied. These specialize Lagrange multiplier tests against parametric departures of various kinds. Their forms are illustrated in case of several models for describing correlation in various kinds of data. The initial focus assumes homoscedasticity, but we also robustify the tests to nonparametric heteroscedasticity.
C29|Ordinary Least Squares Bias and Bias Corrections for iid Samples|The O(n-1) bias and O(n-2) MSE of OLS are derived for iid samples. An approach is suggested for handling nonexistent finite sample moments. Bias corrections based on plug-in, weighting, jackknife and pairs bootstrap methods are equal to Op(n-3/2). Sometimes they are effective at lowering bias and MSE, but not always. In simulations, the bootstrap correction removes more bias than the others, but has a higher MSE. A hypothesis test is given for the presence of this bias. The techniques are applied to survey data on food expenditure, and the estimated bias is small and statistically insignificant.
C29|Ordinary Least Squares Bias and Bias Corrections for iid Samples|The O(n-1) bias and O(n-2) MSE of OLS are derived for iid samples. An approach is suggested for handling nonexistent finite sample moments. Bias corrections based on plug-in, weighting, jackknife and pairs bootstrap methods are equal to Op(n-3/2). Sometimes they are effective at lowering bias and MSE, but not always. In simulations, the bootstrap correction removes more bias than the others, but has a higher MSE. A hypothesis test is given for the presence of this bias. The techniques are applied to survey data on food expenditure, and the estimated bias is small and statistically insignificant.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Cycles of violence, and terrorist attacks index for the State of Massachusetts|Abstract: I apply the Beveridge-Nelson business cycle decomposition method to the time series of per capita murder in the State of Massachusetts. (1933-2005). Separating out “permanent” from “cyclical” murder, I hypothesize that the cyclical part coincides with documented waves of organized crime, internal tensions, breakdowns in social order, crime legislation, social, and political unrest, and recently with the periodic terrorist attacks to the U.S. The estimated cyclical component of murder warns that terrorist attacks in the U.S. from 1940 to 2005, have affected Massachusetts creating estimated turning point dates clearly marked by the most tragic terrorist attacks to the nation: the shut down in power in NYC in 1965, the World Trade Center Bombing in 1993, and 9/11 2001. The index for Massachusetts foretold with amazing precision those attacks, and must be used as a proxy for attacks for the Whole U.S along with indexes already constructed for the nation (http://mpra.ub.uni-uenchen.de/1145/01/MPRA_paper_1145.pdf) and, New York City (http://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/4200/01/MPRA_paper_4200.pdf). The indexes must be used as dependent variables in structural models for terrorist attacks and in models assessing the effects of terrorism on the U.S. economy.
C29|Analytic Approximations for Spread Options|This paper expresses the price of a spread option as the sum of the prices of two compound options. One compound option is to exchange vanilla call options on the two underlying assets and the other is to exchange the corresponding put options. This way we derive a new analytic approximation for the price of a European spread option, and a corresponding approximation for each of its price, volatilty and correlation hedge ratios. Our approach has many advantages over existing analytic approximations, which have limited validity and an indeterminacy that renders them of little practical use. The compound exchange option approximation for European spread options is then extended to American spread options on assets that pay dividends or incur carry costs. Simulations quantify the accuracy of our approach; we also present an empirical application, to the American crack spread options that are traded on NYMEX. For illustration, we compare our results with those obtained using the approximation attributed to Kirk (1996) which is commonly used by traders.
C29|Time Varying Cyclical Analysis for Economies in Transition|The identification of a possible European business cycle has been inconclusive and is complicated by the enlargement to the new member states and their transition to market economies. This paper shows how to decompose a business cycle into a time-frequency framework in a way that allows us to accommodate structural breaks and nonstationary variables. To illustrate, calculations of the growth rate spectrum and coherences for the Hungarian, Polish, German and French economies show the instability of the transition period. However, since then there has been convergence on the Eurozone economy at short cycle lengths, but little convergence in long cycles. We argue that this shows evidence of nominal convergence, but little real convergence. The Maastricht criteria for membership of the Euro therefore need to be adapted to test for real convergence.
C29|Foreign Exchange Rate Futures Trends: Foreign Exchange Risk or Systematic Forecasting Errors?|The forward exchange rate is widely used in international finance whenever the analysis of the expected depreciation is needed. It is also used to identify currency risk premium. The difference between the spot rate and the forward rate is supposed to be a predictor of the future movements of the spot rate. This prediction is hardly precise. The fact that the forward rate is a biased predictor of the future change in the spot rate can be attributed to a currency risk premium. The bias can also be attributed to systematic errors of the future depreciation of the currency. This paper analyzes the nature of the risk premium and of the prediction errors in using the forward rate. It will look into the efficiency and rationality of the futures market in Brazil from April 1995 to December 1998, a period of controled exchange rates.
C29|El desarrollo rural y la economía social en el estado Mérida, Venezuela. PRODECOP: cuna de experiencias exitosas|As part of the International Investigation project Rural Development and the Social Economy in South American countries, Spain and Portugal, a study has been carried out by the Catholic University of Ávila in Spain regarding Rural Development and the Social Economy in the State of Mérida in Venezuela. The first part presents the general courses of action taken with regard to Social Development by the National Government and by the most important organisations in charge of establishing national and state policies. In the second part, we describe the Project for the Development of Poor Rural Communities (PRODECOP) as the origin of successful experiences of rural development, not only in the state of Mérida, but also nationwide. Finally, we draw a number of conclusions and put forward a proposal that we hope will contribute to the sustainable development of cooperatives and agricultural credit banks set up and instructed by PRODECOP.
C29|El turismo rural como agente económico: desarrollo y distribución de la renta en la zona de Priego de Córdoba|The main aim of this paper is to prove that rural tourism can be an essential means of bringing about the development of regions where there is a significant socio-economic imbalance. In Spain, there are still many rural areas with low levels of income and productivity. Production in these areas generally revolves around economic activities that are directly linked to the primary sector, with high rates of unemployment. They therefore need to diversify their income. Our research includes fieldwork carried out in the Priego de C—rdoba region, where three types of econometric models have been developed. These tend to model the demand for rural tourism in this area in an attempt to forecast short- and medium-term demand and consider whether sustained growth is possible through an economic culture based on the development of tourism and efficient management of natural resources.
C29|Application of Dynamic Models and an Support Vector Machine to Inflation Modelling|In Support Vector Machines (SVM's), a non-linear model is estimated based on solving a Quadratic Programming (QP) problem. Based on work [1] we investigate the quantifying of econometric structural model parameters of inflation in Slovak economics. Dynamic and SYM's modelling approaches are used for automated specification of a functional form of the model. Based on dynamic modelling, we provide the fit of inflation models over the period 1993-2003 in the Slovak Republic, and use them as a tool to compare their forecasting abilities with those obtained using SYM's method. Some methodological contributions are made to dynamic and SYM's modelling approaches in economics and to their use in data mining systems. The study discusses, analytically and numerically demonstrates the quality and interpretability of the obtained results. The SYM's methodology is extended to predict the time series models.
C29|Divergence of credit valuation in Germany - Continuous theory and discrete practice -|Lending is associated with credit risk. Modelling the loss stochastically, the cost of credit risk is the expected loss. In credit business the probability that the debtor will default in payments within one year, often is the only reliable quantitative parameter. Modelling the time to default as continuous variable corresponds to an exponential distribution. We calculate the expected loss of a trade with several cash flows, even if the distribution is not exponential. Continuous rating migration data show that the exponential distribution is not adequate in general. The distribution can be calibrated using rating migrations without a parametric model. A practitioner, however, will model time as a discrete variable. We show that the expected loss in the discrete model is a linear approximation of the expected loss in the continuous model and discuss the consequences. Finally, as costs for the expected loss cannot be charged up-front, the credit spread over risk-free interest is derived.
C29|Hours Supplied of Cambodian Child Labor and School Enrolment: Simple Theoretical and Empirical Evidence for Policy Implications|This paper aims to seek the determinants of hours supplied of child labor in Cambodia. On the basic of simple theoretical and empirical model building from existing literatures, we have estimated the latent decision of parents on hours supplied of their children. Because this hours supplied are censored at zero hours and depend on the enrolment status of each individual child, therefore, we use simultaneous tobit and probit to find the determinants of hours supplied and enrolment of children by the Maximum Likelihood estimate. Given a structure of our model, it allows us to estimate marginal effects of latent status of children which is rarely discussed in literature and it enable us to see dynamics of child labor in Cambodia. We found that only after completing primary education, thus parents' education has impact on the probability of child's schooling and reduce hours worked of the child. Increasing household's income does increase the human capital formation of the child. Importantly child labor (except worse form of child labor) does help increasing human capital formation of the child in the context of developing economy like Cambodia.
C29|How Timber Harvesting and Biodiversity are Managed in Uneven-Aged Forests: A Cluster-Sample Econometric Approach|This paper investigates the joint production of timber and biodiversity by non-industrial private forest owners using a micro-econometric household production model. The objective of the paper is to explain the relationships between harvest strategies, timber price and the observed diversity of trees. To do so, we analyze (1) forest owners' demand of species diversity and their timber supplies, (2) the jointness in timber and nontimber products. We use a database of uneven-aged forests in France for which several economic and ecological variables are regularly collected. We use cluster-sample methods to simulate the forest owner in a multi-product framework where the di_erent products and the timber prices depend on species, tree diameter and timber quality. We estimate a two-step model by reporting the predicted value of demand in tree diversity in the timber supply equation. Our results show that timber and tree diversity are substitutes but that timber price positively a_ects tree diversity.
C29|Modelarea impactului riscurilor asupra performanţelor bancare|In Romania, the accumulation of pressures in economy, as result of its administration, have imposed both the need of changing he bases of economy’s evolution and the finding up of some mathematical patterns, which could model the transition towards the market economy and permit the aligning of the mechanisms for economic functioning to the requirements of performance and functionality of the E.U. markets in the context of the inexistence of a real theoretical and practical expertise.
C29|Control Function Corrections for Unobserved Factors in Differentiated Product Models| Unobserved factors in differentiated product models can generate severe bias in price elasticities. We develop a generalized control function method and specification test for this setting based on the nonparametric identification results from Petrin (2005), who shows the assumptions under which price functions can be inverted to obtain controls that condition on the part of the demand error that is not independent of price. Unlike using product-market controls, our approach does not require additive separability between observed and unobserved factors. We develop a ``hybrid'' approach that also loosens this restriction for that setting. We compare results across approaches on three data sets and demand specifications estimated elsewhere that span a range of markets and levels of aggregation, including automobiles (the original Berry, Levinsohn, and Pakes (1995) application), cable television, and margarine. The estimated elasticities are similar across the control function and product-market control approaches, and they both differ significantly from the uncorrected elasticity estimates, which are significantly biased up in every case
C29|Inefficiency in Cadaveric Organ Procurement|The shortage of cadaveric human organs made available for transplantation has reached critical proportions and is now causing over 6000 deaths each year in the United States alone. Economically, this shortage appears to stem from at least two principal underlying causes, both of which are attributable to the 1984 National Organ Transplant Act: (i) a legal prohibition on payments to organ donors and/or their surviving family members; and (ii) the legislatively mandated structure of the organ procurement industry, which specifies a group of nonprofit regional monopsonists as collection agents. Here, we focus on some consequences of the latter restriction. Using a frontier methodology, we estimate the magnitude of the inefficiencies exhibited by the individual procurement agencies (relative to the most efficient) after controlling for exogenous factors. Our findings show that, even if these inefficiencies could (somehow) be completely eliminated, the organ shortage would still persist.
C29|Estimation of Country-Pair Data Models Controlling for Clustered Errors: with International Trade Applications|We consider cross-section regression models for country-pair data, such as gravity models for trade volume between countries or models of exchange rate volatility, allowing for the presence of country-specific errors. This induces clustered errors in a nonstandard setting. OLS standard errors that ignore this clustering are greatly underestimated. Under the assumption of random country-specific effects we provide analytical results that permit more efficient GLS estimation even in settings where the number of unique country-pairs is very large. We include applications to international data on real exchange rates and on bilateral trade that provided the motivation for this paper. The results are more generally applicable to regression with paired data.
C29|Economic Valuation of On Site Material Damages of High Water on Economic Activities based in the City of Venice: Results from a Dose-Response-Expert-Based Valuation Approach|The paper focuses on the economic assessment of damages caused by high water in the city of Venice. In particular, we focus our attention on a valuation exercise that addresses the estimation of monetary, short period, on-site damages due to high water events on the different business activities located in Venice. On-site damages include both mitigation costs, which refer to all types of financial expenditure undergone to avert physical and material damages caused by flooding, and remediation costs, i.e. costs to be sustained for maintenance and substitution of affected building elements. Hence, the present study can be considered as a pioneering attempt to analytically quantify, from an economic point of view, on-site damages from high water. An integrated dose-response modelling and an expert-based valuation approach have been selected as the most suitable economic valuation methodology to shed light on the on-site damages. The main focus of the work is to assess dose-response relationships, which are able to describe the physical effects of high water on the different on-site damage categories, including inner and front doors maintenance, cleaning of pavements and maintenance of the walls. Bearing in mind such an economic valuation framework, we proceed with the estimation of on-site damages not only for the present high water situation (business as usual) but also extend the valuation exercise to three additional high water scenarios: (1) a climate change scenario; (2) a high water protection scenario; and, (3) a combined climate change and protection scenario. Estimation results show that the welfare loss due to on-site, short-term damages supported by the business activities ranges from 3.41 to 4.73 million Euro per year, respectively for the business as usual and climate change scenarios. Finally, we can conclude that the introduction of a public policy protection mechanism that defends the city of Venice from any flooding above 110 cm above the Punta della Salute Tidal Datum, such as the MOSE, will reduce the on-site damages supported by the business activities up to 2.87 million Euro per year.
C29|Modeling ‘No-choice’ Responses in Attribute Based Valuation Surveys|We examine the impact of providing a ‘no-choice’ option in an attribute based valuation experiment. The aim of the experiment was to assess monetary values of cockle fishery management practices in the Dutch Wadden Sea for different stakeholder groups, namely Dutch citizens, local residents, and tourists. The current policy debate about the management of the Wadden Sea stresses the fact that individual preferences with respect to cockle-fishery differ. The aim of this paper is to analyze the individual preferences in an objective way. Special attention is given to the influence of including a ‘no-choice option’, which is analyzed using a nested logit model. We test whether the full set of policy options can be considered as close substitutes. The estimation results show that the influence of including the no choice option differs among the stakeholders considered.
C29|Marriage and Money: Variations across the Earnings Distribution|This paper uses Australian data from the Negotiating the Life Course Project 1997 to investigate the impact of marriage on men’s and women’s earnings. We extend earlier earnings research and investigate whether the effect of marriage is constant for men and women at different points on the conditional earnings distribution by using robust and quantile regression techniques. We find no association between marriage and wages for women, but for men a large and significant premium exists with married men earning around $5,700 per annum more than their unmarried counterparts, after adjusting for human capital, job and family characteristics. Overall, there are very few differences in the association between marriage and earnings for men and women across the wage distribution. Although, importantly, we find that the returns to marriage tend to be smaller and non-significant for men at the top of the distribution than for men in the middle of the distribution.
C29|Can over-education account for the positive association between education and within-groups wage inequality? A note|International evidence shows that returns to education are increasing when moving up along the wage distribution. While researchers have focused on the inequality implications of this finding, little attention has been paid to its causes. This paper asks whether the over-education phenomenon is responsible for the observed pattern. To that purpose, recent data from the European Community Household Panel and several measures of over-education based on the worker’s self-assessment are used. The results show that over-education is not a convincing explanation.
C29|A Time-Frequency Analysis of the Coherences of the US Business| The dating of a possible European business cycle has been inconclusive. At this stage, there is no consensus on the existence of such a cycle, or of its periodicity and amplitude, or of the relationship of individual member countries to that cycle. Yet cyclical convergence is the key consideration for countries that wish to be members of the currency union. The confusion over whether and to what degree the UK is converging on the cycles of her European partners, or whether her cycle is more in line with the US, is an example of this lack of consensus. We show that countries will vary in the components and characteristics that make up their output cycles, as well as in the state of their cycle at any point of time. Next, we show how to decompose a business cycle in a time-frequency framework. This allows us to decompose movements in output, both at the European level and in member countries, into their component cycles and allows those component cycles to vary in importance and cyclical characteristics over time. It also allows us to determine if the inconclusive convergence results so far have appeared because member countries have some cycles in common, but diverge at other frequencies
C29|The Causal Effects of Participation in the American Economic Association Summer Minority Program|This article examines whether participation by underrepresented minority groups in the American Economics Association Summer Minority Program (AEASMP) has causal effects on outcomes associated with success as academic economists. We estimate both propensity score weighted and Heckit parameter estimates of (1) the average effect of treatment and (2) the effect of treatment on the treated. Our results, which vary across specifications of potential outcomes and propensity score truncated samples, suggest that AEASMP participation by black American Ph.D. economists has a positive and causal impact on 4 outcomes associated with success as an academic economist. However if the probability of selection into the treatment by the nontreated is similar to that of the treated, the results suggest that AEASMP participation by black American Ph.D. economists has a positive and causal effect on research productivity and in gaining access to research funding.
C29|The modelling of operational risk: experience with the analysis of the data collected by the Basel Committee|The revised Basel Capital Accord requires banks to meet a capital requirement for operational risk as part of an overall risk-based capital framework. Three distinct options for calculating operational risk charges are proposed (Basic Approach, Standardised Approach, Advanced Measurement Approaches), reflecting increasing levels of risk sensitivity. Since 2001, the Risk Management Group of the Basel Committee has been performing specific surveys of banksï¿½ operational loss data, with the main purpose of obtaining information on the industryï¿½s operational risk experience, to be used for the refinement of the capital framework and for the calibration of the regulatory coefficients. The second loss data collection was launched in the summer of 2002: the 89 banks participating in the exercise provided the Group with more than 47,000 observations, grouped by eight standardised Business Lines and seven Event Types. A summary of the data collected, which focuses on the description of the range of individualgross loss amounts and of the distribution of the banksï¿½ losses across the business lines/event types, was returned to the industry in March 2003. The objective of this paper is to move forward with respect to that document, by illustrating the methodologies and the outcomes of the inferential analysis carried out on the data collected through 2002. To this end, after pooling the individual banksï¿½ losses according to a Business Line criterion, the operational riskiness of each Business Line data set is explored using empirical and statistical tools. The work aims, first of all, to compare the sensitivity of conventional actuarial distributions and models stemming from the Extreme Value Theory in representing the highest percentiles of the data sets: the exercise shows that the extreme value model, in its Peaks Over Threshold representation, explains the behaviour of the operational risk data in the tail area well. Then, measures of severity and frequency of the large losses are gained and, by a proper combination of these estimates, a bottom-up operational risk capital figure is computed for each Business Line. Finally, for each Business Line and in the eight Business Lines as a whole, the contributions of the expected losses to the capital figures are evaluated and the relationships between the capital charges and the corresponding average level of Gross Incomes are determined and compared with the current coefficients envisaged in the simplified approaches of the regulatory framework.
C29|A Time-Frequency Analysis of the Coherences of the US Business Cycle and the European Business Cycle|The search for and dating of a possible european business cycle, has been inconclusive. At this stage, there is no consensus on the existence of such a cycle, or of its periodicity and amplitude, or of the relationship of individual member countries to that cycle. Yet cyclical convergence is the key consideration for countries which have to decide whether they wish to be members of a currency union such as the euro. The confusion over whether and to what degree the UK is converging on the cycles of its European partners, or whether its cycle is more in line with the US, is a classic example of the difficulties caused by this lack of consensus. We argue that different countries will vary in the components and characteristics that make up their output cycles, as well as vary in the state of their cycle at any point of time. We show how to decompose a business cycle in a time-frequency framework. This then allows us to decompose movements in output, both at the European level and in member countries, into their component cycles and allows those component cycles to vary in importance and cyclical characteristics over time. It also allows us to determine if the nonconclusive results so far have appeared because member countries have some cycles in common, but diverge (i.e. have nothing in common) at other frequencies.
C29|Spectral Analysis as a Tool for Financial Policy: An Analysis of the Short-End of the British Term Structure|In this paper, we show how to derive the spectra and cross-spectra of economic time series from an underlying econometric or VAR model. This allows us to conduct a proper frequency analysis evaluation of economic and financial variables on a reduced sample of data, without it being ruled out by the large sample requirements of direct spectral estimation. We show, in particular, how this can be done for time-varying models and time-varying spectra. We use our techniques to show how the behaviour of British interest rates changed during and following the ERM crisis of 1992/3.
C29|Strong Orthogonal Decompositions and Non-Linear Impulse Response Functions for Infinite Variance Processes|In this paper we prove Wold-type decompositions with strong-orthogonal prediction innovations exist in smooth, reflexive Banach spaces of discrete time processes if and only if the projection operator generating the innovations satisfies the property of iterations. Our theory includes as special cases all previous Wold-type decompositions of discrete time processes; completely characterizes when nonlinear heavy-tailed processes obtain a strong-orthogonal moving average representation; and easily promotes a theory of nonlinear impulse response functions for infinite variance processes. We exemplify our theory by developing a nonlinear impulse response function for smooth transition threshold processes, we discuss how to test decomposition innovations for strong orthogonality and whether the proposed model represents the best predictor, and we apply the methodology to currency exchange rates.
C29|Optimal Stocking Density for Dual-Purpose Winter Wheat Production| Dual-purpose winter wheat production is an important economic enterprise in the southern Great Plains of the United States. Because of the complex interactions involved in producing wheat grain and beef gain from a single crop, stocking density is an important decision. The objective of the research is to determine the stocking density that maximizes expected net returns from dual-purpose winter wheat production. Statistical tests rejected a conventional linear-response plateau function in favor of a linear-response stochastic plateau function. The optimal stocking density of 1.48 steers/ha (0.60 steers/acre) is 19% greater with a stochastic than with a nonstochastic plateau.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Optimal Stocking Density for Dual-Purpose Winter Wheat Production| Dual-purpose winter wheat production is an important economic enterprise in the southern Great Plains of the United States. Because of the complex interactions involved in producing wheat grain and beef gain from a single crop, stocking density is an important decision. The objective of the research is to determine the stocking density that maximizes expected net returns from dual-purpose winter wheat production. Statistical tests rejected a conventional linear-response plateau function in favor of a linear-response stochastic plateau function. The optimal stocking density of 1.48 steers/ha (0.60 steers/acre) is 19% greater with a stochastic than with a nonstochastic plateau.
C29|Sheepskin effects and screening in Colombia|This article uses the Hungerford and Solon Test [1987] for calculating the sheepskin effect of returns from the education in Colombian labour market in 2000. It was found that the secondary school graduates enjoyed 13% returns whilst a university degree led to 17% returns. The Hungerford and Solon Test [1987], applied to a quantile regression, found returns ranging from 7% to 17% for secondary school graduates (across the entire income range) whilst a university degree produced returns between 17% and 27%.
C29|Sheepskin effects and screening in Colombia|This article uses the Hungerford and Solon Test [1987] for calculating the sheepskin effect of returns from education in the Colombian labour market in 2000. It was found that secondary school graduates enjoyed 13% returns whilst a university degree led to 17% returns. The Hungerford and Solon Test [1987], applied to a quantile regression, found returns ranging from 7% to 17% for secondary school graduates (across the entire income range) whilst a university degree produced returns between 17% and 27%
C29|Purchasing power parity in an emerging market economy: a long- span study for Chile|Recent research has found evidence that supports the purchasing power parity (PPP) condition in developed countries using very long-span data, while evidence for developing countries is almost nonexistent. This paper tries to fulfill this void by testing the validity of PPP as a long run equilibrium condition for Chile, using data, since its birth as a nation, developed by Díaz, Lüders and Wagner (2003). A battery of unit-root and cointegration tests is applied. We found evidence in favor of PPP. Results are robust to changes in the domestic price index, to changes in the sample period, and to the econometric technique applied.
C29|Monetary Value Assessment of Clam Fishing Management Practices in the Venice Lagoon: Results from a Stated Choice Exercise|This article focuses on the economic valuation of alternative clam management practices in the Venice Lagoon. The proposed valuation method is characterized by the design of a survey questionnaire next to the fishermen population. In each questionnaire two fishing alternatives are described. The respondent is asked to choose one of them. This valuation method, referred in the article as conjoint valuation, gives sufficient flexibility to set, alter, and combine different management practices. Furthermore, this approach presents an important advantage to the well-known contingent valuation method since it makes the monetary valuation of each management attribute possible. Estimation results of the random utility model show that fishermen’s willingness to pay for a larger clam fishing area is approximately 568 € per year. In addition, an individual fisherman would be willing to pay 1,005 € for a change from today’s fishing situation practice towards a fishing practice exclusively based on vibrant rake system. If we take into account the interaction between fishing management attributes and fishermen characteristics, we can see that the valuation of each management practice differs substantially across the two populations. We can observe that the population of fishermen that operate in the cooperative regime presents not only a higher monetary valuation for an increase in the dimension of the fishing concession, which is now valued at 811 €, but also a stronger willingness to pay for a change from today’s fishing situation towards a fishing practice exclusively based on vibrant rake system, which is now estimated at 2,456 €. Finally, the adoption of a clam fish management practice in Venice Lagoon that is exclusively based on the use of manual rakes, which is associated to the lowest damage to the Lagoon ecosystem, will represent a welfare loss of 5,904 € per fisherman per year. Combining this value with the total number of fishermen currently operating in the Lagoon of Venice, the welfare loss associated with the adoption of such clam management policy that is exclusively based on the use of manual rakes amounts to 11.8 € million per year. This figure can be regarded as an upper bound to the cost of implementation of a clam fishing system anchored in the use of manual, ecosystem friendly rakes.
C29|Geography, Cost-Of-Living, And Determinants To Economic Growth: A Study Of The Swedish Regions, 1911-1993|This paper analyses determinants to economic growth with a spatial perspective using data on the Swedish counties for the period 1911-1993. We find that the county growth rate of income per capita is strongly related to the growth rate of income per capita in contiguous counties regardless of what explanatory variables are included in the regressions. We also find empirical evidence of geographical spillovers through the income per capita and market size in contiguous counties. In addition, we find that population density and population age structure impact the growth rate of income per capita only when incomes are not adjusted for regional differences in cost-of-living. When correctly adjusting for such differences, which rarely occur in the growth literature that uses regional data, the growth effects of these variables disappear. The regressions also show that the estimated growth effect of net in-migration is negative and statistically significant.
C29|Estimation in Binary Choice Models with Measurement Errors|In this paper we develop a simple maximum likelihood estimator for probit models where the regressors have measurement error. We first assume precise information about the reliability ratios (or, equivalently, the proxy correlations) of the regressors. We then show how reasonable bounds for the parameter estimates can be obtained when only imprecise information is available. The analysis is also extended to situations where the measurement error has non-zero mean and is correlated with the true values of the regressors. An extensive simulation study shows that the estimator works very well, even in quite small samples. Finally the method is applied to data explaining sick leave in Sweden.
C29|Exchange Rates, Currency Crises and Recessions - Introduction|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Capturing Non-Linearity in the Term Structure of Interest Rates: A Fuzzy Logic to Approach Estimating the Yield Curve|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Distributional assumptions and a test of the dual labor market hypothesis|Recent application of the switching regression model to allocate workers into the primary and secondary labor markets is considered to be the best solution to the classification problem of the empirical testing of the dual labor market theory. In such models, normality of the error terms is assumed. This paper adopts the switching regression model to test the dual labor market theory by assuming different distributions of the error terms. The test results strongly support the dual labor market theory regardless of the assumption one makes about the error terms. However, the results indicate that different distribution can lead to different percentage distributions of workers in the two segments. In particular, the normal distribution generates more workers in the primary segment than the non-normal distributions. Therefore, care must be taken not to generalize the type of industries or occupations that fall under the primary and secondary segments. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2003
C29|Économie urbaine et économétrie spatiale|The article addresses an economic analysis of the households and firms location choices. The standard model of urban economics offers an intelligibility framework of the households? trade-off. But some hypothesis as the homogeneity of network, isotropy of space and exogenous location of firm in the center are strong and are exceeded with new models. Empirical tests of the predictions got deal us to use the spatial econometrics tools. The results confirm the theoretical results and identify the explanatory factors of French urban patterns for the last four censuses of population. Classification JEL?: R14, R2, C29.
C29|The Promise of Workplace Training for Non-College-Bound Youth: Theory and Evidence from German Apprenticeship|This paper assesses the potential of ‘workplace training’ with reference to German Apprenticeship. When occupational matching is important, we derive conditions under which firms provide ‘optimal’ training packages. Since the German system broadly meets these conditions, we evaluate the effectiveness of apprenticeship using a large administrative dataset. We find returns to apprenticeship for even the lowest ability school-leavers comparable to standard estimates of the return to school, and show that training is transferable across a wide range of occupations, such as a one-digit occupation group. We conclude that the positive experience with German Apprenticeship Training may guide the design of similar policies in other countries.
C29|Is there a return-risk link in education?|Risk averse investors have to be compensated in higher expected returns when facing investments with higher risk. Education is an important investment therefore we use the results for 16 countries to test the positive relationship between return to education and the risk involved in this investment. It seems that most of the countries fit the pattern well: higher risk - higher return.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|Crowding-out voluntary contributions to public goods|We test the null hypothesis that involuntary transfers for the provision of a public good will completely crowd out voluntary transfers against the warm-glow hypothesis that crowding-out will be incomplete because individuals care about giving. Our design differs from the related design used by Andreoni in considering two levels of the involuntary transfer and a wider range of contribution possibilities, and in mixing groups every period instead of every four periods. We analyse the data with careful attention to boundary effects. We retain the null hypothesis of complete crowding-out in two of three pairwise comparisions, but reject it in favour of incomplete crowding-out in the comparison most closely akin to Andreoni's design. Thus we confirm the existence of incomplete crowding-out in some environments, but suggest that the warm-glow hypothesis is inadequate in explaining it.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C29|The Dynamics of European Industrial Structure|Has the European integration process lead to increased specialisation and what drives changes in specialisation? To address these questions we apply a model that incorporates endowments, technology and increasing returns to scale (IRS). Analyses reveal that countries with high capital accumulation have become increasingly specialised in capital-intensive industries; this holds for both human and physical capital while countries have diverged (converged) in physical (human) capital abundance. No increased concentration of IRS industries to large markets is found. Analysing R&D indicates scale economies in R&D at the firm level and that firm level R&D is what drives competitiveness. Finally, there is robust evidence for a domestic interdependency in industries specialisation patterns.
C29|Individual Decision Making in Exogenous Targeting Instrument Experiments|The experimental treatments analysed in this paper are simple in that there is a unique Nash equilibrium resulting in each player having a dominant strategy. However, the data show quite clearly that subjects do not always choose this strategy. In fact, when this dominant strategy is not a “focal” outcome it does not even describe the average decision adequately. It is shown that average individual decisions are best described by a decision error model based on a censored distribution as opposed to the truncate regression model which is typically used in similar studies. Moreover it is shown that in the treatments where the dominant strategy is not “focal” dynamics are important with average subject decisions initially corresponding to the “focal” outcome and then adjusting towards the Nash prediction. Overall, 66.7% of subjects are consistent with Payoff Maximization, 27.8% are consistent with an alternate preference maximization and 5.6% are random.
C29|Does Education Reduce Wage Inequality? Quantile Regressions Evidence from Fifteen European Countries|We address the impact of education upon wage inequality by drawing on evidence from fifteen European countries, during a period ranging between 1980 and 1995. We focus on within-educational-levels wage inequality by estimating quantile regressions of Mincer equations and analysing the differences in returns to education across the wage distribution and across time. Four different patterns emerge: 1) a positive and increasing contribution of education upon within-levels wage inequality -the case of Portugal; 2) a positive but stable role of education in terms of inequality - Austria, Finland, France, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK; 3) a neutral role - Denmark and Italy; and 4) a negative impact - Germany and Greece. We thus find that in most countries dispersion in earnings increases with educational levels and that education is a risky investment. These results suggest a positive interaction between schooling and ability with respect to earnings.
C29|Currency Risk in Brazil under Two Different Exchange Rate Regimes|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Y a-t-il vraiment discrimination salariale contre les femmes ?|Trying to ascertain scientifically the existence and importance of gender-based salary discrimination runs into conceptual and technical difficulties, the implications of which are not always fully appreciated: depending on the approach used, our analysis of a large sample for Switzerland in 1997 concludes that there is significant discrimination against women; or that no discrimination can be detected; or that there is significant discrimination against...men. The approaches used are: direct general regression (for given attributes such as qualification levels, do salaries differ according to gender ?); inverse general regression (for a given salary level, do employers require different attributes, such as qualification levels, depending on gender ?); the Oaxaca-Blinder method (the effect of a given attribute - e.g. age or marital status - on salaries may differ depending on gender and one must therefore estimate and compare separate equations for women and for men); Heckman's correction (focusing on working persons only may give rise to a selection bias). Our general conclusion is agnostic : given the present state of techniques and knowledge, it is not (yet ?) possible to ascertain scientifically the existence of gender-based salary discrimination in Switzerland. This conclusion differs from that reached by pre-existing studies, which tended to underpin the existence of salary discrimination against women.
C29|Stochastic Programming: Non-Anticipativity and Lagrange Multipliers|Introduction: Decision making under uncertainty can often be formalized as a stochastic program, constrained not merely in material terms, but also by limited information. The former type of constraints, accounting for material bound, is usually described by inequalities required to hold almost surely. The latter type, reflecting informational restrictions, often assumes the form of linear equations involving conditional expectation operators...
C29|Does Education Reduce Wage Inequality? Quantile Regressions Evidence from Fifteen European Countries|We address the impact of education upon wage inequality by drawing on evidence from fifteen European countries, during a period ranging between 1980 and 1995. We focus on within-educational-levels wage inequality by estimating quantile regressions of Mincer equations and analysing the differences in returns to education across the wage distribution and across time. Four different patterns emerge: 1) a positive and increasing contribution of education upon within-levels wage inequality the case of Portugal; 2) a positive but stable role of education in terms of inequality Austria, Finland, France, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK; 3) a neutral role Denmark and Italy; and 4) a negative impact Germany and Greece. We thus find that in most countries dispersion in earnings increases with educational levels and that education is a risky investment. These results suggest a positive interaction between schooling and ability with respect to earnings.
C29|Health and Residential Mobility in Later Life: A New Analytical Technique to Address an Old Problem|"For some time researchers have known that the relationship between health and the residential mobility of the elderly is not straight forward and changes with age. Attempts to examine this relationship in multi-variate models using cross-sectional data have resulted in contradictory or ambiguous findings. One solution has been to create separate models for different age groups. However, the onset of poor health differs considerably by individual, particularly for the ""young-old"". Multi-variate proportional hazards models using longitudinal data offer a new approach to address this problem. As an example, data from the Ontario Longitudinal Study of Aging have been analyzed using proportional hazards models as compared with logistic regressions. The logistic regressions yield typically ambiguous results. The proportional hazards models indicate a reversal with time in the relationship between one of the two mid-life health measures and residential mobility, and the results for both measures are consistent with the theoretical literature."
C29|Very high interest rates and the cousin risks: Brazil during the Real Plan|We review the arguments in the finance and open macroeconomics literature relevant for the Central Bank to set the level of the interest rate in an open economy. The two relevant risks are the currency and country risks. The country risk (Brazil Risk) is measured with different financials instruments and the (unobservable) currency risk is estimated via the Kalman Filter. We show that besides the currency risk, which is also relevant in developed economies the country risk is of utmost importance to determine the domestic interest rates. Both risks share a few common causes, which is why we call them the cousin risks. Thus, when and if those common causes are confronted, the fall of domestic interest rates may be substantial, because both currency and Brazil risks will fall simultaneously. Preliminary results identify some components of the Brazil risk, e.g., the fiscal deficits, and the domestic and international financial markets conditions. The convertibility risk, defined as risk associated with possibility of not being able to convert BRLs into foreign currency, showed up as an important cause of the Brazil risk during the international financial crises periods, but is no longer relevant. Nowadays, Brazil risk decreased significantly, but the same did not happen with the currency risk. Therefore, it seems that the main factor precluding the fall in domestic interest rates may be associated with the uncertainty of the future behavior of the balance payments, especially the trade account. In view of this hypothesis, we might speculate that assuring vigorous export growth, without resorting to devaluation, is fundamental to achieve lower real interest rates, compatible with sustained economic growth.
C29|Assessing The Efficiency Of Public Schools Using Data Envelopment Analysis And Frontier Regression|The cost efficiency of 520 New York school districts is measured using data envelopment analysis and stochastic frontier regression. Mean inefficiency is 14% using either method, and the rank order correlation coefficient of inefficiency between the two methods is 86. The three largest school districts (Buffalo, Rochester, and Syracuse) are among the most efficient. Student test scores are output variables, and socioeconomic control variables are included to adjust for the harshness of the educational environment in which districts operate. (JEL C29, C61, 121)
C29|O prêmio de risco da taxa de câmbio no Brasil|A principal explicação sugerida pela literatura para o viés do preço futuro em relação à taxa de câmbio que prevalecerá no futuro é a existência de um prêmio de risco. Aplicamos aqui os principais modelos teóricos e técnicas econométricas para identificação e mensuração do prêmio de risco aos dados brasileiros do mercado futuro de câmbio posteriores ao Plano Real. Identifica-se um prêmio de risco que varia ao longo do tempo, o qual correlaciona-se com os fundamentos macroeconômicos da economia. A partir de 1999, coerentemente com a introdução da livre flutuação cambial, observou-se uma diminuição da importância do prêmio de risco relativamente aos erros de previsão na composição do forward discount. As técnicas empregadas permitem-nos avaliar importantes questões de política econômica, como o quanto podem cair as taxas de juros reais.
C29|Common Information in a Common Market? Variance Changes in European Capital Markets|International finance theory argues that integrated markets are priced using common information. In this study, we search twelve European Capital Markets for breakpoints in the way assets are priced and correlate these dates to events in each country. Our analysis shows that the events are related primarily to domestic events, not pan-European events. However, we do find common events for their currency markets. We conclude that domestic factors cannot be ignored even when capital markets are integrating, or even have integrated.
C29|Stationarity and cointegration tests: Comparison of Engle - Granger and Johansen methodologies|Engle-Granger methodology follows two-step estimations. The first step generates the residuals and the second step employs generated residuals to estimate a regression of first-differenced residuals on lagged residuals. Hence, any possible error from the first step will be carried into second step. The Johansen maximum likelihood methodology circumvents Engle-Granger methodology by estimating and testing for the presence of multiple cointegrating vectors through largest canonical correlations. The number of non-zero eigenvalues of Ψ of eq. 26 in the text will specify the number of cointegrating vectors. Some Monte Carlo evidence explores that Johansen procedure performs better than both single equation methods and alternative multivariate methods. In fact, evidence of this paper reveals, as well, that, as Engle-Granger yields some inconclusive outcome, the Johansen tests reach at least one cointegration relationship among variables for Canada, India, Italy, Japan, Turkey and the USA. Then, one may claim that Johansen methodology dominates the Engle- Granger methodology in cointegration analyses.
C29|Money Demand in Italy: A System Approach|Adopting a system approach, the paper evaluates results of empirical research on money demand recently obtained at the Bank of Italy in a single equation context.
C29|Correlated Errors-in-Variables, too Few Instrumental Variables, and Bounds on Parameters|We present new results on parameter bounds for regression models with errors-in-variables. In particular, we show that the required conditions for the validity of the parameter bounds identify by Koopmans, Reiersol and others, can be fulfilled in cases where the measurement errors for different regressors are correlated.
C29|Spurious Multicointegration|No abstract is available for this item.
C29|Polities and Peace|In this paper, we review the central claim of a growing literature: that is, that democratic states rarely, if ever, wage war against and are very unlikely to engage in militarized disputes with other democratic states. We first examine the analytic foundations of this claim. We conclude that they are tenuous. Next, we examine the evidence. We find that no statistically significant relationship exists between regime type and the probability of war before World War I. We also find that the probability of disputes short of war is significantly higher for democratic-democratic pairs than for other pairs of states in the pre- 1914 period. In both cases, our analysis shows that the hypothesized relationship prevails only after World War H. Because of the Cold War that ensued after 1945, our results suggest that the relationship we observe between democracy and conflict is the product of common interests rather than of common polities. An analysis of the relationship between regime type and the probability of alliance formation lends support to this interpretation.
C29|Correlated Measurement Errors, Bounds on Parameters, and a Model of Producer Behavior|We examine estimation of a model of producer behavior in the presence of correlated measurement errors in the regressors. Scale economies and price-cost margins are estimated from a set of panel data for manufacturing plants. The paper presents a somewhat new model for estimation of these parameters which is highly flexible but with a simple regression structure. Perhaps the most important contribution of the paper is some new results on deriving parameter bounds for a regression model with errors in variables. In particular, we consider the case where the measurement errors might be correlated. We derive asymptotic standard errors for the parameter bounds. These asymptotic standard errors are compared to bootstrap estimates. Our new results on parameter bounds are applied to the estimation of the model of producer behavior.
