C30|AGMEMOD outlook for agricultural and food markets in EU member states 2018-2030|Policy, administration and industry need medium-term projections of the expected developments in the agri-food markets for their decision-making processes. The EU Commission presents such projections for the EU as a whole in December of each year. Those projections and their assumptions regarding policy and macroeconomic developments are depicted to the level of individual EU Member States with the exception of Luxembourg, which is included in the figures of Belgium, by applying the partial equilibrium model AGMEMOD. The working paper briefly describes the approach to establish projections for the EU Member States. The projections cover the markets of main agricultural products, in particular for cereals and oilseeds (rapeseed and sunflower seed), livestock (cattle, pigs, goats and sheep), meat (beef, pork, and poultry), milk and dairy products (drinking milk, butter, cheese, skimmed milk powder, whole milk and semi-skimmed milk powder). The outcomes comprise items like areas, livestock numbers, yields, production, trade and use, as well as prices. The individual projection results are displayed in tables.
C30|Inducing Sparsity and Shrinkage in Time-Varying Parameter Models|Time-varying parameter (TVP) models have the potential to be over-parameterized, particularly when the number of variables in the model is large. Global-local priors are increasingly used to induce shrink- age in such models. But the estimates produced by these priors can still have appreciable uncertainty. Sparsification has the potential to remove this uncertainty and improve forecasts. In this paper, we develop computationally simple methods which both shrink and sparsify TVP models. In a simulated data exercise we show the benefits of our shrink-then-sparsify approach in a variety of sparse and dense TVP regressions. In a macroeconomic forecast exercise, we find our approach to substantially improve forecast performance relative to shrinkage alone.
C30|Phillips curves in the euro area|We perform a robust estimation of the Phillips curve in the euro area using a battery of 630 theory-driven models. We extend the existing literature by adding model specifications, taking into account the uncertainty in the measurement of variables and testing for potential non-linearities and structural changes. Using Dynamic Model Averaging, we identify the most important determinants of inflation over the sample. We then forecast core inflation 12 quarters ahead and present its probability distribution. We compare the distribution of forecasts performed in recent years, and we assess, in a probabilistic manner, the convergence towards a sustainable path of inflation. JEL Classification: C30, E52, F41, E32
C30|Identifying Global and National Output and Fiscal Policy Shocks Using a GVAR|The paper contributes to the growing global VAR (GVAR) literature by showing how global and national shocks can beidentified within a GVAR framework. The usefulness of the proposed approach is illustrated in an application to the analysis of the interactions between public debt and real output growth in a multicountry setting, and the results are compared to those obtained from standard single country VAR analysis. We find that on average (across countries) global shocks explain about one third of the long-horizon forecast error variance of output growth, and about one fifth of the long run variance of the rate of change of debt-to-GDP. Evidence on the degree of cross-sectional dependence in these variables and their innovations are exploited to identify the global shocks, and priors are used to identify the national shocks within a Bayesian framework. It is found that posterior median debt elasticity with respect to output is much larger when the rise in output is due to a fiscal policy shock, as compared to when the rise in output is due to a positive technology shock. The cross country average of the median debt elasticity is 1.58 when the rise in output is due to a fiscal expansion as compared to 0.75 when the rise in output follows from a favorable output shock.
C30|How Do Subnational Governments React to Shocks to Revenue Sources? Evidence from Argentina|Using the exogenous variability in intergovernmental transfers and hydrocarbon royalties, based on the fiscal regime that prevailed in Argentina from 1988 to 2003, we jointly estimate the effects that changes in these public revenues had on provincial public consumption and debt. When receiving a one-peso increase in intergovernmental transfers, provinces spent 32 centavos of each peso on public consumption and 43 on debt repayment. But when hydrocarbon-producing provinces received a one-peso increase in royalties, they used 75 centavos for debt repayment. These dissimilar reactions to revenue increases are robust to different specifications of the basic regressions. Finally, we provide two alternative explanations for them: the higher volatility of hydrocarbon royalties (relative to intergovernmental transfers) and the exhaustible nature of these revenues.
C30|Phillips curves in the euro area|We perform a robust estimation of the Phillips curve in the euro area using a battery of 630 theory-driven models.We extend the existing literature by adding model specifications, taking into account the uncertainty in the measurement of variables and testing for potential non-linearities and structural changes. Using Dynamic Model Averaging, weidentify the most important determinants of inflation over the sample. We then forecast core inflation 12 quarters ahead and present its probability distribution. We compare the distribution of forecasts performed in recent years, and we assess, in a probabilistic manner, the convergence towards a sustainable path of inflation.
C30|The macroeconomic effects of international uncertainty|This paper proposes a large-scale Bayesian vector autoregression with factor stochastic volatility to investigate the macroeconomic consequences of international uncertainty shocks in G7 countries. The curse of dimensionality is addressed by means of a global-local shrinkage prior that mimics certain features of the well-known Minnesota prior, yet provides additional flexibility in terms of achieving shrinkage. The factor structure enables us to identify an international uncertainty shock by assuming that it is the joint volatility process that determines the dynamics of the variance-covariance matrix of the common factors. To allow for first and second moment shocks we, moreover, assume that the uncertainty factor enters the VAR equation as an additional regressor. Our findings suggest that the estimated uncertainty measure is strongly connected to global equity price volatility, closely tracking other prominent measures commonly adopted to assess uncertainty. The dynamic responses of a set of macroeconomic and financial variables show that an international uncertainty shock exerts large effects on all economies and variables under consideration. JEL Classification: C30, E52, F41, E32
C30|Asymptotically Valid Bootstrap Inference for Proxy SVARs|Proxy structural vector autoregressions identify structural shocks in vector autoregressions with external variables that are correlated with the structural shocks of interest but uncorrelated with all other structural shocks. We provide asymptotic theory for this identification approach under mild α-mixing conditions that cover a large class of uncorrelated, but possibly dependent innovation processes, including conditional heteroskedasticity. We prove consistency of a residual-based moving block bootstrap for inference on statistics such as impulse response functions and forecast error variance decompositions. Wild bootstraps are proven to be generally invalid for these statistics and their coverage rates can be badly and persistently mis-sized.
C30|Does inflation targeting always matter for the ERPT? A robust approach|This paper estimates the effects of different forms of inflation targeting (IT) in the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT). To this end, we first estimate the ERPT for a large sample of countries using state-space models. We then consider the adoption of an inflation targeting framework by a country as a treatment to find suitable counterfactuals to the actual targeters. By controlling for self-selection bias and endogeneity of the monetary policy regime, we confirm that the ERPT tends to be lower for countries adopting explicit IT. However, we uncover that older regimes, adopting a range or point with tolerance band and keeping inflation close to the target, outperform other IT regimes. We also show that IT is effective even with a relatively high inflation target or low central bank independence.
C30|Hourly demand for electricity in Sweden: Implications for load, welfare and emissions|In this study, using sub-hourly appliance-level data from a representative sample of Swedish households on standard tariffs, we investigate the welfare and emission implications of moving to a mandatory dynamic pricing scheme. We treat demand during different hours of a day to affect utility differently, and account for the derived nature of electricity demand by explicitly considering the services (end-use demands) that drive hourly electricity demand. We use the flexible EASI demand system, which accommodates both observed and unobserved heterogeneity in preferences, to understand changes in load consequent to moving to dynamic pricing schemes. We find changes in load patterns across hours to be relatively small (with at most a three percent reduction during the morning peak, and a two percent increase in the off-peak times), and welfare and emissions to decrease slightly (a maximum of 0.2 percent and 0.25 percent, respectively). Overall, in the context of a decentralized electricity retail setting such as in Sweden, our results call into question both the desirability (from a short-run welfare perspective) or the feasibility (from a consumer perspective) of the emphasis on ensuring that the retail price of electricity be aligned to the hourly marginal cost.
C30|Modeling heterogeneity and rationality of inflation expectations across Indian households|We analyze the inflation expectation formation of Indian Households using Inflation Expectations Survey of Households dataset, and draw out its implications for the effectiveness and use of the expectations channel of monetary policy transmission. Using quantitative responses we discover that households' expectations are adaptive and backward looking. They are not efficient. Food inflation has a significant short run impact but the effect of core inflation increases over the long run. There is considerable heterogeneity across households with females, daily workers, young and retired persons having higher inflation expectations than their counterparts. Unlike advanced economies, retired persons have higher expectations perhaps due to the accumulated information about higher inflation in the past, inadequate social security and underdeveloped pension schemes. Households do not overreact in comparison to the forecasts of RBI and professional forecasters. But short term reactions are significant and heterogeneous across households. The large speed of adjustment, absence of over-reaction, low response coefficients to commodity shocks in a simultaneous and impact of the RBI's forecasted path bodes well for successfully anchoring household inflation expectations in the process of inflation targeting, but requires that these forecasts are carefully made with a focused use of the expectations channel. Communications have more of an impact on inflation expectations than the interest rate. A repo rise actually raises inflation expectations pointing to the ineffectiveness of the aggregate demand channel and of aggressive rate rises.
C30|Modeling consumers' confidence and inflation expectations|Using Consumer Confidence Survey data we analyze socio-economic as well as macroeconomic factors that influence inflation expectations of Indian households. We discover that inflation expectations of households depend largely on inflation perceptions, income and education of the respondents, as well as their outlook on the economy, employment and spending. Women, lower income individuals and less educated persons tend to have higher inflation expectations. Macroeconomic variables like inflation, repo rate and GDP growth rate influence inflation expectations positively. Along with these variables, Reserve Bank of India inflation projections influence inflation expectations. Therefore, the Reserve Bank has a significant role in anchoring inflation expectations via communications. Since a rise in Repo, as well as lower growth, raise inflation expectations, it must also give weight to growth under inflation targeting.
C30|How do subnational governments react to shocks to revenue sources? Evidence from Argentina|Using the exogenous variability in intergovernmental transfers and hydrocarbon royalties, based on the fiscal regime that prevailed in Argentina from 1988 to 2003, we jointly estimate the effects that changes in these public revenues had on provincial public consumption and debt. When receiving a one-peso increase in intergovernmental transfers, provinces spent 32 centavos of each peso on public consumption and 43 on debt repayment. But when hydrocarbon-producing provinces received a one-peso increase in royalties, they used 75 centavos for debt repayment. These dissimilar reactions to revenue increases are robust to different specifications of the basic regressions. Finally, we provide two alternative explanations for them: the higher volatility of hydrocarbon royalties (relative to intergovernmental transfers) and the exhaustible nature of these revenues.
C30|Planar Beauty Contests|We introduce a planar beauty contest game where agents must simultaneously guess two, endogenously determined variables, a and b. The system of equations determining the actual values of a and b is a coupled system; while the realization of a depends on the average forecast for a, a', as in a standard beauty contest game, the realization of b depends on both a' and on the average forecast for b, b'. Our aim is to better understand the conditions under which agents learn the steady state of such systems and whether the eigenvalues of the system matter for the convergence or divergence of this learning process. We ﬁnd that agents are able to learn the steady state of the system when the eigenvalues are both less than 1 in absolute value (the sink property) or when the steady state is saddlepath stable with the one root outside the unit circle being negative. By contrast, when the steady state exhibits the source property (two unstable roots) or is saddlepath stable with the one root outside the unit circle being positive, subjects are unable to learn the steady state of the system. We show that these results can be explained by either an adaptive learning model or a mixed cognitive levels model, while other approaches, e.g., naive or homogeneous level-k learning, do not consistently predict whether subjects converge to or diverge away from the steady state.
C30|How innovation affects performance|This paper studies how innovation strategies of Russian manufacturing firms affect various features of firm performance. A multi stage model is used, which relates the firm's decision to undertake R&D to its innovation output, technical efficiency, labor productivity, and growth. We also include imports into the knowledge production function, because catching up economies may adopt technologies embodied in imported hardware. Additionally, we link productivity and innovation output to survival. We find that both types of knowledge input - R&D and imports - strongly determine innovation. Innovations yield the strongest performance return in the case of catching up to technological frontier. Product innovation is more beneficial than process innovation in all performance features except for labor productivity. However, higher efficiency does not improve the growth rates or survival time of manufacturing firms. Taken together, these results show that innovation is not uniformly rewarded across all features of firm performance.
C30|Tax Morale and Fairness in Conflict - An Experiment|Arguably, for many citizens the perceived expected disutility from sanctions is smaller than the monetary gain from tax evasion. Nevertheless most people pay their taxes most of the time. In a lab experiment, we show that the willingness to pay taxes even absent enforcement is indeed pronounced. Yet voluntary compliance is reduced if participants learn that income is heterogeneous. The effect is driven by participants with the lowest income. The reduction obtains irrespective of the tax regime. If the tax is proportional to income, or progressive, participants become more skeptical about the willingness of participants with high income to comply.
C30|Econometric Ways to Estimate the Age and Price of Abalone|Abalone is a rich nutritious food resource in the many parts of the world. The economic value of abalone is positively correlated with its age. However, determining the age of abalone is a cumbersome as well as expensive process which increases the cost and limits its popularity. This article proposes very simple ways to determine the age of abalones using econometric methods to reduce the costs of producers as well as consumers.
C30|Counter sanctions and well-being population of Russia: econometric analyses|This article examines the impact of counter-sanctions on the welfare of Russia’s population. We build a multiple-choice model and calculate the probability of being in a particular group of well-being based on the price (cost) of consumed counter-sanctions goods. The next step is the construction of a structural demand-supply system for estimating similar domestic good’s production elasticities. By knowing elasticity estimates we determine the price response to particular import closure. According to our estimates Russia's counter-sanctions led to an increase in poverty by 2.64 %.
C30|Spreading the word or reducing the term spread? Assessing spillovers from euro area monetary policy|As a consequence of asset purchases by the European Central Bank (ECB), longer- term yields in the euro area decline, and spreads between euro area long-term yields narrow. To assess spillovers of these recent financial developments, we use a Bayesian variant of the global vector autoregressive (BGVAR) model that uses shrinkage priors coupled with stochastic volatility. We find positive and signif- icant spillovers to industrial production in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe (CESEE) and other non-euro area EU member states. These effects are transmitted via the financial channel (mainly through interest rates and equity prices) and outweigh costs of appreciation pressure on local currencies vis-a-vis the euro (trade channel). That both shocks yield rather similar results adds narrowing longer-term yields in the euro area as a viable alternative to the pol- icymakers' toolkit. While these results represent general trends, we also find evidence for both cross-country heterogeneity of effects within the euro area and region-specific spillovers thereof.
C30|Inducing Sparsity and Shrinkage in Time-Varying Parameter Models|Time-varying parameter (TVP) models have the potential to be over-parameterized, particularly when the number of variables in the model is large. Global-local priors are increasingly used to induce shrinkage in such models. But the estimates produced by these priors can still have appreciable uncertainty. Sparsification has the potential to remove this uncertainty and improve forecasts. In this paper, we develop computationally simple methods which both shrink and sparsify TVP models. In a simulated data exercise we show the benefits of our shrink-then-sparsify approach in a variety of sparse and dense TVP regressions. In a macroeconomic forecast exercise, we find our approach to substantially improve forecast performance relative to shrinkage alone.
C30|Spillover bias in multigenerational income regressions|Intergenerational persistence estimates are susceptible to several well-documented biases arising from income measurement, and it has become standard practice to construct income measures to mitigate these. However, remaining bias can lead to a spurious grandparent coefficient estimate in multigenerational regressions, a recent focus of the mobility literature. We show with theory and simulations that even using a 30-year income average can result in a small positive spurious grandfather coefficient estimate. We further propose an IV approach, showing that it is not susceptible to this spillover bias in simplified settings and that it can provide bounds on the parameters in a more general scenario. With administrative data from Norway, we reveal a positive spillover bias in the grandfather coefficient estimates, and the combined evidence from our OLS and IV approaches suggest the preferred small positive OLS estimate could still be upward biased.
C30|Lévy processes on the cryptocurrency market|Lévy processes are very often used in financial modelling since they address various characteristics of financial data. One of those characteristics is the heavy-tailedness of probability density functions - a very common empirical stylized fact on the cryptocurrency market. The aim of this study was to determine which type of Lévy motion fits the data of cryptocurrencies better, namely Alpha-Stable distribution or one of distributions from the family of generalized hyperbolic motions. The log-returns of 227 cryptocurrencies, standardized by the realized volatility estimated with the GARCH (1,1), were fitted to 11 types of distributions. The results show that the generalized hyperbolic motions fit the cryptocurrency data much more accurately than the Alpha-Stable distribution, similarly as in the case of TOP100 NASDAQ stocks. In the further stage of the analysis, it is shown how the distribution of cryptocurrency data varies over time, i.e. before, during, and after the ‘boom-period’ of 2017/2018.
C30|AGMEMOD Outlook for Agricultural and Food Markets in EU Member States 2018-2030| Policy, administration and industry need medium-term projections of the expected developments in the agri-food markets for their decision-making processes. The EU Commission presents such projections for the EU as a whole in December of each year. Those projections and their assumptions regarding policy and macroeconomic developments are depicted to the level of individual EU Member States with the exception of Luxembourg, which is included in the figures of Belgium, by applying the partial equilibrium model AGMEMOD. The working paper briefly describes the approach to establish projections for the EU Member States. The projections cover the markets of main agricultural products, in particular for cereals and oilseeds (rapeseed and sunflower seed), livestock (cattle, pigs, goats and sheep), meat (beef, pork, and poultry), milk and dairy products (drinking milk, butter, cheese, skimmed milk powder, whole milk and semi-skimmed milk powder). The outcomes comprise items like areas, livestock numbers, yields, production, trade and use, as well as prices. The individual projection results are displayed in tables.
C30|Sophisticated and small versus simple and sizeable: When does it pay off to introduce drifting coefficients in Bayesian VARs?|We assess the relationship between model size and complexity in the time-varying parameter VAR framework via thorough predictive exercises for the Euro Area, the United Kingdom and the United States. It turns out that sophisticated dynamics through drifting coefficients are important in small data sets while simpler models tend to perform better in sizeable data sets. To combine best of both worlds, novel shrinkage priors help to mitigate the curse of dimensionality, resulting in competitive forecasts for all scenarios considered. Furthermore, we discuss dynamic model selection to improve upon the best performing individual model for each point in time.
C30|Implications of Macroeconomic Volatility in the Euro Area|In this paper, we estimate a Bayesian vector autoregressive (VAR) model with factor stochastic volatility in the error term to assess the effects of an uncertainty shock in the Euro area (EA). This allows us to incorporate uncertainty directly into the econometric framework and treat it as a latent quantity. Only a limited number of papers estimates impacts of uncertainty and macroeconomic consequences jointly, and most literature in this sphere is based on single countries. We analyze the special case of a shock restricted to the Euro area, whose countries are highly related by definition. Among other variables, we find significant results of a decrease in real activity measured by GDP in most Euro area countries over a period of roughly a year following an uncertainty shock.
C30|Model instability in predictive exchange rate regressions|In this paper we aim to improve existing empirical exchange rate models by accounting for uncertainty with respect to the underlying structural representation. Within a flexible Bayesian non-linear time series framework, our modeling approach assumes that different regimes are characterized by commonly used structural exchange rate models, with their evolution being driven by a Markov process. We assume a time-varying transition probability matrix with transition probabilities depending on a measure of the monetary policy stance of the central bank at the home and foreign country. We apply this model to a set of eight exchange rates against the US dollar. In a forecasting exercise, we show that model evidence varies over time and a model approach that takes this empirical evidence seriously yields improvements in accuracy of density forecasts for most currency pairs considered.
C30|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
C30|Bayesian Vector Autoregressions|This article reviews Bayesian inference methods for Vector Autoregression models, commonly used priors for economic and financial variables, and applications to structural analysis and forecasting.
C30|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
C30|The effects of external shocks on Azerbaijan economy|This paper examines the effects of external shocks on the economy of oil rich Azerbaijan. Using oil price and macroeconomic indicators of three major trade partners of Azerbaijan – EU, Russia, and Turkey - as the external shock variables, we analyze the effects of those shocks on the domestic macroeconomic variables of Azerbaijan during the period from 2000Q1 to 2017Q4, in the SVAR framework with block exogeneity restriction. The results show that the overall importance of the four groups of shocks, in descending terms, is in the following order: oil shock, EU origin shocks, Russia origin shocks, and Turkey origin shocks. The major findings of the paper are: a) among considered foreign shocks oil price shock is the most important foreign shock for the economy of Azerbaijan; b) in general EU origin shocks has larger impact on considered domestic variables compared to other trade partners origin shocks; c) Turkey origin shocks have almost no impact in any of the considered domestic variables of Azerbaijan, d) among considered external shocks oil price is the main determinant of the non-oil sector of economy, and e) among considered external shocks GDP growth of the trade partners is the main determinant of the inflation in Azerbaijan.
C30|Bayesian Vector Autoregressions|This article reviews Bayesian inference methods for Vector Autoregression models, commonly used priors for economic and financial variables, and applications to structural analysis and forecasting.
C30|Identifying Global and National Output and Fiscal Policy Shocks Using a GVAR|The paper contributes to the growing Global VAR (GVAR) literature by showing how global and national shocks can be identified within a GVAR framework. The usefulness of the proposed approach is illustrated in an application to the analysis of the interactions between public debt and real output growth in a multi-country setting, and the results are compared to those obtained from standard single-country VAR analysis. We find that on average (across countries) global shocks explain about one-third of the long-horizon forecast error variance of output growth, and about one-fifth of the long-run variance of the rate of change of debt-to-GDP. Evidence on the degree of cross-sectional dependence in these variables and their innovations is exploited to identify the global shocks, and priors are used to identify the national shocks within a Bayesian framework. It is found that posterior median debt elasticity with respect to output is much larger when the rise in output is due to a fiscal policy shock, as compared to when the rise in output is due to a positive technology shock. The cross-country average of the median debt elasticity is 1.58 when the rise in output is due to a fiscal expansion as compared to 0.75 when the rise in output follows from a favorable output shock.
C30|High dimensional semiparametric moment restriction models|Moment restriction semiparametric models, where both the dimension of parameter and the number of restrictions are divergent and an unknown function is involved, are studied using the generalized method of moments (GMM) and sieve method dealing with the nonparametric parameter. The consistency and normality for the GMM estimators are established. Meanwhile, a new test statistic is proposed for overidentification issue. Numerical examples are used to verify the established theory.
C30|Instrumental Variables in the Long Run|In the field of long-run economic growth, it is common to use historical or geographical variables as instruments for contemporary endogenous regressors. We study the interpretation of these conventional instrumental variable (IV) regressions in a simple, but general, framework. We are interested in estimating the long-run causal effect of changes in historical conditions. For this purpose, we develop an augmented IV estimator that accounts for the degree of persistence in the endogenous regressor. We apply our results to estimate the long-run effect of institutions on economic performance. Using panel data, we find that institutional characteristics are imperfectly persistent, implying that conventional IV regressions overestimate the long-run causal effect of institutions. When applying our augmented estimator, we find that increasing constraints on executive power from the lowest to the highest level on the standard index increases national income per capita three centuries later by 1.2 standard deviations.
C30|The global effects of global risk and uncertainty|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a shock to global financial uncertainty and risk aversion on real economic activity. To this end, we extract a global factor, which explains approximately 40% of the variance of about 1000 risky asset returns from around the world. We then study how shocks to the factor affect economic activity in 36 advanced and emerging small open economies by estimating local projections in a panel regression framework. We find the output responses to be quite heterogeneous across countries but, in general, negative and persistent. Furthermore, the effects of shocks to the global factor are stronger in countries with a higher degree of trade and/or financial openness, as well as in countries with higher levels of external debt, less developed financial sectors, and higher risk rating. JEL Classification: C30, F41, E32, F65
C30|Entrepreneurial motivation and business performance: evidence from a French Microfinance Institution|Abstract This article examines the link between entrepreneurial motivation and business performance in the French microfinance context. Using hand-collected data on business microcredits from a Microfinance Institution (MFI), we provide an indirect measure of entrepreneurial success through loan repayment performance. Controlling for the endogeneity of entrepreneurial motivation in a bivariate probit model, we find that “necessity entrepreneurs” are more likely to have difficulty repaying their microcredits than “opportunity entrepreneurs”. However, type of motivation does not appear to make a difference to business survival. We test for the robustness of our results using parametric duration models and show that necessity entrepreneurs experience difficulties in loan repayment earlier than their opportunity counterparts, corroborating our initial findings. Our results are also robust to a sharper analysis of motivation, focusing on unemployment (on the necessity side) and non-pecuniary benefits from success (on the opportunity side).
C30|Spillovers from US monetary policy: Evidence from a time-varying parameter GVAR model|This paper develops a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility to analyze whether international spillovers of US monetary policy have changed over time. The proposed model allows assessing whether coefficients evolve gradually over time or are better characterized by infrequent, but large breaks. Our findings point towards pronounced changes in the international transmission of US monetary policy throughout the sample period, especially so for the reaction of international output, equity prices, and exchange rates against the US dollar. In general, the strength of spillovers has weakened in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Using simple panel regressions, we link the variation in international responses to measures of trade and financial globalization. We find that a broad trade base and a high degree of financial integration with the world economy tend to cushion risks stemming from a foreign shock such as a US monetary policy tightening, whereas a reduction in trade barriers and/or a liberalization of the capital account increase these risks.
C30|Anchor point selection: An approach for anchoring without anchor items|For detecting differential item functioning (DIF) between two groups of test takers, their item parameters need to be aligned in some way. Typically this is done by means of choosing a small number of so called anchor items. Here we propose an alternative strategy: the selection of an anchor point along the item parameter continuum, where the two groups best overlap. We illustrate how the anchor point is selected by means of maximizing an inequality criterion. It performs equally well or better than established approaches when treated as an anchoring technique, but also provides additional information about the DIF structure through its search path. Another distinct property of this new method is that no individual items are flagged as anchors. This is a major difference to traditional anchoring approaches, where flagging items as anchors implies - but does not guarantee - that they are DIF free, and may lull the user into a false sense of security. Our method can be viewed as a generalization of the search space of traditional anchor selection techniques and can shed new light on the practical usage as well as on the theoretical discussion on anchoring and DIF in general.
C30|The Effect of Early Life Health on Later Life Home Care Use: The Mediating Role of Household Composition|In this paper we estimate the effect of early life health on home care use later in life, and we analyse whether this effect is mediated through household composition. We use Dutch administrative data on men born in 1944-1947 who were examined for military service between 1961-1965 and we link them to national data on non-residential care in the period 2004-2013 and data on house- hold status information for the years 1999-2014. We account for confounding factors that influence both early life health and later life home care use. We also account for selective attrition. Our empirical findings show that general health problems in youth is an important health predictor for later life home care use. A large portion of this effect is an indirect effect running through changes in partnership status.
C30|The Relativity Theory of General Economic Equilibrium|"Abstract Purpose. The purpose of this paper is to propose a new approach to the understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system. Design/methodology/approach. As a result of the dialectical analysis of fundamental economic categories of market economy it appears as the form of a complex, non-linear, functionally closed and causally open system of economic actions. These systems have a number of unique properties that are well studied by second-order cybernetics. This allows in the study of economic processes the unique research and development of this science to be involved in the interdisciplinary format. Findings. The self-organization of a market economy is carried out through the recursive processes. Recursive processes in the economic system, as well as in other complex nonlinear dynamical systems, generate ""eigenvalues"" (""fixed points""). These ""eigenvalues"" are the equilibrium prices to which through the recursive processes tend the actual market prices, thus providing a tendency of the system to the general equilibrium. However, due to constant influence on the system of random external factors, the general equilibrium is never achieved. Research limitations/implications. On the base of the created model the hidden relationships among the gross profit, gross saving, gross investment and gross consumption in debt, as well as the relationships among the other economic parameters are revealed. This is important for adequate understanding of economic reproduction, tendency to general equilibrium, genesis of economic cycles, etc. Practical implications. The proposed understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system will help to improve the applied economic models and to develop the effective economic policy. Originality/value. The original interpretation of economic self-regulation mechanism of market economy is given. The ―Symmetrical model‖ of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy."
C30|The effect of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa (1994-2016)|This study sought to investigate the trends and impact of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa using quarterly data over the period 1994Q1 to 2016Q4. The Auto Regressive Distribution Lag (ARDL) bounds test approach is applied to determine the existence of the long run linkage among the variables. The results from the ARDL model suggest that there is a long run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. The empirical results obtained confirmed that there is a negative relationship between unemployment and economic growth both in the long and short run.
C30|A Study on Regime Type and Globalization in Simultaneous Equation Framework|In this study we build a simultaneous equation model in which the measures of different aspects of globalization (attributable to KOF) and different aspects of democracy (attributable to EIU) are related in seven structural equations. A bi-directional relationship between democracy and globalization is visualized. The model is estimated by the conventional 2-SLS as well as a modified 2-SLS in which Shapley value regression is used at the second stage of 2-SLS. On the basis of our analysis, we document several findings. First, we find that democracy and globalization promote each other and hence there is a bi-directional causality with positive relationships running both ways between democracy and globalization. At a national level, there may be various intermediary conditions that modify the relationship as well as set in motion a complex of positive and/or negative feedbacks to accelerate or retard the pace of globalization and democratization in a country-specific manner. However, when a large number of countries are studied, a clear relationship emerges out. Second, there is a need to estimate the structural coefficients of the model cautiously since the regression equations may be suffering from collinearity among the predictor variables. The Shapley value regression based 2-SLS has performed better than the conventional regression in estimating the structural parameters of the model. Third, the system methods of estimation of the model gives better results than what are obtained by the single equation methods of estimation of structural parameters of the model.
C30|A Simultaneous Equation Model of Globalization, Corruption, Democracy, Human Development and Social Progress|This study builds a simultaneous equation model that establishes inter-connections among the measures of globalization, measures of democracy, human development, corruption perception index and per capita income, which in turn jointly influence social progress. The model has eleven equations in which the response variables and the predictor variables are log-linearly related. The empirical data used for estimation of the model pertain to the period 2006-2016 for 116 countries distributed over all the continents. The model has been estimated by the conventional Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) and alternatively by a modified 2-SLS in which, at the second stage, Shapley value regression has been used to ameliorate the detrimental effects of collinearity among the predictor variables. It has been found that the modified 2-SLS outperforms the conventional 2-SLS. Empirically, it has been established that globalization, democracy, human development and low level of corruption are reinforcing each other and they together explain social progress quite well.
C30|The effect of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa (1994-2016)|This study sought to investigate the trends and impact of unemployment on economic growth in South Africa using quarterly data over the period 1994Q1 to 2016Q4. The Auto Regressive Distribution Lag (ARDL) bounds test approach is applied to determine the existence of the long run linkage among the variables. The results from the ARDL model suggest that there is a long run relationship between unemployment and economic growth. The empirical results obtained confirmed that there is a negative relationship between unemployment and economic growth both in the long and short run.
C30|An internally consistent approach to the estimation of market power and cost efficiency with an application to U.S. banking|We develop a novel unified econometric methodology for the formal examination of the market power – cost efficiency nexus. Our approach can meaningfully accommodate a mutually dependent relationship between the firm’s cost efficiency and marker power (as measured by the Lerner index) by explicitly modeling the simultaneous determination of the two in a system of nonlinear equations consisting of the firm’s cost frontier and the revenue-to-cost ratio equation derived from its stochastic revenue function. Our framework places no a priori restrictions on the sign of the dependence between the firm’s market power and efficiency as well as allows for different hierarchical orderings between the two, enabling us to discriminate between competing quiet life and efficient structure hypotheses. Among other benefits, our approach completely obviates the need for second-stage regressions of the cost efficiency estimates on the constructed market power measures which, while widely prevalent in the literature, suffer from multiple econometric problems as well as lack internal consistency/validity. We showcase our methodology by applying it to a panel of U.S. commercial banks in 1984–2007 using Bayesian MCMC methods.
C30|Macroeconomic Policies and Transmission Dynamics in India|Against the backdrop of the move to an inflation targeting monetary policy framework beginning 2014 with consumer price index (CPI) inflation as the nominal anchor, this paper revisits monetary transmission dynamics. Rather than confining to the typical three equation New Keynesian model, this paper assesses transmission in a broader, disaggregated model incorporating external sector, fiscal policy, banking sector and financial market variables to capture the interactions among key macroeconomic policies and macroeconomic aggregates. The empirical analysis confirms the role of monetary policy in containing demand and inflationary pressures. In view of the ongoing structural reforms, deregulation and opening up of the Indian economy, as well as ongoing initiatives in the monetary policy operating framework to improve the efficacy of monetary transmission, the transmission dynamics can be expected to evolve over time.
C30|Is there convergence between the BRICS and International REIT Markets?|The BRICS market represents high growth economies. This paper empirically examines the long-run equilibrium as well as the short-run linkages between the BRICS REIT markets and the REIT markets in developed countries (United States, Australia and the United Kingdom). We employ fractional co-integration techniques between the BRICS REIT markets and 3 most developed REIT markets. This paper tests the hypothesis of fractional integration, our results showed no evidence of co-integration between BRICS REIT markets and the REIT markets of any of the developed economies in the long run, while the result only indicated that the BRICS REIT markets is influenced by the developed economies in the short run. The implications of this study shows that a portfolio of developed REIT markets are diversifiable when added into a portfolio of BRICS REIT markets. This is particularly significant for investors and fund analysts in other to reduce portfolio risks.
C30|Mixed Binary-Continuous Copula Regression Models with Application to Adverse Birth Outcomes|Bivariate copula regression allows for the flexible combination of two arbitrary, continuous marginal distributions with regression effects being placed on potentially all parameters of the resulting bivariate joint response distribution. Motivated by the risk factors for adverse birth outcomes, many of which are dichotomous, we consider mixed binary-continuous responses that extend the bivariate continuous framework to the situation where one response variable is discrete (more precisely binary) while the other response remains continuous. Utilizing the latent continuous representation of binary regression models, we implement a penalized likelihood based approach for the resulting class of copula regression models and employ it in the context of modelling gestational age and the presence/absence of low birth weight. The analysis demonstrates the advantage of the flexible specification of regression impacts including nonlinear effects of continuous covariates and spatial effects. Our results imply that racial and spatial inequalities in the risk factors for infant mortality are even greater than previously suggested.
C30|The transmission of uncertainty shocks on income inequality: State-level evidence from the United States|In this paper, we explore the relationship between state-level household income inequality and macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States. Using a novel large-scale macroeconometric model, we shed light on regional disparities of inequality responses to a national uncertainty shock. The results suggest that income inequality decreases in most states, with a pronounced degree of heterogeneity in terms of shapes and magnitudes of the dynamic responses. By contrast, some few states, mostly located in the West and South census region, display increasing levels of income inequality over time. We find that this directional pattern in responses is mainly driven by the income composition and labor market fundamentals. In addition, forecast error variance decompositions allow for a quantitative assessment of the importance of uncertainty shocks in explaining income inequality. The findings highlight that volatility shocks account for a considerable fraction of forecast error variance for most states considered. Finally, a regression-based analysis sheds light on the driving forces behind differences in state-specific inequality responses.
C30|Spillovers from US monetary policy: Evidence from a time-varying parameter GVAR model|This paper develops a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility to analyze whether international spillovers of US monetary policy have changed over time. The proposed model allows assessing whether coefficients evolve gradually over time or are better characterized by infrequent, but large breaks. Our findings point towards pronounced changes in the international transmission of US monetary policy throughout the sample period, especially so for the reaction of international output, equity prices, and exchange rates against the US dollar. In general, the strength of spillovers has weakened in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Using simple panel regressions, we link the variation in international responses to measures of trade and financial globalization. We find that a broad trade base and a high degree of financial integration with the world economy tend to cushion risks stemming from a foreign shock such as a US monetary policy tightening, whereas a reduction in trade barriers and/or a liberalization of the capital account increase these risks.
C30|Model instability in predictive exchange rate regressions| In this paper we aim to improve existing empirical exchange rate models by accounting for uncertainty with respect to the underlying structural representation. Within a flexible Bayesian non-linear time series framework, our modeling approach assumes that different regimes are characterized by commonly used structural exchange rate models, with their evolution being driven by a Markov process. We assume a time-varying transition probability matrix with transition probabilities depending on a measure of the monetary policy stance of the central bank at the home and foreign country. We apply this model to a set of eight exchange rates against the US dollar. In a forecasting exercise, we show that model evidence varies over time and a model approach that takes this empirical evidence seriously yields improvements in accuracy of density forecasts for most currency pairs considered.
C30|Deconstruction of Absorptive Capacity and Its Applications|Absorptive Capacity (ACAP) is a central construct in several areas of organization studies, e.g., strategic management, new product development, and organizational learning. The most prominent objective dimensions of ACAP are the exploratory learning?acquisition and assimilation of knowledge, transformative learning?maintaining the acquired knowledge over time, and exploitative learning?applying such knowledge to achieve superior performance (Garud & Nayyar, 1994; Lichtenthaler, 2009; Zahra & George, 2002). Recently, much has been investigated on the effect of these well-established dimensions of ACAP on firms? innovation and performance. Yet, despite a few attempts (e.g., Matusik & Heely, 2005; Vasudeva & Anand, 2011), existing literature stops short of offering other dimensions of ACAP, especially the dimensions that could represent managerial perceptions of the construct?s attributes. Quite likely, organizations? failure to understand the managerial perceptions of ACAP or effectively anticipate it in their routines may account in part for loss of their organizational and individual learning, thereby diminishing their future economic performance. In addition, there is limited research on a marketing context of ACAP though market knowledge is also a critical component of a firm?s ACAP. In seeking to address these shortcomings, this study intends to explore, clarify, and explicate other plausible dimensions of ACAP while extending the scope of ACAP beyond technology-related context. The study offers an exploratory study, using in-depth interview and online survey, to both qualitatively and quantitatively investigate the richness and multidimensionality of the concept including its implications on firms? knowledge creation outcomes from managerial viewpoints.
C30|Implications of macroeconomic volatility in the Euro area|In this paper we estimate a Bayesian vector autoregressive model with factor stochastic volatility in the error term to assess the effects of an uncertainty shock in the Euro area. This allows us to treat macroeconomic uncertainty as a latent quantity during estimation. Only a limited number of contributions to the literature estimate uncertainty and its macroeconomic consequences jointly, and most are based on single country models. We analyze the special case of a shock restricted to the Euro area, where member states are highly related by construction. We find significant results of a decrease in real activity for all countries over a period of roughly a year following an uncertainty shock. Moreover, equity prices, short-term interest rates and exports tend to decline, while unemployment levels increase. Dynamic responses across countries differ slightly in magnitude and duration, with Ireland, Slovakia and Greece exhibiting different reactions for some macroeconomic fundamentals.
C30|Why have the recent oil price declines not stimulated global economic growth?|We analyze the global relationship between oil prices, commodity-specific financial marketshocks and economic activity by means of Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) models for the period 1996 - 2015. For the financial market variables in our model, we use a breakdown of G-20 countries into net commodity exporting and importing countries to compute the real exchange rate between the country groups as well as the corresponding interest rate spread. Regarding the discussion about the missing expansionary effects of the recent oil price declines at the global level, our empirical framework tests the following transmission: A downgrading of financial conditions for commodity exporting countries can lead to a more serious decline of their domestic demand as should be expected from the pure income effect of lower export revenues due to lower oil prices. Therefore, missing expansionary effects of the recent oil price declines should not only be traced back to the absence of expansionary monetary policy effects at the zero lower bound in many commodity importing countries, but also to a high dependency of commodity exporting countries on international financial markets.
C30|The determinants of subjective wellbeing in a developing country: The Ecuadorian case|Ecuador is a country characterized by deep social and territorial inequalities. In order to overcome this issue the national government setup in 2008 the National Plan of Wellbeing, a master plan whose objective is to put at the centre of the political action the wellbeing of the human being. This study aims to analyze the individual and contextual determinants of subjective wellbeing in Ecuador by examining a set of variables linked to the specific social and territorial characteristics of the country and to its main policy priorities. The assessment is based on econometric techniques able to account for the nested structure of the data, namely ordinary least squares and ordered logit with clustered standard errors and multilevel ordered logit. The results are robust and show that institutional trust, income, good housing conditions and education fosters wellbeing. On the other hand, being a woman, belonging to an ethnic minority or living in an oil dependent area is negatively correlated to subjective wellbeing. The policy implications range from an improvement of the institutional framework and redistributive system to better inclusion policies.
C30|Long term impacts of class size in compulsory school|How does class size in compulsory school affect peoples’ long run education and earnings? We use maximum class size rules and Norwegian administrative registries allowing us to observe outcomes up to age 48. We do not find any indication of beneficial effects of class size reduction in compulsory school. For a 1 person reduction in class size we can rule out effects on income as small as 0.087 percent in primary school and 0.12 percent in middle school. Population differences in parental background, school size or competitive pressure do not appear to reconcile our findings with previous studies.
C30|Optimal energy policy for a carbon tax in Japan|Climate change is a global challenge that must be addressed at the international level. In December 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) held in Paris. The Paris agreement is aimed at keeping global temperature increases below 2 °C. Toward this goal, the Japanese government plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26% by fiscal year 2030 compared with fiscal year 2013. In this study, we evaluate the feasibility of Japan’s energy policy for reducing CO2 emissions. We construct a macroeconometric model linked to an energy model to show the optimal future energy policy for Japan by applying optimal control to the social welfare function.
C30|Are there differences in the effectiveness of quantitative easing at the zero-lower-bound in Japan over time?|Using a time-varying parameter vector autoregression (TVP-VAR) framework with a new set of sign restrictions, we study the changing effectiveness of the Bank of Japan's Quantitative Easing policies over time. We specifically analyse the so-called Zero-Interest Rate Policy from 1999 to 2000, the Quantitative Easing Policy from 2001 to 2006, and most recently the so-called ‘Abenomics’ strategy.
C30|Values Based Ideal Types of Corporate Governance Systems|Values and differences in corporate governance across the world are part and partially related and it is obvious that owners know what results they want to have from the corporations in the long run. In this regard, some scientific studies have revealed that owners would be succeed in a dynamic environment only if they formulate ownership strategy based on values. Consequently, to understand corporate governance better, some research has been carried out on corporate governance by relating values towards the area of knowledge but there is a scarcity of research which proposing comprehensive and explains corporate governance systems consisting values. Therefore, authors of this paper identified the following research problem which is: “Lacking of theory behind corporate governance systems including values which gives an opportunity towards the owners under different corporate governance systems to analyse its own behaviour, learning, managing knowledge, and finally clearly expressing ownership will in the form of an ownership strategy.” There were two data set was analysed in this study. One is Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) company law and corporate governance database based on member countries submission and the second set of data is Schwartz’s value survey to characterise multiple countries by their culture. Methodologically, after using multi quantitative tools this study is valuable to analyse all the secondary data to produce new knowledge, adopting different theoretical lens, by analysing and understanding the interrelationships of values and different systems of corporate governance across the world. The result of the study comes with a typology including values based three ideal types (Affective type, Cognitive type and Conative type) of corporate governance systems, with a practical contribution towards enriching the available knowledge for owners to formulate ownership strategy. Considering future direction, the constructed typology is required for assessment of the capability of refutation aside from OECD countries. Classification JEL: C30, G32, G34, M10
C30|Input and output additionality of R&D subsidies| This article analyses the effects of public R&D subsidies on R&D input and output of German firms. We distinguish between the direct impact of subsidies on R&D investment and the indirect effect on innovation output measured by patent applications. We disentangle the productivity of purely privately financed R&D and additional R&D investment induced by the public incentive scheme. For this, a treatment-effect analysis is conducted in a first step. The results are implemented into the estimation of a patent production function in a second step. It turns out that both purely privately financed R&D and publicly induced R&D show a positive effect on patent outcome.
C30|Fiscal devaluation and economic activity in the EU|In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, a fiscal devaluation (hereafter: FD), understood as a shift in taxation from labor to consumption, has been debated as a possible tool of restoring competitiveness in peripheral countries of the Euro area. We contribute to this debate. Based on a set of panel and spatial panel models for the EU 27 over the period 1995 – 2014, we find that FD increases value added in exports, improves net exports, accelerates GDP and employment growth, and decelerates labour costs growth. These effects are nonlinear: stronger in the members of the Euro area and weaker in countries with either more coordinated or more centralised wage bargaining process, or more generous unemployment benefits. Most importantly, FD turns out not to be a beggar thy neighbour policy, at least in the EU. In our sample ‘cooperative effect’ of unilateral FD, which is beneficial for neighbouring countries, dominates by far ‘competitive effect’, which goes at the expense of other countries’ competitiveness. Admittedly, FD implemented in one country can benefit other countries, provided that they are strongly integrated in global value chains. These findings are robust to changes in the estimation methods, the sample composition, the set of explanatory variables and the selection of a spatial weight matrix.
C30|How do resource-driven economies cope with the oil price slump? A comparative survey of ten major oil-exporting countries|The oil price slump of about 50% since 2014 has had a detrimental effect on oil-exporting emerging market economies (EMEs), potentially threatening to trigger social unrest in countries that had benefited from the oil price boom for more than a decade. We provide a first descriptive account of the policy reactions of central banks and governments of eight important oil-exporting EMEs and compare them with those of two oil-exporting advanced economies, allowing us to distinguish three patterns: One group of countries has so far successfully defended its exchange rate peg to the U.S. dollar, the reference invoicing currency (Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates). A second group gave up resistance to mounting market pressures and carried out step devaluations or switched to a floating exchange rate (Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Nigeria and Angola). A third group of countries continued to let their currencies float (Mexico, Canada and Norway), with the stable long-term relationship between the exchange rate and commodity export prices qualifying these currencies as “commodity currencies.” We conclude that EMEs featuring peg-like regimes and saddled with limited structural diversification, modest fiscal and external buffers as well as weak institutional conditions for capital controls are unlikely to be able to uphold their exchange rate choices if they suffer a major and sustained adverse terms-of-trade shock, and should opt for flexibility sooner rather than later. While declining oil prices may imply a degree of passive diversification, a proactive long-term strategy to develop a more diversified economic structure in good times could at least partly reduce the need for buffers.
C30|How would a fiscal shock in Germany affect other European countries? Evidence from a Bayesian GVAR model with sign restrictions|In this paper we analyze the international effects of a fiscal policy shock in Germany on other European countries. To that end we use a flexible version of a Bayesian global vector autoregression (GVAR) model and a dataset with broad country coverage comprising a wide range of macroeconomic and financial variables. Our results suggest a comparatively strong response in a majority of European economies to such a shock. In particular, we provide evidence that a deficit-financed expansionary government spending shock in Germany generates long-lasting positive cross-border output spillovers. In the case of the euro area periphery and Central, Eastern and Southeastern (CESEE) economies, these effects may be transmitted via the financial channel since financial variables such as equity prices and private sector credit significantly increase in response to the assumed fiscal shock in Germany. Upward effects on consumer prices, by contrast, are limited to core euro area countries. When looking at the effects of an expansionary tax cut shock instead of those of a spending-driven fiscal shock, we identify cross-border output spillovers of a similar magnitude but with a lower degree of persistence; in the case of CESEE economies, these results are also characterized by more estimation uncertainty. Finally, we also provide evidence for considerable cross-country heterogeneity in fiscal spillovers; for instance within CESEE, output responses to a fiscal shock in Germany are strongest in Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia.
C30|Approaches and Techniques to Validate Internal Model Results|The development of risk model for managing portfolio of financial institutions and insurance companies require both from the regulatory and management points of view a strong validation of the quality of the results provided by internal risk models. In Solvency II for instance, regulators ask for independent validation reports from companies who apply for the approval of their internal models. Unfortunately, the usual statistical techniques do not work for the validation of risk models as we lack enough data to significantly test the results of the models. We will certainly never have enough data to statistically estimate the significance of the VaR at a probability of 1 over 200 years, which is the risk measure required by Solvency II. Instead, we need to develop various strategies to test the reasonableness of the model. In this paper, we review various ways, management and regulators can gain confidence in the quality of models. It all starts by ensuring a good calibration of the risk models and the dependencies between the various risk drivers. Then applying stress tests to the model and various empirical analysis, in particular the probability integral transform, we build a full and credible framework to validate risk models.
C30|Oil Prices and Informational Frictions: The Time-Varying Impact of Fundamentals and Expectations|This paper accounts for informational frictions when modelling the time-varying relationship between crude oil prices, traditional fundamentals and expectations. Informational frictions force a wedge between oil prices and supply and/or demand shocks, especially during periods of elevated risk aversion and uncertainty. In such a context expectations can be a key driver of oil price movements. We utilize a variety of proxies for forward-looking expectations, including business confidence, consumer confidence and leading indicators. In addition, our paper implements a time-varying parameter approach to account empirically for time-varying informational frictions. Our results illustrate firstly that oil supply shocks played an important role in both the 1970’s and coinciding with the recent shale oil boom. Secondly, demand had a positive impact upon oil prices, especially from the mid-2000’s. Finally, we provide evidence that oil prices respond strongly to expectations but the source of the shock matter: business leaders’ expectations are positively related, while markets’ expectations are not strongly linked to oil prices.
C30|Does Income and education of working-women transform societal values: An evidence from Pakistan|Women’s socio-economic empowerment is instrumental in transforming the societal values particularly in developing countries. However, this transition from traditional to modern social values is linked to women’s income and education levels. This paper investigates this phenomenon in the context of working women in Pakistan. To this extent, three hundred and six working-women were interviewed in urban vicinity of Lahore city. By employing Multinomial logit model our study confirms that socio-economic status of working-women plays a significant role in transforming their social values. Both income and education levels of working-women tend to display similar association to values, although differences persist in some important dimensions. Women’s empowerment through higher education and rising income leads to more bargaining power in household decision making, increasing political participation, and valuing gender equality. However, modernization as result of increased income levels and education has led to a decline in importance of religion in women from upper classes unlike the lower classes.
C30|A Brief Analysis of de Sitter Universe in Relativistic Cosmology|The de Sitter universe is the second model of the universe just after the publications of the Einstein’s static and closed model. In 1917, Wilhelm de Sitter has developed this model which is a maximally symmetric solution of the Einstein field equation with zero density. The geometry of the de Sitter universe is theoretically more complicated than that of the Einstein universe. The model does not contain matter or radiation. But, it predicts that there is a redshift. This article tries to describe the de Sitter model in some detail but easier mathematical calculations. In this study an attempt has been taken to provide a brief discussion of de Sitter model to the common readers.
C30|A New Kind of Two-Stage Least Squares Based on Shapley Value Regression|The Two-Stage Least squares method for obtaining the estimated structural coefficients of a simultaneous linear equations model is a celebrated method that uses OLS at the first stage for estimating the reduced form coefficients and obtaining the expected values in the arrays of current exogenous variables. At the second stage it uses OLS, equation by equation, in which the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are used as instruments representing their observed counterpart. It has been pointed out that since the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are linear functions of the predetermined variables in the model, inclusion of such expected current endogenous variables together with a subset of predetermined variables as regressors make the estimation procedure susceptible to the deleterious effects of collinearity, which may render some of the estimated structural coefficients with inflated variance as well as wrong sign. As a remedy to this problem, the use of Shapley value regression at the second stage has been proposed. For illustration a model has been constructed in which the measures of the different aspects of globalization are the endogenous variables while the measures of the different aspects of democracy are the predetermined variables. It has been found that the conventional (OLS-based) Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) gives some of the estimated structural coefficients with an unexpected sign. In contrast, all structural coefficients estimated with the proposed 2-SLS (in which Shapley value regression has been used at the second stage) have an expected sign. These empirical findings suggest that the measures of globalization are conformal among themselves as well as they are positively affected by democratic regimes.
C30|The impact of the applying of fertilizers on growth production at the national level|This paper aims to highlight the importance of applying and administering fertilizers to wheat production at national level. As far as the territory of our country is concerned, the regions on which the most important wheat production has been registered, along with the amount of fertilizers administered in the respective areas, as well as their type (nitrogenous, phosphatic, potassium, natural) fertilizers. Thus, using statistical models such as the Pearson correlation coefficient, Spearman's correlation coefficient, we can see concretely the link between the two variables analyzed (the production obtained and the quantity of applied fertilizer) and the nature of its intensity (low, medium, high). It is also desirable to know the most efficient types of fertilizer in order to increase wheat yield per hectare at national level in the context of the other key factors, components of the farm's macroeconomics.
C30|Microeconomics Foundations of Entrepreneurial Performance in the Informal Sector: A Case Study of Cameroon|This study aim is to identify, according to microeconomic approach, the determinants of the performance of individual entrepreneurs in the informal sector in Cameroon, through their units performance. Using the Second Survey in the Informal sector and Employment (SSIE) collected in 2010 in Cameroon, we made two regressions of a profit function of an entrepreneur with the method of multiple regressions after a statistic analysis of some characteristics that influence entrepreneur performance in the informal activities. After this analysis, some lessons emerge. First, there are significant gaps in the income generated by informal activities. Then, the impact of factors that can improve the performance of entrepreneurs varies widely depending on the measurement used to capture their performance (sales or income). Finally, individual factors such as education level, seniority, specific experience in entrepreneurship and the time spent on the job significantly increase the performance of informal entrepreneurs. Similarly, the factors of the firm (sector of activity, level of capital, number of permanent employees) exception due to the age of the firm, also significantly improve the performance of informal entrepreneurs better than the individual factors (27% against 15%). However, the main factor that reduce their performance are the economic environment (difficulties in accessing to infrastructure and finance). This could be explained by the fact that, operating in the informal sector, reduce access to financial services and public infrastructures. Several recommendations can be made in line with the improvement of informal entrepreneurship and access to financial services, in order to build strong entrepreneurship in developing countries.
C30|Forecasting Nigerian Inflation using Model Averaging methods: Modelling Frameworks to Central Banks|As a result of the adverse macroeconomic effect of inflation on welfare, fiscal budgeting, trade performance, international competitiveness and the whole economy, inflation still remains a subject of utmost concern and interest to policy makers. The traditional Philips curve as well as other methodologies have been criticized for their inability to track correctly the pattern of inflation, particularly, these models do not allow for enough variables to be included as part of the regressors, and judgment is often made by a single model. In this work, model averaging techniques via Bayesian and frequentist approach were considered. Specifically, we considered the Bayesian model averaging (BMA) and Frequentist model averaging (FMA) techniques to model and forecast future path of CPI inflation in Nigeria using a wide range of variables. The results indicated that both in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts were highly reliable, judging from the various forecast performance criteria. Various policy scenarios conducted were highly fascinating both from the theoretical perspective and the prevailing economic situation in the country.
C30|Semiparametric Estimation of Multivariate GARCH Models|The paper introduces a new simple semiparametric estimator of the conditional variance covariance and correlation matrix (SP-DCC). While sharing a similar sequential approach to existing dynamic conditional correlation (DCC) methods, SP-DCC has the advantage of not requiring the direct parameterization of the conditional covariance or correlation processes, therefore also avoiding any assumption on their long-run target. In the proposed framework, conditional variances are estimated by univariate GARCH models, for actual and suitably transformed series, in the first step; the latter are then nonlinearly combined in the second step, according to basic properties of the covariance and correlation operator, to yield nonparametric estimates of the various conditional covariances and correlations. Moreover, in contrast to available DCC methods, SP-DCC allows for straightforward estimation also for the non-symultaneous case, i.e., for the estimation of conditional cross-covariances and correlations, displaced at any time horizon of interest. A simple ex-post procedure, to ensure well behaved conditional covariance and correlation matrices, grounded on nonlinear shrinkage, is finally proposed. Due to its sequential implementation and scant computational burden, SP-DCC is very simple to apply and suitable for the modeling of vast sets of conditionally heteroskedastic time series.
C30|Trade Linkages and Transmission of Oil Price Fluctuations in a Model Incorporating Monetary Variables|We attempt to ascertain how sharp oil price changes can affect oil-exporting and oil-importing economies. To this end, we applied a simultaneous equation model (SEM) through a weighted two-stage least squares estimation method to different countries with business relations from Q1 2000 to Q4 2015. In the case of oil-exporting countries—Iran, the Russian Federation, United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, and Kazakhstan—our findings revealed that they totally benefit from oil price increases. In the case of oil-importing countries, the effects are more diverse. To derive a better interpretation, we divided them into four groups: European Union (EU) members (Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Poland); East Asian economies (Japan; the People’s Republic of China; the Republic of Korea; Viet Nam; Taipei,China; Singapore; and Hong Kong, China); Commonwealth of Independent States (Ukraine and Belarus); and others (United States, India, and Turkey). Our results showed that all these countries importing oil face a negative supply shock, except Turkey, which benefits directly from an oil price shock. Furthermore, the indirect effect coefficient received through trade for all these countries was positive.
C30|Estimating the demand function for differentiated product with endogenous characteristics and heterogeneity of preferences: The case of mortgage loans|This paper analyzes the mortgage borrowing process from a Russian state-owned supplier of residential housing mortgages concentrating on the estimation of demand function with heterogeneous borrowers’ preferences. Analysis takes into account the underwriting process and the choice of contract terms of all loans originated from 2008 to 2012. Our dataset contains demographic and financial characteristics for all applications, loan terms and the performance information for all issued loans by one regional bank which operates government mortgage programs. We use a multistep semiparametric approach to estimate the determinants of bank and borrower choice controlling for possible sample selection and endogeneity of product characteristics. The main contribution is modeling choice of contract terms as interdependent by structural system of simultaneous equations with heterogeneous marginal effects. We found that demand of low-income households who are unable to afford improving of housing conditions by other instruments than government mortgage is less elastic according to the change both in interest rate and maturity.
C30|Exploring the Roles of Market-Driven Capability and Functional Diversification in Market Knowledge Transfer within MNCs|Drawing upon theory from transnational management and market-driven organization literatures, this study uses both survey and case study data of 162 respondents who works in three multinational corporations (MNCs) to examine the influence of functional diversification, market-driven capability, and cultural distance on a transfer of market knowledge from foreign affiliates to headquarter. The empirical results indicate a strong positive influence of both functional diversification and market-driven capability on a transfer of market knowledge, i.e., customer and competitor intelligence. The qualitative data collected through in-depth interviews with top executives were then leveraged to provide further explanation and support empirical results. Implications for academics and practitioners are also addressed.
C30|A hierarchical SLX model application to violent crime in Mexico|Abstract In this paper, we develop a Bayesian Hierarchical Spatial Lag of X (SLX) spatial econometric model to examine the relationship between contextual factors associated with violence levels in Mexico over the period 2005–2010, a period in which violence in the country reached record levels. We provide local spillover estimates of relevant covariates at both levels of the hierarchy, i.e., the municipal and state levels in Mexico. We also provide a methodology to compare relevant models regarding the proper specification of the spatial weight matrix in these models.
C30|Marginal effects in multivariate probit models|Abstract Estimation of marginal or partial effects of covariates x on various conditional parameters or functionals is often a main target of applied microeconometric analysis. In the specific context of probit models, estimation of partial effects involving outcome probabilities will often be of interest. Such estimation is straightforward in univariate models, and results covering the case of quadrant probability marginal effects in bivariate probit models for jointly distributed outcomes y have previously been described in the literature. This paper’s goals are to extend Greene’s results to encompass the general $$M\ge 2$$ M ≥ 2 multivariate probit context for arbitrary orthant probabilities and to extended these results to models that condition on subvectors of y and to multivariate ordered probit data structures. It is suggested that such partial effects are broadly useful in situations, wherein multivariate outcomes are of concern.
C30|Assessing the evidence on neighborhood effects from Moving to Opportunity|Abstract The Moving to Opportunity (MTO) experiment randomly assigned housing vouchers that could be used in low-poverty neighborhoods. Consistent with the literature, I find that receiving an MTO voucher had no effect on outcomes like earnings, employment, and test scores. However, after studying the assumptions identifying neighborhood effects with MTO data, this paper reaches a very different interpretation of these results than found in the literature. I first specify a model in which the absence of effects from the MTO program implies an absence of neighborhood effects. I present theory and evidence against two key assumptions of this model: that poverty is the only determinant of neighborhood quality and that outcomes only change across one threshold of neighborhood quality. I then show that in a more realistic model of neighborhood effects that relaxes these assumptions, the absence of effects from the MTO program is perfectly compatible with the presence of neighborhood effects. This analysis illustrates why the implicit identification strategies used in the literature on MTO can be misleading.
C30|Long Term Impacts of Class Size in Compulsory School|How does class size in compulsory school affect peoples' long run education and earnings? We use maximum class size rules and Norwegian administrative registries allowing us to observe outcomes up to age 48. We do not find any indication of beneficial effects of class size reduction in compulsory school. For a 1 person reduction in class size we can rule out effects on income as small as 0.087 percent in primary school and 0.12 percent in middle school. Population differences in parental background, school size or competitive pressure do not appear to reconcile our findings with previous studies.
C30|Innovation, public support and productivity in colombia| We investigate the association between perceived barriers to innovation and the allocation of public support for innovation in manufacturing and service industries in Colombia, as well as the potential heterogeneity of returns to innovation across the firm-level productivity distribution. We extend the CDM recursive system by including an equation for the allocation of direct support and using quantile regression methods to estimate the productivity equation. We find some differences across manufacturing and service industries. Financing constraints are correlated with obtaining public support in manufacturing and in some services, but in knowledge intensive services (KIS) barriers associated with regulations are more significant. The introduction of innovations increases mostly the productivity of firms below the median of the productivity distribution, especially in services. Increasing human capital would boost productivity of firms in all industries, providing support to the hypothesis that human capital is indeed a bottleneck for productivity growth across the board in Colombia. We conclude that addressing factors that hinder innovation by low productivity firms in all service industries could significantly contribute to increasing productivity and reduce its dispersion.
C30|The effect of changing the number of elective hospital admissions on the levels of emergency provision|The Department of Health of the Basque Government launched in 2010 a new strategy to tackle the challenge of chronicity which aimed to re-orient the health system towards an integrated care model. In this paper we evaluate this strategy through a retrospective observational study with a historical control group based on data from the clinical and administrative databases of the Basque Health Service
C30|Income and substitution effects of a disability insurance reform|Disability insurance (DI) systems are widely criticized for their inherent work disincentives. This paper evaluates the effects of a Swiss DI reform that aims to lower DI benefits for a group of existing DI beneficiaries and introduces an additional level to the DI benefit schedule. The reform has only modest effects on earnings and employment but increases the disability degree of those threatened by a DI benefit decline. We estimate bounds on the income and substitution effects by employing the principal stratification framework. The income effect is quantitatively important, whereas the substitution effect is smaller and has bounds that include zero. The evidence suggests that caseworkers helped the insured with low labor market attachment to maintain a full DI benefit.
C30|Errors-in-Variables Models with Many Proxies|This paper introduces a novel method to estimate linear models when explanatory variables are observed with error and many proxies are available. The empirical Euclidean likelihood principle is used to combine the information that comes from the various mismeasured variables. We show that the proposed estimator is consistent and asymptotically normal. In a Monte Carlo study we show that our method is able to efficiently use the information in the available proxies, both in terms of precision of the estimator and in terms of statistical power. An application to the effect of police on crime suggests that measurement errors in the police variable induce substantial attenuation bias. Our approach, on the other hand, yields large estimates in absolute value with high precision, in accordance with the results put forward by the recent literature.
C30|Regularized Empirical Likelihood as a Solution to the No Moment|In this paper, we explore the finite sample properties of the generalized empirical likelihood for a continuum, applied to a linear model with endogenous regressors and many discrete moment conditions. In particular, we show that the estimator from this regularized version of GEL has finite moments. It therefore solves the issue regarding the no moment problem of empirical likelihood. We propose a data driven method to select the regularization parameter based on a cross validation criterion, and show that the method outperforms many existing methods when the number of instruments exceeds 20.
C30|The Role Of Us-Based Fdi Flows For Global Output Dynamics| This paper uses a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model to analyze the relationship between FDI inflows and output dynamics in a multi-country context. The GVAR model enables us to make two important contributions: First, to model international linkages among a large number of countries, which is a key asset given the diversity of countries involved, and second, to model foreign direct investment and output dynamics jointly. The country-specific small-dimensional vector autoregressive submodels are estimated utilizing a Bayesian version of the model coupled with stochastic search variable selection priors to account for model uncertainty. Using a sample of 15 emerging and advanced economies over the period 1998:Q1 to 2012:Q4, we find that US outbound FDI exerts a positive long-term effect on output. Asian and Latin American economies tend to react faster and also stronger than Western European countries. Forecast error variance decompositions indicate that FDI plays a prominent role in explaining GDP fluctuations, especially in emerging market economies. Our findings provide evidence for policy makers to design macroeconomic policies to attract FDI inflows in the respective countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C30|The macroeconomic effects of international uncertainty shocks|We propose a large-scale Bayesian VAR model with factor stochastic volatility to investigate the macroeconomic consequences of international uncertainty shocks on the G7 countries. The factor structure enables us to identify an international uncertainty shock by assuming that it is the factor most correlated with forecast errors related to equity markets and permits fast sampling of the model. Our findings suggest that the estimated uncertainty factor is strongly related to global equity price volatility, closely tracking other prominent measures commonly adopted to assess global uncertainty. The dynamic responses of a set of macroeconomic and financial variables show that an international uncertainty shock exerts a powerful effect on all economies and variables under consideration.
C30|The macroeconomic effects of international uncertainty shocks|We propose a large-scale Bayesian VAR model with factor stochastic volatility to investigate the macroeconomic consequences of international uncertainty shocks on the G7 countries. The factor structure enables us to identify an international uncertainty shock by assuming that it is the factor most correlated with forecast errors related to equity markets and permits fast sampling of the model. Our findings suggest that the estimated uncertainty factor is strongly related to global equity price volatility, closely tracking other prominent measures commonly adopted to assess global uncertainty. The dynamic responses of a set of macroeconomic and financial variables show that an international uncertainty shock exerts a powerful effect on all economies and variables under consideration.
C30|Financing Micro Firms in Europe: An Empirical Analysis|The vast majority of firms in Europe are micro firms. Still, we know little about their financing patterns. Our paper aims to close this gap. Based on a large European firm-level data set, we find that micro firms differ in their financing patterns from small and medium-sized companies. Our empirical results show that micro firms are more likely to use internal financing instruments, whereas they are less likely to use state subsidies, trade credit or asset-based financing instruments. Furthermore, micro firms differ from medium-sized firms by using more short-term debt (credit card overdrafts, credit lines and bank overdrafts). The implications of these findings for micro firms and policy makers are discussed.
C30|The exchange rate susceptibility of European core industries, 1995-2010|This study investigates reactions to real exchange rate changes in the German, French and UK automobile and mechanical engineering sectors using monthly data from 1995 to 2010. Our findings indicate that EUR/USD appreciations hamper exports, but do not necessarily imply an aggravated business climate or export order-book assessment. This does not apply to the GBP/USD and corresponding time series for the UK. First and foremost, our fixed coefficient and time varying parameter VAR model estimates confirm the extraordinary role of the German key sectors, while currency union membership seems to play a minor role at best. Overall, the exchange rate susceptibility is less profound than claimed by lobbies and held as popular belief.
C30|Spreading the word or reducing the term spread? Assessing spillovers from euro area monetary policy|As a consequence of asset purchases by the European Central Bank (ECB), longer-term yields in the euro area decline, and spreads between euro area long-term yields narrow. To assess spillovers of these recent financial developments, we use a Bayesian variant of the global vector autoregressive (BGVAR) model with stochastic volatility and propose a novel mixture of zero impact and sign restrictions that we impose on the cross-section of the data. Both shocks generate positive and significant spillovers to industrial production in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe (CESEE) and other non-euro area EU member states. These effects are transmitted via the financial channel (mainly through interest rates and equity prices) and outweigh costs of appreciation pressure on local currencies vis-a-vis the euro (trade channel). While these results represent general trends, we also find evidence for both cross-country heterogeneity of effects within the euro area and region-specific spillovers thereof.
C30|I'm fine with Immigrants, but ...: Attitudes, ethnic diversity, and redistribution preference|Combining the link between ethnic heterogeneity, attitudes towards immigrants, and the support of redistribution, predictions are made about natives' preference for redistribution depending on interethnic contact, perceived outgroup threats, and natives' social distance from immigrants. The econometric specification explicitly considers the simultaneous effects of ethnic heterogeneity on attitudes towards immigrants and those attitudes on the redistribution preference. Applying bivariate recursive probit estimations enables the decomposition of marginal effects into a direct and an indirect effect. The empirical assessment, based on a cross-section of 18 European countries from 2014, shows that natives' perceived outgroup threats directly decrease their preference for redistribution, whereas interethnic contact indirectly increases their redistribution preference through less anti-immigrant attitudes. If immigrants are perceived as a threat to the culture or social life in a country, a native's probability of supporting more governmental redistribution decreases by 6.4 percent or 8.2 percent, respectively. However, if ethnic heterogeneity rises, this probability increases by 0.8 percent. In contrast, there is no significant association between natives' social distance from immigrants and their preference for redistribution. These results are robust to IV estimation strategies which control for the possibility of natives' selective out-migration and reverse causality. Taking the natives' and immigrants' average incomes into account, the ethnic income gap between natives and immigrants strengthens the negative impact of perceived outgroup threats if immigrants earn much less than natives in a country.
C30|The Bank of Italy econometric model: an update of the main equations and model elasticities|The Bank of Italy quarterly econometric model (BIQM) is a large-scale ‘semi structural’ macro-econometric model. It tries to strike the right balance between theoretical rigour and statistical fit to the data. This paper provides an update of the features and the properties of the model, focussing on the empirical estimates of its main equations and on the system responses to various shocks; interactions and feedback mechanisms between the financial and the real side of the economy are also illustrated. The BIQM is primarily used to produce macroeconomic forecasts, but it is also employed – in conjunction with other tools – for evaluating the impact of monetary and fiscal policy options and for counterfactual analyses. Examples of the types of macro-economic analyses carried out with the model are provided.
C30|Pairwise trading in the money market during the European sovereign debt crisis|This paper studies over-the-counter (OTC) trading in the unsecured interbank market for euro funds. The goal of our analysis is to identify the determinants of the probability of trading, the bilateral rate and the quantity exchanged during the European sovereign debt crisis. We show how the specific features of this market bring to a non-standard estimation framework. A dyadic econometric model with shadow rates is proposed to control for possibly endogenous matching with the counterparty. A unique dataset containing banks characteristics and bilateral trades is built and used to study the evolution of trading patterns. The estimates bring mild evidence towards the existence of shadow rates. Active monitoring decreased market access to low equity and illiquid borrowers, while dispersion in rates and quantities is mainly driven by banks' nationality, especially during the peak of the crisis.
C30|Expectativas de inflación, prima de riesgo inflacionario y prima de liquidez: una descomposición del break-even inflation para los bonos del Gobierno colombiano|Se estima la descomposición del break-even inflation a partir de un modelo afín de seis factores de la estructura a términos, nominal y real, de los bonos soberanos de Colombia, dentro de los cuales se incluye un factor asociado a la liquidez. Esta medida se descompone en expectativas de inflación, prima de riesgo inflacionario y prima de liquidez para el período comprendido entre junio del 2004 y abril del 2015. Los resultados obtenidos indican que el break-even inflation es una medida apropiada de las expectativas de inflación en el corto plazo (dos años). Además, se encuentra que la prima de riesgo inflacionario disminuye en el tiempo, lo que se puede deber al aumento de la confianza en la política monetaria por parte de los agentes. Por último, la prima de liquidez toma valores muy pequeños para la mayoría de los períodos de tiempo y solo tiene efectos considerables durante ciertos episodios a lo largo de la curva de rendimientos, como el ocurrido durante el primer semestre del 2006
C30|La Macroeconomi?a dina?mica: un modelo nume?rico dida?ctico|Es usual que la ensen?anza de la Macroeconomi?a dina?mica en los cursos universitarios de pregrado se apoye exclusivamente en exposiciones en prosa supuestamente intuitivas y en gra?ficos que representan comportamientos de estados estables de los principales mercados de la economi?a. Pero cuando se discuten los casos de agentes que “miran hacia adelante”, las intuiciones a priori y sus representaciones gra?ficas ofrecidas a los estudiantes pueden generar conclusiones confusas o carentes de respaldo lo?gico. Esto sucede incluso si el profesor y sus estudiantes recurren al capi?tulo de Macroeconomi?a dina?mica de uno de los textos ma?s dida?cticos y ordenados: el de Williamson (2014). En este documento intento demostrar esto.
C30|New firmsâ€™ bankruptcy: does local banking market matter?|This paper investigates the role of local context, with regard to the effect of local financial development and banking concentration, on a new firmâ€™s probability of bankruptcy. Our empirical setting is based on the Logit Multilevel Model that better allows the treatment of data referring to different levels of aggregation (firm and local variables) applied to new firms located in Italian provinces. We find that a higher level of financial development in a province decreases the likelihood of a new firmâ€™s bankruptcy. This result is robust considering a 2SLS regression in which we use instruments for the local financial development and for the concentration of bank branches. In addition, our estimations suggest that the effect of local financial development and bank concentration is shaped by size. Local financial development is particularly significant for small start-ups, which traditionally suffer from great difficulty in accessing credit, whereas local banking concentration reduces the probability of bankruptcy for large, new firms.
C30|Identification of Global and National Shocks in International Financial Markets via General Dynamic Factor Models|"We employ a two-stage general dynamic factor model method to analyse the co-movements between returns and between volatilities of stocks belonging to the US, European, and Japanese financial markets. We find evidence of two common shocks driving the dynamics of volatilities - one global (worldwide) shock and one US-European shock and four ""national"" shocks in the panel of returns, but no global one. Co-movements in the returns and volatilities panels increased considerably in the period 2007-2012 associated with the Great Financial Crisis and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis. We interpret this finding as the sign of a surge, during crises, of interdependencies across markets, as opposed to contagion. Finally, we show that the global volatility shock, identified via natural timing assumptions, has homogeneous dynamic effects within each individual market but more heterogeneous effects across them, and also has good predictive power on aggregate realised volatilities."
C30|Inside asset purchase programs: the effects of unconventional policy on banking competition|We test if unconventional monetary policy instruments influence the competitive conduct of banks. Between q2:2010 and q1:2012, the ECB absorbed JEL Classification: C30, C78, G21, G28, L51
C30|The effect of public investment in Europe: a model-based assessment|We consider the effect of an increase in public investments on output in Europe against the background of a sharp drop of public investments in a number of EU countries during the crisis and subsequent policy discussions on the need to stimulate public investments. We start with a brief overview of recent developments in public investments, including some methodological issues, and provide a literature overview of the effect of public investments on growth. On the basis of updated estimates of the public capital stock, we estimate the output response to a public capital impulse, using VAR models. In addition, using a structural model, we investigate the sensitivity of the macroeconomic impact of an increase in public investments to alternative assumptions about economic structures and policy implementations. JEL Classification: E32, E62, C30
C30|The Infl uence of Electronic-Word-of-Mouth on Travel Intention among Foreign Students in Malaysia: Does Gender Really Matter?|As an attractive educational hub within this region, Malaysia currently accommodates an enormous number of foreign students. These students are known for their inclination towards tour and travel activities during their spare time. In view of the potential contribution of foreign students’ travel activities towards the nation, this study attempts to examine the tour behaviour among foreign students in Malaysia. This study specifi cally focuses on the foreign students’ travel intention and possible infl uences of electronic-word-of-mouth (E-WOM) on their travel intention. In addition, this study intends to determine the infl uence of gender differences on the impact of the E-WOM towards students’ travel intention. The foreign students pursuing their tertiary education in Limkokwing University located at Cyberjaya, Malaysia comprise the population of this study. Snowball sampling was used to draw 500 representative elements for the study’s self-administrated survey. Structural equation modelling analysis was used to analyse the data collected. Findings revealed that E-WOM signifi cantly infl uenced the foreign students’ intention to travel in Malaysia. Nonetheless, an insignifi cant moderation effect of gender on the relationship between E-WOM and travel intention was found. Following a detailed discussion on the fi ndings obtained, this study presented several managerial implications alongside recommendation for future researches.
C30|The profit function system with output- and input-specific technical efficiency|In a recent paper Kumbhakar and Lai (2016) proposed an output-oriented non-radial measure of technical inefficiency derived from the revenue function. They proposed a closed skew-normal distribution for maximum likelihood estimation but they did not apply the model to data and their technique depends on multiple evaluations of multivariate normal integrals for each observation which can be very costly. In this paper we extend their approach to the profit function and we propose both input- and output-oriented non-radial measures of technical inefficiencies. Although the extension to the translog profit function is trivial many observations, in practice, may contain negative profits. For this reason we provide a nontrivial extension to the Symmetric Generalized McFadden (SGM) profit function. We propose and apply (to a large sample of US banks) Bayesian analysis of the SGM model (augmented with latent technical inefficiencies resulting in a highly nonlinear mixed effects model) using the integrated nested Laplace approximation.
C30|Identification and QML estimation of multivariate and simultaneous equations spatial autoregressive models|This paper investigates a simultaneous equations spatial autoregressive model which incorporates simultaneity effects, own-variable spatial lags and cross-variable spatial lags as explanatory variables, and allows for correlation between disturbances across equations. In exposition, we also discuss a multivariate spatial autoregressive model that can be treated as a reduced form of the simultaneous equations model. We study parameter spaces, parameter identification, asymptotic properties of the quasi-maximum likelihood estimation, and computational issues. Monte Carlo experiments illustrate the advantages of the QML, broader applicability and efficiency, compared to instrumental variables based estimation methods in the existing literature.
C30|Effects of common factors on stock correlation networks and portfolio diversification|This study empirically investigates the effects of common factors on the connectivity of the network among stocks and on the distribution of the investment weights for stocks. The network is defined as a stock correlation network from the minimal spanning tree (MST), and portfolio is defined as an efficient portfolio from the Markowitz mean-variance (MV) optimization function (MVOF). For these research goals, we devise a method using the comparative correlation matrix (C-CM), which does not have the property of a single common factor included in the sample correlation matrix (S-CM). The results reveal that common factors clearly affect the changes of connectivity among stocks in the networks, and that their influence is much greater on stocks with many links to other stocks in the network. Further, common factors significantly affect the determination of the investment weight's distribution for stocks from the MVOF. In particular, among the common factors, a market factor plays a dominant role in both structuring the network among stocks and in constructing the well-diversified portfolio. In addition, the devised method of the C-CM without the property of the market factor in the S-CM plays a crucial role in constructing a more diversified portfolio with better out-of-sample performance in the future period. These results are robust in both the Korean and the U.S. stocks markets.
C30|Re-examining the middle-income trap hypothesis (MITH): What to reject and what to revive?|Do middle-income countries face difficult challenges producing consistent growth? Using transition matrix analysis, we can easily reject any unconditional notion of a “middle-income trap” in the data. However, countries have different fundamentals and policies. Using a non-parametric classification technique, we search for variables that separate fast- and slow-growing countries. For middle-income countries, a relatively large working age population, sex ratio imbalance, macroeconomic stability, and financial development appear to be the key discriminatory variables. We do the same exercise for low-income countries. This framework yields conditions under which countries in the low- and middle-income ranges move forward or backward, or are trapped.
C30|An Empirical Test for Costs Subadditivity in the Fishery Sector|The seminal work by Baumol et al. (1982) has highlighted the importance of analyzing firms’ costs structure. This allows to design proper policy measures and to understand the impacts of those policies in markets. The note presents an original method and an application for testing costs subadditivity in the fishery sector, by using a system of supply functions under strict conditions and assumptions. The method is practical, though robust, and can be applied in the absence of detailed data on costs structures. Under stringent hypothesis (that delimit the application) they can be inferred from the supply functions. Subadditivity in costs, in fact, is a more proper economic definition (and methodological approach) than traditional economies of scale in fishery. The latter, in fact, does not depend from the vessel technology, but on the degree of quantity and variety of fish species in the ocean.
C30|Empirical Study of Spatial Differentiation of Youth Unemployment in Russia|The purpose of the study is to conduct a statistical analysis and to perform a quantitative assessment of the degree and the dynamics of the interregional differences in youth unemployment in Russia between 2005 and 2013. We decompose the interregional differentiation into “within-group” and “between-group” differences. We also analyse the dynamics of the within-group and between-group differences and estimate their contribution to changes in the interregional differentiation of youth unemployment. Additionally, we estimate the degree and the dynamics of the interregional differences of the youth labour market in Russia in times of crisis and recovery growth. The results show a reduction in the interregional differences in unemployment rates between 2005 and 2008, while in 2009–2013, the interregional differentiation of the labour market increased. We found that the socio-economic effects of youth unemployment, as well as the behavioural response to economic shocks in the age groups of 15–19 and 20–29 years were significantly different.
C30|A Study on the Relevance of the Goodwill Impairment in Context of Audit Partner`s Rotation|Currently accounting is in the process of harmonization between the two referential, one issued by the FASB (Financial Accounting Standards Board) - IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) and another one by US GAAP (United States General Accepted Accounting Principles/GAAP). This paper analyzes the advantages of adopting corporate governance practices, appropriate to take into account the need to ensure investor regarding the quality of financial information. Research methodology involves analysis of the main studies on adoption of IFRS-IAS in the emerging markets, using qualitative research techniques, research carried out on the basis of specialized literature. The purpose of this article is to present an overview of the implementation of International Accounting Standards, illustrating the relevance of goodwill in the context of audit partner’s rotation. The implementation of IFRS arose from the need to align with EU regulations, while opening access to international capital markets and enhancing the comparability and transparency of information in the financial statements. The data were extracted from the financial statements of the companies under investigation. To meet the objectives of the research were selected and analyzed, in addition to articles that form the basis of the literature, a number of 262 companies. The results show that the difference between the ability to explain the two models to test the impact of rotation of audit partners on the relevance of annual financial statements, one with AR variable included, one in which AR variable is excluded, is that the rotation of audit partners has a distinct impact on the relevance of financial statements in relation to other variables included in the model, including those relating to gross goodwill and to its impairment. One may observe the lack of a significant interaction between the impairment of goodwill and investors` perceptions, due to the quality of audit engagement in emerging markets analyzed.
C30|Spatial wage inequality in Belarus|This paper studies the wage inequality in Belarus' districts from 2000 till 2015 following the multistep and multi-mechanism framework. The empirical results show: first, that wage disparities across the districts decreased in the 2000-2012 period and then increased from 2013 to 2015; second, there is the spatial dependency in district wages and increasing separation between districts, and between rural and urban population in Belarus; third, the main economic factors that contribute to decrease in district wage inequality are industrial development, retail trade and agricultural development. Finally, from theoretical point of view this research rejects the inverted U-shaped relationship between spatial inequality and economic development for Belarus and supports the hypothesis made by French economist Thomas Piketty that slow growth rates lead to rising inequality.
C30|Profitability and Capital Structure: An Empirical Study of French and Hungarian Wine Producers in 2004-2013|Background: Profitability of the Hungarian wine industry has been a focus of numerous research studies due to the centuries-old history and the recent changes.
C30|Short- and long-run estimates of the local effects of retirement on health|We explore the existence of short and long term effects of retirement on health. Short term effects are estimated with a regression discontinuity design which is robust to weak instruments and where the underlying assumptions of continuity of potential outcomes are uncontroversial. To identify the long term effects we propose a parametric model which, under strong assumptions, can separate normal deterioration of health from the causal effects of retirement. We apply our framework to the British Household Panel Survey, and find that retirement has little effect on health. However, our estimates suggest that retirement opens the gate to a sedentary life with an impoverished social component and this is a channel through which retirement could indirectly affect health in the long run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C30|Tests for high dimensional generalized linear models|We consider testing regression coefficients in high dimensional generalized linear models. By modifying a test statistic proposed by Goeman et al. (2011) for large but fixed dimensional settings, we propose a new test which is applicable for diverging dimension and is robust for a wide range of link functions. The power properties of the tests are evaluated under the setting of the local and fixed alternatives. A test in the presence of nuisance parameters is also proposed. The proposed tests can provide p-values for testing significance of multiple gene-sets, whose usefulness is demonstrated in a case study on an acute lymphoblastic leukemia dataset.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C30|A Simple Improvement of the IV-estimator for the Classical Errors-in-Variables Problem|Two measures of an error-ridden explanatory variable make it possible to solve the classical errors-in-variable problem by using one measure as an instrument for the other. It is well known that a second IV estimate can be obtained by reversing the roles of the two measures. We explore a simple estimator that is the linear combination of these two estimates, that minimizes the asymptotic mean squared error. In a Monte Carlo study we show that the gain in precision is significant compared to using only one of the original IV estimates. The proposed estimator also compares well with full information maximum likelihood under normality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C30|Identification and estimation using heteroscedasticity without instruments: The binary endogenous regressor case|Lewbel (2012) provides an estimator for linear regression models containing an endogenous regressor, when no outside instruments or other such information is available. The method works by exploiting model heteroscedasticity to construct instruments using the available regressors. Some authors have considered the method in empirical applications where an endogenous regressor is binary (e.g., endogenous Diff-in-Diff or endogenous binary treatment models). The present paper shows that the assumptions required for Lewbel’s estimator can indeed be satisfied when an endogenous regressor is binary. Caveats regarding application of the estimator are discussed.
C30|Simple Nonparametric Estimators for the Bid-Ask Spread in the Roll Model| We propose new methods for estimating the bid-ask spread from observed transaction prices alone. Our methods are based on the empirical characteristic function instead of the sample autocovariance function like the method of Roll (1984). As in Roll (1984), we have a closed form expression for the spread, but this is only based on a limited amount of the model-implied identification restrictions. We also provide methods that take account of more identification information. We compare our methods theoretically and numerically with the Roll method as well as with its best known competitor, the Hasbrouck (2004) method, which uses a Bayesian Gibbs methodology under a Gaussian assumption. Our estimators are competitive with Roll’s and Hasbrouck’s when the latent true fundamental return distribution is Gaussian, and perform much better when this distribution is far from Gaussian. Our methods are applied to the Emini futures contract on the S&P 500 during the Flash Crash of May 6, 2010. Extensions to models allowing for unbalanced order flow or Hidden Markov trade direction indicators or trade direction indicators having general asymmetric sup port or adverse selection are also presented, without requiring additional data.
C30|Almost Unbiased Variance Estimation in Simultaneous Equation Models|While a good deal of research in simultaneous equation models has been conducted to examine the small sample properties of coefficient estimators there has not been a corresponding interest in the properties of estimators for the associated variances. In this paper we build on Kiviet and Phillips (2000) and explore the biases in variance estimators. This is done for the 2SLS and the MLIML estimators.The approximations to the bias are then used to develop less biased estimators whose properties are examined and compared in a number of simulation experiments. In addition, a bootstrap estimator is included which is found to perform especially well. The experiments also consider coverage probabilities/test sizes and test powers of the t-tests where it is shown that tests based on 2SLS are generally oversized while test sizes based on MLIML are closer to nominal levels. In both cases test statistics based on the corrected variance estimates generally have a higher power than standard procedures.
C30|US Monetary Policy in a Globalized World|We analyze the interaction between monetary policy in the US and the global economy proposing a new class of Bayesian global vector autoregressive models that accounts for time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility (TVP-SV-GVAR). Our results suggest that US monetary policy responds to shocks to the global economy, in particular to global aggregate demand and monetary policy shocks. On the other hand, US-based contractionary monetary policy shocks lead to persistent international output contractions and a drop in global inflation rates, coupled with rising interest rates in advanced economies and a real depreciation of currencies with respect to the US dollar. We find considerable evidence for heterogeneity in the spillovers across countries, as well for changes in the transmission of monetary policy shocks over time. (authors' abstract)
C30|What Makes Brain Drain More Likely? Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|In Sub-Saharan Africa, high-skilled workers are 13 times more likely to migrate than low-skilled ones. This sheer number has fueled fears about “Brain Drain” as only 3% of the population obtains tertiary education. Although migration prospects might give incentives to invest in schooling, it is still unclear for which households they exist and whether these can compensate for the selection of high-skilled workers into migration. This papers measures the selection, incentive and net effects of emigration from DR Congo, Ghana and Senegal to Europe. Institutional contexts and household characteristics are strong determinants of the three effects. Rich households experience a strong selection of high-skilled workers into migration, thereby decreasing the average schooling level in the origin countries. However, stronger incentives to invest in schooling partly or fully compensate for this decrease. By contrast, poor households experience small selection and equally small incentives, except in Senegal, where they exhibit negative incentives to invest in early schooling. This is possibly due to low returns to secondary education in Europe and/or binding liquidity constraints.
C30|The Quality Of Regional Government And Firm Performance|This paper examines the effect of the quality of regional government (QoG) on firm Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in a multi-country context. The analysis is based on comparable cross-country data of manufacturing firms operating in seven European countries (Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom). The measure of the ‘quality of government’ is the European quality of government index (EQI), calculated at regional level over twenty-seven EU members. To disentangle internal from external productivity drivers, the multilevel approach is employed. Results refer to 2008 and show, as expected, the importance of firm-specific determinants of TFP. As far as the specific scope of this paper is concerned, firms located in regions with high quality regional government show higher levels of TFP. When considering the QoG components, corruption and the quality of services positively affect TFP, while the evidence is inconclusive for impartiality.
C30|Transmisión de choques en los flujos de capitales al crecimiento económico colombiano|En el presente trabajo se busca estudiar los efectos de los flujos de capitales internacionales sobre la economía colombiana para el periodo 2001 - 2015. Para ello se estimó un modelo de vectores autorregresivos estructural SVARX, con datos trimestrales sobre el Índice de Seguimiento a la Economía y los flujos brutos de capitales, utilizando un conjunto de variables exógenas que determinan parte de la dinámica de ambas variables. A partir de un análisis de impulso–respuesta y descomposición de varianza se encontró que existe una relación directa positiva entre los flujos de capitales y el crecimiento económico a corto y mediano plazo en Colombia. También se encontró una mayor persistencia en el efecto de los choques asociados al crecimiento de los flujos de capitales sobre el crecimiento económico, respecto a sus propios choques.
C30|Líneas de Pobreza en el Cauca: Una medición subvalorada|Este documento tiene por objetivo estimar líneas de pobreza para el departamento del Cauca y compararlas con las cifras oficialmente establecidas a través de una metodología microeconométrica novedosa. Se parte de un conjunto de ecuaciones de demanda basándose en el Sistema Lineal de Gasto (LES) y después se estiman los umbrales de pobreza a través de un conjunto de modelos econométricos en dos escenarios: conociendo los gastos mínimos en alimentos y suponiendo los gastos mínimos de ahorro. Despues de resolver problemas de identificación, endogeneidad y sesgos muestrales, los resultados evidencian que efectivamente los umbrales de pobreza para el Cauca, independientemente de la modelación escogida, siempre están subvalorados por los datos oficiales, lo que distorsiona la política social y económica para ayudar a menguar el problema en este departamento.
C30|Simple Nonparametric Estimators for the Bid-Ask Spread in the Roll Model|We propose new methods for estimating the bid-ask spread from observed transaction prices alone. Our methods are based on the empirical characteristic function instead of the sample autocovariance function like the method of Roll (1984). As in Roll (1984), we have a closed form expression for the spread, but this is only based on a limited amount of the model-implied identification restrictions. We also provide methods that take account of more identification information. We compare our methods theoretically and numerically with the Roll method as well as with its best known competitor, the Hasbrouck (2004) method, which uses a Bayesian Gibbs methodology under a Gaussian assumption. Our estimators are competitive with Roll’s and Hasbrouck’s when the latent true fundamental return distribution is Gaussian, and perform much better when this distribution is far from Gaussian. Our methods are applied to the E-mini futures contract on the S&P 500 during the Flash Crash of May 6, 2010. Extensions to models allowing for unbalanced order flow or Hidden Markov trade direction indicators or trade direction indicators having general asymmetric support or adverse selection are also presented, without requiring additional data.
C30|A Business Intelligence Instrument for Detection and Mitigation of Risks Related to Projects Financed from Structural Funds|The Structural Funds, in order to produce the intended effects, must use their specific management tools, for achieving the strategic objectives, outcome indicators and elements of added value set by each EU member state. The project portfolios must be managed properly. If risks of a project become contagious for other projects, we are witnessing a phenomenon that can compromise the chance that a program financed by Structural Funds to be well carried out. In this paper it is introduced an algorithm to reduce the project implementation risk and an IT interface is designed to serve as a control system, for the permanent measurement and monitoring of the risk indicators, in order to facilitate decision-making and prediction.
C30|Inference in Partially Identified Heteroskedastic Simultaneous Equations Models|Identification through heteroskedasticity in heteroskedastic simultaneous equations models (HSEMs) is considered. The possibility that heteroskedasticity identifies the structural parameters only partially is explicitly allowed for. The asymptotic properties of the identified parameters are derived. Moreover, tests for identification through heteroskedasticity are developed and their asymptotic distributions are derived. Monte Carlo simulations are used to explore the small sample properties of the asymptotically valid methods. Finally, the approach is applied to investigate the relation between the extent of economic openness and inflation.
C30|Measuring Knowledge with Patent Data: an Application to Low Carbon Energy Technologies|We estimate a latent factor model (LFM) to compute an index that measures the quality of an extensive data set of inventions related to Low Carbon Energy Technologies (LCETs) and patented by seven countries during 1980-2010. We use the quality index to compute the stock of knowledge accumulated in the fifteen analyzed LCETs. We investigate the composition of the stock of knowledge and find that important substitutions between technologies have taken place: technologies such as solar thermal and nuclear have been progressively replaced by wind power, solar photovoltaic and to a less extent by few other technologies. This substitution effect can be decomposed into quantity (the number of inventions) and quality (the quality of inventions). Investigating the latter, the quality of nuclear-related inventions has decreased whereas it has increased for solar photovoltaic (PV), wind power and energy storage inventions. Few newer technologies, i.e. hydrogen and sea energy, also show signs of an increase of their average quality of inventions over the last years of the data set. We go further and investigate the inventions distribution in terms of quality and conclude that the potential for signifcant inventions related to nuclear technology has decreased over time whereas higher levels of quality have been reached in newer technological areas. A cross-country comparison is conducted to assess the innovation performance of the seven countries covered by our study. We conclude that technology policies are less efficient when demand-pull and supply-push approaches are not coupled.
C30|The BEAR toolbox|The Bayesian Estimation, Analysis and Regression toolbox (BEAR) is a comprehensive (Bayesian) (Panel) VAR toolbox for forecasting and policy analysis. BEAR is a MATLAB based toolbox which is easy for non-technical users to understand, augment and adapt. In particular, BEAR includes a user-friendly graphical interface which allows the tool to be used by country desk economists. Furthermore, BEAR is well documented, both within the code as well as including a detailed theoretical and user's guide. BEAR includes state-of-the art applications such as sign and magnitude restrictions, conditional forecasts, Bayesian forecast evaluation measures, Bayesian Panel VAR using different prior distributions (for example hierarchical priors), etc. BEAR is specifically developed for transparently supplying a tool for state-of-the-art research and is planned to be further developed to always be at the frontier of economic research. JEL Classification: C11, C30, C87, E00, F00
C30|Contagion, spillover and interdependence|This paper reviews the empirical literature on international spillovers and contagion. Theoretical models of spillover and contagion imply that the reduced form observable variables suffer from two possible sources of bias: endogeneity and omitted variables. These econometric problems in combination with the heteroskedasticity that plagues the data produces time varying biases. Several empirical methodologies are evaluated from this perspective: non-parametric techniques such as correlations and principal components, as well as parametric methods such as OLS, VAR, event studies, ARCH, Non-linear regressions, etc. The paper concludes that there is no single technique that can solve the full fledge problem and discusses three methodologies that can partially address some of the questions in the literature. JEL Classification: C30, F32, C10
C30|The Impact of Working Capital Management on Firms Financial Performance: Evidence from Pakistan|The purpose of this study was to empirically explore the impact of working capital management (WCM) on firms performance of chosen manufacturing firms listed in Karachi stock exchange (KSE). The quantitative research methods, correlation matrix and multiple regressions, secondary data and purposive sampling have been worked out. Arandom sample of 50 listed non-financial companies on Pakistani Stock Market was selected for the period ranging from year 2005 to 2014. The WCM has been used as an independent variable, i.e., inventory turnover (ITO), cash conversion cycle (CCC), average collection period (ACP), and average payment period (APP). The firm performance (FP) has been used as dependent variable, i.e., return on asset (ROA), return on equity (ROE) and earning per share (EPS). The results of multiple regression articulated that the APP, ITO and CCC have negative and significant impact on ROA but ACP has positive and significant impact on ROA. While APP has negative significant impact on ROE. The ITO has negative significant impact on EPS while ACP has positive and statistically significant impact on. The study results advocated that the FP of selected firms is influenced by WCM. By validating the findings with previous researchers, this endeavor will contribute to the literature. It will be beneficial to the academic, social and practical deportment. The study findings endowed with deeper insights into WCM practices and present recommendations that in turn bring improvements in the FP of the targeted firms.
C30|Pricing Ability of Four Factor Model using Quantile Regression: Evidences from India|With the assumption that the returns are normally distributed with no fat tails, most of the existing studies have used ordinary least square (OLS) method to test the pricing ability of asset pricing models. These assumptions are not valid in numerous cases. Thus, to overcome such problem, the present study tests the pricing ability of Carhart (1997) four factor model using quantile regression which provides superior fitting of pricing factors than the traditional OLS model. The study uses daily data of Indian firms for period from December 1993 to March 2016. The results of the study reveal that the quantile regression model is having superior fitting across all percentile levels than OLS as it fails to fit these four factors across all percentile levels.
C30|Maximum likelihood estimation of the revenue function system with output-specific technical efficiency|In this paper we propose a non-radial and output-specific measure of technical efficiency which is new in a stochastic frontier model. We consider a multi-output multi-input transformation function formulation that incorporates output-specific technical efficiency (OSTE) in a revenue maximizing framework. Starting from the dual revenue function with OSTE, we develop the maximum likelihood method to estimate the parameters of the translog revenue-share system as well as predict OSTE components using some novel results from the closed skew-normal distribution.
C30|The equivalence of three latent class models and ML estimators|The purpose of this letter is to show the equivalence of three latent class models; the switching regression model with endogenous switching and a latent outcome (the binary Roy model), the probit model with a systematically misclassified dependent variable, and a trivariate probit model with partial observability. The probit model with measurement error is an enhanced version of existing models which allows for the potential correlation between error terms. Establishing this connection, we hope, will help a researcher working on one of these classes of estimators to benefit from the literature and software related to other families.
C30|Network effects in the German magazine industry|This paper examines the two-sided network effects in the German magazine industry. We specify and estimate the network effect functions for readers and advertisers nonparametrically and find that they are neither linear nor monotonic.
C30|Adverse selection, moral hazard and the demand for Medigap insurance|In this paper we study the adverse selection and moral hazard effects of Medicare supplemental insurance (Medigap). While both have been studied separately, this is the first paper to analyze them in a unified econometric framework. We find that adverse selection into Medigap is weak, but the moral hazard effect is substantial. On average, Medigap coverage increases health care spending by 24%, with especially large effects for relatively healthy individuals. These results have important policy implications. For instance, they imply that conventional remedies for inefficiencies created by adverse selection (e.g., mandatory enrollment) may lead to substantial health care cost increases.
C30|Inference in VARs with conditional heteroskedasticity of unknown form|We consider a framework for asymptotically valid inference in stable vector autoregressive (VAR) models with conditional heteroskedasticity of unknown form. A joint central limit theorem for the LS estimators of both the VAR slope parameters as well as the unconditional innovation variance parameters is obtained from a weak vector autoregressive moving average model set-up recently proposed in the literature. Our results are important for correct inference on VAR statistics that depend both on the VAR slope and the variance parameters as e.g. in structural impulse responses. We also show that wild and pairwise bootstrap schemes fail in the presence of conditional heteroskedasticity if inference on (functions) of the unconditional variance parameters is of interest because they do not correctly replicate the relevant fourth moments’ structure of the innovations. In contrast, the residual-based moving block bootstrap results in asymptotically valid inference. We illustrate the practical implications of our theoretical results by providing simulation evidence on the finite sample properties of different inference methods for impulse response coefficients. Our results point out that estimation uncertainty may increase dramatically in the presence of conditional heteroskedasticity. Moreover, most inference methods are likely to understate the true estimation uncertainty substantially in finite samples.
C30|Inference on co-integration parameters in heteroskedastic vector autoregressions|We consider estimation and hypothesis testing on the coefficients of the co-integrating relations and the adjustment coefficients in vector autoregressions driven by shocks which display both conditional and unconditional heteroskedasticity of a quite general and unknown form. We show that the conventional results in Johansen (1996) for the maximum likelihood estimators and associated likelihood ratio tests derived under homoskedasticity do not in general hold under heteroskedasticity. As a result, standard confidence intervals and hypothesis tests on these coefficients are potentially unreliable. Solutions based on Wald tests (using a “sandwich” estimator of the variance matrix) and on the use of the wild bootstrap are discussed. These do not require the practitioner to specify a parametric model for volatility. We establish the conditions under which these methods are asymptotically valid. A Monte Carlo simulation study demonstrates that significant improvements in finite sample size can be obtained by the bootstrap over the corresponding asymptotic tests in both heteroskedastic and homoskedastic environments. An application to the term structure of interest rates in the US illustrates the difference between standard and bootstrap inferences regarding hypotheses on the co-integrating vectors and adjustment coefficients.
C30|Tests of the co-integration rank in VAR models in the presence of a possible break in trend at an unknown point|In this paper we consider the problem of testing for the co-integration rank of a vector autoregressive process in the case where a trend break may potentially be present in the data. It is known that un-modelled trend breaks can result in tests which are incorrectly sized under the null hypothesis and inconsistent under the alternative hypothesis. Extant procedures in this literature have attempted to solve this inference problem but require the practitioner to either assume that the trend break date is known or to assume that any trend break cannot occur under the co-integration rank null hypothesis being tested. These procedures also assume the autoregressive lag length is known to the practitioner. All of these assumptions would seem unreasonable in practice. Moreover in each of these strands of the literature there is also a presumption in calculating the tests that a trend break is known to have happened. This can lead to a substantial loss in finite sample power in the case where a trend break does not in fact occur. Using information criteria based methods to select both the autoregressive lag order and to choose between the trend break and no trend break models, using a consistent estimate of the break fraction in the context of the former, we develop a number of procedures which deliver asymptotically correctly sized and consistent tests of the co-integration rank regardless of whether a trend break is present in the data or not. By selecting the no break model when no trend break is present, these procedures also avoid the potentially large power losses associated with the extant procedures in such cases.
C30|The international transmission of US shocks—Evidence from Bayesian global vector autoregressions|We analyze international spillovers of expansionary US aggregate demand and supply shocks, and of a contractionary US monetary policy shock. For that purpose we use a Bayesian version of the global vector autoregressive model coupled with a prior specification that explicitly accounts for uncertainty regarding variable choice. Our results are three-fold: first, we find significant spillovers of all three shocks, with the monetary policy shock impacting most strongly on international output. Second, the dynamics of the receiving countries׳ responses depend on the structural interpretation of the respective shock. Third, US shocks tend to spread globally through the financial channel (i.e., interest rates) and the trade channel (i.e., the real effective exchange rate).
C30|Market conditions, trader types and price–volume relation in energy futures markets|We investigate the asymmetric relations between trading volume and price changes, and trading volume and price volatility of energy futures contracts across maturities and under different market conditions. Using a relatively long sample of daily observations, we examine whether the impact of trading volume on returns and volatility of futures contracts can be time-varying and dependent on the market condition. We differentiate the market condition based on the slope of the forward curve into backwardation and contango. The results indicate that trading volume and returns are positively related when the market is in backwardation and negatively related when the market is in contango. In addition, the positive relation between changes in trading volume and volatility of futures contracts seem to be stronger when the market is in backwardation than when it is in contango. Finally, the results indicate that, to a certain extent, trade participation and trading activities of agents in energy futures markets can be explained by the slope of the forward curve which reflects the market condition and sentiment.
C30|The hourly income elasticity of electricity|Using a detailed data set on appliance-level electricity consumption at the hourly level, we provide the first estimates of hourly and end-use-specific income elasticities for electricity. Such estimates are informative about how consumption patterns in general, and peak demand in particular, will develop as households' income changes. We find that the income elasticities are highest during peak hours for kitchen and lighting, with point estimates of roughly 0.4, but insignificant for space heating.
C30|The macro-finance environment and asset allocation: A simultaneous equation approach|We propose a novel methodology to identify latent factors influencing investment allocations in financial assets. By drawing logical paths in a structural equation model (SEM) framework, we uncover the role of a latent return factor that simultaneously shapes the dynamics of different financial assets. Our methodology allows for disentangling the different components of asset returns – those driven by fundamental and non-fundamental variables. We apply this methodology to Euro-area stocks and sovereign bonds over the 2003–2014 period. Lower economic and political uncertainty in Europe triggers a trade-off towards stocks and away from bonds, while U.S. Quantitative Easing boosts European stocks.
C30|Exposing volatility spillovers: A comparative analysis based on vector autoregressive models|We present a comparative analysis of two empirical methods grounded on a common vector autoregressive framework. In this setting, we investigate the time-varying nature and direction of volatility spillovers between some major stock indexes spanning across Europe, China and US. We find evidence that drawing on partial Granger causality brings more robust results than relying on the information provided by generalized impulse responses, especially when there is uncertainty about what other relevant factors need to be modelled.
C30|Why do carbon prices and price volatility change?|An asymmetric information microstructural pricing model is proposed in which price responses to information and liquidity vary with every transaction. bid-ask quotes and price components account for learning by incorporating changing expectations of the rate of transacted volume (trading intensity) and the risk level of incoming trades. Analysis of European carbon futures transactions finds expected trading intensity to simultaneously increase the information component and decrease the liquidity component of price changes, but at different rates. This explains some conflicting results in prior literature. Further, the expected persistence in trading intensity explains the majority of the autocorrelations in the level and the conditional variance of price change; helps predict hourly patterns in returns, variance and the bid-ask spread; and differentiates the price impact of buy versus sell and continuing versus reversing trades.
C30|Hawk or dove: Switching regression model for the monetary policy reaction function in China|This paper investigates the monetary policy reaction function in China. We propose two hypotheses, namely, the “hawk regime” and the “dove regime” hypotheses. The former suggests that the central bank is more concerned about the inflation rate than the output, whereas the latter suggests otherwise. We examine these hypotheses using the endogenous switching model of Hu and Schiantarelli (1998), which allows the creation of a threshold index that divides the sample into two high and low price regimes on the basis of the inflation and asset price growth rates. The People's Bank of China places a low value on output and a high coefficient on inflation in a “high-price regime” and vice versa in a “low-price scheme,” which are consistent with the hawk and dove regime hypotheses, respectively.
C30|Radical or incremental: Where does R&D policy hit?|This study investigates the impact and effectiveness of a public R&D support policy. In a policy design that aims at incentivizing radical as well as incremental innovations, we test where the policy impact is highest. While the privately motivated R&D expenditures are significant for both types of innovation, the policy-induced part is significant only for radical innovation. Furthermore, given that the funding agency encourages collaboration, and particularly industry-science collaboration, we further test whether effects are enhanced in collaborating firms. We do not find any evidence pointing to increased effects for the latter.
C30|Adapting to changing input prices in response to the crisis: The case of US commercial banks|Substitution elasticities quantify the extent to which the demand for inputs responds to changes in input prices. They are considered particularly relevant from the perspective of cost management. Because the crisis has drastically altered the economic environment in which banks operate, we expect to find changes in banks' substitution patterns over time. This study uses a dynamic demand system to analyze U.S. commercial banks' substitution elasticities and adjustment time to input price changes during the 2000 - 2013 period. After the onset of the crisis, banks' response to input price changes became more sluggish and the substitutability of most input factors decreased significantly. Yet the substitutability of labor for physical capital rose remarkably, which we attribute to the continuing adoption of online banking technologies. Our results confirm that, with only few exceptions, the crisis has significantly reduced the substitutability of banks' input factors and thereby the possibilities for cost management. Nevertheless, we find that even after the onset of the crisis banks continued to control their costs by substituting labor for purchased funds and - to a lesser extent - labor for physical capital and core deposits for purchased funds. The results are consistent across banks of different sizes.
C30|The missing link: Are individuals with more social capital in better health? Evidence from India|This paper extends a two-period Overlapping Generations (OLG) model of endogenous growth in which associations between human capital, social capital, and health outcomes are critically examined for a low income country, India. If individuals with higher level of human capital can build strong social ties and have more robust social networks, they are then less likely to have health problems and are therefore physically healthier. In an attempt to test the so-called relationship between the variables in question, a unique dataset, where micro-level data from the World Values Survey (WVS) and regional-level macro data from the Central Statistics Office of India were both utilized, was accessed. A three-equation model has been then estimated using the conditional mixed-process (CMP) method in order to explicitly address endogeneity issues. Our estimation results provide important insights into the theoretical thesis in several ways. Firstly, human capital has a favorable impact upon social capital, which in turn enhances self-reported health. Secondly, we provide a comparison of three main experiments: an increase in the share of public spending by region on education, social capital-enhancing activities, and health. The results confirm the positive effect of an increase in each form of government spending on outcome variables. Thirdly, the correlation coefficient between disturbances of these three equations turns out to be statistically significant, suggesting that there are unobserved factors, which can affect self-reported health, social capital and human capital variables.
C30|Adapting to changing prices before and after the crisis: The case of US commercial banks|For banks, cost management has gained importance in the current environment of low interest rates. In this environment, banks' revenues from interest are under pressure, leading to renewed interest in the substitutability of banks' input factors. Substitution elasticities typically depend on two factors: cost technology and economic conditions (relative input prices or cost shares). Technological shifts and policy changes are therefore expected to affect firms' elasticities of substitution. This study estimates U.S. commercial banks' substitution elasticities during the 2000-2013 period. It analyzes the total effects of the technological shifts and policy changes on banks' substitution elasticities during that period. An endogenous-break test divides the sample into a precrisis period (2000-2008) and a crisis period (2009-2013). During the pre-crisis period, banks' inputs are inelastic substitutes. After the onset of the crisis, especially the long-run substitutability of most input factors decreases to even lower levels due to changes in both cost technology and economic conditions. At the same time, banks' response to input price changes becomes more sluggish. The results indicate that the availability of substitutes is substantially worse during the (post-) crisis period, which limits banks' possibilities for cost management.
C30|Mood and stock returns: evidence from Greece|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to examine the effect of investors’ emotional state (mood) on their trading behaviour and performance. Design/methodology/approach - – A sample from a representative survey of 328 Greek individual investors has been used to empirically test the validity of the proposed associations. An iterative data collection process was followed, where individual investors had to complete a questionnaire every time they were trading in the Athens Stock Exchange, for a period of ten months. Exploratory factor analysis was first used to analyse the data set, followed by cluster analysis (to identify investor profiles based on differences in their mood). Findings - – Two clusters have been identified. The first cluster profile includes investors with high score of positive mood (thus, high energetic arousal and hedonic tone, low tense arousal and anger frustration), while the second profile consists of investors with negative mood (low energetic arousal and hedonic tone, high tense arousal and anger frustration). The comparison between the two profiles has shown that investors with positive mood achieve higher stock returns than investors with negative mood. Originality/value - – To the best of the authors’ knowledge there is no other similar study.
C30|Anatomy of Input Demand Functions for Indian Farmers across Regions|This study models the optimum use of production inputs and analyse the behaviour of input demand functions of agricultural production through restricted transcendental logarithm profit function for four different regions in India using rural economic and demographic survey (REDS) data. The Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) method of estimation reveals that the level of productivity of farms is significantly influenced by output prices, inputs like labour, fertilizer, pesticides. The results of ownprice elasticities for the demand of variable inputs are negative and price elastic. Fertilizer prices and area planted had a significant impact on the profit function altogether. The effect of output prices in eastern region is larger. Whereas, wage rate and other input prices are more effective for other regions. The cross-price elasticities for input indicated imperfect complementary relationships among the inputs. A well designed input distribution policy can mitigate the problem of low factor productivity and lack of technological improvements in agriculture..
C30|Incorporating innovation subsidies in the CDM framework: empirical evidence from Belgium| This paper integrates innovation input and output effects of R&D subsidies into a modified Crépon–Duguet–Mairesse (CDM) model. Our results largely confirm insights of the input additionality literature, i.e. public subsidies complement private R&D investment. In addition, results point to positive output effects of both purely privately funded and subsidy-induced R&D. Furthermore, we do not find evidence of a premium or discount of subsidy-induced R&D in terms of its marginal contribution on new product sales when compared to purely privately financed R&D.
C30|Measuring the effects of dollar appreciation on Asia: A FAVAR approach|Exchange rate shocks have mixed effects on economic activity in both theory and empirical VAR models. In this paper, we extend the empirical literature by considering the implications of a positive shock to the U.S. dollar in a factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) model for the U.S. and three large Asian economies: Korea, Japan and China. The FAVAR framework allows us to represent a country’s aggregate economic activity by a latent factor, generated from a broad set of underlying observable economic indicators. To control for global conditions, we also include in the FAVAR a “global conditions index,” which is another latent factor generated from the economic indicators of major trading partners. We find that a dollar appreciation shock reduces economic activity and inflation not only for the U.S. economy, but also for all three Asian economies. This result, which is robust to a number of alternative specifications, suggests that in spite of their disparate economic structures and policy regimes, the dollar appreciation shock affects the Asian economies primarily through its impact on U.S. aggregate demand; and this demand channel dominates the expenditure-switching channel that affects a country’s export competitiveness.
C30|CDM 20 years after| In year 1998, the seminal paper Research Innovation and Productivity: An Econometric Analysis at the Firm Level was published in this journal. The empirical framework, following on ideas in the research of Zvi Griliches at the NBER and commonly labeled CDM (the acronym of the three authors’ names, Crépon, Duguet and Mairesse) is one of the most influential contributions in recent literature on economics of innovation. The original CDM paper and papers inspired by its framework have received hundreds of citations in the empirical innovation literature. Whether directly linked or not to the CDM framework, the flow of studies improving on and enlarging the scope and methods of the empirical literature on R&D, innovation and productivity is continuing. Some of them, for example, focus on financing innovation, innovation and employment, innovation and trade, competition, or intellectual property; some adopt a managerial perspective, while others prefer an innovation system approach in a Schumpeterian tradition, etc. This introduction to the special issue of EINT surveys a collection of 12 papers on the CDM model by 25 authors from eight countries. The papers take stock of the evolution of research based on the original CDM model launched 20 years ago, linking it to the previous literature, and proposing developments and generalizations of it in various dimensions.
C30|New evidence about effects of reproductive variables on child mortality in sub-Saharan Africa|There is considerable uncertainty about how reproductive factors affect child mortality. Joint determinants are difficult to control adequately for, and the studies that have dealt with selection in the most advanced ways have given diverging results. According to very simple models estimated from DHS data from 28 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, mortality is highest for first-born children with a very young mother. Also some other groups of children with a young mother, or of high birth order, have high mortality. Net of such age and birth order differences, a short preceding birth interval is associated with high mortality. The pattern does not change much if a number of other observed characteristics are controlled for, but a different picture appears if time-invariant unobserved mother-level characteristics are taken into account in a multilevel-multiprocess model. According to the latter models, the mortality of a first child goes up as the mother’s age increases above 24, and younger siblings are adversely affected by the later start of childbearing as this means that their mother will be older when they are born. Avoiding a short birth interval reduces the chance that the next child dies, but this effect is weaker than suggested by the simpler models, and younger siblings have a disadvantage because their mothers are older than they otherwise would be. The conclusion is different if it is taken into account that a higher maternal age goes hand in hand with a later calendar period, which may reduce mortality. Assuming that the recent general mortality decline continues, the advice to a woman would be to avoid a very early first birth and short birth intervals. In addition to being an advantage in the short term, there are no disadvantages for the children she may have later. It is also discussed whether a woman’s next child will have lower mortality than her most recently born child. The statistical analysis is backed up by a simulation experiment.
C30|Graphical Interpretations of Rank Conditions For Identification of Linear Gaussian Models|The literature on graphical models and the literature on identi cation pursue similar goals, but do not use entirely each other's results, because represent them in di erent languages. To ease the communication between these elds, I translate the most important theorems on identi cation of linear Gaussian Simultaneous Equations Models (SEMs) and Structural Vector Autoregressions (SVARs) into the language of graphical models. I propose graphical interpretations of the rank conditions for identi cation of SEMs, of the rank condition of Rubio-Ramirez et al (2010) for identi cation of SVARs with linear and nonlinear restrictions, and of the theory of partial identi cation for SVARs.
C30|Identification of Monetary Policy Shocks within a Svar Using Restrictions Consistent with a DSGE Model|I identify and estimate the monetary policy rule and the monetary policy shocks within a structural vector autoregression model for the US economy. I make two contributions to the literature. First, for identi cation I propose to use restrictions consistent with the literature on dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models. Typical DSGE model produces more restrictions than is required for the identi cation, so overidentifying restrictions can be tested against the data. The second contribution is a new method of testing the overidentifying restrictions. This method divides the set of identifying restrictions into subsets, and tests each subset independently of the others. This method does not reject most restrictions produced by the DSGE model. The only rejections provide evidence that the Federal Reserve uses delayed information about the in ation in policy making. The proposed approach to identi cation helps explain and solve the price puzzle problem reported in the previous literature.
C30|Non-Linearities in the Relationship between House Prices and Interest Rates: Implications for Monetary Policy|Understanding the impact of changes in interest rates on house prices is important for managing house price bubbles and ensuring housing affordability. This paper investigates the effect of interest rates on regional house price to income measures based on a non-linear smooth transition VAR model of inter-regional house price dynamics. To minimize the impact of housing mix changes on estimated effects, we apply the model to an Australian dataset of regional hedonic house price indices that account for both changes in housing mix and quality over time. The empirical analysis provides evidence that house price to income ratios depend non-linearly on interest rates, and moreover that there is an interest rate ‘transition point’ below which a house price bubble is probable. We investigate the implications for monetary policy of stable and unstable house price regimes and propose a housing lending rate lower bound that achieves long-run house price stability in the presence of regime uncertainty. To check the generality of the result, we also apply the model to aggregate Australian and US data.
C30|The Effects Of Product Fit And Brand Fit On Memory Retention For Brand Alliances: When Less Is More|The literature on brand alliances establishes the significance of the fit concept. Specifically, it has been shown that consumers evaluate the extent to which the brands and products in a brand alliance are congruent. Various articles have studied the effects of brand and product fit on attitude toward the brand alliance suggesting that stronger degrees of fit result in the most favorable outcomes. However, there is a lack of research on the effects of brand and product fit on memory retention. This research is based on concepts in cognitive psychology, leading to hypotheses that suggest that stronger fit is not always better. A 2 x 2 experiment provides support for those hypotheses.
C30|Score-Based Tests of Differential Item Functioning in the Two-Parameter Model|Measurement invariance is a fundamental assumption in item response theory models, where the relationship between a latent construct (ability) and observed item responses is of interest. Violation of this assumption would render the scale misinterpreted or cause systematic bias against certain groups of people. While a number of methods have been proposed to detect measurement invariance violations, they typically require advance definition of problematic item parameters and respondent grouping information. However, these pieces of information are typically unknown in practice. As an alternative, this paper focuses on a family of recently-proposed tests based on stochastic processes of casewise derivatives of the likelihood function (i.e., scores). These score-based tests only require estimation of the null model (when measurement invariance is assumed to hold), and they have been previously applied in factor-analytic, continuous data contexts as well as in models of the Rasch family. In this paper, we aim to extend these tests to two parameter item response models estimated via maximum likelihood. The tests' theoretical background and implementation are detailed, and the tests' abilities to identify problematic item parameters are studied via simulation. An empirical example illustrating the tests' use in practice is also provided.
C30|On the Estimation of Standard Errors in Cognitive Diagnosis Models|Cognitive diagnosis models (CDMs) are an increasingly popular method to assess mastery or nonmastery of a set of fine-grained abilities in educational or psychological assessments. Several inference techniques are available to quantify the uncertainty of model parameter estimates, to compare different versions of CDMs, or to check model assumptions. However, they require a precise estimation of the standard errors (or the entire covariance matrix) of the model parameter estimates. In this article, it is shown analytically that the currently widely used form of calculation leads to underestimated standard errors because it only includes the item parameters but omits the parameters for the ability distribution. In a simulation study, we demonstrate that including those parameters in the computation of the covariance matrix consistently improves the quality of the standard errors. The practical importance of this finding is discussed and illustrated using a real data example.
C30|Modeling for the world crude oil and natural gas markets|Crude oil and natural gas have been essential energy sources and play a crucial role in the world economy. Changes in energy prices significantly impact economic growth. This study builds an econometric model to illustrate the substitute relation between crude oil and natural gas markets. Additionally, the determination of the oil and natural gas prices are endogenized, assuming imperfect competition to reflect a real market strategy. Our empirical results show that the overall performance of this system is acceptable, and the model can be applied to policy analysis for determining monetary or energy policy by introducing this model to the more comprehensive system.
C30|Applications of simultaneous equations in finance research: methods and empirical results|Abstract The main purposes of this paper are: (1) to review finance literature using simultaneous equations method, (2) to discuss the difference among two-stage least squares (2SLS), three-stage least squares (3SLS) and generalized method of moments (GMM) methods under different assumptions, and (3) to investigate the interrelationship among investment, financing, and dividend decisions as an example to demonstrate the discussion. We review studies that apply the simultaneous equations estimation on capital structure, corporate investment, payout decisions, ownership structure, corporate governance, stock return, firm performance and/or other corporate issues. In addition to these three methods, we also present Pagan and Hall’s (Econom Rev 2:159–218, 1983) test of heteroskedasticity and weak instruments test for selecting the applicable method and testing the validity of instruments. Finally, we investigate the interrelationship among investment, financing and dividend decisions using 2SLS, 3SLS, and GMM methods based on the US listed firm annual data between 1965 and 2012. Our results show that these three corporate decisions are co-determined and the interaction among them should be taken into account in a simultaneous equations framework.
C30|Spatial dimensions of intra-metropolitan disparities in commuting time and female labor force participation|We examine intra-metropolitan patterns of geographic disparities in female participation in the labor market and their associations with commuting time in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Our analysis based on the Global Moran's I and Getis-Ord Gi* statistics reveals that the spatial patterns of labor force participation and regular employment rates differ markedly by marital status and the presence of children. Compared with unmarried women and married women without children, married women with children exhibit more significant spatial clustering of high and low values of labor force participation and regular employment rates, and these rates are negatively correlated with male commuting time. The non-spatial and spatial regression results show that for married women with children, longer commuting time is significantly associated with lower participation and regular employment rates, while for unmarried women and married women without children, the associations are mostly insignificant. These results are robust to different model specifications and spatial weights. Our findings suggest that policies alleviating commuting constraints help women with children in dual-earner couples more actively participate in the labor market.
C30|Empirical Assessment of the Impact of Monetary Policy Communication on the Financial Market|This paper proposes an empirical framework to explore the role of monetary policy communication. We develop an econometric methodology to impose restrictions for the identification of communication effects distinct from the effects of policy decisions. The empirical results support the hypothesis that both policy decision and communication factors are required to adequately capture the financial market reactions to monetary policy news. By applying a text mining approach focused on phrases that appear in press conferences on policy meeting days, we find that the communication factors identified are characterized by the policy intentions and preferences of the central bank.
C30|Egy- és többváltozós szűrők a hitelrés alakulásának meghatározására<BR>[Filters with single or multiple variables in measuring the size of the credit gap]|Tanulmányunkban a magyar hitelpiac ciklikus pozíciójának néhány lehetséges mérési módját hasonlítjuk össze. Három trendszűrő-eljárással de kom po nál juk a magyar GDP-arányos hitelállomány idősorát trendre és ciklikus komponensre (hitelrésre): egyváltozós Hodrick-Prescott-szűrővel, egyváltozós Christiano-Fitzgerald-szűrővel és többváltozós Hodrick-Prescott-szűrővel. A de kom po zí ciót külön végezzük a háztartási és a vállalati szegmens esetében. A három módszer közül más változók információtartalmát is felhasználó többváltozós Hodrick-Prescott-szűrő eredményei tükrözik leginkább a magyarországi hitelezési folyamatokkal kapcsolatos szakértői képet: a 2008-as válság kitöréséig - elsősorban a háztartási devizahitelezésnek köszönhetően - a hitelrés folyamatosan nyílt. A válságot követő alkalmazkodás során a hitelrés zárult, sőt a nagymértékű csökkenés miatt negatív lett az értéke. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: C30, E32, G28.
C30|Nonlinear Trend and Purchasing Power Parity|After the collapse of the Bretton Woods system, the evidence on the purchasing power parity (PPP) in the long run is still a matter of debate. The difficulties of the problem are the possible nonstationarity of relative price indices and nominal exchange rates. The traditional ways to deal with nonstationarity such as unit root model and cointegration have some problems. In this paper, to deal with nonstationarity, we apply the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) trend-cycle filter in real business cycle literature (Hodrick and Prescott, 1981) which can give a nonlinear smooth-trend, and we find that after the 1970s float, the monthly HP trends of US dollar/UK sterling and Deutsche marks/US dollar have certain relevance with their corresponding HP trends of relative consumer price indices. This result indicates that there is no strong evidence to directly deny that the PPP is valid in the long run. In this sense, it is not reliable to directly deny the belief of monetary neutrality.
C30|Anatomy of Input Demand Functions for Indian Farmers across Regions|This study models the optimum use of production inputs and analyse the behaviour of input demand functions of agricultural production through restricted transcendental logarithm profit function for four different regions in India using rural economic and demographic survey (REDS) data. The Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) method of estimation reveals that the level of productivity of farms is significantly influenced by output prices, inputs like labour, fertilizer, pesticides. The results of ownprice elasticities for the demand of variable inputs are negative and price elastic. Fertilizer prices and area planted had a significant impact on the profit function altogether. The effect of output prices in eastern region is larger. Whereas, wage rate and other input prices are more effective for other regions. The cross-price elasticities for input indicated imperfect complementary relationships among the inputs. A well designed input distribution policy can mitigate the problem of low factor productivity and lack of technological improvements in agriculture. [Working Paper 150/2016]
C30|Spatial Econometrics: A Broad View|Spatial econometrics can be defined in a narrow and in a broader sense. In a narrow sense it refers to methods and techniques for the analysis of regression models using data observed within discrete portions of space such as countries or regions. In a broader sense it is inclusive of the models and theoretical instruments of spatial statistics and spatial data analysis to analyze various economic effects such as externalities, interactions, spatial concentration and many others. Indeed, the reference methodology for spatial econometrics lies on the advances in spatial statistics where it is customary to distinguish between different typologies of data that can be encountered in empirical cases and that require different modelling strategies. A first distinction is between continuous spatial data and data observed on a discrete space. Continuous spatial data are very common in many scientific disciplines (such as physics and environmental sciences), but are still not currently considered in the spatial econometrics literature. Discrete spatial data can take the form of points, lines and polygons. Point data refer to the position of the single economic agent observed at an individual level. Lines in space take the form of interactions between two spatial locations such as flows of goods, individuals and information. Finally data observed within polygons can take the form of predefined irregular portions of space, usually administrative partitions such as countries, regions or counties within one country.
C30|The effect of locally hired teachers on school outcomes (the Dose response function estimation evidence from Kenya)|Do locally hired teachers benefit pupils f school achievements more than governmental employed teachers? In Republic of Kenya (below referred as Kenya), there are two types of teachers in public primary schools. One is those employed by the government and the other is those hired by the local school community, named gPTA teacher h. Though locally hired teachers are in general less qualified in terms of educational background and paid substantially lower than that of governmentally employed teachers, past randomized experiment results show that the marginal product in terms of test score is positive and significant when pupils are taught by PTA teachers (Duflo et al. 2012, and Bold et al., 2013). By using a nationally representative rich data set, with the Generalized propensity score matching method, the present study examines the effect of PTA teacher ratio (ratio of PTA teachers out of total number of teachers) on education outcome. The question of this study is gif PTA teachers have superior performance, proved by the Randomized Controlled trial in Kenya, should higher PTA teacher ratio in one school bring better educational outputs? h. With the nationally representative dataset containing rich educational school inputs as well as individual pupils f background and household information, this paper estimates the dose response function of school average outcomes. Provided that government teachers f allocation and school selection by the parents can be an endogenous to pupils f school outcomes, this paper utilizes the generalized propensity score method by Hirano and Imbens (2004) which enable us to estimate the function of the continuous treatment effect, PTA teacher ratio. The result consistently shows that the PTA teacher ratio affects school outcomes nonlinearly.
C30|Structural Equation Modeling in Evaluation of Technological Potential of European Union Countries in the years 2008-2012|The abilities of countries to take advantage of global technological progress is currently the main growth determinant. It is especially important in the case of developed economies and the countries that concentrate on closing a development gap. As a result, there is a scientific need to make an international comparisons of countries’ technological potential, which can be useful in pointing the economies that can be considered as the leaders and the economies that make especially quick progress in the field. Thus, the main purpose of the research is the identification of the variables that influence countries’ technological potential at macroeconomic level, which can be used in its measuring. The second aim of the article is the evaluation of progress obtained by “new” European Union member states. It is assumed that technological potential can be treated as a latent variable. Thus, it can be measured with application of Structural Equation Models (SEM). In the research, the hypothetic SEM model was proposed for the European Union countries in the years 2008-2012. The model was estimated with application of seven variables sugested by Eurostat as the potential measures of technological potential of the EU economies. The research confirmed significant influence of five of the given variables. Additionally, the research showed some progress in the field obtained by Central European countries that joined the EU after the year 2004.
C30|Quality of Human Capital in European Union in the Years 2004-2013. Application of Structural Equation Modeling|EU policy guidelines point out that improvement of quality of human capital (QHC) should be treated as an important factor supporting convergence process. Thus, the aim of the research is the identification of the variables that determine changes in QHC. It is assumed that QHC should be considered as a latent variable, which can be measured with application of Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). SEM includes confirmatory factor analysis and path analysis used in econometrics. In the research, the hypothetic SEM model was proposed for the years 2004-2013. Four subsets of observable variables were used: a) macroeconomic and labour market effectiveness, b) quality of education, c) national innovation system, d) health and social cohesion. The research confirmed significant influence of the proposed variables on the level of QHC and positive tendencies in changes of QHS in the EU countries.
C30|Technological Potential of European Economy|The subject of the research is a technological potential of European Economies at macroeconomic level. The main aim of the article is to assess relative position and eventual progress in that sphere obtained by Central European economies that joined the European Union after the year 2004. Additional goal of the research is to verify usefulness of variables that can be used in measurement of technological potential at macroeconomic level in European economies with application of multiple criteria decision analysis methodology. In the research the phenomenon of technological potential was treated as a multivariate problem. Thus, in order to measure it the multiple criteria decision analysis approach based on the Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) was applied. The research was conducted with application of Eurostat Data and diagnostic variables proposed for measurement of technological potential at macro level in European members states. It was done for the years 2008-2012. The applied procedure of verification of information value of potential diagnostic variables enabled to select six final diagnostic variables. The conducted research enabled to point the European leaders, which can be treated as benchmark countries and the source of good practices in the process of forming policy guidelines aiming at supporting technological development. The research showed significant progress obtained by some new European Union members states, which confirms modernization process of Central European economics.
C30|Global Hyperbolicity in Space-Time Manifold|Global hyperbolicity is the most important condition on causal structure space-time, which is involved in problems as cosmic censorship, predictability etc. An open set O is said to be globally hyperbolic if, i) for every pair of points x and y in O the intersection of the future of x and the past of y has compact closure i.e., a space-time is said to be globally hyperbolic if the sets are compact for all (i.e., no naked singularity can exist in space-time topology), and ii) strong causality holds on O i.e., there are no closed or almost closed time like curves contained in O. Here is causal future and is the causal past of an event x. If a space-time is timelike or null geodesically incomplete but cannot be embedded in a larger space-time then we say that it has a singularity. An attempt is taken here to discuss global hyperbolicity and space-time singularity by introducing definitions, propositions and displaying diagrams appropriately.
C30|A Macroeconomic Model of the Russian Economy|The constructed macroeconomic model of Russian economy is presented. The model takes into account the key features of behavioral mechanism, economic policy mechanism, and key structural features of the economy for medium and short periods. We model the budget rule mechanism, consider interaction between the Central Bank and the budget in the context of monetary and budget reserves accumulation, including the process of gold-currency reserves’ accumulation as well as the sterilizing mechanism for state funds formation. Include two different monetary policy rules in the model: domestic credit rule and exchange rate rule. The exchange rate sub-model describes a Balassa—Samuelson effect and terms of trade effect. Our model demonstrates high prognostic power: its model prognostic quality is higher than of the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the majority of macroeconomic indicators.
C30|Current Account, Consumption and Capital Mobility: An Econometric Approach|This paper is an application of the consumption-smoothing current account theory the main principles of which appeared in the 1980s and gradually broadened to describe the intertemporal dynamics of important economic processes. In open economies, the consumption-smoothing current account process is related to the consumption behaviour of households. The effect on consumption choices and the current account is derived from the premise that households adjust their consumption expenditures according to the terms of trade. The process can be treated in an optimizing framework and originally was strictly connected to the permanent income hypothesis (PIH) and no restrictions to capital mobility. Both assumptions were successively relaxed and relationships allowing incorporation of the excess sensitivity hypothesis (ESH) and not perfect capital mobility have been introduced. Transformed into a VAR model with current account and national cash flow increments as endogenous variables, relevant conclusions are drawn on the basis of Granger causality, the equivalence of the current and predicted current account and an analysis of parameters of the model. Basic relationships and solutions are summarized and an application using the economies of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria follows.
C30|A Simultaneous Equation Approach to Estimating HIV Prevalence With Nonignorable Missing Responses| Estimates of HIV prevalence are important for policy to establish the health status of a country’s population and to evaluate the effectiveness of population-based interventions and campaigns. However, participation rates in testing for surveillance conducted as part of household surveys, on which many of these estimates are based, can be low. HIV positive individuals may be less likely to participate because they fear disclosure, in which case estimates obtained using conventional approaches to deal with missing data, such as imputation-based methods, will be biased. We develop a Heckman-type simultaneous equation approach that accounts for nonignorable selection, but unlike previous implementations, allows for spatial dependence and does not impose a homogenous selection process on all respondents. In addition, our framework addresses the issue of separation, where for instance some factors are severely unbalanced and highly predictive of the response, which would ordinarily prevent model convergence. Estimation is carried out within a penalized likelihood framework where smoothing is achieved using a parameterization of the smoothing criterion, which makes estimation more stable and efficient. We provide the software for straightforward implementation of the proposed approach, and apply our methodology to estimating national and sub-national HIV prevalence in Swaziland, Zimbabwe, and Zambia. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
C30|Investigating the Relationship Between DSGE and SVAR Models|DSGE models often contain variables for which data is not observed when estimating. Although DSGE models generally imply that there is a finite order SVAR in all the variables this may no longer be true for SVARs just in observable variables, and so there is a VAR-truncation problem. The paper examines this issue. It looks at five different studies using DSGE models that appear in the literature. Generally it emerges that the truncation issue is probably not that important, except possibly in small open economy models with external debt. Even when there is no truncation problem in VARs which control the dynamics) the structural impulse responses from both models may be different due to differing initial responses. It is shown that DSGE models incorporate some strong restrictions on the nature of SVAR models and these would need to employed for the two approaches to give the same initial estimates.
C30|Business Cycle Dynamics of Economic Growth in the OECD Countries: Evidence from Markov-Switching Model|"""This study estimates the Markov-switching model and examines the business cycle dynamics of economic growth for a comprehensive set of eight OECD countries. The estimated duration of regime one (lower regime) is (i) shorter for Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland, (ii) moderate for France, and (iii) longer for Belgium, Spain and the U.S. The persistence of regime two (upper regime) is estimated to be (i) shorter for Belgium, Canada, Spain, Sweden and the U.S., (ii) moderate for Denmark and France, and (iii) longer for Switzerland. The stylized evidence for the persistence of a given state has important implications for the Keynesian policy activism and the formulation of macroeconomic stabilisation policies. The monetary and fiscal policies are used to reduce the amplitudes and time-durations of economic growth cycles and, thus, stabilise the output around its long-run natural rate level and the inflation around its target level. The short-run downward rigidities in prices in the goods markets and in nominal wages in the factor (labour) market tend to impinge upon the clearance of goods and factor markets and the acceleration of economic growth during recessions, thereby leading to the pathologically longer durations of lower regimes. While the longer durations of upper regimes support the use of expansionary economic policies, adequate precautions need to be taken for the inflationary implications of these policies."""
C30|Estimation of Substitution Elasticities in Three-Factor Production Functions: Identifying the Role of Energy|Existing estimation methods for multi-factor CES functions require limiting assumptions about the nature of technical change. We demonstrate how a system of equations and a fixed elasticity in the nested process can provide identification for more flexible specifications and for small data samples. We evaluate the role of energy inputs in an aggregate production function using data for Germany. The use of a Cobb-Douglas process for capital and labor by other studies biases elasticity estimates upwards. The estimated low elasticity means that energy availability is a potentially limiting factor for growth and that productivity gains for capital and labor are energy-using.
C30|A Comparative Study of Corruption's Effect Channels on Economic Growth in Rentier and Non Rentier Economies|A number of Significant empirical studies have been conducted to determine the relationship between corruption and economic growth, but these studies focused on the direct effects of corruption on economic growth and even more limited studies have been done on the impact of corruption on economic growth transition channels witch most of them just studied a specified channel. The main objective of present study was to evaluate the transition channels of corruption effect on economic growth simultaneously, in rentier and non-rentier economies and determine how their interactions on the other. To do this we used data of International Corruption Risk Guide (ICRG) index and Kaufman et al. (2000) corruption index (Graft) for 53 selected countries over the period 1996-2013 in this study. Also simultaneous equations 3SLS estimation method is used. The results indicate that, both types of corruption index has a negative impact on economic growth of the studied countries and impact transition through the channels of investment, government spending, political instability and economic openness are significant through both corruption index. Also, comparisons between rentier countries and non-rentier countries, shows that the effect of corruption on economic growth using two different corruption index is different, with both indices, the effects of corruption in rentier countries is bigger than non-rentier countries.
C30|The Relationship between Land Prices and Housing Prices in Iran|The Objective of this research is to study the relationship between land price and housing prices in Iran according to the mutual causation perspective. Based on Haizhen and Allen (2013) model and using a simultaneous equations system and two-stage least squares method to study the issue between the first quarter of 1998 to the fourth quarter of 2012. The results of Toda and Yamamoto causality and Hausman test indicates that there are bilateral causality between land prices and housing prices and the results of two-stage least squares method indicate that rising land prices have increased housing prices and rising housing prices have increased land prices. It is suggested that due to the special characteristics of land such as (no depreciation and low maintenance costs), reduced the storage of land by using tax and interdiction and specific incentive policies and led to the proportional transfer in supply and demand for land by reducing unemployment and rising income and demand.
C30|The Relationship between Bank Efficiency and Risk and Productivity Patterns in the Romanian Banking System|Using a data envelopment model and an input slack-based productivity index, we investigate commercial banks' cost efficiency and productivity patterns in the Romanian banking system over the period of 2005 to 2011. In a second stage, we assess the determinants of efficiency, emphasizing the relation between efficiency and risks. In the Romanian banking system, the relationship between concentration and efficiency supports Hicks’s ‘quiet life hypothesis’. With respect to the impact risk factors on efficiency, we find that a lower failure risk and a higher liquidity are positively associated with efficiency, while solvency risk is negatively associated with efficiency. We also find that banks with a higher return on equity and a higher level of financial intermediation are more efficient. An increase in the net interest margin leads to a decrease in efficiency, signaling a higher credit risk. The effects of the financial crisis on commercial banks in Romania were observable in 2008, when the cost efficiency and productivity decreased. Empirical results suggest that the contribution of the funds to the increase in productivity is the most significant, while that of labor and capital productivity is lower.
C30|The contagious effects analysis of Chinese Equity Market to South Asia’s emerging financial markets|To study the contagious effects of financial risks in South Asia’s emerging stock markets, the main stock indexes from China, Thailand, India, Vietnam and Malaysia are chosen during the period from 2006 and 2014. The paper used the dynamic conditional correlation GARCH model to examine the dynamic relevance, and introduced the dummy variable in order to test whether the structure change had occurred after the global financial crisis. The results showed that the degree of relevance of China, Thailand, India and Malaysia stayed in the high level. However, the Vietnam hardly had a dynamic relevance with other emerging markets. This indicated that the Vietnam stock market has apparent market segmentation with other markets, no matter which aspects we considered the dynamic correlation or the financial crisis contagion. At last we build models to analyze the relations between the dynamic conditional correlation of BSE & SSEC and macro-economic. The main reason is to understand which aspects may impact correlation. From the test results, we realize the India GDP and total export-import volume has a positive relation with the correlation, while China’s corresponding indexes has a negative impact on it. In the end, according to the results we got, the investors should pay more attention to the relevance between emerging countries, so that the idiosyncratic risks can be avoided. As for the supervision department, they should reinforce the stock market which has a higher correlation in order to guarantee the stable development of financial markets.
C30|Mediation in log-linear model|The analysis of the causality is important in many fields of research. I propose a causal theory to obtain the causal effects in a causal loglinear model. It calculates them using the odds ratio and the concepts proposed by Pearl's causal theory where it is possible. My analysis can be divided into 2 parts. In the first part the effects are calculated distinguishing between a simple mediation model with 1 mediator (model without the multiplicative interaction effect between exogenous variable and mediator) and a mediation model with 1 mediator and the multiplicative interaction effect between exogenous variable and mediator. In both models it is possible also to analyze the cell effect, which is a new interaction effect. Then in a causal loglinear model there are three interaction effects: multiplicative interaction effect, additive interaction effect and cell effect. In the second part the effects are calculated distinguishing between a mediation model with 2 parallel uncorrelated mediators and a mediation model with 2 parallel correlated mediators. In parallel mediation model with correlated influencing variables, Pearl?s theory cannot be used (Pearl, 2014) and and no alternative theory has been proposed. For this reason I propose a new causal concept with relatively formulas to calculate the causal effects in a mediation model with 2 parallel correlated mediators. These types of models are many important in marketing field: for example in customer satisfaction it is important to analyze a model where quality influences the positive and negative emotions and these 3 variables influence the future behavior. Then I show some applications of my causal theory to understand marketing problems.
C30|Determinants of Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) in Nepalese Cooperative Societies|Due to a poor capital standard some depository institutions (DIs) failed recently. Therefore,stakeholders such as regulators, managers, researchers, etc. are concerned to fix a precise level of long-term sources of fund in their capital structure. DIs are highly levered firm because major portion of their capital structure consists of debt collected from deposits. Thus, capital adequacy ratio is a significant measure to evaluate efficiency and stability which affects the likelihood of insolvency for those institutions. Nepalese banks are applying Basel framework in order to maintaining a precise level capital standard. But, Nepalese cooperatives such as saving and credit cooperatives, multipurpose cooperatives, etc. are not regulated by the central bank, and thus, are not subjected to follow the Basel. In this regard, we evaluated the determinants of the capital adequacy ratio of Nepalese cooperative societies through descriptive, correlation, and regression analysis using an unbalance panel data of 126 co-operatives from 2009 to 2013. The core determinants of capital adequacy ratio for the Nepalese cooperatives are credit to deposit ratio, net interest margin and types of cooperative in positive direction, whereas assets utilization ratio, size and return on equity in negative direction. Though, the big sized cooperatives have poor strategic capital, the resulted mean and standard deviation suggest cooperatives? capital adequacy ratio is higher but inconsistent than commercial banks.
C30|Mediation in causal log-linear models|The analysis of the causality is important in many fields of research. To obtain the causal effects in a causal log-linear model I propose a theory, using the odds ratio and the concepts proposed by Pearl, whenever possible. I start calculating the effects in a simple mediation model where I analyze a new interaction effect, which I call cell. After I calculate the effects in a mediation model with two parallel mediators. If they are correlated, Pearl's theory cannot be used and no alternative theory has been proposed so far. To resolve this issue I present a new concept of causality. The mediation models are essential in the marketing, then to it, for a more complex analysis, I apply my causal theory.
C30|SME Internationalization in Emerging Markets: Symbiotic vs. Commensal Pathways|Purpose - The purpose of this research is to develop, test, and validate the symbiotic networking concept of SMEs internationalization pathways. Design/Methodology/Approach - Survey data were collected from managers/owners of SMEs operating in the textile industry in China and Russia. The applied data analysis technique employed is structural equation modeling. The survey was pretested to address reliability, validity, and cross-cultural stability issues. Findings - The symbiotic networking relationships in SMEs were shown to be positively related to their degree of internationalization. The relationship between networking and internationalization is significantly stronger in the conditions of high rather than low environmental turbulence. Research Limitations/Implications - Further research should validate the findings in other industries and other countries. Future research may also include in the model other cultural, attitudinal, environmental, and managerial variables, as well as other dependent variables, first of all from consumer behavior and marketing communications fields. Practical Implications - The findings may assist in identifying networking clusters of SMEs in emerging economies that are more likely to enter foreign markets and develop more targeted support and educational programs aimed at facilitating the internationalization of small businesses. The research results also assist in the elaboration of managerial tools in multinational entrepreneurial businesses. Originality/Value –The research contributes to the field by empirically investigating, testing, and putting into a unified framework the measurement tools required for identifying the symbiotic networking interactions of SMEs and the influence of these interactions on SME internationalization pathways.
C30|Sentimental Herding: The Role of Regional and Global Shocks in Egyptian and Saudi Stock Markets|In this study, the existence of market-wide herding for Egypt and Saudi stock markets is investigated using state-space methodology developed by Hwang and Salmon (2004). The objective is not just to provide evidence for herding, but also evaluate the effect of regional and global shocks on herding behavior for these markets. Results show that herding exists only in Egypt. Moreover, for herd parameter in Egypt, mortgage crisis and Egyptian military takeover are the only significant factors. As expected, these factors cause fading effect on herd parameter, strengthening adverse herding. Contrary to expected, oil return or oil return volatility has no impact on herd parameter.
C30|The trend–cycle decomposition of output and the Phillips curve: Bayesian estimates for Italy and the Euro area|Abstract A standard model-based trend–cycle decomposition of Italian GDP yields a likelihood function that is relatively flat. Bayesian estimation of the model allows to impose a mildly informative prior on the parameter governing the periodicity of the cycle, and thus, it helps to achieve the preferred decomposition. In a bivariate output and Phillips curve model for Italy, it is found that (i) the median response of prices to a 1 % shock to the output gap is equal to about 0.5 % after 20 quarters, (ii) the inflation cycle lags GDP on average by about three quarters. Estimating the model with Euro area data provides evidence of a smaller impact of the output gap on prices (0.4 %) and a lower lag of the inflation cycle with respect to GDP.
C30|Empirical identification of factor models|Abstract In the conventional factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR), the extracted factors cannot be used in structural analysis because the factors do not retain a clear economic interpretation. This paper proposes a new method to identify macroeconomic factors, which is associated with better economic interpretations. Using an empirical-based search algorithm, we select variables that are individually caused by a single factor. These variables are then used to impose restrictions on the factor loading matrix, and we obtain an economic interpretation for each factor. We apply our method to time-series data in the USA and further conduct a monetary policy analysis. Our method yields stronger responses of price variables and muted responses of output variables than what the literature has found.
C30|Comment on: “Optimal dynamic production from a large oil field in Saudi Arabia”|Abstract This paper extends the study by Gao et al. (Empir Econ 37:153–184, 2009), which models the profit-maximizing dynamic oil production from a large oil field in Saudi Arabia by using an engineering model of oil extraction. Although it gives an important insight about the dynamics of oil production by examining and comparing different scenarios for exogenous variables, it assumes perfect knowledge and foresight about the future. However, the production decision might not be based on different scenarios, but rather on different expectations about the future. Therefore, we propose to extend the model by incorporating uncertainty arising from a random arrival date of a new backstop technology that will enable the production of a perfect substitute for oil. We find that the optimal production path has a different dynamic under this new specification that may explain the less aggressive extraction behavior of the producer before 2000, which was concluded to be economically irrational by Gao et al. (2009).
C30|Healthy life, social interaction and disability|Abstract This paper aims at analysing two relevant dimensions of well-being: living a healthy life and social interaction. A link between the two dimensions of well-being has been highlighted in the literature. The model assumes that both these concepts, i.e. social interaction and healthy life, are latent and manifest themselves through a number of indicators. The indicators adopted are those available in the 2011 ISTAT survey on social inclusion of people with disability in Italy by comparing the well-being attainments with respect to the different levels of functional limitations. In this paper the available indicators are used simultaneously to study the level of social interaction and health through a multiple indicators multiple causes model. This allows us to deal directly with endogeneity issues. Results show that women have a lower achievement in social interaction and in health. Moreover, differences occur in the effect of the observable exogenous variables included in the model with a larger negative effect of ageing for women on their health status and a higher negative effect of ageing for men on social interaction. Education plays a significant role only for women for the healthy life dimension. Finally, the latent variable on social interaction has been found to positively affect, consistently with the literature, the health dimension.
C30|Inference in Partially Identified Heteroskedastic Simultaneous Equations Models|Identification through heteroskedasticity in heteroskedastic simultaneous equations models (HSEMs) is considered. The possibility that heteroskedasticity identifies the structural parameters only partially is explicitly allowed for. The asymptoticproperties of the identified parameters are derived. Moreover, tests for identification through heteroskedasticity are developed and their asymptotic distributions are derived. Monte Carlo simulations are used to explore the small sample properties of the asymptotically valid methods. Finally, the approach is applied to investigate the relation between the extent of economic openness and inflation.
C30|Crisis-Contingent Dynamics of Connectedness: An SVAR-Spatial-Network “Tripod” Model with Thresholds|In recent years a growing number of methodologies have been proposed to empirically measure the connectedness among financial entities. However, few of them capture the dynamics of the financial connectedness. This paper aims to fill this gap and proposes a novel and systematic model to portray not only the connectedness in a given regime but also its transitions across different regimes. The model is based on an improved version of a “tripod” model, which unifies structural vector auto-regressions (SVARs), spatial models, and network models under one framework. I introduce a transition mechanism into my model, thus making it possible to observe how the interconnections among financial entities vary with certain threshold variables. My model may be applied to various issues regarding the financial and non-financial interconnections among certain entities. As an illustration, I show how my model can shed some new light on the modeling of the recent Eurozone contagions. I reveal a clear causal map of the propagation of shocks among the stock markets in five selected Eurozone countries in both contagion and non-contagion periods, which are determined automatically. The unique roles played by each selected market under both the contagion and non-contagion regimes are efficiently summarized.
C30|Marital Status And Psychological Well-Being: A Cross Section Analysis|Using data from the Generations and Gender Survey (GGS), the aim of this work is to examine whether marital status is associated with individuals’ psychological well-being in Georgia. Results underline that widowed and separated people show greater emotional distress with respect to married ones. Empirical evidence shows that there is an association between psychological well-being and marital status that is also gender specific with respect to some measures of well-being: women seem to be more depressed than men after having experienced a marital breakdown, while no gender differences emerge when loneliness has been considered as a measure of well-being
C30|Estimating The Effect Of Family Formation On Disorientation And Psychological Well-Being Using Matching Methods|Psychological well-being and disorientation are used as proxies for evaluating the consequences of anomie. Anomie is a phenomenon that derives from a weakening in the power of norms, mainly caused by external factors and psychological state of mind of anomic individuals, who are characterized by a sense of uncertainty and disorientation. The decline of psychological well-being and the increase of the sense of disorientation are negatively associated to females’ likelihood of having children and also reduce the relative risk to form a union with a partner. However, these dimensions are not only the source, but also the outcome of individuals’ life course events. This paper uses matching methods to investigate how the birth of a child or union formation affects psychological well-being and disorientation. Results state that childbirth, non-marital cohabitation and marriage improve psychological well-being, while only marriage helps reducing disorientation.
C30|The Quality of Regional Government and Firm Performance|The performance of a firm is influenced by decisions made by the firm itself as well as factors external to it. Firm competencies are important but also competencies that pertain to territories. External factors encompass different aspects of the environmental context in which firms operate, such as physical infrastructures, innovative capacity and efficiency of the public administration. The attention in this paper is on the effect of regional quality of government (QoG) on the Total Factor Productivity (TFP) of firms. The analysis is based on comparable cross-country data of manufacturing firms operating in the seven European countries (Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom) included in the 'European Firms in a Global Economy: internal policies for external competitiveness' (EFIGE) project. The measure of the 'quality of government' is the European quality of government index (EQI), calculated at regional level over twenty-seven EU members. Scholars have demonstrated that the institutional environment affects macro variables such as growth, income level, productivity, innovation activity, investment and trade at the country (Aron 2000; Acemoglu, Johnson and Robinson, 2001; Hall and Jones, 1999; Barbarosa and Faria 2011; Levchenko 2007) as well as at the regional level (Tabellini 2010; RodrÃ­guez-Pose and Di Cataldo 2014; Ketterer and RodrÃ­guez-Pose 2014). The quality of institutions also influences micro variables such as firm performance (Dollar, Hallward-Driemeier, and Mengistae, 2005; Lasagni, Nifo and Vecchione, 2015; Aiello, Pupo and Ricotta, 2014; Manzocchi, Quintieri and Santoni, 2014). Recent studies indicate that there might be a significant difference in the macro- and micro-impacts of institutional quality: better institutional quality that may have beneficial macro-implications, may not necessarily have positive implications for firm performance (Bhaumik and Dimova 2014). Thus, the proper level of analysis to test whether the regional institutional environment affects productivity is to focus on firms (Beugelsdijk 2007). To disentangle internal from external productivity drivers, the multilevel approach is employed. In the econometric specification, the 2008-value of TFP depends on key-drivers of firm performance (size, family-management, group membership, innovations and human capital), on the variable of interest, the indicator of the quality of government, and on control variables at the regional level that, according to the theoretical and empirical literature, may affect firms' economic performance. Results refer to 2008 and show, as expected, the importance of firm-specific determinants of TFP. Results confirm that to be located in a region with high level of R&D and good infrastructure is correlated positively to the firm's TFP. As far as the specific scope of this paper is concerned, the quality of regional government has a positive impact on firm TFP. This is in line with previous research which underlines the importance of the quality of institutions at the regional level while it contradicts the hypothesis that within country institutional differences do not matter for economic performance (Gennaioli et al, 2013). As far as the EQI components are concerned, corruption and the quality of services appear to be positively correlated to TFP, while the evidence is inconclusive for the impartiality indicator.
C30|Adaptive Shrinkage in Bayesian Vector Autoregressive Models| Vector autoregressive (VAR) models are frequently used for forecasting and impulse response analysis. For both applications, shrinkage priors can help improving inference. In this article, we apply the Normal-Gamma shrinkage prior to the VAR with stochastic volatility case and derive its relevant conditional posterior distributions. This framework imposes a set of normally distributed priors on the autoregressive coefficients and the covariance parameters of the VAR along with Gamma priors on a set of local and global prior scaling parameters. In a second step, we modify this prior setup by introducing another layer of shrinkage with scaling parameters that push certain regions of the parameter space to zero. Two simulation exercises show that the proposed framework yields more precise estimates of model parameters and impulse response functions. In addition, a forecasting exercise applied to U.S. data shows that this prior performs well relative to other commonly used specifications in terms of point and density predictions. Finally, performing structural inference suggests that responses to monetary policy shocks appear to be reasonable.
C30|Crawling Up the Cash Cliff? Behavioral Responses to a Disability Insurance Reform|Disability insurance systems are widely criticized for their inherent work disincentives. This paper evaluates the effects of a reform of the Swiss DI system that aims to lower pensions for a group of existing DI beneficiaries and introduces an additional cash cliff to the pension schedule. The effects on earnings and employment are zero but the disability degree increases on average by 3 percentage points and 75% of individuals manage to keep their old pension level. We partially identify income and substitution effects employing the principal stratification framework. The income effect ranges from 9 to 20 percentage pints in terms of employment, and 136 to 3,135 CHF (ca. 50% of previous earnings) in terms of earnings. The substitution effect is smaller and suggests that individuals reduce employment by a maximum of 3.7 percentage points and earnings by a maximum of 1,001 CHF (if any).
C30|Much ado about nothing: Sovereign ratings and government bond yields in the OECD|In this paper, we propose a new method to assess the impact of sovereign ratings on sovereign bond yields. We estimate the impulse response of the interest rate, following a change in the rating. Since ratings are ordinal and moreover extremely persistent, it proves difficult to estimate those impulse response functions using a VAR modeling ratings, yields and other macroeconomic indicators. However, given the highly stochastic nature of the precise timing of ratings, we can treat most rating adjustments as shocks. We thus no longer rely on a VAR for shock identification, making the estimation of the corresponding IRFs well suited for so called local projections - that is estimating impulse response functions through a series of separate direct forecasts over different horizons. Yet, the rare occurrence of ratings makes impulse response functions estimated through that procedure highly sensitive to individual observations, resulting in implausibly volatile impulse responses. We propose an augmentation to restrict jointly estimated local projections in a way that produces economically plausible impulse response functions. We develop a semiparametric local projections method where smoothness can be imposed as constraint without assuming a specific functional form. The degree of smoothing can be assessed using a standard information criterion. While rating downgrades can play some role, we find no evidence for an impact of ratings in the most critical case of countries that are unusually well rated compared to their debt situation. Rather, ratings seem to be adjusted when the market evaluation of the risk associated with the high level of debt has already peaked.
C30|Sharing Rule Identification for General Collective Consumption Models| We propose a method to set identify bounds on the sharing rule for a general collective household consumption model. Unlike the effects of distribution factors, the level of the sharing rule cannot be uniquely identified without strong assumptions on preferences across households. Our new results show that, though not point identified without these assumptions, strong bounds on the sharing rule can be obtained. We get these bounds by applying revealed preference restrictions implied by the collective model to the household's continuous aggregate demand functions. We obtain informative bounds even if nothing is known about whether each good is public, private, or assignable within the household, though having such information tightens the bounds. We apply our method to US PSID data, obtaining narrow bounds that yield useful conclusions regarding the effects of income and wages on intrahousehold resource sharing, and on the prevalence of individual (as opposed to household level) poverty.
