C31|“If You Were Me”: Proxy Respondents’ Biases in Population Health Surveys|Proxy respondents are widely used in population health surveys to maximize response rates. When surveys target frail elderly, the measurement error is expected to be smaller than selection or participation biases. However, in the literature on elderly needs for care, proxy use is most often considered with a dummy variable in which endogeneity with subjects’ health status is rarely scrutinised in a robust way. Pitfalls of this choice extend beyond methodological issues. Indeed, the mismeasurement of needs for care with daily activities might lead to irrelevant social policies or to private initiatives that try to address those needs. This paper proposes a comprehensive and tractable strategy supported by various robustness checks to cope with the suspected endogeneity of proxy use to the unobserved health status of subjects in reports of needs for care with activities of daily living. Proxy respondents’ subjectivity is found to inflate the needs of the elderly who are replaced or assisted in answering the questionnaire and to deflate the probability of unmet or undermet needs.
C31|Timed to Say Goodbye: Does Unemployment Benefit Eligibility Affect Worker Layoffs?|We study how unemployment benefit eligibility affects the layoff exit rate by exploiting quasi-experimental variation in eligibility rules in Italy. By using a difference-indifferences estimator, we find an instantaneous increase of about 12% in the layoff probability when unemployment benefit eligibility is attained, which persists for about 16 weeks. These findings are robust to different identifying assumptions and are mostly driven by jobs started after the onset of the Great Recession, in the South and for small firms. We argue that the moral hazard from the employer’s side is the main force driving these layoffs.
C31|Asymptotic theory for clustered samples|We provide a complete asymptotic distribution theory for clustered data with a large number of independent groups, generalizing the classic laws of large numbers, uniform laws, central limit theory, and clustered covariance matrix estimation. Our theory allows for clustered observations with heterogeneous and unbounded cluster sizes. Our conditions cleanly nest the classical results for i.n.i.d. observations, in the sense that our conditions specialize to the classical conditions under independent sampling. We use this theory to develop a full asymptotic distribution theory for estimation based on linear least-squares, 2SLS, nonlinear MLE, and nonlinear GMM.
C31|From Local to Global: External Validity in a Fertility Natural Experiment|We study issues related to external validity for treatment effects using over 100 replications of the Angrist and Evans (1998) natural experiment on the effects of sibling sex composition on fertility and labor supply. The replications are based on census data from around the world going back to 1960. We decompose sources of error in predicting treatment effects in external contexts in terms of macro and micro sources of variation. In our empirical setting, we find that macro covariates dominate over micro covariates for reducing errors in predicting treatments, an issue that past studies of external validity have been unable to evaluate. We develop methods for two applications to evidence-based decision-making, including determining where to locate an experiment and whether policy-makers should commission new experiments or rely on an existing evidence base for making a policy decision.
C31|Identification and estimation of triangular models with a binary treatment|I study the identification and estimation of a nonseparable triangular model with an endogenous binary treatment. Unlike other studies, I do not impose rank invariance or rank similarity on the unobservable of the outcome equation. Instead, I achieve identification using continuous variation of the instrument and a shape restriction on the distribution of the unobservables, which is modeled with a copula. The latter captures the endogeneity of the model and is one of the components of the marginal treatment effect, making it informative about the effects of extending the treatment to untreated individuals. The estimation is a multi-step procedure based on rotated quantile regression. Finally, I use the estimator to revisit the effects of Work First Job Placements on future earnings.
C31|Effectiveness of FX Intervention and the Flimsiness of Exchange rate Expectations|Most of the foreign exchange intervention literature overlooks the influence of market uncertainty when evaluating effectiveness. In this paper we take a fresh new look at how this uncertainty amplifies exchange rate effects. Our contribution is twofold. We first posit a partial equilibrium model with frictions to illustrate that when uncertainty is low, intervention is less effective, for agents are willing to bet against the central bank. Conversely, when uncertainty is high, intervention faces a weaker countervailing force from speculators and arbitragers. Second, we empirically test for the incremental effects of flimsy exchange rate fundamentals by using a sharp policy discontinuity in the way the Central Bank of Colombia intervened in the FX market. Our results indicate that market uncertainty increases depreciation of domestic currency in approximately 1% following central bank purchases of foreign currency and extends its duration in up to 2 weeks. Additionally, these purchases have an incremental effect in stemming exchange rate volatility in up to 7%. **** RESUMEN: En este trabajo examinamos la influencia de la incertidumbre sobre la tasa de cambio futura en la efectividad de la intervención cambiaria. Nuestra contribución consta de dos partes. Primero, desarrollamos un modelo teórico de equilibrio parcial para ilustrar cómo la efectividad cambiaria aumenta a medida que aumenta la incertidumbre sobre la tasa de cambio futura o de sus determinantes. Segundo, presentamos evidencia empírica de esta relación haciendo uso del esquema de intervención cambiaria del Banco de la República, empleado durante el periodo 2002-2012, a través de opciones put de volatilidad. Nuestros resultados indican que, en presencia de alta incertidumbre en los fundamentales de la tasa de cambio, la efectividad de la intervención esterilizada aumenta en aproximadamente 1% y su duración se extiende hasta por dos semanas. Adicionalmente, encontramos que, en períodos de alta incertidumbre, la intervención reduce la volatilidad cambiaria hasta en un 7% adicional.
C31|Interest rate dispersion in commercial loans|We study the dispersion of interest rates on commercial loans granted by banks to Colombian manufacturing firms between 2005 and 2013. Dispersion can be caused by two types of firm heterogeneity. Firms can differ in their ability to negotiate interest rate or firms can differ in how costly it is to provide a loan to them. We document the extent of interest rate dispersion and characterize the impact of borrowers’, banks’ and market characteristics on dispersion. Reduce-form regressions show that, on average, firms with less-than impeccable credit history and firms that are loyal to their banks, pay on equilibrium higher interest rates. Using quantile regressions, we find that, conditional on rates being high, a marginal increase on the firm’s revenue is associated with higher interest rates. Finally, we evaluate the impact that the market structure has on the level and variation of interest rates on commercial loans, taking advantage of a wave of mergers that took place between 2006-2008. **** RESUMEN: En este documento estudiamos las tasas de interés de los créditos comerciales otorgados por bancos a las firmas manufactureras colombianas entre 2005 y 2 013. La dispersión puede ser causada por dos tipos de heterogeneidad de las firmas. Las firmas pueden diferir en su habilidad para negociar las tasas de interés o en qué tan costosas son para proveerles crédito. Nosotros documentamos la magnitud de la dispersión en tasas de interés y caracterizamos el impacto de las características de los deudores, los bancos y el mercado sobre la dispersión. Las regresiones en forma reducida muestran que, en promedio, las firmas con un historial crediticio que no es impecable y firmas que son leales a sus bancos pagan en equilibrio tasas de interés más altas. Usando regresiones cuantílicas nosotros encontramos que, condicional a que las tasas de interés sean altas, un incremento marginal en los ingresos de la firma e stá a sociado c on u nas t asas de interés más altas. Finalmente, evaluamos el impacto que la estructura de mercado tiene sobre el nivel y la variación de las tasas de interés en créditos comerciales, tomando ventaja de una ola de fusiones que tuvieron lugar entre 2006 y 2008.
C31|Brechas en remuneración por género en Colombia: un estudio comparado de metodologías de medición|Una de las grandes problemáticas laborales es la discriminación que enfrentan distintos grupos poblacionales, y particularmente las mujeres. Los menores niveles de ingreso frente a la misma calificación y características productivas, es lo que se considera tradicionalmente como brechas en remuneración por discriminación. El propósito de este documento es tener un marco analítico comparado, unificado y actualizado de las distintas metodologías de estimación de brechas en remuneración entre hombres y mujeres ocupados y asalariados en Colombia. Para ello se toma como referencia el ingreso laboral horario observado, y se estiman las diferencias para la media condicional (Mincer, 1974) y distintos puntos de la distribución (Koenker y Bassett, 1978), con corrección de sesgo de selección (Heckman, 1979; Neuman & Oaxaca, 2004), asimismo se descompone la brecha en efectos dotaciones y remuneración (Oaxaca, 1973; Blinder; 1973; Machado y Mata, 2005; Melly, 2005). El principal resultado es que la brecha en remuneración por género existe, y es explicada en gran parte por un potencial de discriminación. La brecha por discriminación es mayor en la parte baja y alta de la distribución, y se reduce en posiciones medias. Lo anterior evidencia la importancia de generar políticas que reduzcan la informalidad, garanticen ecuanimidad en cargos directivos y fortalezcan las instituciones laborales. *** Labor discrimination is a primary issue, which has to be faced by several population groups, among them women. When a worker is paid lower even though he/she has the same qualifications or productive characteristics than other workers, it is said that he/she are discriminated. The aim of this paper is to analyze the earnings gaps associated with gender considering different statistical methodologies, and to develop a comparative and unified outline. To do so, hourly labor income is considered as the reference, and there are estimated conditional mean earnings gaps (Mincer, 1974), through the conditional distribution (Koenker & Bassett, 1978), and the corrections of selection bias are made (Heckman, 1979; Neuman & Oaxaca, 2004). Likewise, decompositions of the earnings gaps in endowments and coefficients effects are calculated (Oaxaca, 1973; Blinder; 1973; Machado & Mata, 2005; Melly, 2005). The main result is the evidence of the gender earnings gaps, and the large extent of it is explained by discrimination. Besides, the gap is higher in the bottom and the top of the conditional distribution. As a result, this empirical evidence shows the importance of promote public policies that diminish informality, guarantee equality in management jobs and make labor institutions stronger.
C31|A Structural Model for the Coevolution of Networks and Behavior|This paper introduces a structural model for the coevolution of networks and behavior. The microfoundation of our model is a network game where agents adjust actions and network links in a stochastic best-response dynamics with a utility function allowing for both strategic externalities and unobserved heterogeneity. We show the network game admits a potential function and the coevolution process converges to a unique stationary distribution characterized by a Gibbs measure. To bypass the evaluation of the intractable normalizing constant in the Gibbs measure, we adopt the Double Metropolis-Hastings algorithm to sample from the posterior distribution of the structural parameters. To illustrate the empirical relevance of our structural model, we apply it to study R&D investment and collaboration decisions in the chemicals and pharmaceutical industry and find a positive knowledge spillover effect. Finally, our structural model provides a tractable framework for a long-run key player analysis.
C31|Mind the gap! Stylized dynamic facts and structural models|We study what happens to identified shocks and to dynamic responses when the data generating process features q disturbances but less than q variables are used in the empirical model. Identified shocks are mongrels: they are linear combinations of current and past values of all structural disturbances and do not necessarily combine disturbances of the same type. Sound restrictions may be insufficient to obtain structural dynamics. The theory used to interpret the data and the disturbances it features determine whether an empirical model is too small. An example shows the magnitude of the distortions and the steps needed to reduce them. We revisit the evidence regarding the transmission of house price and of uncertainty shocks.
C31|Estimating Peer Effects on Career Choice: A Spatial Multinomial Logit Approach|Peers and friends are among the most influential social forces affecting adolescent behavior. In this paper we investigate peer effects on post-high school career decisions and on school choice. We define peers as students who are in the same classes and social clubs and measure peer effects as spatial dependence among them. Utilizing recent development in spatial econometrics, we formalize a spatial multinomial choice model in which individuals are spatially dependent in their preferences. We estimate the model with data from the Texas Higher Education Opportunity Project. We do find that individuals are positively correlated in their career and college preferences and examine how such dependencies impact decisions directly and indirectly as peer effects are allowed to reverberate through the social network in which students reside.
C31|The relationship of policy induced R&D networks and inter-regional knowledge diffusion|Knowledge diffusion is argued to be strongly influenced by knowledge networks and spatial structures. However, empirical studies primarily apply an indirect approach of measuring their impact. Moreover, little is known about how policy can influence the spatial diffusion of knowledge. This paper seeks to fill this gap by empirically testing the effects of policy induced knowledge networks on the propensity of inter-regional patent citations. We use patent citation data for 141 labor market regions in Germany between 2000 to 2009, which is merged with information on subsidized joint R&D projects. Based on the latter, we construct a network of subsidized R&D collaboration. Its impact on inter-regional patent citations is evaluated with binomial and negative binomial regression models. Our findings do not indicate that inter- regional network links created by public R&D subsidies facilitate patent citations and hence, inter-regional knowledge diffusion.
C31|Owner-Occupied Housing, Inflation, and Monetary Policy| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) affects inflation expectations, real interest rates, and hence market outcomes. After showing that none of the existing treatments of OOH are fit for purpose, we propose a new simplified user cost method with better properties. We then compare empirically eight treatments of OOH. Our preferred approach pushes up the CPI during housing booms. We relate our findings to the following macroeconomic debates: the disinflation puzzle, leaning against the wind, and the effectiveness of monetary policy in the presence of secular stagnation, the zero lower bound, and globalization.
C31|Estimating long run e ects in models with cross-sectional dependence using xtdcce2|This paper describes how to estimate long run effects in a large heterogeneous panel data model with cross sectional dependence in Stata using the user written command xtdcce2. It builds on Chudik et al. (2016) and explains how to estimate models using the CS-DL and CS-ARDL estimator. In addition it includes a method how to estimate an error correction model.
C31|Generalised Anderson-Rubin statistic based inference in the presence of a singular moment variance matrix| The particular concern of this paper is the construction of a confidence region with pointwise asymptotically correct size for the true value of a parameter of interest based on the generalized Anderson-Rubin (GAR) statistic when the moment variance matrix is singular. The large sample behaviour of the GAR statistic is analysed using a Laurent series expansion around the points of moment variance singularity. Under a condition termed first order moment singularity the GAR statistic is shown to possess a limiting chi-square distribution on parameter sequences converging to the true parameter value. Violation, however, of this condition renders the GAR statistic unbounded asymptotically. The paper details an appropriate discretisation of the parameter space to implement a feasible GAR-based confidence region that contains the true parameter value with pointwise asymptotically correct size. Simulation evidence is provided that demonstrates the efficacy of the GAR-based approach to moment-based inference described in this paper.
C31|The Future of Cities: Opportunities, challenges and the way forward|This report is an initiative of the Joint Research Centre (JRC), the science and knowledge service of the European Commission (EC), and supported by the Commission's Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG REGIO). It highlights drivers shaping the urban future, identifying both the key challenges cities will have to address and the strengths they can capitalise on to proactively build their desired futures. The main aim of this report is to raise open questions and steer discussions on what the future of cities can, and should be, both within the science and policymaker communities. While addressing mainly European cities, examples from other world regions are also given since many challenges and solutions have a global relevance. The report is particularly novel in two ways. First, it was developed in an inclusive manner â€“ close collaboration with the ECâ€™s Community of Practice on Cities (CoP-CITIES) provided insights from the broader research community and city networks, including individual municipalities, as well as Commission services and international organisations. It was also extensively reviewed by an Editorial Board. Secondly, the report is supported by an online â€˜livingâ€™ platform which will host future updates, including additional analyses, discussions, case studies, comments and interactive maps that go beyond the scope of the current version of the report. Steered by the JRC, the platform will offer a permanent virtual space to the research, practice and policymaking community for sharing and accumulating knowledge on the future of cities. This report is produced in the framework of the EC Knowledge Centre for Territorial Policies and is part of a wider series of flagship Science for Policy reports by the JRC, investigating future perspectives concerning Artificial Intelligence, the Future of Road Transport, Resilience, Cybersecurity and Fairness Interactive online platform: https://urban.jrc.ec.europa.eu/thefutureofcities
C31|Impact de l'expérimentation de coopération entre médecin généraliste et infirmière Asalée sur l'activité des médecins|Dans de nombreux pays, les politiques et réformes ont explicitement encouragé l'intégration des organisations de soins primaires et la coopération pluri-professionnelle afin d'améliorer l'efficience productive et allocative de l’offre de soins et lutter contre l'inégale répartition géographique des médecins. En France, la Direction de la Sécurité sociale et une association dénommée Asalée (« Action de santé libérale en équipe », depuis 2004) ont mis en place une expérimentation destinée à favoriser l'intégration verticale et le travail en équipe entre médecins généralistes et infirmières par la mise en place de nouveaux modes de rémunération et la formation d’infirmières sélectionnées. Cet article évalue l'extension de cette expérimentation sur la période 2010-2016 en étudiant l'influence de cette coopération, mais aussi de l’organisation et des incitations financières à l’œuvre, sur l’activité des médecins généralistes appréhendée à partir de trois indicateurs : le nombre de jours travaillés, de patients rencontrés (en file active et, parmi eux, ceux inscrits médecin traitant) et d’actes (consultations au cabinet et visites à domicile). Nous contrôlons autant que possible des biais d’endogénéité et de sélection en recourant à un design cas-témoins, selon une méthode d'appariement exact, et des méthodes d'estimation en différence de différences sur données de panel. Dans ce cadre, nous montrons un effet positif du dispositif mais relativement modeste sur le nombre de jours travaillés (+1,2 %) par les médecins et un effet plus marqué sur le nombre de patients rencontrés (+7,55 %) et inscrits médecin traitant (+6,87 %). En revanche, aucun effet significatif n’est mis en évidence sur le nombre de consultations et visites.
C31|Are Sufficient Statistics Necessary? Nonparametric Measurement of Deadweight Loss from Unemployment Insurance|Central to the welfare analysis of income transfer programs is the deadweight loss associated with possible reforms. To aid analytical tractability, its measurement typically requires specifying a simplified model of behavior. We employ a complementary “decomposition” approach that compares the behavioral and mechanical components of a policy’s total impact on the government budget to study the deadweight loss of two unemployment insurance policies. Experimental and quasi-experimental estimates using state administrative data show that increasing the weekly benefit is more efficient (with a fiscal externality of 53 cents per dollar of mechanical transferred income) than reducing the program’s implicit earnings tax.
C31|The Effects of Stepwise Minimum Legal Drinking Age Legislation on Mortality: Evidence from Germany|"This study investigates the short-term mortality effects of two age-based restrictions on legal access to alcohol in Germany. We exploit sharp differences in legal access to alcohol at 16 and 18 years by implementing a regression discontinuity design. We find discontinuous increases in deaths at both age cutoffs, which are mainly driven by a ""novice driver effect"", whereas legal access to alcohol plays a marginal role at most. Overall, our results indicate that a stepwise introduction to alcohol has, at most, a minor impact on drunk driving and mortality at age 16 and 18 years. This study thus provides fresh impetus to the ongoing debate on the ""optimal"" MLDA legislation."
C31|Vocational or General Education? The Effect Upper Secondary Education Track Choice|Abstract In response to recent technological changes and the worsening outcomes of non-college educated workers, governments around the world are becoming more interested in whether different types of secondary education (vocational vs. general) might play a role in providing young people the skills they need to succeed after they graduate. Silliman and Virtanen (2019) studies labor-market returns to vocational versus general education – using a quasi-experiment created by the centralized admission process in Finland. Admission to the vocational track increases annual income by 7 percent at age 31, and the benefits show no signs of diminishing with time. Moreover, admission to the vocational track does not increase the likelihood of working in jobs at risk of replacement by automation or offshoring. We observe significantly larger returns for people who express a preference for vocational education in their applications to secondary school and whose previous school performance was mediocre (at best). These findings, coming from a period characterized by rapid technological change, provide new evidence that vocational track may offer an important pathway into the labor market.
C31|Labor Market Returns to Vocational Secondary Education|Abstract We study labor-market returns to vocational versus general secondary education using a regression discontinuity design created by the centralized admissions process in Finland. Admission to the vocational track increases annual income by 7 percent at age 31, and the benefits show no signs of diminishing with time. Moreover, admission to the vocational track does not increase the likelihood of working in jobs at risk of replacement by automation or offshoring. Consistent with the notion of comparative advantage, we observe significantly larger returns for people who express a preference for vocational education in their applications to secondary school.
C31|Forecasting Equity Index Volatility by Measuring the Linkage among Component Stocks|The linkage among the realized volatilities across component stocks are important when modeling and forecasting the relevant index volatility. In this paper, the linkage is measured via an extended Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach under a panel heterogeneous autoregression model where unobserved common factors in errors are assumed. Consistency of the CCE estimator is obtained. The common factors are extracted using the principal component analysis. Empirical studies show that realized volatility models exploiting the linkage effects lead to significantly better out-of-sample forecast performance, for example, an up to 32% increase in the pseudo R2. We also conduct various forecasting exercises on the the linkage variables that compare conventional regression methods with popular machine learning techniques.
C31|Drinking Water Quality Impacts on Health Care Expenditures in the United States|This paper explores the relationship between episodes of contaminated drinking water and health care expenditures in the United States. The analysis relies on panel data from the 48 contiguous states from 2000 to 2011. We use the population served by public water systems that violate health-based standards of the Safe Drinking Water Act as a proxy for contaminated drinking water. We estimate spatial and non-spatial models and control for factors that may affect per capita health care expenditures including variables that reflect air quality violations along with ability to pay plus demand for and supply of health care services. The results from a Spatial Durbin Model indicate that a 1% decrease in the percentage of population exposed to drinking water quality violations is associated with reductions in in-state and regional effects equal to 0.005% ($0.32) and 0.035% ($2.26) of per capita health care expenditures, respectively. Drinking water violations have a larger impact on expenditures than air quality violations (whose effects are not statistically different from zero). However, compared to other factors, such as Medicare enrollment and income, the impact of these violations on health care expenditures is relatively small. We find that regional health care expenditure impacts from drinking water violations are substantially greater than in-state impacts. Thus, a regional approach is recommended to addressing drinking water quality improvements.
C31|Bunching Below Thresholds to Manipulate Public Procurement|I examine a manipulation scheme that public authorities can use to exercise more discretion in public procurement. I propose that regression discontinuity manipulation tests can be implemented to identify manipulative authorities. I investigate the European Union public procurement data set. I find that 10-13% of examined authorities have high probabilities of bunching estimated costs just below thresholds. Manipulative authorities have significantly lower probabilities of employing competitive procurement procedure. The bunching manipulation scheme significantly diminishes cost-effectiveness of public procurement. On average, prices of below threshold contracts are 18-28% higher when the authority has an elevated probability of bunching.
C31|Consumption Smoothing Channels Within And Between Households|This paper aims to ﬁll the gap on the analysis of consumption smoothing/risksharing channels at the micro level, both within and across households. Using data from the Bank of Italy’s Survey on Household Income and Wealth covering the ﬁnan- cial crisis, we are able to quantify in a uniﬁed and consistent framework several risksharing mechanisms that so far have been documented separately. We ﬁnd that Italian households were able to smooth about 83% of shocks household head’s earnings in 2008-2010, a fraction rising to almost 87% in 2010-2012. The most im- portant smoothing mechanisms turns out to be self-insurance through saving/dis- saving and within-household risksharing Interestingly, risksharing through port- folio diversiﬁcation and private transfers are rather limited, but the overall degree of shock absorption occurring through private risksharing channels hovers around two thirds, as opposed to around one ﬁfth of a shock cushioned by public transfers and taxes.
C31|Peers, parents and attitudes about school|Educational attitudes are an important component of adolescent development linked to long-term educational success and as a component of noncognitive skills. This study focuses on peer and parent roles in shaping adolescent attitude development. First, I explore the relationship between an adolescent and their friends' attitudes and whether this influence is heterogeneous. Second, I ask whether parents can moderate the friend effect. I find that adolescents with poor attitudes and whose friends have particularly poor attitudes are especially at risk of developing low educational attitudes and that working with parents can serve as a channel to decrease the risk.
C31|Identification with Latent Choice Sets|In a common experimental format, individuals are randomly assigned to either a treatment group with access to a program or a control group without access. In such experiments, analyzing the average effects of the treatment of program access may be hindered by the problem that some control individuals do not comply with their assigned status and receive program access from outside the experiment. Available tools to account for such a problem typically require the researcher to observe the receipt of program access for every individual. However, in many experiments, this is not the case as data is not collected on where any individual received access. In this paper, I develop a framework to show how data on only each individual's treatment assignment status, program participation decision and outcome can be exploited to learn about the average effects of program access. I propose a nonparametric selection model with latent choice sets to relate where access was received to the treatment assignment status, participation decision and outcome, and a linear programming procedure to compute the identified set for parameters evaluating the average effects of program access in this model. I illustrate the framework by analyzing the average effects of Head Start preschool access using the Head Start Impact Study. I nd that the provision of Head Start access induces parents to enroll their child into Head Start and also positively impacts test scores, and that these effects heterogeneously depend on the availability of access to an alternative preschool.
C31|Enhancing customer retention in case of service elimination? An empirical investigation in telecommunications| Generally, service industries require a rapid innovation of service portfolios to gain and maintain a competitive advantage. In this context, service elimination is a tool of portfolio renewal, where customer retention is a strategic priority for companies. This is especially so because service elimination usually causes higher churn rates than an average churn in telecommunications. Thus, customer retention is seen as a major aspect in enhancing service elimination success. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the factors that increase customer churn in the case of service elimination. We use one of the three Hungarian telecommunication operator’s databases containing usage data three months before and after service elimination in the course of a major service package reform. Contract-related information and demographics of 10 065 customers are used to differentiate between high and low churn factors, taking care of a possible sample selection problem. The results show that in the course of service elimination there is a significant positive relationship between price decrease, tenure, interaction intensity on the one, and customer retention on the other side. Besides these, demographics (age and residence) also play an important role in explaining churn rates during service elimination. Furthermore, we find that a higher monthly fee after elimination increases the customer’s usage intensity. This research aims to contribute both to service elimination, as well as to customer retention literature, by hierarchical modeling of retention and usage during service elimination with practical implications for decision-makers in rapidly innovating telecommunication markets.
C31|Owner Occupied Housing in the CPI and its Impact on Monetary Policy during Housing Booms and Busts| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) is probably the most important unresolved issue in inflation measurement. How -- and whether -- it is included in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) affects inflation expectations, the measured level of real interest rates, and the behavior of governments, central banks and market participants. We show that none of the existing treatments of OOH are fit for purpose. Hence we propose a new simplified user cost method with better properties. Using a micro-level dataset, we then compare the empirical behavior of eight different treatments of OOH. Our preferred user cost approach pushes up the CPI during housing booms (by 2 percentage points or more). Our findings relate to the following important debates in macroeconomics: the behavior of the Phillips curve in the US during the global financial crisis, and the response of monetary policy to housing booms, secular stagnation, and globalization.
C31|Timed to say goodbye: Does unemployment benefit eligibility affect worker layoffs?|We study how unemployment benefit eligibility affects the layoff exit rate by exploiting quasiexperimental variation in eligibility rules in Italy. By using a difference-in-differences estimator, we find an instantaneous increase of about 12% in the layoff probability when unemployment benefit eligibility is attained, which persists for about 16 weeks. These findings are robust to different identifying assumptions and are mostly driven by jobs started after the onset of the Great Recession, in the South and for small firms. We argue that the moral hazard from the employer's side is the main force driving these layoffs.
C31|The Gender Pay Gap in the US: A Matching Study|This study examines the gender wage gap in the US using two separate cross-sections from the Current Population Survey (CPS). The extensive literature on this subject includes papers which use wage decompositions to divide gender wag gaps into “explained” and “unexplained” components. Problems with this approach include the heterogeneity of the sample data. In order to address the difficulties of comparing like with like this study uses a number of different matching techniques to obtain estimates of the gap. By controlling for a wide range of other influences, in effect, we estimate the direct effect of simply being female on wages. However, to form a complete picture, one should consider that gender wages are affected by a number of other factors such as parenthood, gender segregation, part-time working and unionization. This means that it is not just the core “like for like” comparison between male and female wages that matters but also how gender wage differences interact with other relevant risk factors which are more common for women. That these interactions exist has already been discussed in the literature but evidence that precisely or systematically estimates such effects remains scarce. The most innovative contribution of this study is to do that. Our findings imply that the idea of a single uniform gender pay gap is perhaps less useful than an understanding of how gender wages are shaped by multiple different forces.
C31|Impact of Credit and Training on Enterprise Performance: Evidence from Urban Ethiopia|This study evaluates the impact of business-development-support programs (credit, training, and a combination of both) on the performance of micro- and small enterprises (MSEs) in Ethiopia. Using 2015 Ethiopian urban survey data and employing endogenous-switching regressions for multiple treatments, we document a positive and significant effect of credit, training, and a combination of training and credit on MSEs. Our results highlight the heterogeneity in treatment effects between women- and men-owned MSEs: women-owned businesses do not benefit from access to treatments. Our results suggest that improving the performance of MSEs requires fine-tuned interventions that meet the specific needs of men and women who own small businesses rather than one-size-fits-all programs.
C31|Spatial modelling of the two-party preferred vote in Australian federal elections: 2001-2016|We examine the relationships between electoral socio-demographic characteristics and two-party preference in the six Australian federal elections held between 2001 to 2016. Socio-demographic information is derived from the Australian Census, which occurs every five years. Since a Census is not directly available for each election, spatio-temporal imputation is employed to estimate Census data for the electorates at the time of each election. This accounts for both spatial and temporal changes in electoral characteristics between Censuses. To capture any spatial heterogeneity, a spatial error model is estimated for each election, which incorporates a spatially structured random effect vector that can be thought of as the unobserved political climate in each electorate. Over time, the impact of most socio-demographic characteristics that affect electoral two-party preference do not vary, with industry of work, incomes, household mobility and de facto relationships having strong effects in each of the six elections. Education and unemployment are amongst those that have varying effects. It is also found that between 2004 and 2013, the spatial effect was insignificant, meaning that electorates voted effectively independently. All data featured in this study has been contributed to the eechidna R package (available on CRAN).
C31|Are Sufficient Statistics Necessary? Nonparametric Measurement of Deadweight Loss from Unemployment Insurance|"Central to the welfare analysis of income transfer programs is the deadweight loss associated with possible reforms. To aid analytical tractability, its measurement typically requires specifying a simplified model of behavior. We employ a complementary ""decomposition"" approach that compares the behavioral and mechanical components of a policy's total impact on the government budget to study the deadweight loss of two unemployment insurance policies. Experimental and quasi-experimental estimates using state administrative data show that increasing the weekly benefit is more efficient (with a fiscal externality of 53 cents per dollar of mechanical transferred income) than reducing the program's implicit earnings tax."
C31|Best Linear Approximations to Set Identified Functions: With an Application to the Gender Wage Gap|This paper provides inference methods for best linear approximations to functions which are known to lie within a band. It extends the partial identification literature by allowing the upper and lower functions defining the band to carry an index, and to be unknown but parametrically or non-parametrically estimable functions. The identification region of the parameters of the best linear approximation is characterized via its support function, and limit theory is developed for the latter. We prove that the support function can be approximated by a Gaussian process and establish validity of the Bayesian bootstrap for inference. Because the bounds may carry an index, the approach covers many canonical examples in the partial identification literature arising in the presence of interval valued outcome and/or regressor data: not only mean regression, but also quantile and distribution regression, including sample selection problems, as well as mean, quantile, and distribution treatment effects. In addition, the framework can account for the availability of instruments. An application is carried out, studying female labor force participation using data from Mulligan and Rubinstein (2008) and insights from Blundell, Gosling, Ichimura, and Meghir (2007). Our results yield robust evidence of a gender wage gap, both in the 1970s and 1990s, at quantiles of the wage distribution up to the 0.4, while allowing for completely unrestricted selection into the labor force. Under the assumption that the median wage offer of the employed is larger than that of individuals that do not work, the evidence of a gender wage gap extends to quantiles up to the 0.7. When the assumption is further strengthened to require stochastic dominance, the evidence of a gender wage gap extends to all quantiles, and there is some evidence at the 0.8 and higher quantiles that the gender wage gap decreased between the 1970s and 1990s.
C31|Errors in the Dependent Variable of Quantile Regression Models|The popular quantile regression estimator of Koenker and Bassett (1978) is biased if there is an additive error term. Approaching this problem as an errors-in-variables problem where the dependent variable suffers from classical measurement error, we present a sieve maximum-likelihood approach that is robust to left-hand side measurement error. After providing sufficient conditions for identification, we demonstrate that when the number of knots in the quantile grid is chosen to grow at an adequate speed, the sieve maximum-likelihood estimator is consistent and asymptotically normal, permitting inference via bootstrapping. We verify our theoretical results with Monte Carlo simulations and illustrate our estimator with an application to the returns to education highlighting changes over time in the returns to education that have previously been masked by measurement-error bias.
C31|Demand and Welfare Analysis in Discrete Choice Models with Social Interactions|Many real-life settings of consumer-choice involve social interactions, causing targeted policies to have spillover-effects. This paper develops novel empirical tools for analyzing demand and welfare-effects of policy-interventions in binary choice settings with social interactions. Examples include subsidies for healthproduct adoption and vouchers for attending a high-achieving school. We establish the connection between econometrics of large games and Brock-Durlauf-type interaction models, under both I.I.D. and spatially correlated unobservables. We develop new convergence results for associated beliefs and estimates of preference-parameters under increasing-domain spatial asymptotics. Next, we show that even with fully parametric specifications and unique equilibrium, choice data, that are sufficient for counterfactual demand - prediction under interactions, are insufficient for welfare-calculations. This is because distinct underlying mechanisms producing the same interaction coefficient can imply different welfare-effects and deadweightloss from a policy-intervention. Standard index-restrictions imply distribution-free bounds on welfare. We illustrate our results using experimental data on mosquito-net adoption in rural Kenya.
C31|Long Memory, Realized Volatility and HAR Models| The presence of long memory in Realized Volatility (RV) is a widespread stylized fact. The origins of long memory in RV have been attributed to jumps, structural breaks, non-linearities, or pure long memory. An important development has been the Heterogeneous Autoregressive (HAR) model and its extensions. This paper assesses the separate roles of fractionally integrated long memory models, extended HAR models and time varying parameter HAR models. We find that the presence of the long memory parameter is often important in addition to the HAR models.
C31|Trending Mixture Copula Models with Copula Selection|Modeling the joint tails of multiple nancial time series has important implications for risk management. Classical models for dependence often encounter a lack of fit in the joint tails, calling for additional flexibility. In this paper we introduce a new nonparametric time-varying mixture copula model, in which both weights and dependence parameters are deterministic functions of time. We propose penalized trending mixture copula models with group smoothly clipped absolute deviation (SCAD) penalty functions to do the estimation and copula selection simultaneously. Monte Carlo simulation results suggest that the shrinkage estimation procedure performs well in selecting and estimating both constant and trending mixture copula models. Using the proposed model and method, we analyze the evolution of the dependence among four international stock markets, and find substantial changes in the levels and patterns of the dependence, in particular around crisis periods.
C31|Identification of heterogeneous treatment effects as a function of potential untreated outcome under the nonignorable assignment condition|We provide sufficient conditions for the identification of hetero- geneous treatment effects (HTE), in which the missing mechanism is nonignorable, when the information on the marginal distribution of untreated outcome is available. It is also shown that, under such a situ- ation, the same result holds for the identification of average treatment effects (ATE). Exposing certain additivity on the regression function of the assignment probability, we reduce the identication of HTE to the uniqueness of a solution of some integral equation, and discuss it borrowing the idea from the literature on statistical inverse prob- lems. Our result contributes to theoretical understandings in causal inference with heterogeneity and also the relaxation of the conditional independence assumption in statistical data fusion or statistical data combination.
C31|The effects of bank loan renegotiation on corporate policies and performance|I investigate the effects of bank loan renegotiation on firm’s financial and investment policies, and performances. I employ OLS and endogenous switching regime regressions using a large crosscountry sample of loans issued and amended on a long-time period. I find that bank loan renegotiation has an economically significant and causal impact on financial policy and performances. Renegotiation provides the firm with additional degrees of freedom and unlocks its economic potential, implying important effects of firm’s tangibility, growth, opportunities and cash on financial policy and performances. Bank loan renegotiation also exhibits a certification and signaling effect which can increase the effect of amendments to the credit agreement on firm’s financial policy.
C31|Dynamic Causal Effects of Post-Migration Schooling on Labour Market Transitions|Immigrants often experience difficulties integrating the local labor market. In Canada, the government of Quebec implemented a program back in 1996 that explicitly selected highly qualified workers (Bachelors’, Masters’ or PhD’s). This paper investigates the extent to which the return to foreign-acquired human capital is different from the education acquired in Quebec. Specifically, we seek to estimate the benefits of post-migration education over foreign-education on the transitions between qualified and unqualified jobs and unemployment by means of a multiple-spells and multiple-states model. Our results indicate that immigrants originating from well-off countries have no need to further invest in domestic education. On the other hand, immigrants from poorer countries, despite being highly qualified, benefit greatly from such training in the long run as it eases their transitions into qualified and unqualified jobs and out of unemployment. Our results also indicate that selection into domestic education needs to be accounted for to avoid significant selection problems.
C31|Dynamic Causal Effects of Post-Migration Schooling on Labour Market Transitions|Immigrants often experience diÿculties integrating the local labor market. In Canada, the govern-ment of Quebec implemented a program back in 1996 that explicitly selected highly qualified workers (Bachelors’, Masters’ or PhD’s). This paper investigates the extent to which the return to foreign-acquired human capital is di˙erent from the education acquired in Quebec. Specifically, we seek to estimate the benefits of post-migration education over foreign-education on the transitions between qualified and un-qualified jobs and unemployment by means of a multiple-spells and multiple-states model. Our results indicate that immigrants originating from well-o˙ countries have no need to further invest in domestic education. On the other hand, immigrants from poorer countries, despite being highly qualified, benefit greatly from such training in the long run as it eases their transitions into qualified and unqualified jobs and out of unemployment. Our results also indicate that selection into domestic education needs to be accounted for to avoid significant selection problems.
C31|Peer-Induced Beliefs Regarding College Participation| We study peer effects on the formation of beliefs regarding college participation. We present a structural model of learning in friendship networks. We show that the model is identified and we present a Bayesian estimation procedure. We estimate the model using data on teenagers’ beliefs regarding college participation, controlling for preferences and academic achievement. We find that, on average, friends’ beliefs account for about 12% of the updating process. We also find strong heterogeneity among schools and individuals. In particular, we find substantial unobserved individual heterogeneity, which casts doubt on the efficiency of network-targeted public policies.
C31|Understanding Discrimination against Same-Sex Couples in the United States: Evidence from an Email Correspondence Audit|As of 2017, no federal law protected Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) individuals from housing discrimination. However, 22 U.S. states and over 200 municipalities have passed laws prohibiting housing discrimination based on sexual orientation. In this paper, I present the results of a randomized pair-email correspondence audit of 6,490 property owners in 94 U.S. cities. I provide a nationally-representative estimate of the level of discrimination same-sex couples experience when inquiring about rental housing. I find that same-sex male couples, especially Black same-sex male couples, are less likely to receive a response to inquiries about rental units. Same-sex female couples receive preferential treatment compared to heterosexual couples. I then examine how state and local anti-discrimination laws covary with rates of housing discrimination against same-sex couples. Compare to localities without any housing protections, I find that response rates covary positively with statelevel protections but negatively with local-level protections. I conclude by testing several hypotheses about the causes of this discrimination. This preliminary evidence suggests that property owners are willfully discriminating against same-sex male couples.
C31|Contagious exporting and foreign ownership: Evidence from firms in Shanghai using a Bayesian spatial bivariate probit model|Whether a firm is able to attract foreign capital and whether it may participate at the export market depends on whether the fixed costs associated with doing so are at least covered by the incremental operating profits. This paper provides evidence that success for some firms in attracting foreign investors and in exporting appears to reduce the associated fixed costs with exporting or foreign ownership in other firms. Using data on 8,959 firms located in Shanghai, we find that contagion and spillovers in exporting and in foreign ownership decisions within an area of 10 miles in the city of Shanghai amplify fixed-cost reductions for both exporting as well as foreign ownership of neighboring firms. Contagion among exporters and among foreign-owned firms, respectively, amplify shocks to the profitability of these activities to a large extent. These findings are established through the estimation of a spatial bivariate probit model.
C31|Energy- and multi-sector modelling of climate change mitigation in New Zealand: current practice and future needs|As New Zealand charts its course toward a low-emissions economy, the quality of energy-sector and multi-sector modelling is becoming increasingly important. This paper outlines why models are useful for answering complex questions, provides a stocktake of energy-sector and multi-sector models used for climate change mitigation modelling in New Zealand, and makes suggestions for improving future modelling work. While New Zealand is fortunate to have a range of different modelling tools, these have historically been used in a sporadic and ad hoc way, and underlying datasets are deficient in some areas. As the foundation for a more strategic development of New Zealand’s modelling capability, this paper profiles some of the energy-sector and multi-sector models and datasets currently applied in New Zealand. New Zealand’s modelling capability could be strengthened by collecting and sharing data more effectively; building understanding of underlying relationships informed by primary research; creating more collaborative and transparent processes for applying common datasets; increasing international collaboration; and conducting more integrated modelling across environmental issues. These improvements will require strategic policies and processes for refining model development; providing increased, predictable and sustained funding for modelling activities, underlying data collection and primary research; and strengthening networks across modellers inside and outside of government. Many of the suggested improvements could be realised by creating an integrated framework for climate change mitigation modelling in New Zealand. This framework would bring together a suite of models and a network of researchers to assess climate change mitigation policies regularly. Core elements of the framework would include a central repository of data, input assumptions and scenarios, and a “dashboard” that synthesises results from different models to allow decision-makers to understand and apply the insights from the models more easily.
C31|Land-use modelling in New Zealand: current practice and future needs|New Zealand faces the challenge of using our land in ways that are not only resilient to future pressures and sustain our rural communities but also enhance our natural environment. For the public and private sectors to make robust land-use decisions under uncertainty, high-quality modelling tools and data are essential. The drivers of land-use decisions are complex and models provide a structured methodology for investigating these. While New Zealand is fortunate to have a range of different modelling tools, these have historically been used in a sporadic and ad hoc way, and underlying datasets are deficient in some areas. As the foundation for more strategic development of New Zealand’s modelling capability, this paper profiles the main land-sector and farm- and production-related models and datasets currently applied in New Zealand. It also explores priority policy areas where modelling is needed, such as achieving emission reduction targets; managing freshwater, biodiversity and soil quality; and understanding the distributional impacts of policy options as well as climate change. New Zealand’s modelling capability could be strengthened by collecting and sharing land-use data more effectively; building understanding of underlying relationships informed by primary research; creating more collaborative and transparent processes for applying common datasets, scenarios and assumptions, and conducting peer review; and conducting more integrated modelling across environmental issues. These improvements will require strategic policies and processes for refining model development, providing increased, predictable and sustained funding for modelling activity and underlying data collection and primary research, and strengthening networks across modellers inside and outside of government.
C31|Endogenous and Selective Service Choices After Airline Mergers|We estimate a model of service choice and price competition in airline markets, allowing for the carriers that provide nonstop service to be a selected subset of the carriers competing in the market. Our model can be estimated without an excessive computational burden and we use the estimated model to illustrate the effects of selection on equilibrium market structure and to show how accounting for selection can change predictions about post-merger market power and repositioning, in ways that are consistent with what has been observed after actual mergers, and possible merger remedies.
C31|Censored Quantile Instrumental Variable Estimation with Stata|Many applications involve a censored dependent variable and an endogenous independent variable. Chernozhukov et al. (2015) introduced a censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) for use in those applications, which has been applied by Kowalski (2016), among others. In this article, we introduce a Stata command, cqiv, that simplifies application of the CQIV estimator in Stata. We summarize the CQIV estimator and algorithm, we describe the use of the cqiv command, and we provide empirical examples.
C31|On Heckits, LATE, and Numerical Equivalence|Structural econometric methods are often criticized for being sensitive to functional form assumptions. We study parametric estimators of the local average treatment effect (LATE) derived from a widely used class of latent threshold crossing models and show they yield LATE estimates algebraically equivalent to the instrumental variables (IV) estimator. Our leading example is Heckman's (1979) two‐step (“Heckit”) control function estimator which, with two‐sided non‐compliance, can be used to compute estimates of a variety of causal parameters. Equivalence with IV is established for a semiparametric family of control function estimators and shown to hold at interior solutions for a class of maximum likelihood estimators. Our results suggest differences between structural and IV estimates often stem from disagreements about the target parameter rather than from functional form assumptions per se. In cases where equivalence fails, reporting structural estimates of LATE alongside IV provides a simple means of assessing the credibility of structural extrapolation exercises.
C31|The Role of the Propensity Score in Fixed Effect Models|We develop a new approach for estimating average treatment effects in the observational studies with unobserved group-level heterogeneity. A common approach in such settings is to use linear fixed effect specifications estimated by least squares regression. Such methods severely limit the extent of the heterogeneity between groups by making the restrictive assumption that linearly adjusting for differences between groups in average covariate values addresses all concerns with cross-group comparisons. We start by making two observations. First we note that the fixed effect method in effect adjusts only for differences between groups by adjusting for the average of covariate values and average treatment. Second, we note that weighting by the inverse of the propensity score would remove biases for comparisons between treated and control units under the fixed effect set up. We then develop three generalizations of the fixed effect approach based on these two observations. First, we suggest more general, nonlinear, adjustments for the average covariate values. Second, we suggest robustifying the estimators by using propensity score weighting. Third, we motivate and develop implementations for adjustments that also adjust for group characteristics beyond the average covariate values.
C31|A Causal Bootstrap|The bootstrap, introduced by Efron (1982), has become a very popular method for estimating variances and constructing confidence intervals. A key insight is that one can approximate the properties of estimators by using the empirical distribution function of the sample as an approximation for the true distribution function. This approach views the uncertainty in the estimator as coming exclusively from sampling uncertainty. We argue that for causal estimands the uncertainty arises entirely, or partially, from a different source, corresponding to the stochastic nature of the treatment received. We develop a bootstrap procedure that accounts for this uncertainty, and compare its properties to that of the classical bootstrap.
C31|Design-based Analysis in Difference-In-Differences Settings with Staggered Adoption|In this paper we study estimation of and inference for average treatment effects in a setting with panel data. We focus on the setting where units, e.g., individuals, firms, or states, adopt the policy or treatment of interest at a particular point in time, and then remain exposed to this treatment at all times afterwards. We take a design perspective where we investigate the properties of estimators and procedures given assumptions on the assignment process. We show that under random assignment of the adoption date the standard Difference-In-Differences estimator is is an unbiased estimator of a particular weighted average causal effect. We characterize the proeperties of this estimand, and show that the standard variance estimator is conservative.
C31|Quantifying Family, School, and Location Effects in the Presence of Complementarities and Sorting|We extend Altonji and Mansfield’s control function approach to allow for multiple group levels and complementarities. Our analysis provides a foundation for a causal interpretation of multilevel mixed effects models in the presence of sorting. In our empirical application, we obtain lower-bound estimates of the importance of school and commuting zone inputs for education and wages. A school/location combination at the 90th versus 10th percentile of the school/location quality distribution increases high school graduation and college enrollment probability by at least .06 and .17, respectively. Treatment effects are heterogeneous across subgroups, primarily due to nonlinearity in the educational attainment model.
C31|Quantifying Family, School, and Location Effects in the Presence of Complementarities and Sorting|We extend Altonji and Mansfield’s control function approach to allow for multiple group levels and complementarities. Our analysis provides a foundation for a causal interpretation of multilevel mixed effects models in the presence of sorting. In our empirical application, we obtain lower-bound estimates of the importance of school and commuting zone inputs for education and wages. A school/location combination at the 90th versus 10th percentile of the school/location quality distribution increases high school graduation and college enrollment probability by at least .06 and .17, respectively. Treatment effects are heterogeneous across subgroups, primarily due to nonlinearity in the educational attainment model.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C31|Semiparametrically efficient estimation of the average linear regression function|"Let Y be an outcome of interest, X a vector of treatment measures, and W a vector of pre-treatment control variables. Here X may include (combinations of) continuous, discrete, and/or non-mutually exclusive ""treatments"". Consider the linear regression of Y onto X in a subpopulation homogenous in W = w (formally a conditional linear predictor). Let b0(w) be the coefficient vector on X in this regression. We introduce a semiparametrically efficient estimate of the average beta0 = E[b0(W)]. When X is binary-valued (multi-valued) our procedure recovers the (a vector of) average treatment effect(s). When X is continuously-valued, or consists of multiple non-exclusive treatments, our estimand coincides with the average partial effect (APE) of X on Y when the underlying potential response function is linear in X, but otherwise heterogenous across agents. When the potential response function takes a general nonlinear/heterogenous form, and X is continuously-valued, our procedure recovers a weighted average of the gradient of this response across individuals and values of X. We provide a simple, and semiparametrically efficient, method of covariate adjustment for settings with complicated treatment regimes. Our method generalizes familiar methods of covariate adjustment used for program evaluation as well as methods of semiparametric regression (e.g., the partially linear regression model)."
C31|Dynamic Treatment Effects of Job Training|This paper estimates the dynamic returns to job training. We posit a dynamic-discrete choice model of sequential training participation, where choices and earnings depend on observed and unobserved characteristics.We define treatment effects, including policy relevant parameters, and link them to continuation values. The empirical analysis is carried out using data combining job training records, matched employee-employer information, and pre-labor market ability measures from Chile. We document small positive average returns, large unobserved heterogeneity in responses, and dynamic substitutability of training investments. Our policy relevant treatment effects vary across dynamic response types, highlighting the relevance of our framework.
C31|A structural model of firm collaborations with unobserved heterogeneity| We develop and estimate a structural model of strategic network formation to study the determinants of firms collaborations for patenting new technology in the medical device industry. Our aim is to bridge the strategy literature on interorganizational networks and the economic literature on structural estimation of network models. In our model, firms have payoffs that depend on linking costs and benefits, as well as externalities from common partners and popular partners. Firms are characterized by observed and unobserved characteristics, that affect both their opportunity and their willingness to form links. The equilibrium networks are sparse and match the aggregate clustering levels observed in the data. We use the network of patent collaborations among medical device firms, to estimate the structural parameters using a Bayesian approach. Our results show that firms tend to partner domestically and collaborate with companies in similar markets, perhaps due to technological complementarities or regulation effects. Unobserved heterogeneity matters: we find that firms' payoffs vary by type. Finally we show that the estimated model including unobserved heterogeneity provides a better fit of crucial features of the data.
C31|The impact of pre-electoral coalitions on mayoral election outcomes in Indonesia|The extent to which pre-electoral coalitions (PECs) influence executive elections in presidential systems has not been subject to rigorous empirical study. This paper uses regression discontinuity methods to identify the causal effect of PEC size on mayoral election outcomes in Indonesia. The study finds that mayoral candidates backed by PECs comprising political parties that control council seat shares exceeding first-round electoral vote thresholds are around 18-24 percentage points more likely to win those elections than their counterparts supported by smaller-sized PECs.
C31|Spatial panel data models with structural change|Spatial panel data models are widely used in empirical studies. The existing theories of spatial models so far have largely confine the analysis under the assumption of parameters stabilities. This is unduely restrictive, since a large number of studies have well documented the presence of structural changes in the relationship of economic variables. This paper proposes and studies spatial panel data models with structural change. We consider using the quasi maximum likelihood method to estimate the model. Static and dynamic models are both considered. Large-$T$ and fixed-$T$ setups are both considered. We provide a relatively complete asymptotic theory for the maximum likelihood estimators, including consistency, convergence rates and limiting distributions of the regression coefficients, the timing of structural change and variance of errors. We study the hypothesis testing for the presence of structural change. The three super-type statistics are proposed. The Monte Carlo simulation results are consistent with our theoretical results and show that the maximum likelihood estimators have good finite sample performance.
C31|Globalization, economic growth, and spillovers: A spatial analysis|This paper seeks to deepen our understanding of the globalization-growth nexus as it extends the investigation to using a spatial econometric approach, hitherto has been rarely used in the globalization literature. The objective of the paper is to uncover not only the significant growth-effects of globalization, but also the possible spillover effects of globalization onto neighbouring countries. Using a panel dataset of 83 countries and 30-year period and via a spatial autoregressive panel data method, this paper estimates a standard growth model augmented with a parameter to capture the countries’ spatial dependence, whilst controlling for globalization indices. The findings indicate a positive effect of economic globalization and the effect is dependent upon the political settings in the countries under study. The spillover effects of globalization across neighbouring countries are shown, both in geographical and institutional spheres. The paper concludes with some policy recommendations.
C31|Swing in the Fed’s balance sheet policy and spillover effects on emerging Asian countries|This paper investigates the effects of the Fed’s balance sheet policy at the zero lower bound on the macroeconomic and financial variables of emerging Asian countries. Based on a heterogeneous structural panel VAR model using monthly data from eight emerging Asian countries, we find evidence of cross-border spillover effects on long-term bond yields, GDP, prices, stock market index, local currency, and real credit. However, the quantile responses show that there is substantial heterogeneity among countries’ responses to Fed shocks. Accordingly, these effects vary across countries and horizons depending on their macroeconomic fundamentals, financial openness, and intensity of macroprudential regulations.
C31|Synthesizing Cash for Clunkers: Stabilizing the Car Market, Hurting the Environment|We examine the impact of European car scrappage programs on new vehicle registrations and respective CO2 emissions. To construct proper counterfactuals, we develop MSCM-T, the multivariate synthetic control method using time series of economic predictors. Applying MSCM-T to a rich data set covering two outcomes of interest, ten economic predictors, and 23 countries, we first analyze Germany which implemented the largest program. We find that the German subsidy had an immensely positive effect of 1.3 million program-induced new car registrations. Disentangling this effect reveals that almost one million purchases were not pulled forward from future periods, worth more than three times the program's 5 billion budget. However, stabilizing the car market came at the cost of 2.4 million tons of additional CO2 emissions. For other European countries with comparable car retirement schemes, we show further positive results regarding vehicle registrations. Finally, we demonstrate that all non-scrapping countries could have considerably backed their vehicle markets by adopting scrappage subsidies.
C31|Personality traits as an engine of knowledge: A quantile regression approach|We use a unique micro-level data set to investigate the impact of personality traits on education. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study shedding light on the contribution of each of the Big Five personality traits on the education decision made by the individuals. Our findings, uncover a significant effect of non-cognitive skills on the level of education. Specifically, we argue that the estimated signs of the non-cognitive skills remain stable across the quantiles. It is shown that people with high emotional stability invest in human capital. Lastly, our model survived robustness checks under the inclusion of two aggregated higher-order factors.
C31|Quality of Politicians and Electoral System. Evidence from a Quasi-experimental Design for Italian Cities|We study the effect of the electoral system on the quality of politicians, measured by the average educational attainment, at the local level in Italy over the period 1994-2017. Since 1993, municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants vote with a single-ballot system, whereas cities above 15,000 inhabitants threshold are subject to a double ballot. Exploiting the discontinuous policy change nearby the population cut-off we have implemented a RDD and found that runoff elections lead to a decrease in the educational attainment of local politicians by about 2% compared to years of schooling of politicians in municipalities voting with a single-ballot scheme. We speculate that the negative effect is driven by the different selection process of candidates adopted by political parties between runoff and single-ballot system. Findings are similar when we use alternative measures of quality of politicians related both to the previous occupation and to previous political experience, and when we control for different measures of political closeness.
C31|Sharp bounds on the MTE with sample selection|I propose a Generalized Roy Model with sample selection that can be used to analyze treatment effects in a variety of empirical problems. First, I decompose, under a monotonicity assumption on the sample selection indicator, the MTR function for the observed outcome when treated as a weighted average of (i) the MTR on the outcome of interest for the always-observed sub-population and (ii) the MTE on the observed outcome for the observed-only-when-treated sub-population, and show that such decomposition can provide point-wise sharp bounds on the MTE of interest. I, then, show how to point-identify these bounds when the support of the propensity score is continuous. After that, I show how to (partially) identify the MTE of interest when the support of the propensity score is discrete.
C31|Exploring the spatial and temporal determinants of gas central heating adoption|In order to better understand the potential for both policy and technological improvements to aid carbon abatement, long-term historical information on the time-path of transition from more traditional to cleaner fuels is useful. This is a relatively understudied element of the fuel switching literature in both developed and emerging economies. This research adds to this literature by examing the adoption time-path of network gas as a heating fuel. We merge a unique dataset on gas network roll-out over time, with other geo-coded data and employ an instrumental variables technique in order to simultaneously model supply and demand. Results indicate a non-linear relationship between the proportion of households using gas as their primary means of central heating and the length of time the network has been in place in each area. Proximity to the gas network, peat bogs, and areas which have banned the consumption of bituminous coal also affect gas connections. Variations in socioeconomic and dwelling characteristics at area level can also help explain connections to the gas network. A better understanding of this variation is crucial in designing targeted policies and can aid network expansion decisions
C31|Poorly Measured Confounders are More Useful on the Left than on the Right| Researchers frequently test identifying assumptions in regression-based research designs (which include instrumental variables or difference-in-differences models) by adding additional control variables on the right-hand side of the regression. If such additions do not affect the coefficient of interest (much), a study is presumed to be reliable. We caution that such invariance may result from the fact that the observed variables used in such robustness checks are often poor measures of the potential underlying confounders. In this case, a more powerful test of the identifying assumption is to put the variable on the left-hand side of the candidate regression. We provide derivations for the estimators and test statistics involved, as well as power calculations, which can help applied researchers interpret their findings. We illustrate these results in the context of estimating the returns to schooling.
C31|What underlies the observed hospital volume-outcome relationship?|Studies of the hospital volume-outcome relationship have highlighted that a greater volume activity improves patient outcomes. While this finding has been known for years in health services research, most studies to date have failed to delve into what underlies this relationship. This study aimed to shed light on the basis of the hospital volume effect by comparing treatment modalities for epithelial ovarian carcinoma patients. Hospital volume activity was instrumented by the distance from patients’ homes to their hospital, the population density, and the median net income of patient municipalities. We found that higher volume hospitals appear to more often make the right decisions in regard to how to treat patients, which contributes to the positive impact of hospital volume activities on patient outcomes. Based on our parameter estimates, we found that the rate of complete tumor resection would increase by 10% with centralized care, and by 6% if treatment decisions were coordinated by high volume centers compared to the ongoing organization of care. In both scenarios, the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy would increase by 10%. As volume alone is an imperfect correlate of quality, policy makers need to know what volume is a proxy for in order to devise volume-based policies.
C31|Nonlinear Class Size Effects on Cognitive and Noncognitive Development of Young Children|We estimate the nonlinear impact of class size on student achievement by exploiting regulations that cap class size at 20 pupils per class in kindergarten. Using student-level information from a previously unexploited large-scale census survey of kindergarten students, this study provides clear evidence of the nonlinearity of class size effects on both cognitive and noncognitive measures. While the effects are largest on cognitive development, class size reductions also improve social competence and communication skills in small classes of fewer than 15 students. Above that threshold, the impacts of class size reduction are limited. We also find stronger effects for students in disadvantaged areas. These findings suggest that sizeable class size reductions targeted at disadvantaged areas would achieve better results than a marginal reduction across the board, and even that large reductions in a limited number of classes could be financed by marginal increases in the vast majority of schools not experiencing high poverty rates.
C31|Identification of the Linear Factor Model|This paper provides several new results on identification of the linear factor model. The model allows for correlated latent factors and dependence among the idiosyncratic errors. I also illustrate identification under a dedicated measurement structure and other reduced rank restrictions. I use these results to study identification in a model with both observed covariates and latent factors. The analysis emphasizes the different roles played by restrictions on the error covariance matrix, restrictions on the factor loadings and the factor covariance matrix, and restrictions on the coefficients on covariates. The identification results are simple, intuitive, and directly applicable to many settings.
C31|Reassessing forest products demand functions in Europe using a panel cointegration approach| In a panel of European countries, we analyse paper products, sawnwood and wood panels consumption data. With this object, we use a classical demand model where national consumption depends on real GDP and real prices. In contrast to previous panel estimations in the literature, we highlight non-stationarity time series which can lead to spurious regressions. We explicitly take into account the issue by using recent panel cointegration techniques. Cointegration is present for printing paper and fibreboard, though less clear cut for other products. Then we estimate demand elasticities and find that GDP elasticities are significantly lower than estimates from the literature. Finally, we simulate the implications of modified demand elasticities by using a partial equilibrium model of the forest sector. For most products, changes in elasticities would lead to lower projected demand and lower prices over a 20-year time horizon. Lower demand for solid wood and wood fibre would lead to less tensions with fuel wood- and wood-based chemical markets. In a context of rising interest for renewable bio-based products, updated long-term demand models contribute to the analysis of the forest sector’s sustainability.
C31|Did specialised courts affect the frequency of business bankruptcy petitions in Spain?|Abstract Spanish small businesses rarely file for bankruptcy, and Spanish bankruptcy rates are abnormally small. The historical inadequacy of the Spanish insolvency system has led most enterprises to rely on the de facto alternative mortgage system and to overinvest in fixed tangible assets: a distortion that may trigger significant adverse effects, for instance on the enabling environment of novel entrepreneurship. The reform of the bankruptcy law that took place in Spain some 10 years in order to modernise the insolvency system involved, as a main novelty, the establishment of specialised commercial courts (Juzgados de lo Mercantil). Since the net benefits of specialised judicial functions are in principle ambiguous, we study empirically whether these new bodies had any impact, over and above the economic crisis, on the use of the bankruptcy system. Exploiting the staggered timing of the new courts geography, we estimate an endogenous treatment model with a binary policy variable which allows to measure the effect of the reform on bankruptcy rates. The results support the view that the new bankruptcy law took the right path, but the size of the estimated parameters call for further policy efforts in that direction.
C31|Do Workers Make Good Neighbours? The Impact of Local Employment on Young Male and Female Entrants to the Labour Market|This paper investigates the social endogenous effect linking the employment probability of young workers entering the labour market to the local employment rate. We focus on the transition from school to work, using a representative sample of youths leaving the French educational system in 1998 and 2004. We identify the causal effect of local employment rate using a neighbourhood fixed-effect strategy (Bayer et al, 2007). We provide evidence that the within-neighbourhood random allocation assumption is likely to hold. The results show that an individual's own employment is strongly affected by the share of working people in their neighbourhood, estimates being higher for high-school dropouts. Results also reveal gender differences, suggesting that young people are more sensitive to same-sex neighbours.
C31|Recovering Social Networks from Panel Data: Identification, Simulations and an Application|It is almost self-evident that social interactions can determine economic behavior and outcomes. Yet, information on social ties does not exist in most publicly available and widely used datasets. We present methods to recover information on the entire structure of social networks from observational panel data that contains no information on social ties between individuals. In the context of a canonical social interactions model, we provide sufficient conditions under which the social interactions matrix, endogenous and exogenous social effect parameters are all globally identified. We describe how high-dimensional estimation techniques can be used to estimate the model based on the Adaptive Elastic Net GMM method. We showcase our method in Monte Carlo simulations using two stylized and two real world network structures. Finally, we employ our method to study tax competition across US states. We find the identified network structure of tax competition differs markedly from the common assumption of tax competition between geographically neighboring states. We analyze the identified social interactions matrix to provide novel insights into the long-standing debate on the relative roles of factor mobility and yardstick competition in driving tax setting behavior across states. Most broadly, our method shows how the analysis of social interactions can be usefully extended to economic realms where no network data exists.
C31|Sharp Bounds And Testability Of A Roy Model Of Stem Major Choices|We analyze the empirical content of the Roy model, stripped down to its essential features, namely sector specific unobserved heterogeneity and self-selection on the basis of potential outcomes. We characterize sharp bounds on the joint distribution of potential outcomes and testable implications of the Roy self-selection model under an instrumental constraint on the joint distribution of potential outcomes we call stochastically monotone instrumental variable (SMIV). We show that testing the Roy model selection is equivalent to testing stochastic monotonicity of observed outcomes relative to the instrument. We apply our sharp bounds to the derivation of a measure of departure from Roy self-selection to identify values of observable characteristics that induce the most costly misallocation of talent and sector and are therefore prime targets for intervention. Special emphasis is put on the case of binary outcomes, which has received little attention in the literature to date. For richer sets of outcomes, we emphasize the distinction between point-wise sharp bounds and functional sharp bounds, and its importance, when constructing sharp bounds on functional features, such as inequality measures. We analyze a Roy model of college major choice in Canada and Germany within this framework, and we take a new look at the under-representation of women in STEM.
C31|Control Variables, Discrete Instruments, and Identification of Structural Functions|Control variables provide an important means of controlling for endogeneity in econometric models with nonseparable and/or multidimensional heterogeneity. We allow for discrete instruments, giving identification results under a variety of restrictions on the way the endogenous variable and the control variables affect the outcome. We consider many structural objects of interest, such as average or quantile treatment effects. We illustrate our results with an empirical application to Engel curve estimation.
C31|Semiparametrically Efficient Estimation of the Average Linear Regression Function|Let Y be an outcome of interest, X a vector of treatment measures, and W a vector of pre-treatment control variables. Here X may include (combinations of) continuous, discrete, and/or non-mutually exclusive “treatments”. Consider the linear regression of Y onto X in a subpopulation homogenous in W = w (formally a conditional linear predictor). Let b 0 (w) be the coefficient vector on X in this regression. We introduce a semiparametrically efficient estimate of the average β 0 = Ε[b 0 (W)]. When X is binary-valued (multi-valued) our procedure recovers the (a vector of) average treatment effect(s). When X is continuously-valued, or consists of multiple non-exclusive treatments, our estimand coincides with the average partial effect (APE) of X on Y when the underlying potential response function is linear in X, but otherwise heterogenous across agents. When the potential response function takes a general nonlinear/heterogenous form, and X is continuously-valued, our procedure recovers a weighted average of the gradient of this response across individuals and values of X. We provide a simple, and semiparametrically efficient, method of covariate adjustment for settings with complicated treatment regimes. Our method generalizes familiar methods of covariate adjustment used for program evaluation as well as methods of semiparametric regression (e.g., the partially linear regression model).
C31|Owner Occupied Housing in the CPI and Its Impact On Monetary Policy During Housing Booms and Busts| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) is probably the most important unresolved issue in infl ation measurement. The European Union has been grappling with this problem for over a decade. We argue for measuring OOH costs using a particular version of the user cost method. We then compare the impact of eight different treatments of OOH on the consumer price index (CPI), using quantile hedonic regression. The impact on the CPI is large, and the treatment of OOH emerges as an essential prerequisite to discussions over how an infl ation targeting central bank should respond to housing booms and busts.
C31|A Double Machine Learning Approach to Estimate the Effects of Musical Practice on Student's Skills|This study investigates the dose-response effects of making music on youth development. Identification is based on the conditional independence assumption and estimation is implemented using a recent double machine learning estimator. The study proposes solutions to two highly practically relevant questions that arise for these new methods: (i) How to investigate sensitivity of estimates to tuning parameter choices in the machine learning part? (ii) How to assess covariate balancing in high-dimensional settings? The results show that improvements in objectively measured cognitive skills require at least medium intensity, while improvements in school grades are already observed for low intensity of practice.
C31|Identification of causal mechanisms based on between-subject double randomization designs|Understanding the mechanisms through which treatment effects come about is crucial for designing effective interventions. The identification of such causal mechanisms is challenging and typically requires strong assumptions. This paper discusses identification and estimation of natural direct and indirect effects in so-called double randomization designs that combine two experiments. The first and main experiment randomizes the treatment and measures its effect on the mediator and the outcome of interest. A second auxiliary experiment randomizes the mediator of interest and measures its effect on the outcome. We show that such designs allow for identification based on an assumption that is weaker than the assumption of sequential ignorability that is typically made in the literature. It allows for unobserved confounders that do not cause heterogeneous mediator effects. We demonstrate estimation of direct and indirect effects based on different identification strategies that we compare to our approach using data from a laboratory experiment we conducted in Kenya.
C31|Interdependent Hazards, Local Interactions, and the Return Decision of Recent Migrants|Consider the duration of stay of migrants in a host country. We propose a statistical model of locally interdependent hazards in order to examine whether interactions at the level of the neighbourhood are present and lead to social multipliers. To this end, we propose and study a new two-stage estimation strategy based on an inverted linear rank test statistic. Using a unique large administrative panel dataset for the population of recent labour immigrants to the Netherlands, we quantify the local social multipliers in several factual and counterfactual experiments, and demonstrate that these can be substantial.
C31|The Gender Gap in Attitudes and Test Scores: A New Construct of the Mathematical Capability|In most OECD countries, girls outperform boys in all subjects except mathematics. Usually, only test scores are utilised as a measure of mathematical skills. In this paper, we argue that in order to measure children's capability in mathematics we need to include some indicators of the attitudes of children towards the subject. This is particularly important when we analyse gender gaps, because attitudes towards mathematics differ by gender. We first describe the differences by gender both in test scores and attitudes utilising a model including school fixed effects. Next, we estimate a quantile regression in order to analyse how the gender gap varies across the distribution of the attitudes. Lastly, in addition to the test scores in mathematics, we use indicators of attitudes towards maths to estimate a Structural Equation Model, which takes into account that maths capability is a latent construct of which we only observe some indicators (test scores and attitudes). We use data from the Italian National Test (Invalsi) for year 5 and year 10 in 2014 and 2015. Results confirm that when we measure mathematics capability including attitudes in addition to test scores, the gap between boys and girls is even wider with respect to the analysis of test scores alone, and therefore educational policies aimed at reducing the gender gap in mathematics should address both attitudes and test scores.
C31|A General Weighted Average Representation of the Ordinary and Two-Stage Least Squares Estimands|"It is standard practice in applied work to study the effect of a binary variable (""treatment"") on an outcome of interest using linear models with additive effects. In this paper I study the interpretation of the ordinary and two-stage least squares estimands in such models when treatment effects are in fact heterogeneous. I show that in both cases the coefficient on treatment is identical to a convex combination of two other parameters (different for OLS and 2SLS), which can be interpreted as the average treatment effects on the treated and controls under additional assumptions. Importantly, the OLS and 2SLS weights on these parameters are inversely related to the proportion of each group. The more units get treatment, the less weight is placed on the effect on the treated. What follows, the reliance on these implicit weights can have serious consequences for applied work. I illustrate some of these issues in four empirical applications from different fields of economics. I also develop a weighted least squares correction and simple diagnostic tools that applied researchers can use to avoid potential biases. In an important special case, my diagnostics only require the knowledge of the proportion of treated units."
C31|Linkages Between Oil Price Shocks and Stock Returns Revisited|In this paper, we revisit the debate on the relationship between oil price shocks and stock market returns by replicating the quantile-on-quantile (QQ) regression model for the US stock market in Sim and Zhou (2015, Journal of Banking and Finance), and extending it to 15 countries. The classification of these countries as oil importers or oil exporters depends on their net position in crude oil trade. Our results indicate that the finding by Sim and Zhou (2015) that large negative oil price shocks can bolster stock returns when markets are performing well is only partially supported by the three largest oil importers in our sample-China, Japan and India-during the period 1988:1-2007:12. However, when extending the study to more recent data (period 1988:1-2016:12), we find that China and India experience higher returns when markets perform well and there is a large positive oil price shock. Also, large positive oil price shocks often lead to higher stock market returns when markets perform well for both oil exporting countries-Canada, Russia, Norway-and moderately oil dependent countries-such as Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand. These findings highlight that the relationship between the distributions of oil price shocks and stock market returns is not stable over time in most countries studied. Furthermore, the asymmetric effect of oil price shocks observed in the US market by Sim and Zhou (2015) is less evident in most countries for both the baseline and extended periods.
C31|Reducing Public‐Private Sector Pay Differentials: The Single Spine Pay Policy As A Natural Experiment In Ghana|Empirical studies have documented the existence of the public‐private pay differentials in both developed and developing countries. The implementation of policies aiming to reduce this gap has however been mitigated or inconclusive. This paper exploits the Single Spine Pay Policy (SSPP) in Ghana as a natural experiment to examine the effectiveness of wage policies in developing countries. The SSPP was implemented in 2010 by the Government of Ghana to address the public‐private sector wage gap and improve productivity in the public sector. Using a quantile treatment effect approach based on a difference‐in‐difference estimation, we show that the SSPP has yet to reduce the wage gap between the public and private sectors across the entire distribution of earnings in Ghana. The improvement observed is only at the lower tail of the distribution of earnings. However, the SSPP has a larger effect on the earnings of female workers than that of males in the education and health services sectors while male workers have benefited more in the administration sector, suggesting that the policy was successful in reducing the gender wage gap in the education and health services sectors but has widened this gap in the administration sector. Moreover, the SSPP has decreased the productivity of workers across the distribution of earnings, mainly due to a decrease in the effort of female public sector workers in the education and health sectors and male workers in the administration sector. (JEL C31, G15, J24, J31, J45)
C31|Characterizing Envy-Free, Strategy Proof, and Monotonic Mechanisms in Queueing Problem|Given a group of agents, the queueing problem is concerned with finding the order in which to serve agents and the (positive, zero, or negative) monetary transfers they should receive. In this paper, we explore the central open questions in queueing problem. First, we characterize the class of strategy-proof and envy-free mechanisms. Note that no-envy implies queue-efficiency in the queueing problem. We also characterize the subclasses that generate bounded deficit or no-deficit. Then, we address the open questions regarding solidarity in the queueing problem and characterize the classes of queue-efficient and strategy-proof mechanisms which satisfy respectively (i) cost monotonicity and (ii) population/slot monotonicity. Finally, we prove that among the envy-free and strategy-proof mechanisms, the only ones that satisfy either cost monotonicity or population monotonicity are an extension of the Pivotal/Reward-based Pivotal mechanisms.
C31|Estimating causal effects of cassava based value-webs on smallholders welfare: a multivalued treatment approach| The aim of the paper is to evaluate the impact of value-webs as an innovation in agricultural production on welfare of cassava smallholders in Nigeria. The estimation procedure involved the alternative process of multivalued treatment models when treatment units have multiple values. The study thus extends previous impact studies which focused on estimating causal effects from binary treatment units. The treatment units were determined from the extent of utilization of cassava which informed the classification of households into value-web groups. Value-web is defined here as a measure of joint linkages of product chains within the cassava system. The determinants of the choice of utilization were also estimated. Results show that value-web groups include non-cassava based households; low-level, middle-level and high-level value web groups at 32.4%, 34.1%, 24.4% and 9.1%, respectively. Resource allocation to cassava, farming experience, and access to improved cassava varieties increased probability of higher value-web activities. The ATE estimated from the model shows significant increases of up to N11, 560.14 (USD 37.9) and N11, 296.57(USD 37.04) in monthly farm income if non-cassava based and low-level web households became high-level web households. Keywords: Cassava, Value-webs, Causal effect, Smallholders, Multivalued treatment JEL: C31; D13; O31, Q12 Acknowledgement : The authors wish to acknowledge the BiomassWeb Project funded by the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF) and the Deutsche Gesellschaft f r Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. The Research Fellowship offered by the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan, Nigeria to the first author is gratefully acknowledged. The research is supported by CGIAR Program on Humidtropics and, the Roots, Tubers and Bananas (RTB).
C31|A Double Machine Learning Approach to Estimate the Effects of Musical Practice on Student's Skills|This study investigates the dose-response effects of making music on youth development. Identification is based on the conditional independence assumption and estimation is implemented using a recent double machine learning estimator. The study proposes solutions to two highly practically relevant questions that arise for these new methods: (i) How to investigate sensitivity of estimates to tuning parameter choices in the machine learning part? (ii) How to assess covariate balancing in high-dimensional settings? The results show that improvements in objectively measured cognitive skills require at least medium intensity, while improvements in school grades are already observed for low intensity of practice.
C31|Asymptotic refinements of a misspecification-robust bootstrap for generalized method of moments estimators|I propose a nonparametric iid bootstrap that achieves asymptotic refinements for t tests and confidence intervals based on GMM estimators even when the model is misspecified. In addition, my bootstrap does not require recentering the moment function, which has been considered as critical for GMM. Regardless of model misspecification, the proposed bootstrap achieves the same sharp magnitude of refinements as the conventional bootstrap methods which establish asymptotic refinements by recentering in the absence of misspecification. The key idea is to link the misspecified bootstrap moment condition to the large sample theory of GMM under misspecification of Hall and Inoue (2003). Two examples are provided: combining data sets and invalid instrumental variables.
C31|A Consistent Variance Estimator for 2SLS When Instruments Identify Different LATEs| Under treatment effect heterogeneity, an instrument identifies the instrument-specific local average treatment effect (LATE). With multiple instruments, two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimand is a weighted average of different LATEs. What is often overlooked in the literature is that the postulated moment condition evaluated at the 2SLS estimand does not hold unless those LATEs are the same. If so, the conventional heteroscedasticity-robust variance estimator would be inconsistent, and 2SLS standard errors based on such estimators would be incorrect. I derive the correct asymptotic distribution, and propose a consistent asymptotic variance estimator by using the result of Hall and Inoue (2003, Journal of Econometrics) on misspecified moment condition models. This can be used to correctly calculate the standard errors regardless of whether there is more than one LATE or not.
C31|The Role of the Propensity Score in Fixed Effect Models|We develop a new approach for estimating average treatment effects in the observational studies with unobserved cluster-level heterogeneity. The previous approach relied heavily on linear fixed effect specifications that severely limit the heterogeneity between clusters. These methods imply that linearly adjusting for differences between clusters in average covariate values addresses all concerns with cross-cluster comparisons. Instead, we consider an exponential family structure on the within-cluster distribution of covariates and treatments that implies that a low-dimensional sufficient statistic can summarize the empirical distribution, where this sufficient statistic may include functions of the data beyond average covariate values. Then we use modern causal inference methods to construct flexible and robust estimators.
C31|Design-based Analysis in Difference-In-Differences Settings with Staggered Adoption|In this paper we study estimation of and inference for average treatment effects in a setting with panel data. We focus on the setting where units, e.g., individuals, firms, or states, adopt the policy or treatment of interest at a particular point in time, and then remain exposed to this treatment at all times afterwards. We take a design perspective where we investigate the properties of estimators and procedures given assumptions on the assignment process. We show that under random assignment of the adoption date the standard Difference-In-Differences estimator is an unbiased estimator of a particular weighted average causal effect. We characterize the properties of this estimand, and show that the standard variance estimator is conservative.
C31|Control variables, discrete instruments, and identification of structural functions| Control variables provide an important means of controlling for endogeneity in econometric models with nonseparable and/or multidimensional heterogeneity. We allow for discrete instruments, giving identi cation results under a variety of restrictions on the way the endogenous variable and the control variables affect the outcome. We consider many structural objects of interest, such as average or quantile treatment effects. We illustrate our results with an empirical application to Engel curve estimation.
C31|Quality of Politicians and Electoral System. Evidence from a Quasi-experimental Design for Italian Cities|We study the effect of the electoral system on the quality of politicians, measured by the average educational attainment, at the local level in Italy over the period 1994-2017. Since 1993, municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants vote with a single-ballot system, whereas cities above 15,000 inhabitants threshold are subject to a double ballot.Exploiting the discontinuous policy change nearby the population cut-off we have implemented a RDD and found that runoff elections lead to a decrease in the educational attainment of local politicians by about 2% compared to years of schooling of politicians in municipalities voting with a single-ballot scheme.We speculate that the negative effect is driven by the different selection process of candidates adopted by political parties between runoff and single-ballot system. Findings are similar when we use alternative measures of quality of politicians related both to the previous occupation and to previous political experience, and when we control for different measures of political closeness.
C31|The (Un)Demand for Money in Canada|A novel dataset from the Bank of Canada is used to estimate the deposit functions for banknotes in Canada for three denominations: $1,000, $100 and $50. The broad flavour of the empirical findings is that denominations are different monies, and the structural estimates identify the underlying sources of the non-neutrality. There is evidence of large and significant deposit costs for the highest-value denomination, the $1,000 banknote, but insignificant costs for the $100 and $50 denominations. The results imply that the interest rate elasticity of deposit is positive for the $1,000 but negative for the $100 and the $50. Third, 5 percent of the $1,000, 30 percent of the $100 and 22 percent of the $50 banknotes ever issued by the Bank of Canada do not circulate through financial institutions (in Canada). Finally, we find evidence that the Lehman Brothers crisis increased the deposit probability by a factor of 2–3 for the $1,000 banknote for a majority of the population in Canada.
C31|Analysis of Asymmetric GARCH Volatility Models with Applications to Margin Measurement|We explore properties of asymmetric generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH) models in the threshold GARCH (GTARCH) family and propose a more general Spline-GTARCH model, which captures high-frequency return volatility, low-frequency macroeconomic volatility as well as an asymmetric response to past negative news in both autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (ARCH) and GARCH terms. Based on maximum likelihood estimation of S&P 500 returns, S&P/TSX returns and Monte Carlo numerical example, we find that the proposed more general asymmetric volatility model has better fit, higher persistence of negative news, higher degree of risk aversion and significant effects of macroeconomic variables on the lowfrequency volatility component. We then apply a variety of volatility models in setting initial margin requirements for a central clearing counterparty (CCP). Finally, we show how to mitigate procyclicality of initial margins using a three-regime threshold autoregressive model.
C31|Global Financial Interconnectedness: A nonlinear Assessment of the Uncertainty Channel|The role of uncertainty in the global economy is now widely recognized by policy-makers but its effects on the international fi nancial system are less understood. In this paper we assess the impact of uncertainty on the interconnectedness within the international system of equity prices. In this respect, we extend the measure of connectedness put forward by Diebold and Yilmaz (2009) by allowing for non-linear effects through the estimation of a non-linear Threshold VAR model whose regimes depend on the level on uncertainty. Results clearly show that high uncertainty tends to generate more connectedness among equity indexes of a set of advanced and emerging countries. From an economic policy point of view, this result suggests that in the presence of high uncertainty, an adverse financial shock in a speci fic country is likely to propagate more widely and more strongly to the whole fi nancial system. This result advocates for a close real-time monitoring of uncertainty measures.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstra<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C31|Measuring the Return to Online Advertising: Estimation and Inference of Endogenous Treatment Effects|In this paper we aim to conduct inference on the “lift” effect generated by an online advertisement display: specifically we want to analyze if the presence of the brand ad among the advertisements on the page increases the overall number of consumer clicks on that page. A distinctive feature of online advertising is that the ad displays are highly targeted- the advertising platform evaluates the (unconditional) probability of each consumer clicking on a given ad which leads to a higher probability of displaying the ads that have a higher a priori estimated probability of click. As a result, inferring the causal effect of the ad display on the page clicks by a given consumer from typical observational data is difficult. To address this we use the large scale of our dataset and propose a multi-step estimator that focuses on the tails of the consumer distribution to estimate the true causal effect of an ad display. This “identification at infinity” (Chamberlain (1986)) approach alleviates the need for independent experimental randomization but results in nonstandard asymptotics. To validate our estimates, we use a set of large scale randomized controlled experiments that Microsoft has run on its advertising platform. Our dataset has a large number of observations and a large number of variables and we employ LASSO to perform variable selection. Our non-experimental estimates turn out to be quite close to the results of the randomized controlled trials.
C31|Women’s Empowerment and Family Health: Estimating LATE with Mismeasured Treatment|We study the causal effect of women’s empowerment on family health in India. We define treatment as a woman having primary control over household resources and use changes in inheritance laws as an instrument. Due to measurement difficulties and sharing of goods, treatment cannot be directly observed and must be estimated using a structural model. Treatment mismeasurement may therefore arise from model misspecification and estimation errors. We provide a new estimation method, MR-LATE, that can consistently estimate local average treatment effects when treatment is mismeasured. We find that women’s control of substantial household resources improves their and their children’s health.
C31|The Effects of Job Training Programs on Employability among College Graduates (in Korean)|This paper examines the effects of various training programs on employment rate of college graduates. Training programs for youth in Korea are conducted by several types of providers, and are thus likely to generate heterogeneous effects. Using the Graduate Occupational Mobility Survey (2009-2013), we estimate the effects of job training on employability by applying a Generalized Propensity Score Matching method. The results confirm heterogeneous treatment effects among training types – while no effects are found with respect to training by private providers, there exist statistically significant effects of training by both public and college providers.
C31|A General Weighted Average Representation of the Ordinary and Two-Stage Least Squares Estimands|It is standard practice in applied work to study the effect of a binary variable (“treatment”) on an outcome of interest using linear models with additive effects. In this paper I study the interpretation of the ordinary and two-stage least squares estimands in such models when treatment effects are in fact heterogeneous. I show that in both cases the coefficient on treatment is identical to a convex combination of two other parameters (different for OLS and 2SLS), which can be interpreted as the average treatment effects on the treated and controls under additional assumptions. Importantly, the OLS and 2SLS weights on these parameters are inversely related to the proportion of each group. The more units get treatment, the less weight is placed on the effect on the treated. What follows, the reliance on these implicit weights can have serious consequences for applied work. I illustrate some of these issues in four empirical applications from different fields of economics. I also develop a weighted least squares correction and simple diagnostic tools that applied researchers can use to avoid potential biases. In an important special case, my diagnostics only require the knowledge of the proportion of treated units.
C31|Spatial Discrete Choice Models: A Review Focused on Specification, Estimation and Health Economics applications|Modeling individual choices is one of the main aim in microeconometrics. Discrete choice models have been widely used to describe economic agents' utility functions, and most of them play a paramount role in applied health economics. On the other hand, spatial econometrics collects a series of econometric tools which are particularly useful when we deal with spatially-distributed data sets. It has been demonstrated that accounting for spatial dependence can avoid inconsistency problems of the commonly used estimators. However, the complex structure of spatial dependence in most of the nonlinear models still precludes a large diffusion of these spatial techniques. The purpose of this paper is then twofold. The former is to review the main methodological problems and their different solutions in spatial discrete choice modeling as they have appeared in the econometric literature. The latter is to review their applications to health issues, especially in the last few years, by highlighting at least two main reasons why spatial discrete neighboring effects should be considered and then suggesting possible future lines of the development of this emerging field.
C31|Common Correlated Effects Estimation of Heterogeneous Dynamic Panel Quantile Regression Models|This paper proposes a quantile regression estimator for a heterogeneous panel model with lagged dependent variables and interactive effects. The paper adopts the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach proposed by Pesaran (2006) and Chudik and Pesaran (2015) and demonstrates that the extension to the estimation of dynamic quantile regression models is feasible under similar conditions to the ones used in the literature. We establish consistency and derive the asymptotic distribution of the new quantile regression estimator. Monte Carlo studies are carried out to study the small sample behavior of the proposed approach. The evidence shows that the estimator can significantly improve on the performance of existing estimators as long as the time series dimension of the panel is large. We present an application to the evaluation of Time-of-Use pricing using a large randomized control trial.
C31|Revisiting Time as a Trade Barrier: Evidence from a Panel Structural Gravity Model|In this paper we revisit the evidence on the effects of time spent on border-crossing procedures for international trade using a theory-consistent structural gravity model. We exploit a rich panel data set including domestic trade flows and employ a recent econometric estimator that exhibits favorable asymptotic properties. The results indicate a significant negative effect of the time required for border procedures that is driven by the time needed for document preparation. We find that an additional day spent on those procedures corresponds to an ad valorem tariff equivalent of 0.82 percentage points. The parameters of our structural model are used to simulate three counterfactual scenarios, quantifying the effect of past and potential future trade facilitation efforts for middle, low and high income countries. Full endowment general equilibrium effects suggest that lower and middle income countries benefit most in all scenarios in terms of trade and welfare. In times of stagnating multilateral and bilateral trade liberalization efforts, unilateral implementation of trade facilitation carries the potential to induce an alternative stimulus for trade and welfare, especially for low and middle income countries.
C31|The third demographic dividend: measuring the “demographic tax” in the Arab Countries in Transition|This paper proposes a new approach to quantify the demographic dividend and shows evidence of a demographic tax in the Arab countries in Transition (ACT). Our question is whether a shift in the age structure (a larger share of working-age population) is translated into less (more) efficient labor supply and demand and whether these in turn reduce (increase) per-capita GDP. We propose estimates based on stochastic frontier analysis and quantile regressions. We find several interesting results. First, we document the existence of a dividend gap for the ACT with unchanging inefficiency scores over time between 56% and 79% in Yemen, 35% on average in Egypt, between 4% and 23% in Tunisia, between 7% and 30% in Libya, between 6% and 21% in Jordan. Morocco in the only country showing a demographic dividend with an average 30% inefficiency score that decreases over time. Secondly, the variables that are sources of these inefficiencies are the gender gap (with a significant influence of female labor market participation), insufficient secured jobs (this variable carry a positive sign with GDP per-capita and has the largest size among of the coefficients in the regression), own-account employment (which can be considered as a proxy of the importance of the informal sector) and a low public spending in health.
C31|Peer Effects in the Adoption of a Youth Employment Subsidy|This paper studies the effects of peers in the adoption of a Youth Employment Subsidy in Chile since its inception. We study the effects that former classmates’ and coworkers’ adoption has on one’s adoption. Identification comes from discontinuities in the assignment rule that allow us to construct valid instrumental variables for peers’ adoption. Using a comprehensive set of administrative records, we find that classmates and, especially, coworkers play a significant role in the adoption of the subsidy. Peer effects are determined during the early stages of the program’s implementation and vary by network characteristics and the strength of network ties.
C31|Quantile Factor Models|Quantile FactorModels (QFM) represent a new class of factor models for high-dimensional panel data. Unlike Approximate Factor Models (AFM), where only mean-shifting factors can be extracted, QFM also allow to recover unobserved factors shifting other relevant parts of the distributions of observed variables. A quantile regression approach, labeled Quantile Factor Analysis (QFA), is proposed to consistently estimate all the quantile-dependent factors and loadings. Their asymptotic distribution is then derived using a kernel-smoothed version of the QFA estimators. Two consistent model selection criteria, based on information criteria and rank minimization, are developed to determine the number of factors at each quantile. Moreover, in contrast to the conditions required for the use of Principal Components Analysis in AFM, QFA estimation remains valid even when the idiosyncratic errors have heavy-tailed distributions. Three empirical applications (regarding climate, financial and macroeconomic panel data) provide evidence that extra factors shifting quantiles other than the means could be relevant in practice.
C31|Recovering social networks from panel data: identification, simulations and an application| It is almost self-evident that social interactions can determine economic behavior and outcomes. Yet, information on social ties does not exist in most publicly available and widely used datasets. We present results on the identification of social networks from observational panel data that contains no information on social ties between agents. In the context of a canonical social interactions model, we provide sufficient conditions under which the social interactions matrix, endogenous and exogenous social effect parameters are all globally identified. While this result is relevant across different estimation strategies, we then describe how high-dimensional estimation techniques can be used to estimate the model based on the Adaptive Elastic Net GMM method. We showcase the method and its robustness in Monte Carlo simulations using stylized and real world network structures. Finally, we employ the method to study tax competition across US states. We find the identified network structure of tax competition differs markedly from the common assumption of competition between geographically neighboring states. We analyze the identified social interactions matrix to provide novel insights into the long-standing debate on the relative roles of factor mobility and yardstick competition in driving tax setting behavior across states. Most broadly, our results show how the analysis of social interactions can be extended to economic realms where no network data exists.
C31|Identification of Causal Mechanisms Based on Between-Subject Double Randomization Designs|Understanding the mechanisms through which treatment effects come about is crucial for designing effective interventions. The identification of such causal mechanisms is challenging and typically requires strong assumptions. This paper discusses identification and estimation of natural direct and indirect effects in so-called double randomization designs that combine two experiments. The first and main experiment randomizes the treatment and measures its effect on the mediator and the outcome of interest. A second auxiliary experiment randomizes the mediator of interest and measures its effect on the outcome. We show that such designs allow for identification based on an assumption that is weaker than the assumption of sequential ignorability that is typically made in the literature. It allows for unobserved confounders that do not cause heterogeneous mediator effects. We demonstrate estimation of direct and indirect effects based on different identification strategies that we compare to our approach using data from a laboratory experiment we conducted in Kenya.
C31|Leaders in Juvenile Crime|This paper presents a new theory of crime where leaders transmit a crime technology and act as a role model for other criminals. We show that, in equilibrium, an individual's crime effort and crime decisions depend on the geodesic distance to the leader in his or her network of social contacts. By using data on friendship networks among U.S. high-school students, we structurally estimate the model and find evidence supporting its predictions. In particular, by using a definition of a criminal leader that is exogenous to the network formation of friendship links, we find that the longer is the distance to the leader, the lower is the criminal activity of the delinquents and the less likely they are to become criminals. This result highlights the importance of the closeness centrality of the leaders in explaining criminal behaviors. We finally perform a counterfactual experiment that reveals that a policy that removes all criminal leaders from a school can, on average, reduce criminal activity by about 20% and the individual probability of becoming a criminal by 10%.
C31|Censored Quantile Instrumental Variable Estimation with Stata|Many applications involve a censored dependent variable and an endogenous independent variable. Chernozhukov, Fernandez-Val, and Kowalski (2015) introduced a censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) for use in those applications, which has been applied by Kowalski (2016), among others. In this article, we introduce a Stata command, cqiv, that simplifes application of the CQIV estimator in Stata. We summarize the CQIV estimator and algorithm, we describe the use of the cqiv command, and we provide empirical examples.
C31|Fertility Effects of College Education: Evidence from the German Educational Expansion|We estimate the effects of college education on female fertility – a so far understudied margin of education, which we instrument by arguably exogenous variation induced through college expansions. While college education reduces the probability of becoming a mother, college-educated mothers have slightly more children than mothers without a college education. Unfolding the effects by the timing of birth reveals a postponement that goes beyond the time in college – indicating a negative early-career effect on fertility. Coupled with higher labor-supply and wage returns for non-mothers as compared to mothers the timing effects moreover suggest that career and family are not fully compatible.
C31|Expenditure interactions between municipalities and the role of agglomeration forces: A spatial analysis for North Rhine-Westphalia|This paper analyzes municipal expenditures in the light of horizontal fiscal interactions. I investigate total expenditures and a set of non-earmarked expenditure subcategories in the largest German federal state, North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). The empirical analysis is based on a Spatial Durbin Model in a panel for the years 2009-2015. Using a two-regime spatial matrix, I also examine the impact of agglomeration on the intensity of public expenditure interactions, thus testing the hypothesis that an agglomerated region can decrease the amount of public goods without losing mobile factors to the periphery. The findings indicate that significant municipal expenditure interaction effects do exist. The reaction functions also vary for different expenditure subcategories. Unlike spillover effects and fiscal competition, yardstick competition is an insignificant source of potential interactions. Expenditure interaction is fiercer if there is less agglomeration in a municipality. Urbanized and populous municipalities appear to benefit from agglomeration economies, a fact that enables them to spend less. Robustness checks confirm the findings.
C31|Klimaanpassung in Land- und Forstwirtschaft: Ergebnisse eines Workshops der Ressortforschungsinstitute FLI, JKI und Thünen-Institut|Das Working Paper stellt die Ergebnisse einer Umfrage und eines Workshops zusammen, die von Wissenschaftlern und Wissenschaftlerinnen der Ressortforschungsinstitute Thünen-Institut, Julius Kühn-Institut (JKI) und Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut (FLI) im Herbst 2016 zusammengetragen und diskutiert worden sind. Ziel des Workshops und der Umfrage war, den Stand des Wissens zu Klimaanpassungsthemen in der Ressortforschung des BMEL und die zukünftigen Herausforderungen einer Anpassung an den Klimawandel in der deutschen Land- und Forstwirtschaft zu analysieren. Die deutsche Land- und Forstwirtschaft ist von primären Klimafolgen wie stetig steigenden Durchschnittstemperaturen, veränderten Niederschlagsmustern und immer häufiger auftretenden, regional und saisonal sehr unterschiedlich ausgeprägten Extremwetterereignissen betroffen. Zudem führen sekundäre Klimafolgen wie ein erhöhter Schaderreger- und Infektionsdruck, Probleme bei der Bekämpfung von Schadnagern in Land- und Forstwirtschaft, eine Verschiebung der Vegetationsphasen oder eine Änderung der Produktqualität zu höheren Anbau- und Produktionsrisiken. Viele ertragswirksame Faktoren wie z. B. steigende Ozon-Konzentrationen und deren Interaktion mit Schädlingsbefall und Extremwetterereignissen sind noch weitgehend ungeklärt. Der CO2-Düngeeffekt, höhere Temperaturen und die Verlängerung der Vegetationsperiode bieten aber auch Chancen für die deutsche Landwirtschaft, vor allem für den Pflanzenbau. Im Vergleich zu anderen Regionen der Welt werden die Produktionsbedingungen in Mitteleuropa voraussichtlich auch künftig stabil und günstig für den Pflanzenbau bleiben. Damit verbunden sind Möglichkeiten, stabil hohe und ggf. höhere pflanzenbauliche Erträge zu erzielen und die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit der deutschen Landwirtschaft an den Weltagrarmärkten zu verbessern. Zum Teil kann durch eine Anpassung der Produktionssysteme von Kulturpflanzen und in der Tierhaltung mit relativ einfachen Maßnahmen auf Klimaänderungen reagiert werden. Es werden jedoch weitere Maßnahmen und vor allem auch Strategien für den Umgang mit Klimafolgen und Extremwetterereignissen benötigt. Insgesamt wird eine regionalspezifische Ausrichtung der Produktionssysteme immer wichtiger. Im Forst ist es von essentieller Bedeutung, die am besten an die zukünftigen Klimabedingungen einzelner Standorte angepassten Baumarten und Herkünfte zu identifizieren und in die Bestände zu integrieren. Parallel dazu sollte die Identifizierung der genetischen Grundlagen einzelner Resistenz- und Toleranzmerkmale gegenüber abiotischen und biotischen Schadfaktoren verstärkt erforscht und die Ergebnisse für die gezielte Züchtung resistenter Bäume genutzt werden.Für den Ackerbau werden angepasste und tolerante Sorten sowie Ertragsmodelle benötigt, die sowohl Schäden durch Extremwetterereignisse als auch durch Schaderreger vorbeugen, aber auch positive Faktoren und Interaktionen nutzen können. Die Modelle werden auch als Grundlage der Bewertung von Risikomanagementsystemen benötigt. Zudem besteht Bedarf an der Entwicklung von (digitalen) Entscheidungshilfen für den bestmöglichen und effektivsten Düngezeitpunkt, eine gezielte Bewässerung oder auch die Anwendung von Pflanzenschutzmitteln. Anpassungsmaßnahmen sollten anhand ihrer Kosten und Nutzen aus ökonomischer, ökologischer und gesellschaftlicher Sicht bewertet werden. Um Handlungsempfehlungen zum Anbau einzelner Kulturen an verschiedenen Standorten erarbeiten zu können, ist neben der wissenschaftlichen Analyse der Risiken ebenso die weitere Erforschung der Chancen, die sich durch die erwarteten Klimaänderungen ergeben könnten, erforderlich. [...]
C31|Investment subsidies and regional welfare: A dynamic framework|Subsidising investment in lagging regions is an important regional policy instrument in many countries. Some argue that this instrument is not specific enough to concentrate the aid towards the regions that are lagging behind most, because investment subsidies benefit capital owners who might reside elsewhere, possibly in very rich places. Checking under which conditions this is true is thus highly policy relevant. The present paper studies regional investment subsidies in a multiregional neoclassical dynamic framework. We set up a model with trade in heterogeneous goods, with a perfectly integrated financial capital market and sluggish adjustment of regional capital stocks. Consumers and investors act under perfect foresight. We derive the equilibrium system, show how to solve it, and simulate actual European regional subsidies in computational applications. We find that the size of the welfare gains depends on the portfolio distribution held by the households. If households own diversified asset portfolios, we find that the supported regions gain roughly the amounts that are allocated to them in the form of investment subsidies. If they only own local capital stocks, a part of the money is lost through the drop in share prices. From the point of view of total welfare, the subsidy is not efficient. It can lead to a welfare loss for the EU as a whole and definitely leads to welfare losses in the rest of the world, from where investment ows to the supported EU regions.
C31|Recoverability|When can structural shocks be recovered from observable data? We present a necessary and sufficient condition that gives the answer for any linear model. Invertibility, which requires that shocks be recoverable from current and past data only, is sufficient but not necessary. This means that semi-structural empirical methods like structural vector autoregression analysis can be applied even to models with non-invertible shocks. We illustrate these results in the context of a simple model of consumption determination with productivity shocks and non-productivity noise shocks. In an application to postwar U.S. data, we find that non-productivity shocks account for a large majority of fluctuations in aggregate consumption over business cycle frequencies.
C31|Effects of US quantitative easing on emerging market economies|We estimate international spillover effects of US Quantitative Easing (QE) on emerging market economies. Using a Bayesian VAR on monthly US macroeconomic and financial data, we first identify the US QE shock with non-recursive identifying restrictions. We estimate strong and robust macroeconomic and financial impacts of the US QE shock on US output, consumer prices, long-term yields, and asset prices. The identified US QE shock is then used in a monthly Bayesian panel VAR for emerging market economies to infer the spillover effects on these countries. We find that an expansionary US QE shock has significant effects on financial variables in emerging market economies. It leads to an exchange rate appreciation, a reduction in long-term bond yields, a stock market boom, and an increase in capital inflows to these countries. These effects on financial variables are stronger for the “Fragile Five” countries compared to other emerging market economies. We however do not find significant effects of the US QE shock on output and consumer prices of emerging markets.
C31|El efecto de las variaciones de los ingresos y precios en la demanda de alimentos para los hogares urbanos de Bolivia: Enfoque de Seguridad Alimentaria|El aporte de este documento es conocer cuál es el efecto de los cambios en ingresos y precios en la demanda de alimentos para los hogares urbanos de Bolivia. El objetivo principal es estudiar cómo estos cambios en precios e ingresos influyen en el acceso y parte de la utilización de alimentos de la seguridad alimentaria. Para ello se emplea la Encuesta de Hogares (EH) 2015 que permite la estimación del Sistema Casi Ideal de Demanda (AIDS) de cinco grupos alimentarios: productos de origen animal, verduras, frutas; pan, cereales y almidón, y otros. Se halla que la cantidad demandada de ciertos grupos alimentarios se ve afectada en mayor magnitud vía ingresos o precios, como también que, a mayor nivel de ingreso de los hogares, menor la magnitud del efecto sustitución.
C31|Estimating Models with Dynamic Network Interactions and Unobserved Heterogeneity|In this paper, we propose an approach to estimate models with network interactions in the presence of individual unobserved heterogeneity. The latter may impact the formation of ties and/or exogenous effects, thereby undermining identification of the associated parameters. In a panel setting, we devise a way to cope with these sources of endogeneity by relying on observable variations. When exogenous effects are involved, one can control for unobserved heterogeneity by including time-averages of the endogenous variables. When unobserved individual traits affect the process of network formation, it is possible to explore the role of network statistics. We derive a 2SLS estimator in order to address simultaneity bias, relying on sources of variation provided by the product between successive powers of the network matrix and the matrix of exogenous covariates; we assess the performances of the method via a Monte Carlo exercise, considering various combination of models and different ranges of parameters for both network interactions and the social multiplier. We also separately assess the cases in which unobserved sources hit the network structure only or act on exogenous effects as well. Focusing on the former case, our approach may be also applied when a simple cross-section is available. More generally, it does not require full knowledge of the spectrum of agents' interactions.
C31|Spatial Approach to Heterogeneity of Inflation Expectations in the Euro Area|In this article, we examine the spatial heterogeneities in inflation expectations of the euro area consumers. We expect to find them heterogeneous in our research period of 2001-2016. Contrary to standard examination of heterogeneity, a spatial correlation analysis is applied by referring to global and local correlation measures. It is performed with the economic distance-based weights (the difference in HICP rates). Application of spatial analysis is the main contribution of our examination. Standard examinations ignore spatial relations and might be misleading. Our findings suggest that expectations are heterogeneous once the differences of inflation rates represent economic distance between the countries that we cover by our examination.
C31|Generation of regional input-output tables: a spatial econometric approach with illustrative simulations for France,Germany and Poland|This paper investigates the construction of multisector-multiregion input-output tables by using spatial econometric methods. I demonstrate that, under reasonable assumptions, the problem of finding Leontief's technical coeffecients can be formulated as a modified multi-equation spatial Durbin model and the missing parameters can be estimated via maximum likelihood. The resulting coefficients are computed as a function of country-wide coeffiecients, as well as distance and regional-sectorial data on value added. The statistical performance of the model is scrutinized and the method is illustrated with simulations of regional (NUTS-3 level) economic impact assessment - for generic companies located in Southern France, Germany and Poland.
C31|An analysis of the distributive effects of public policies and their spillovers|The purpose of this work is to define and identify the effects of treatment saturation on the several quantiles of the outcome variable in the presence of treatment spillover. Exploring the variation resulting from two stage randomization, we propose and estimator that depends on the proportion of treated individuals allowing estimate quantile direct, indirect and saturation treatment effects. In addition we also defined and identified que unconditional quantile private and spillover effects which is similar to the average effects of Phillipson (2000).
C31|Estimating a non-neutral production function: a heterogeneous treatment effect approach|This paper addresses the issue of estimating a production function that allows us to depart from the standard hypothesis of Hicks neutrality while also coping with the endogeneity of a dummy innovation variable. We consider specifications that relax Hicks neutrality, and we derive the testable conditions for common parametric approximations under which Hicks neutrality holds. The model is estimated through instrumental variables methods, allowing for a heterogeneous effect of innovation on the production process. The econometric analysis rejects Hicks neutrality and highlights three main features: i) a capital-saving technology of innovative with respect to non-innovative firms, ii) a locally progressive technical change and iii) fully heterogeneous technologies when comparing innovative to non-innovative firms.
C31|Inference for Iterated GMM Under Misspecification and Clustering|This paper develops a new distribution theory and inference methods for over-identified Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimation focusing on the iterated GMM estimator, allowing for moment misspecification, and for clustered dependence with heterogeneous and growing cluster sizes. This paper is the first to provide a rigorous theory for the iterated GMM estimator. We provide conditions for its existence by demonstrating that the iteration sequence is a contraction mapping. Our asymptotic theory allows the moments to be possibly misspecified, which is a general feature of approximate over-identified models. This form of moment misspecification causes bias in conventional standard error estimation. Our results show how to correct for this standard error bias. Our paper is also the first to provide a rigorous distribution theory for the GMM estimator under cluster dependence. Our distribution theory is asymptotic, and allows for heterogeneous and growing cluster sizes. Our results cover standard smooth moment condition models, including dynamic panels, which is a common application for GMM with cluster dependence. Our simulation results show that conventional heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors are highly biased under moment misspecification, severely understating estimation uncertainty, and resulting in severely over-sized hypothesis tests. In contrast, our misspecification-robust standard errors are approximately unbiased and properly sized under both correct specification and misspecification. We illustrate the method by extending the empirical work reported in Acemoglu, Johnson, Robinson, and Yared (2008, American Economic Review) and Cervellati, Jung, Sunde, and Vischer (2014, American Economic Review). Our results reveal an enormous effect of iterating the GMM estimator, demonstrating the arbitrari- ness of using one-step and two-step estimators. Our results also show a large effect of using misspecification robust standard errors instead of the Arellano-Bond standard errors. Our results support Acemoglu, Johnson, Robinson, and Yared’s conclusion of an insignificant effect of income on democracy, but reveal that the heterogeneous effects documented by Cervellati, Jung, Sunde, and Vischer are less statistically significant than previously claimed.
C31|Real Exchange Rate Misalignment and Economic Growth : An Update|This paper empirically examines the relationship between real exchange rate misalignment and economic growth by using an updated data set over the sample period 1990-2014 for a large number of countries. Our findings indicate that the measure of real exchange rate misalignment is positively associated with economic growth for the low and middle-income countries whereas no significant relationship between these two for richer countries, implying the more overvalued the currency is over the long run, the lower the long-run growth rate of per capita income in developing countries. A plausible interpretation of this finding is that following the financial liberalization, large capital inflows and lending boom lead to appreciation of real exchange rates in the majority of developing countries. Prolonged real appreciation may result in lower long-run growth because of two channels: first, by changing resource allocation in favour of nontraded-goods sector it may reduce the long-term growth prospects; and second, by promoting private debt denominated in foreign currency it makes economy more vulnerable to external shocks, that is due to contractionary balance-sheet effects, a sudden and sharp real depreciation, which often happens in the boost cycle, may have a negative effect on output and growth.
C31|Sharp Bounds and Testability of a Roy Model of STEM Major Choices|We analyze the empirical content of the Roy model, stripped down to its essential features, namely sector specific unobserved heterogeneity and self-selection on the basis of potential outcomes. We characterize sharp bounds on the joint distribution of potential outcomes and testable implications of the Roy self-selection model under an instrumental constraint on the joint distribution of potential outcomes we call stochastically monotone instrumental variable (SMIV). We show that testing the Roy model selection is equivalent to testing stochastic monotonicity of observed outcomes relative to the instrument. We apply our sharp bounds to the derivation of a measure of departure from Roy self-selection to identify values of observable characteristics that induce the most costly misallocation of talent and sector and are therefore prime targets for intervention. Special emphasis is put on the case of binary outcomes, which has received little attention in the literature to date. For richer sets of outcomes, we emphasize the distinction between point-wise sharp bounds and functional sharp bounds, and its importance, when constructing sharp bounds on functional features, such as inequality measures. We analyze a Roy model of college major choice in Canada and Germany within this framework, and we take a new look at the under-representation of women in STEM.
C31|Identification in One-to-One Matching Models with Nonparametric Unobservables|This paper considers a one-to-one matching model with transferable utilities, in two-sided markets. In the model, the agents have preferences over some observable agent characteristics (called types) on the other side of the market. There are other observed characteristics aggregated at the level of types that determine the systematic preferences over these types. These systematic preferences enter the agent utilities in the form of a linear index. Agents also have idiosyncratic taste shocks. This paper shows the identification of systematic preference parameters over types, without making any parametric assumptions on the distribution of the unobserved taste shocks. The matching model reduces to two separate discrete-choice problems linked together by market clearing conditions, satisfied in the presence of equilibrium transfers. However, transfers are endogenous and unobserved which makes the discrete-choice problem non-standard. This paper gives conditions under which transfers are simply functions of the linear indices. This insight along with variation across i.i.d. markets is used to reduce the matching model to a semiparametric multi-index model with an unknown link function. Identification is shown under appropriate exclusion restrictions on the regressors.
C31|Macronutrient balances and body mass index: a new insight using compositional data analysis with a total at various quantile orders|Vietnam launched the national Expanded Program on Immunization in 1981. Since then, this program has contributed signi cantly to the improvement of child health and to the reduction of child mortality rate. Despite of the fact that the coverage of the national EPI keeps expanding, the number of children who complied with the recommended immunization schedule remains low. This article studies the progress of the timeliness childhood immunization compliance among children between 0-5 years of age in Vietnam from 2006 to 2014 and analyzes the socio-economic factors that account for the changes of the compliance rate during this period. The dataset is extracted from the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey in 2006 and 2014. We rst identify the socio-economic factors that impact on the vaccination compliance rate using a logistic regression model. Next, we apply the decomposition method to determine the contribution of each factor on the evolution of the timeliness childhood immunization compliance. The progress of the timeliness childhood immunization has been positive and the major contribution comes from the structure e ect (unmeasured e ect). Rural areas show a stronger improvement as of 2014. Among the socio-economic factors, mother education and birth order are the ones that have the larger in uence on the childhood immunization compliance rate. However, these factors have di erent implications in urban and rural areas. These ndings are critical to the current context of Vietnam where the government is designing a strategy focusing on the e ectiveness rather than the traditional coverage indicator.
C31|Tracking and specialization of high schools: heterogeneous effects of school choice|We analyze the impact of choosing for an elite school on high school graduation in an early tracking system. We apply our analysis to Belgium, where schools can offer one or more tracks, but elite schools offer only the academic track. We derive a non-significant average effect, but there is substantial heterogeneity. Students who self- select into elite schools experience a 4 percentage point drop in their chances to obtain a degree. This can be explained by track switching. Students with a high preference for elite schools do not want to leave this school to sort into a better suited track.
C31|A Monte Carlo investigation of the effects of spatial heterogeneity of preferences for discrete choice models|There are reasons researchers may be interested in accounting for spatial heterogeneity of preferences, including avoiding model misspecification and the resulting bias, and deriving spatial maps of willingness-to-pay (WTP), which are relevant for policy-making and environmental management. We employ a Monte Carlo simulation of three econometric approaches to parametrically account for spatial auto-correlation in discrete choice models. The first is based on the analysis of individual-specific estimates of the mixed logit model. The second extends this model to explicitly account for spatial correlation, instead of simply conditioning individual-specific estimates on population-level distributions and individuals’ choices. The third is the geographically weighted multinomial logit model, which incorporates spatial dimensions using geographical weights to estimate location-specific choice models. We analyze the performance of these methods in recovering population-, region- and individual-level preference parameter estimates and implied WTP in the case of spatial autocorrelation. We find that, although ignoring spatial autocorrelation did not significantly bias population-level results of the simple mixed logit model, neither individual-specific estimates nor the geographically weighted multinomial logit model was able to reliably recover the true region- and individual-specific parameters. We show that the spatially-autocorrelated mixed logit proposed in this study is promising and outline possibilities for future development.
C31|Voter behavior and government performance: Empirical application in Ghana|Electoral competition is a democratic mechanism to guarantee high governmental performance. In reality, however, it often leads to policy failure due to Government Capture and Government Accountability. An understanding of both phenomena has to be based on voter theory and nowadays the probabilistic voter model is the workhorse model applied in voter studies. In this paper we first proceeded to derive a theoretical model to estimate voter behavior including three voting motives: non-policy oriented, policy oriented and retrospective oriented. Then, we derived government performance indicators to estimate Capture and Accountability based on marginal effects and relative importance of the three components. Subsequently, we tested our theory estimating a probabilistic voter model for Ghana using own election survey data. In particular, we calculated different mixed logit model specifications and, to allow heterogeneity, we followed the latent class approach. Using the results of the estimations, we were able to calculate marginal effects and relative importance of each voting motive and we found that the non-policy component is the most important whereas the retrospective component is the less relevant. Finally, the government performance indicators were estimated and they suggest that, although the political weights are unequally distributed in Ghana, the government is partially accountable towards the voter and elections provide an effective mechanism to promote democracy.
C31|News or Noise? The Missing Link|The literature on belief-driven business cycles treats news and noise as distinct representations of agents' beliefs. We prove they are empirically the same. Our result lets us isolate the importance of purely belief-driven fluctuations. Using three prominent estimated models, we show that existing research understates the importance of pure beliefs. We also explain how differences in both economic environment and information structure affect the estimated importance of pure beliefs.
C31|Nowcasting Finnish Turnover Indexes Using Firm-Level Data|Abstract We adopt a series of shrinkage and factor analytic methodologies to compute nowcasts of the main Finnish turnover indexes, using continuously accumulating firm-level data. We show that the estimates based on large dimensional models provide an accurate and timelier alternative to the ones produced currently by Statistics Finland, even after taking into account data revisions. In particular, we find that the turnovers for the service sector can be estimated with high accuracy five days after the reference month has ended, giving more accurate and faster predictions compared to the first official internal release. For other sectors, the large dimensional models provide a good nowcasting performance, even though there is a timeliness-accuracy trade off. Finally, we propose a factor-based methodology to improve the accuracy of the current flash estimates by imputing part of the data sources, and find that we are able to provide better predictions in a more expedited fashion for all sectors of interest.
C31|New methods for resilient societies: The geographical analysis of injury data|In this paper an empirical assessment of injury patterns is supplied as an example of social endurance - resilient societies can be built by means of geographical analysis of injury data, providing better support for decision makers regarding urban safety. Preventing road traffic collisions with vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, could help mitigate significant loses and improve infrastructure planning. In this sense, the geographical aspects of injury prevention are of clear spatial analog, and should be tested regarding the carrying capacity of urban areas as well as vulnerability for growing urban regions. The application of open source development tool for spatial analysis research in health studies is addressed. The study aims to create a framework of available open source tools through Python that enable better decision making through a systematic review of existing tools for spatial analysis. Methodologically, spatial autocorrelation indices are tested as well as influential variables are brought forward to establish a better understanding of the incremental concern of injuries in rural areas, in general, and in the Greater Toronto Area, in particular. By using Python Library for Spatial Analysis (PySAL), an integrative vision of assessing a growing epidemiological concern of injuries in Toronto, one of North America’s fastest growing economic metropolises is offered. In this sense, this study promotes the use of PySAL and open source toolsets for integrating spatial analysis and geographical analysis for health practitioners. The novelty and capabilities of open source tools through methods such as PySAL allow for a cost efficiency as well as give planning an easier methodological toolbox for advances spatial modelling techniques.
C31|A local spatial analysis criterion of post-traumatic brain injury and accessibility to public transportation|Reported cases of traumatic brain injuries are increasing among the Canadian population. With an annual rate of 187,000 reported cases a year and growing, there is an extrapolated growth of 239,000 cases of traumatic brain injuries occurring annually by 2036. As Ontario intends to be a completely accessible province for those with disabilities by 2025, this paper utilizes GIS to visualize and better understand the relationship between post-TBI residents living in Brampton and their accessibility to public transportation. As Brampton is currently the most expensive city to insure a vehicle because of frequent collisions occurring within the city, creating a more accessible, reliable, and efficient public transportation system can integrate those who have experienced a traumatic brain injury back into society while reducing the required use of a personal vehicle. This will contribute to a safer city, as there are fewer vehicles on the road at risk of being involved in a road accident. There are also further benefits to this, as it will also reduce levels of congestion in the foreseeable future.
C31|Spatial Assessment of Road Traffic Injuries in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA): Spatial Analysis Framework|This research presents a Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and spatial analysis approach based on the global spatial autocorrelation of road traffic injuries for identifying spatial patterns. A locational spatial autocorrelation was also used for identifying traffic injury at spatial level. Data for this research study were acquired from Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI) based on 2004 and 2011. Moran’s I statistics were used to examine spatial patterns of road traffic injuries in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). An assessment of Getis-Ord Gi* statistic was followed as to identify hot spots and cold spots within the study area. The results revealed that Peel and Durham have the highest collision rate for other motor vehicle with motor vehicle. Geographic weighted regression (GWR) technique was conducted to test the relationships between the dependent variable, number of road traffic injury incidents and independent variables such as number of seniors, low education, unemployed, vulnerable groups, people smoking and drinking, urban density and average median income. The result of this model suggested that number of seniors and low education have a very strong correlation with the number of road traffic injury incidents.
C31|Vulnerability from trade in Vietnam|This paper assesses vulnerability from trade in Vietnam by presenting an extended version of Ligon and Schechter’s (2003) Vulnerability as low Expected Utility (VEU) measure. It uses the VHLSS panel data covering the period 2002-06. The empirical results show that risk-induced vulnerability and heterogeneity in trade exposure matters in determining household overall vulnerability and that this is not linked to the actual manifestation of shocks. Although it does not represent, by any means, an argument against free trade, this work is relevant for policymaking since it contributes to deepen our knowledge on the subtle links between trade openness and vulnerability providing some insight on the stabilisation needs of trade reforms. These include protecting vulnerable farmers from excessive price volatility, as well as fostering their risk management strategies.
C31|Common Factors, spatial dependence, and regional growth in the Italian manufacturing industry|We review the methods currently available for the analysis of regional datasets characterised by possible non-stationarity over time and both strong and weak spatial dependence and present, as a representative case study, a comparative analysis of the regional development of the Italian manufacturing industries in the second halves of the 19th and 20th centuries. For highly heterogenous datasets we suggest a two-stages approach: (1) fit a dynam factor model with endogenous determination of the number of factors; (2) estimate a spatial model for the de-factored data. Applying this strategy we find two similar non-stationary afctors sufficient to explain long-run growth of the whole set of series examined in both centuries. Further, the results suggest that some conditional spatial error correction mechanisms seem to have been in action in both centuries.
C31|Estimation of Output Gap for Pakistan|A comprehensive exercise is conducted for the estimation of potential output and output gap for Pakistan while considering shortcomings of existing relevant literature. A number of approaches, combining both state-space and structural estimation have been employed for this purpose. These include Bayesian inference, multivariate filter method, vector auto regression (with identification restrictions), state-space model and univariate filtering for estimation of output gap and potential output. The study finds fall in potential output growth of Pakistan during FY09 – FY13, has increased the economy’s vulnerability by making it more susceptible to demand shocks. Forecast of output gap on quarterly and annual frequencies for FY17 is also presented portraying upbeat aggregate demand going forward.
C31|Estimating Counterfactual Treatment Effects to Assess External Validity|We propose statistical methods for assessing the external validity of treatment effect estimates obtained in a specific status-quo environment. In particular, we estimate counterfactual quantile treatment effects that would obtain if one were to change the composition of the population targeted by the status-quo treatment. Assuming unconfoundedness, and the invariance of the conditional distributions of the potential outcomes, the parameter of interest is identified and can be nonparametrically estimated by a kernel-based method. Viewed as a random function over the continuum of quantile indices, the estimator converges weakly to a zero mean Gaussian process at the parametric rate. Exploiting this result, we propose a multiplier bootstrap procedure to construct uniform confidence bands. We provide similar results for the counterfactually treated subpopulation and the average effect. As an application, we estimate the counterfactual quantile treatment effect of the Job Corps training program in the U.S. under various scenarios. The results suggest that strong economic conditions and the skill hypotheses both help explain the earlier finding in the literature that the program was ineffective at low quantiles of the earnings distribution.
C31|Gelişmiş ve Gelişmekte Olan Ülkelerde Ar&Ge Harcamaları ve Ekonomik Büyüme Arasındaki İlişki: Panel Veri Analizi|The main purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between research and development (R&D) expenditures and economic growth, based on 26 some developed and developing countries (Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Ireland, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Hungary, Latvia, Netherland, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Finland, Sweden, United Kingdom, Iceland, Norway). For this purpose, we used endogenous growth model of Romer (1990), which claims that technological change is the major source of productivity growth in the long run. Inthiscontext, usingannualdatawhich has taken from Eurostat; an empirical model has beendeveloped in the scope of the dynamic panel data analysis forth-period 1996-2014. The model includes real gross domestic product per capita (GDPRC) and gross domestic expenditures on R&D as an indicator of technological change (innovation). At the empirical part, firstly heterogeneity of the variables were investigate during the Delta test (Pesaran ve Yamagata, 2008), and then the existence of dependency between cross-sectional units that make series were examined by the CADF and Hadri-Kurozumi tests. After proving cointegration between series with Westurlund ECM test; Dumitrescu-Hurlin (2012) and Emirmahmutoğlu-Köse (2011) panel causality tests were applied. According to the empirical results, in the long term there is one way causal relationship from R&D expenditures to economic growth for some selected developed and developing countries.
C31|The Effectiveness of Hiring Credits|This paper analyzes the effectiveness of hiring credits. Using comprehensive administrative data, we show that the French hiring credit, implemented during the Great Recession, had significant positive employment effects and no effects on wages. Relying on the quasi-experimental variation in labor cost triggered by the hiring credit, we estimate a structural search and matching model. Simulations of counterfactual policies show that the effectiveness of the hiring credit relied to a large extent on three features: it was non-anticipated, temporary and targeted at jobs with rigid wages. We estimate that the cost per job created by permanent hiring credits, either countercyclical or time-invariant, in an environment with flexible wages would have been much higher.
C31|Weighting schemes in global VAR modelling: a forecasting exercise|Abstract We provide a comprehensive analysis of the out-of-sample predictive accuracy of different global vector autoregressive (GVAR) specifications based on alternative weighting schemes to address global spillovers across countries. In addition to weights based on bilateral trade, we entertain schemes based on different financial variables and geodesic distance. Our results indicate that models based on trade weights, which are standard in the literature, are systematically outperformed in terms of predictive accuracy by other specifications. We find that, while information on financial linkages helps improve the forecasting accuracy of GVAR models, averaging predictions by means of simple predictive likelihood weighting does not appear to systematically lead to lower forecast errors.
C31|Analysing Cross-Currency Basis Spreads|This paper investigates the drivers of cross-currency basis spreads, which were historically close to zero but have widened significantly since the start of the financial crisis. Credit and liquidity risk, as well as supply and demand have often been cited as general factors driving cross-currency basis spreads, however, these spreads may widen beyond what is normally explained by such variables. We suggest market proxies for EUR/USD basis swap spread drivers and build a multiple regression and cointegration model to explain their significance during three different historical periods of basis widening. The most important drivers of the cross-currency basis spreads appear to be short- and medium-term EU financial sector credit risk indicators, and to a slightly lesser extent, short- and medium-term US financial sector credit risk indicators. Another important driver is market volatility for the short-end basis spread, and the EUR/USD exchange rate for the medium term basis spread, and to a lesser extent, the Fed/ECB balance sheet ratio.
C31|Vulnerability from trade in Vietnam|This paper assesses vulnerability from trade in Vietnam by presenting an extended version of Ligon and Schechter’s (2003) Vulnerability as low Expected Utility (VEU) measure. It uses the VHLSS panel data covering the period 2002-06. The empirical results show that risk-induced vulnerability and het-erogeneity in trade exposure matters in determining household overall vulnerability and that this is not linked to the actual manifestation of shocks. Although it does not represent, by any means, an argument against free trade, this work is relevant for policymaking since it contributes to deepen our knowledge on the subtle links between trade openness and vulnerability providing some insight on the stabilisation needs of trade reforms. These include protecting vulnerable farmers from excessive price volatility, as well as fostering their risk management strategies.
C31|Consistent estimation of linear regression models using matched data|Economists often use matched samples, especially when dealing with earnings data where a number of missing observations need to be imputed. In this paper, we demonstrate that the ordinary least squares estimator of the linear regression model using matched samples is inconsistent and has a non-standard convergence rate to its probability limit. If only a few variables are used to impute the missing data, then it is possible to correct for the bias. We propose two semiparametric bias-corrected estimators and explore their asymptotic properties. The estimators have an indirect-inference interpretation, and they attain the parametric convergence rate when the number of matching variables is no greater than four. Monte Carlo simulations confirm that the bias correction works very well in such cases.
C31|Migration and gender in South Africa: following bright lights and the fortunes of others?|Internal migration in South Africa has a strong gender dimension. Historically, the apartheid-era migrant labour system meant that predominantly black African men moved to urban areas without their families. After the abolition of influx controls in 1986, many women relocated, presumably to join their male partners. The period of migration feminization was also coupled with labour market feminization. However, existing research shows that increased female labour supply was poorly matched by labour market absorption, leading to rising unemployment among black African women. This paper studies incentives for female migration in this context, by building a gravity model of male and female inter-municipal migration. We find that neither men nor women move primarily for family reasons. Instead, they follow the traditional male migrant route to well-lit economic centres. Women also do not migrate primarily for increases in their own labour market opportunities, but tend to flock to regions where other fortunate groups have higher earnings potential. While this might signal that migrants base relocation decisions on incorrect information (and could in turn explain why many migrants have unfulfilled expectations), our results also show that women not only move for work, but for public services. The implications are twofold if migration is to alleviate poverty in the long run: firstly, in the short run, management of public resources must improve, as poor (women) place large emphasis on their effect; and secondly, labour market barriers – especially into the informal sector – should be better understood.
C31|The changing international network of sovereign debt and financial institutions|"We develop a theoretical and empirical framework for the connections between global financial and sovereign CDS markets. The transmission of shocks is shown to affect the systemic default probability of the international network. The network is found to be ""robust but fragile"", meaning that a shock can result in the propagation of crises. Between 2003 and 2013, the probability of default in the network in the face of potentially poor investment outcomes and/or sovereign bond haircuts changes sub-stantially. The results suggest that it is the interconnectedness of the financial and sovereign debt markets that provides increased protection against financial fragility."
C31|Job Displacement during the Great Recession: Tight Bounds on Distributional Treatment Effect Parameters using Panel Data|Late prime-age workers who were displaced during the Great Recession lost on average 39% of their earnings relative to their counterfactual earnings had they not been displaced. But the average effect masks substantial heterogeneity across workers. This paper develops new techniques to bound distributional treatment effect parameters that depend on the joint distribution of potential outcomes -- an object not identified by standard identifying assumptions such as selection on observables or even when treatment is randomly assigned. I show that panel data and an additional assumption on the dependence between untreated potential outcomes for the treated group over time (i) provide more identifying power for distributional treatment effect parameters than existing bounds and (ii) provide a more plausible set of conditions than existing methods that obtain point identification.
C31|Comparing Econometric Methods to Empirically Evaluate Job-Search Assistance|We test whether different empirical methods give different results when evaluating job-search assistance programs. Budgetary problems at the Dutch unemployment insurance (UI) administration in March 2010, caused a sharp drop in the availability of these programs. Using administrative data provided by the UI administration, we evaluate the effect of the program using (1) the policy discontinuity as a quasiexperiment, (2) conventional matching methods, and (3) the timing-of-events model. All three methods use the same data to consider the same program in the same setting, and also yield similar results. The program reduces job finding during the first six months after enrollment. At longer durations, the quasi-experimental estimates are not significantly different from zero, while the non-experimental methods show a small negative effect.
C31|Geostatistical Binary Data: Models, Properties And Connections|This work considers models for geostatistical data for situations in which the region where the phenomenon of interest varies is partitioned into two disjoint subregions, which is called a binary map. The goals of this work are threefold. First, a review is provided of the classes of models that have been proposed so far for geostatistical binary data as well as a description of their main features. Second, a generalization is provided of a spatial multivariate probit model that eases regression function modeling, interpretation of the regression parameters, and establishing connections with other models. The second-order properties of this model are studied in some detail. Finally, connections between the aforementioned classes of models are established, showing that some of these are reformulations (reparametrizations) of the other models.
C31|Simple and Trustworthy Cluster-Robust GMM Inference|This paper develops a new asymptotic theory for two-step GMM estimation and inference in the presence of clustered dependence. The key feature of alternative asymptotics is the number of clusters G is regarded as small or xed when the sample size increases. Under the small-G asymptotics, this paper shows the centered two-step GMM estimator and the two continuously-updating GMM estimators we consider have the same asymptotic mixed normal distribution. In addition, the J statistic, the trinity of two-step GMM statistics (QLR, LM and Wald), and the t statistic are all asymptotically pivotal, and each can be modi ed to have an asymptotic standard F distribution or t distribution. We suggest a nite sample variance correction to further improve the accuracy of the F and t approximations. Our proposed asymptotic F and t tests are very appealing to practitioners because our test statistics are simple modi cations of the usual test statistics, and critical values are readily available from standard statistical tables. A Monte Carlo study shows that our proposed tests are more accurate than the conventional inferences under the large-G asymptotics.
C31|The Joint Distribution of Income and Wealth in Uruguay|This paper analyzes the joint distribution of income and wealth in Uruguay, and compares it to that of Chile, Spain and the U.S. using data from Surveys of Household Finances and Wealth. First, we analyze income and wealth separately and find that wealth is much more concentrated and notably more asymmetric than income. Afterwards, we provide non-parametric estimation of copulas for income and wealth. As expected, high income households are among the wealthiest, while low income households are mostly in the bottom of the wealth distribution, but dependence at the top is much stronger. Although this fact is observed in all the economies analyzed, by performing a test of equality between copulas we find that the pattern of dependence significantly varies across countries, except for the couple of Spain-Uruguay. Finally, we assess for the sources of income and wealth heterogeneity in Uruguay and conclude that education strongly influences income, wealth and the relationship between them. However, most of the wealth heterogeneity and some remarkable features of its relationship with income (in particular the peak at the top of the joint distribution) are not explained by the household characteristics commonly used to study income.
C31|Spatial differencing for sample selection models|This paper uses spatial differencing to estimate parameters in sample selection models with unobserved heterogeneity. We show that under the assumption of smooth changes across the space of unobserved site-specific heterogeneity and selection probability, key parameters of a sample selection model are identified. A simple estimation procedure is proposed and the formula for the estimator of the standard error is derived.
C31|Smoothed GMM for quantile models|This paper develops theory for feasible estimation and testing of finite-dimensional parameters identified by general conditional quantile restrictions, under much weaker assumptions than previously seen in the literature. This includes instrumental variables nonlinear quantile regression as a special case. More specifically, we consider a set of unconditional moments implied by the conditional quantile restrictions, providing conditions for local identification. Since estimators based on the sample moments are generally impossible to compute numerically in practice, we study feasible estimators based on smoothed sample moments. We propose a method of moments estimator for exactly identified models, as well as a generalized method of moments estimator for over-identified models. We establish consistency and asymptotic normality of both estimators under general conditions that allow for weakly dependent data and nonlinear structural models. Simulations with iid and dependent data illustrate the finite-sample properties. Our in-depth empirical application concerns the consumption Euler equation derived from quantile utility maximization. Advantages of the quantile Euler equation include robustness to fat tails, decoupling of risk attitude from the elasticity of intertemporal substitution, and log-linearization without any approximation error. For the four countries we examine, the quantile estimates of discount factor and elasticity of intertemporal substitution are economically reasonable for a range of quantiles above the median, even when two-stage least squares estimates are not reasonable.
C31|Smoothed GMM for quantile models|This paper develops theory for feasible estimators of finite-dimensional parameters identified by general conditional quantile restrictions, under much weaker assumptions than previously seen in the literature. This includes instrumental variables nonlinear quantile regression as a special case. More specifically, we consider a set of unconditional moments implied by the conditional quantile restrictions, providing conditions for local identification. Since estimators based on the sample moments are generally impossible to compute numerically in practice, we study feasible estimators based on smoothed sample moments. We propose a method of moments estimator for exactly identified models, as well as a generalized method of moments estimator for over-identified models. We establish consistency and asymptotic normality of both estimators under general conditions that allow for weakly dependent data and nonlinear structural models. Simulations illustrate the finite-sample properties of the methods. Our in-depth empirical application concerns the consumption Euler equation derived from quantile utility maximization. Advantages of the quantile Euler equation include robustness to fat tails, decoupling of risk attitude from the elasticity of intertemporal substitution, and log-linearization without any approximation error. For the four countries we examine, the quantile estimates of discount factor and elasticity of intertemporal substitution are economically reasonable for a range of quantiles above the median, even when two-stage least squares estimates are not reasonable.
C31|Attrition in Randomized Control Trials: Using tracking information to correct bias|This paper starts from a review of RCT studies in development economics, and documents many studies largely ignore attrition once attrition rates are found balanced between treatment arms. The paper analyzes the implications of attrition for the internal and external validity of the results of a randomized experiment with balanced attrition rates, and proposes a new method to correct for attrition bias. We rely on a 10-years longitudinal data set with a final attrition rate of 10 percent, obtained after intensive tracking of migrants, and document the sensitivity of ITT estimates for schooling gains and labour market outcomes for a social program in Nicaragua. We find that not including those found during the intensive tracking leads to an overestimate of the ITT effects for the target population by more than 35 percent, and that selection into attrition is driven by observable baseline characteristics. We propose to correct for attrition using inverse probability weighting with estimates of weights that exploit the similarities between missing individuals and those found during an intensive tracking phase. We compare these estimates with alternative strategies using regression adjustment, standard weights, bounds or proxy information.
C31|Online Annex – Economic Challenges of Lagging Regions: Annex II – Econometric Analysis and Supplemental Tables|This report is an annex to wiiw Research Report 423, ‘Economic Challenges of Lagging Regions III Recent Investment Trends and Needs’. Based on spatial econometric methods, it provides estimates and simulations of the investment effects on economic development in the EU lagging regions. It also provides additional data related to the analysis in wiiw Research Report 423.
C31|Non-discriminatory Trade Policies in Structural Gravity Models. Evidence from Monte Carlo Simulations|This paper provides Monte Carlo simulation evidence on the performance of methods used for identifying the effects of non-discriminatory trade policy (NDTP) variables in structural gravity models (SGM). The benchmarked methods include the identification strategy of Heid, Larch & Yotov (2015) that utilizes data on intra-national trade flows and three other methods that do not rely on this data. Results indicate that under the assumption of a data generating process that conforms with SGM theory, data on intra-national trade flows is required for identification. The bias of the three methods that do not utilize this data, is a result of the correlation between the NDTP variable and the collinear fixed effects. The MC results and an empirical application demonstrate the severity of this bias in methods that have been applied in previous empirical research.
C31|Hospital interdependence in a competitive institutional environment: Evidence from Italy|In this paper we study the impact of competition on hospital adverse health outcomes, using data on patients admitted to hospitals located in the Lombardy region in Italy between 2004 and 2013. We propose an economic framework that incorporates both short and long range forms of competition among hospitals. In a set up where prices are regulated, and under the assumption that hospitals are profit maximisers, hospital managers compete locally in quality to attract more patients. At the same time, managers have an incentive to compete with all other hospitals within the Lombardy region as their relative quality performance will potentially affect their future states. Our empirical model exploits methods from the graphical modelling literature to estimate local rivals, as well as the degree of local and global interdependence among hospitals. Our results show a significant positive degree of short and long range dependence, which suggests the existence of forms of local and global competition among hospitals with relevant implications for the healthcare policy.
C31|Do age complementarities affect labour productivity? Evidence from German firm level data|In Germany as in many other European countries there will be a shift in the age structure of the workforce in the next decades. The number of older workers will increase whereas the number of young and middle aged workers will decline. This paper provides evidence how the demographic ageing affects labor productivity. It focuses on age complementarities between workers. Using a cross sectional linked employer-employee data set from 2012 translog cost functions are estimated. To maintain consistency with microeconomic theory, several parameter constraints are imposed. To control for the skill level of the workers a nested production structure is applied. In addition, this allows to analyse the complementarities between different age groups by skill level. Based on the estimated parameters pairwise elasticities of complementarity and factor price elasticities are calculated. The results indicate that workers belonging to different age groups are complementary factors. The complementarities especially arise between young and medium aged workers and are higher within groups of high skilled labor. Simulating the expected shift in the age structure due to the demographic ageing indicates that the productivity of younger and middle aged workers will increase whereas the productivity of older workers will decline due to the complementary relationship between the different age groups.
C31|Is the gender pay gap in the us just the result of gender segregation at work?|This study examines the gender wage gap between male and female workers in the US using Current Population Survey (CPS) It shows that the extent of gender segregation is significantly greater than previously supposed. This creates problems of sample selection bias, of non-comparability between male and female employment. To address these problems the study uses a matching approach, which we also extend to a more recent methodological version with a yet stronger statistical foundation â€“ Inverse Probability Weighted Regression Adjustment (IPWRA). To secure even better comparability we repeat the matching analysis for a small number of industries and occupations, each of which employed similar numbers of men and women. The findings for the full sample are replicated at the level of industry and occupation, where comparability is more reliable. Even when important â€œcontrolâ€ variables such as education, part-time working or region are taken into account, a significant gender wage gap remains.
C31|How Do Regional Interactions in Space Affect China’s Mitigation Targets and Economic Development?|China is faced with the big challenge of maintaining a remarkable economic growth in an environmental friendly manner; that is why forecasting the turning point is of necessity. Traditional econometric approaches do not consider the spatial dependence that inevitably exists in the economic units, which probably risks misspecification and generating a biased estimation result. This paper firstly constructs Theil index to measure the intra-and inter regional inequality of CO2 emissions, we find that difference in emissions between regions is narrowed but gap within the Western China is sharply expanding. Then the Spatial Durbin model is employed to shape the relationship between mitigation and economic growth using the panel data of 29 provinces ranging from 1995 to 2011. Results show that the peak of per capita carbon dioxide emissions in China would be seen when GDP per capita reaches between $USD 21594 to 24737 (at 2000 constant price), much smaller when compared with the estimations of models which ignore the spatial dependence. This implies that territorial policy and industry transfer, on one hand would favor those underdeveloped regions with investment, technology and labors transfer; on the other hand enables developed regions more potential to mitigation, thus, chances are that China achieves the emissions peak of carbon dioxide earlier than conventional wisdom.
C31|Estimating Average Treatment Effects: Supplementary Analyses and Remaining Challenges|There is a large literature on semiparametric estimation of average treatment effects under unconfounded treatment assignment in settings with a fixed number of covariates. More recently attention has focused on settings with a large number of covariates. In this paper we extend lessons from the earlier literature to this new setting. We propose that in addition to reporting point estimates and standard errors, researchers report results from a number of supplementary analyses to assist in assessing the credibility of their estimates.
C31|Exchange rate elasticity of exports and the role of institutions|The impact of institutional quality on the exchange rate-export relation is assessed in a panel of 33 countries and quarterly time period of 1991Q1- 2016Q3. Empirical estimation is conducted in 2 steps. As a first step, using panel DOLS, FMOLS and PMG estimation techniques, it is confirmed that a negative and significant relation between exchange rates and exports exists. The estimation suggests that in the countries under study, 1% appreciation of the real effective exchange rate leads to, approximately, 0.55% decrease in total exports on average, holding other variables constant. In a separate cross-sectional estimation using simple OLS, some empirical evidence has been found to prove that institutional quality positively affects the exchange rate elasticity of exports. Also it has been shown that in oil exporting countries institutional quality has a greater impact on exchange rate-export link, compared to oil importers. But these results are only weakly significant and are not robust to the use of other proxy variables.
C31|Identification of Random Resource Shares in Collective Households Without Preference Similarity Restrictions|Resource shares, defined as the fraction of total household spending going to each person in a household, are important for assessing individual material well-being, inequality and poverty. They are difficult to identify because consumption is measured typically at the household level, and many goods are jointly consumed, so that individual-level consumption in multi-person households is not directly observed. We consider random resource shares, which vary across observationally identical households. We provide theorems that identify the distribution of random resource shares across households, including children’s shares. We also provide a new method of identifying the level of fixed or random resource shares that does not require previously needed preference similarity restrictions or marriage market assumptions. Our results can be applied to data with or without price variation. We apply our results to households in Malawi, estimating the distributions of child and female poverty across households.
C31|The evolution of regional economic interlinkages in Europe|This paper studies the dynamics of the propagation of regional business cycle shocks in Europe and uncovers new features of its underlying mechanisms. To address the lack of high frequency data at the regional level, we propose a new method to measure timevarying synchronization in small samples that combines regime-switching models and dynamic model averaging. The results indicate that: (i) in just two years, the Great Recession synchronized Europe twice as much as the European Union integration process did over several decades; (ii) Ile de France is the region acting as the main channel for the transmission of business cycle shocks in Europe; followed by Inner London and Lombardia; and (iii) we identify a nonlinear relationship between sectoral composition and regional synchronization, which was amplified in the wake of the Great Recession. Similarities in services sectors are primarily responsible for this nonlinear relationship.
C31|Social ties and the demand for financial services|This paper studies the importance of social interactions for the adoption of financial services among young adults. Specifically, we investigate whether, how, and why financial decisions among interacting agents are correlated. We exploit a unique dataset of friendship networks in the United States and a novel estimation strategy that accounts for possibly endogenous network formation. We find that not all social contacts are equally important: only long-lasting relationships influence financial decisions. Moreover, this peer influence exists only in cohesive social structures. This evidence is consistent with an important role of trust in financial decisions. When agents consider whether or not to adopt a financial instrument, they face a risk and may place greater value on information coming from agents they trust. These results can help explain the importance of face-to-face social contacts for financial decisions.
C31|Common correlated effect cross-sectional dependence corrections for non-linear conditional mean panel models|This paper provides an approach to estimation and inference for non-linear conditional mean panel data models, in the presence of cross-sectional dependence. We modify the common correlated effects (CCE) correction of Pesaran (2006) to filter out the interactive unobserved multifactor structure. The estimation can be carried out using non-linear least squares, by augmenting the set of explanatory variables with cross-sectional averages of both linear and non-linear terms. We propose pooled and mean group estimators, derive their asymptotic distributions, and show the consistency and asymptotic normality of the coefficients of the model. The features of the proposed estimators are investigated through extensive Monte Carlo experiments. We apply our method to estimate UK banks’ wholesale funding costs and explore the non-linear relationship between public debt and output growth.
C31|A financial stress index for the United Kingdom|In this paper we develop an index to monitor the intensity of financial stress in the UK over a period of 45 years. By aggregating various market-based indicators of financial stress from six major markets, we allow each indicator to be assessed in terms of its systemic importance. This enables the index to capture the interconnectedness of financial markets. The index successfully captures three episodes of heightened stress in UK financial history. We also attempt to determine how much a financial shock to the UK economy is amplified in a period of stress vis-à-vis a tranquil period. It involves exploring the dynamic relationship of the index with the UK real economy by two specifications of threshold vector auto-regression models. We find empirical evidence for the existence of feedback loops in the shock propagation between the real and the financial sector in the United Kingdom.
C31|Welfare Effects of R&D Support Policies|We build a structural model of the R&D subsidy process incorporating externalities, fixed costs of R&D, and financial market imperfections. We estimate the model using project level R&D and subsidy data from Finland. We conduct a counterfactual analysis of an optimal R&D tax credit policy, the first and second best policies, and laissez-faire with no support and compare them to the subsidy policy used in Finland. We find that the optimal R&D tax credit rate is 0.24, which is lower than the observed average R&D subsidy rate (0.36). R&D participation does not vary across regimes. The R&D investments and spillovers generated by the optimal R&D tax credit and subsidy policies are significantly higher than under laissez-faire but smaller than in the first and second best. Neither tax credits nor subsidies improve welfare compared to laissez-faire.
C31|Quasi-ML estimation, Marginal Effects and Asymptotics for Spatial Autoregressive Nonlinear Models|In this paper we propose a Partial-MLE for a general spatial nonlinear probit model, i.e. SARAR(1,1)-probit, defined through a SARAR(1,1) latent linear model. This model encompasses the SAE(1)-probit model, considered by Wang et al. (2013), and the more interesting SAR(1)-probit model. We perform a complete asymptotic analysis, and account for the possible finite sum approximation of the covariance matrix (Quasi-MLE) to speed the computation. Moreover, we address the issue of the choice of the groups (couples, in our case) by proposing an algorithm based on a minimum KL-divergence problem. Finally, we provide appropriate definitions of marginal effects for this setting. Finite sample properties of the estimator are studied through a simulation exercise and a real data application. In our simulations, we also consider both sparse and dense matrices for the specification of the true spatial models, and cases of model misspecifications due to different assumed weighting matrices.
C31|Networks of volatility spillovers among stock markets|In our network analysis of 40 developed, emerging and frontier stock markets during the 2006–2014 period, we describe and model volatility spillovers during both the global financial crisis and tranquil periods. The resulting market interconnectedness is depicted by fitting a spatial model incorporating several exogenous characteristics. We document the presence of significant temporal proximity effects between markets and somewhat weaker temporal effects with regard to the US equity market — volatility spillovers decrease when markets are characterized by greater temporal proximity. Volatility spillovers also present a high degree of interconnectedness, which is measured by high spatial autocorrelation. This finding is confirmed by spatial regression models showing that indirect effects are much stronger than direct effects; i.e., market-related changes in ‘neighboring’ markets (within a network) affect volatility spillovers more than changes in the given market alone, suggesting that spatial effects simply cannot be ignored when modeling stock market relationships. Our results also link spillovers of escalating magnitude with increasing market size, market liquidity and economic openness.
C31|Gender Peer Effects Heterogeneity in Obesity|This paper explores gender peer effects heterogeneity in adolescent Body Mass Index (BMI). We propose a utility-based non-cooperative social network model with effort technology. We allow the gender composition to influence peer effects. We analyze the possibility of recovering the fundamentals of our structural model from the best-response functions. We provide identification conditions of these functions generalizing those of the homogeneous version of the model. Extending Liu and Lee [2010], we consider 2SLS and GMM strategies to estimate our model using Add Health data. We provide tests of homophily in the formation of network and reject them after controlling for network (school) fixed effects. The joint (endogenous plus contextual) gender homogeneous model is rejected. However, we do not reject that the endogenous effects are the same.This suggests that the source of gender peer effects heterogeneity is the contextual effects. We find that peers’ age, parents’ education, health status, and race are relevant for the latter effects and are gender-dependent.
C31|Multinomial choice with social interactions: occupations in Victorian London|This paper presents a multinomial choice model with social interactions in an incomplete network. Individuals form heterogenous rational expectations about the behavior of peers by taking into account their characteristics and the strength of their ties. We show the network conditions under which the endogenous and exogenous effects can be separately identified even in the presence of correlated effects at the group level. Conditions for unique equilibrium are established. We apply our empirical model to occupational choice in nineteenth century London. Thanks to a newly constructed dataset, we use ecclesiastical parish boundaries as proxies for social groups and geographic distances between individuals as measures of the strength of their ties. Our results show that endogenous network effects were important above and beyond correlated and exogenous effects. We uncover distinct impact by occupation type: peers in professional and industrial occupations have a positive impact on the likelihood of following a similar occupation while commercial have a negative one.
C31|Attrition in randomized control trials: Using tracking information to correct bias|This paper starts from a review of RCT studies in development economics, and documents many studies largely ignore attrition once attrition rates are found balanced between treatment arms. The paper analyzes the implications of attrition for the internal and external validity of the results of a randomized experiment with balanced attrition rates, and proposes a new method to correct for attrition bias. We rely on a 10-years longitudinal data set with a nal attrition rate of 10 percent, obtained after intensive tracking of migrants, and document the sensitivity of ITT estimates for schooling gains and labour market outcomes for a social program in Nicaragua. We nd that not including those found during the intensive tracking leads to an overestimate of the ITT effects for the target population by more than 35 percent, and that selection into attrition is driven by observable baseline characteristics. We propose to correct for attrition using inverse probability weighting with estimates of weights that exploit the similarities between missing individuals and those found during an intensive tracking phase. We compare these estimates with alternative strategies using regression adjustment, standard weights, bounds or proxy information. JEL codes:
C31|Welfare effects of R&D support policies|We conduct a welfare analysis of R&D subsidies and tax credits using a model of innovation policy in corporating externalities, limited R&D participation and finanial market imperfetions. We estimate the model using R&D projet level data from Finland. The optimal R&D tax credit rate (0.24) is lower than the average R&D subsidy rate (0.36). The intensive, not the extensive margin of R&D is important for poliy. Tax credits and subsidies inrease R&D investments and spillovers compared to laissez-faire but to levels below the first best. R&D support policies don't improve welfare.
C31|The exporter wage premium when firms and workers are heterogeneous|We set up a trade model with heterogeneous firms and a worker population that is heterogeneous in two dimensions: workers are either skilled or unskilled, and within each skill category there is a continuum of abilities. Workers with high abilities, both skilled and unskilled, are matched to firms with high productivities, and this leads to wage differentials within each skill category across firms. Self-selection of the most productive firms into exporting generates an exporter wage premium, and our framework with skilled and unskilled workers allows us to decompose this premium into its skill-specific components. We employ linked employer-employee data from Germany to structurally estimate the parameters of the model. Using these parameter estimates, we compute an average exporter wage premium of 5 percent. The decomposition by skill turns out to be quantitatively highly relevant, with exporting firms paying no wage premium at all to their unskilled workers, while the premium for skilled workers is 12 percent.
C31|School Performance, Score Inflation and Economic Geography|We show that grading standards for primary school exams in England have triggered an inflation of quality indicators in the national performance tables for almost two decades. The cumulative effects have resulted in significant differences in the quality signaled to parents for otherwise identical schools. These differences are as good as random, with score inflation resulting from discretion in the grading of randomly assigned external markers. We find large housing price gains from the school quality improvements artificially signaled by inflation as well as lower deprivation and more businesses catering to families in local neighborhoods. The design ensures improved external validity for the valuation of school quality with respect to boundary discontinuities and has the potential for replication outside of our specific case study.
C31|The Effectiveness of Hiring Credits|This paper analyzes the effectiveness of hiring credits. Using comprehensive administrative data, we show that the French hiring credit, implemented during the Great Recession, had significant positive employment effects and no effects on wages. Relying on the quasi-experimental variation in labor cost triggered by the hiring credit, we estimate a structural search and matching model. Simulations of counterfactual policies show that the effectiveness of the hiring credit relied to a large extent on three features: it was nonanticipated, temporary and targeted at jobs with rigid wages. We estimate that the cost per job created by permanent hiring credits, either countercyclical or time-invariant, in an environment with flexible wages would have been much higher.
C31|Pricing the quality of an innovative idea|This paper aims to analyze whether the quality of an innovative idea can spur the patent's price. From an economic perspective, we address the question of how the quality of an innovative idea increases the patent's price. We examine the problem for the case of a single innovation rather than patent´s families. Therefore, we follow the assumption that innovative ideas have patents. Nevertheless, the analysis is divided into two stages; first we estimated the quality of the innovation by quantifying information of the patent documents from the patent portfolios of firms of the ICT sector over the period 1996 to 2015. By providing new empirical evidence, we showed that the patent´s quality can be estimate with multiple observed patents' characteristics which are significant related to the utility of the patent in the market and its impact on the follow-on innovation. The analyses also estimate the patent's price in the market for technologies based on the quality index. In the same way, we used information of the patent´s transaction in the ICT sector over the period of 2012- 2015 and review the main costs of the American, European and the international patent system. Our finale results indicate the possibility to reduce the asymmetric information of the quality in the patent´s transactions by using public information.
C31|Trends in distributional characteristics : Existence of global warming|Does global warming exist? The answer to this question is the starting point for all the other issues involved in climate change analysis. In this paper, global warming is defined as an increasing trend in certain distributional characteristics (moments, quantiles, etc) of global temperatures, and not only on the average. Temperatures are seen as a functional stochastic process from which we obtain distributional characteristics as time series objects. We present a simple robust trend test and prove that it is able to detect the existence of an unknown trend component (deterministic or stochastic) in these characteristics. Applying this trend test to daily Central England temperatures (1772-2016) and to Global cross-sectional temperatures (1880-2015), we obtain the same strong conclusions: (i) there is an increasing trend in all the distributional characteristics (time series and cross-sectional) and this trend is larger in the lower quantiles than in the mean, median and upper quantiles; (ii) there is a negative trend in the characteristics measuring dispersion (lower temperatures approach the median faster than the higher ones).The paper concludes by clearly answering the opening question in the afirmative and showing that global-local warming is not only a phenomenon of an increase in the average temperature but also of a larger increase in the lower temperatures producing a decreasing dispersion. This type of warming has more serious consequences than the one found by using only the average.
C31|The Importance of Oil in the Allocation of Foreign Aid: The case of the G7 donors|While it is often alleged that oil endowment might influence the destination of foreign aid, there is lack of empirical evidence of how and why such an effect may come into play, and even less so of the channels through which it works. This paper aims to bring evidence that contributes to address those points. Specifically, we investigate the role of oil in aid allocation of the G7 donors, over the 1980-2010 period. Results show that, unsurprisingly, aid allocated by these donors increases significantly with oil endowment of recipient countries. Looking more deeply, we interestingly show that their strategic interests in terms of oil security play a role in their provision of aid. More importantly, we find evidence for competition for access to oil supplies among this group of donors.
C31|LATE with Mismeasured or Misspecified Treatment: An application to Women's Empowerment in India|We show that a local average treatment effect (LATE) can sometimes be point identified and consistently estimated when treatment is mismeasured, or when treatment is estimated using a possibly misspecified structural model. Our associated estimator, which we call Mismeasurement Robust LATE (MR-LATE), is based on differencing two mismeasures of treatment. In our empirical application, treatment is women’s empowerment: whether a wife has significant control of household resources. Due to measurement difficulties and sharing of goods within a household, this treatment cannot be directly observed without error, and so must be estimated. Our outcomes are health indicators of family members. We first estimate a structural model to obtain the otherwise unobserved treatment indicator. Then, using changes in inheritance laws in India as an instrument, we apply our new MR-LATE estimator. We find that women’s empowerment substantially decreases their probability of being anemic or underweight, and children’s likelihood to suffer from cough, fever or diarrhea. We find no significant positive or negative effects on men’s health.
C31|The effect of Climate Finance on Greenhouse Gas Emission: A Quantile Regression Approach|Climate finance plays a primary role in international climate change agreements. It is a way to involve flows of funds from developed to developing countries that aims to help poorer countries shift toward low-emission, climate-resilient development pathways. In this paper, we study the flow of funds intended to promote energy generation and supply and biosphere protection in order to identify preferential channels in “Fast-start finance” distribution. We analyze the flow of funds among countries and the relationship between climate finance and a composite indicators that summarize and rank the greenhouse gas emissions by using a quantile regression model. Our results revealed a strong heterogeneity in the way the funds are being allocated by donors and show that close attention should be paid to the analysis of political contexts.
C31|A carbon footprint proportional to expenditure - A case for Norway?|Motivated by the importance of consumption as an underlying driver of CO2 emissions, we examine the link between consumption and CO2 emissions for Norwegian households. The main goal is to investigate whether there is a decoupling of consumption expenditures and the environmental impact as we move up the income ladder. By combining a 2007 Norwegian consumer expenditure survey with emission coefficients from an environmental input-output model, reflecting emissions embodied in both domestically produced and imported goods and services, we calculate the per capita carbon footprint. The results from the analysis suggest that the per capita carbon footprint is directly proportional to expenditure with an estimated elasticity close to unity, implying no decoupling. The finding is partly driven by a near zero-emission power sector, which leads to comparatively low emissions embodied in domestically-produced goods and services.
C31|Central Bank Credibility before and after the Crisis|Abstract A new measure of credibility is constructed as a function of the differential between observed inflation and some estimate of the inflation rate that the central bank targets. The target is assumed to be met flexibly. Credibility is calculated for a large group of both advanced and emerging countries from 1980 to 2014. Financial crises reduce central bank credibility and central banks with strong institutional feaures tend to do better when hit by a shock of the magnitude of the 2007-2008 financial crisis. The VIX, adopting an inflation target and central bank transparency, are the most reliable determinants of credibility. Similarly, real economic growth has a significant influence on central bank credibility even in inflation targeting economies.
C31|The Impacts of Tax Reforms on REITs. An International Empirical Study|Tax exemption is one of the REIT’s most unique characteristics. To improve the development of REITs market, the Congress had passed several Tax Reform Acts. Plenty of previous study had already explored the effects of tax legislation changing on REITs market. However the findings had not come to consensus. This might because most of them explored this topic by event study, which cannot control other events happening on the even dates. This paper tries to avoid the complications encountered in previous research by investigating the tax reform effects through the normal panel model with the data in the United States and then retest the hypothesis by a novel empirical model with panel market data in both U.S. and Australia. The results provide evidence that the Tax Reforms would truly affect the REIT’s performance with more solid empirical evidences. Furthermore, the results shed light on the tax policy and governance of a REITs market.
C31|Alternative GMM estimators for spatial regression models| Using approximations of the score of the log-likelihood function, we derive moment conditions for estimating spatial regression models, starting with the spatial error model. Our approach results in computationally simple and robust estimators, such as a new moment estimator derived from the first-order approximation obtained by solving a quadratic moment equation, and performs similarly to existing generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators. Our estimator based on the second-order approximation resembles the GMM estimator proposed by Kelejian and Prucha in 1999. Hence, we provide an intuitive interpretation of their estimator. Additionally, we provide a convenient framework for computing the weighting matrix of the optimal GMM estimator. Heteroskedasticity robust versions of our estimators are also proposed. Furthermore, a first-order approximation for the spatial autoregressive model is considered, resulting in a computationally simple method of moment estimator. The performance of the considered estimators is compared in a Monte Carlo study.
C31|Did the establishment of specialised courts affect the frequency of business bankruptcy petitions in Spain?|Spanish small businesses rarely file for bankruptcy, and Spanish bankruptcy rates are among the smallest in the world. The historical inadequacy of the Spanish insolvency system has led most enterprises to rely on the de facto alternative mortgage system, which implies, among other things, overinvestment by debtors in fixed tangible assets. This latter effect can be particularly detrimental to the enabling environment of novel entrepreneurship. It is therefore of interest to examine whether the change in the bankruptcy regime that took place in Spain some ten years ago, with the establishment of specialised commercial courts (Juzgados de lo Mercantil), had any positive effect on bankruptcy rates. In this paper, the staggered timing of the new courts establishment is exploited in order to estimate an endogenous treatment model with a binary policy variable. The results support the direction of the reform, but the size of the estimated parameter suggests further efforts in that direction.
C31|Spatial Nexus in Crime and Unemployment in Times of Crisis|Space is important. In this paper we use the global financial crisis as an exogenous shock to the German labor market to elucidate the spatial nexus between crime and unemployment. Our contribution is twofold: first, we lay down a parsimonious spatial labor market model with search frictions, criminal opportunities, and, unlike earlier analyses, productivity shocks which link criminal engagement with employment status. Second, we seek empirical support using data on the 402 German regions and years 2009 - 2010, in a setting that not only allows for crime spatial multipliers but also circumvents reverse causality by exploiting exogenous changes in unemployment due to the crisis. As predicted by our theory, the destruction of the lowest productivity matches, measured by increases in unemployment rates, has a significant impact on pure property crime (housing burglary and theft of/from motor vehicles) and street crime. The analysis offers important implications for local government policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C31|Exploring the spatial and temporal determinants of gas central heating adoption|In order to better understand the potential for both policy and technological improvements to aid carbon abatement, long-term historical information on the time-path of transition from more traditional to cleaner fuels is useful. This is a relatively understudied element of the fuel switching literature in both developed and emerging economies. This research adds to this literature by examining the adoption time-path of network gas as a heating fuel. We merge a unique dataset on gas network roll-out over time, with other geo-coded data and employ an instrumental variables technique in order to simultaneously model supply and demand. Results indicate a non-linear relationship between the proportion of households using gas as their primary means of central heating and the length of time the network has been in place in each area. Proximity to the gas network, peat bogs, and areas which have banned the consumption of bituminous coal also affect gas connections. Variations in socioeconomic and dwelling characteristics at area level can also help explain connections to the gas network. A better understanding of this variation is crucial in designing targeted policies and can aid network expansion decisions.
C31|Gender Peer Effects Heterogeneity in Obesity|This paper explores gender peer effects heterogeneity in adolescent Body Mass Index (BMI). We propose a utility-based non-cooperative social network model with effort technology. We allow the gender composition to influence peer effects. We analyze the possibility of recovering the fundamentals of our structural model from the best-response functions. We provide identification conditions of these functions generalizing those of the homogeneous version of the model. Extending Liu and Lee [2010], we consider 2SLS and GMM strategies to estimate our model using Add Health data. We provide tests of homophily in the formation of network and reject them after controlling for network (school) fixed effects. The joint (endogenous plus contextual) gender homogeneous model is rejected. However, we do not reject that the endogenous effects are the same. This suggests that the source of gender peer effects heterogeneity is the contextual effects. We find that peers’ age, parents’ education, health status, and race are relevant for the latter effects and are gender-dependent.
C31|Explaining Gender Differences in Confidence and Overconfidence in Math|This paper investigates empirically how and why men and women are different in their confidence levels. In the analysis, confidence is disentangled into two dimensions: confidence in correct math knowledge and overconfidence in false knowledge. Using the data of the PISA test in math, the findings highlight that math abilities have different effects on boys and girls. Overall, math abilities increase confidence and decrease overconfidence. However, the positive effect on confidence is smaller for girls, and the negative effect on overconfidence is larger for them. This gender-asymmetric effect implies that well-performing girls are more constrained from gaining confident attitudes through their abilities, compared to well-performing boys. The empirical evidence further indicates that the gender-asymmetric effect of abilities can be explained by gender socialization that undermines women’s achievements and limit their opportunities.
C31|Gender-matching School Effects on Girls’ Cognitive and Non-cognitive Performance —Empirical Evidence from South Korea|Gender-matching school environments may provide benefits for girls to enhance their performance. By using PISA data from South Korea, this paper suggests that the effects of single-sex schooling and a student-teacher’s gender matching are heterogeneous across different student groups. The gender-matching school environments are most positive to non-cognitive outcomes of girls at the highest tail of cognitive performance levels. By attending an all-girls school and being taught by a female teacher, high performing girls are as motivated and interested in pursuing careers in STEM fields as boys. However, single-sex schooling and female teachers do not produce positive effects on girls in lower performing groups. For median girls, single-sex schooling can even be detrimental to their non-cognitive performance. These results corroborate that gender-matching school environments can be a useful tool to promote female talent in STEM fields, but the effect cannot be generalized for public education for all students.
C31|Determinants of firm-level domestic sales and exports with spillovers: Evidence from China|This paper studies the determinants of firm-level revenues, as a measure of the performance of firms in China’s domestic and export markets. The analysis of the determinants of the aforementioned outcomes calls for a mixed linear–nonlinear econometric approach. The paper proposes specifying a system of equations which is inspired by Basmann’s work and recent theoretical work in international economics and conducts comparative static analyses regarding the role of exogenous shocks to the system to flesh out the relative importance of transmissions across outcomes.
