C32|Consistency and asymptotic normality of maximum likelihood estimators of a multiplicative time-varying smooth transition correlation GARCH model|A new multivariate volatility model that belongs to the family of conditional correlation GARCH models is introduced. The GARCH equations of this model contain a multiplicative deterministic component to describe long-run movements in volatility and, in addition, the correlations are deterministically time-varying. Parameters of the model are estimated jointly using maximum likelihood. Consistency and asymptotic normality of maximum likelihood estimators is proved. Numerical aspects of the estimation algorithm are discussed. A bivariate empirical example is provided.
C32|Modelling and Forecasting WIG20 Daily Returns|The purpose of this paper is to model daily returns of the WIG20 index. The idea is to consider a model that explicitly takes changes in the amplitude of the clusters of volatility into account. This variation is modelled by a positive-valued deterministic component. A novelty in specification of the model is that the deterministic component is specified before estimating the multiplicative conditional variance component. The resulting model is subjected to misspecification tests and its forecasting performance is compared with that of commonly applied models of conditional heteroskedasticity.
C32|Nonlinear models in macroeconometrics|This article contains a short review of nonlinear models that are applied to modelling macroeconomic time series. Brief descriptions of relevant models, both univariate, dynamic single-equation, and vector autoregressive ones are presented. Their application is illuminated by a number of selected examples.
C32|Economic Policy Uncertainty and Long-Run Stock Market Volatility and Correlation|We use Baker, Bloom, and Davis’s (2016) economic policy uncertainty indices in combination with the mixed data sampling (MIDAS) approach to investigate long-run stock market volatility and correlation, primarily for the US and UK. Long-run US–UK stock market correlation depends positively on US economic policy uncertainty shocks. The dependence is asymmetric, with only positive shocks - increasing uncertainty - being of importance. The US long-run stock market volatility depends significantly on US economic policy uncertainty shocks but not on UK shocks, while the UK long-run stock market volatility depends significantly on both. Allowing for US economic policy uncertainty shocks improves the out-of-sample forecasting of US–UK stock market correlation and enhances portfolio performance. Similar results apply to the long-run correlation between the US and Canada, China, and Germany.
C32|Improved Inference on Cointegrating Vectors in the Presence of a near Unit Root Using Adjusted Quantiles|It is well known that inference on the cointegrating relations in a vector autoregression (CVAR) is difficult in the presence of a near unit root. The test for a given cointegration vector can have rejection probabilities under the null, which vary from the nominal size to more than 90%. This paper formulates a CVAR model allowing for multiple near unit roots and analyses the asymptotic properties of the Gaussian maximum likelihood estimator. Then two critical value adjustments suggested by McCloskey (2017) for the test on the cointegrating relations are implemented for the model with a single near unit root, and it is found by simulation that they eliminate the serious size distortions, with a reasonable power for moderate values of the near unit root parameter. The findings are illustrated with an analysis of a number of different bivariate DGPs.
C32|Consistent Inference for Predictive Regressions in Persistent VAR Economies|This paper studies the properties of standard predictive regressions in model economies, characterized through persistent vector autoregressive dynamics for the state variables and the associated series of interest. In particular, we consider a setting where all, or a subset, of the variables may be fractionally integrated, and note that this induces a spurious regression problem. We then propose a new inference and testing procedure - the local spectrum (LCM) approach - for the joint significance of the regressors, which is robust against the variables having different integration orders. The LCM procedure is based on (semi-)parametric fractional-filtering and band spectrum regression using a suitably selected set of frequency ordinates. We establish the asymptotic properties and explain how they differ from and extend existing procedures. Using these new inference and testing techniques, we explore the implications of assuming VAR dynamics in predictive regressions for the realized return variation. Standard least squares predictive regressions indicate that popular financial and macroeconomic variables carry valuable information about return volatility. In contrast, we find no significant evidence using our robust LCM procedure, indicating that prior conclusions may be premature. In fact, if anything, our results suggest the reverse causality, i.e., rising volatility predates adverse innovations to key macroeconomic variables. Simulations are employed to illustrate the relevance of the theoretical arguments for finite-sample inference.
C32|Models with Multiplicative Decomposition of Conditional Variances and Correlations|Univariate and multivariate GARCH type models with multiplicative decomposition of the variance to short and long run components are surveyed. The latter component can be either deterministic or stochastic. Examples of both types are studied.
C32|State-Space Models on the Stiefel Manifold with a New Approach to Nonlinear Filtering|We develop novel multivariate state-space models wherein the latent states evolve on the Stiefel manifold and follow a conditional matrix Langevin distribution. The latent states correspond to time-varying reduced rank parameter matrices, like the loadings in dynamic factor models and the parameters of cointegrating relations in vector error-correction models. The corresponding nonlinear filtering algorithms are developed and evaluated by means of simulation experiments.
C32|The Effects of Asset Purchases and Normalization of US Monetary Policy|This paper examines changes in the effects of unconventional monetary policies in the US. To this end, we estimate a Markov-switching VAR model with absorbing regimes to capture possible structural changes. Our results detect regime changes around the beginning of 2011 and the middle of 2013. Before 2011, the US large-scale asset purchases (LSAPs) had relatively large impacts on the real economy and prices, but after the middle of 2013, their effects were weaker and less-persistent. In addition, after the middle of 2013, which includes the monetary policy normalization period, the asset purchase (or balance sheet) shocks had slightly weaker effects than during the early stage of the LSAPs but stronger effects than during the late stage of the LSAPs, while interest rate shocks had insignificant effects on the real economy and prices. Finally, our results suggest that the positive responses of durables and capital goods expenditures to interest rate shocks weakened the negative impacts of interest rate hikes after the middle of 2013 including the period of monetary policy normalization.
C32|Testing the Friedman-Schwartz Hypothesis Using Time Varying Correlation|This study analyses the time varying correlation of money and output using the DCC GARCH model for the Euro, India, Poland, the UK and the US. Apart from simple sum money, this model uses Divisia monetary aggregate, which is theoretically shown as the actual measure of monetary services. The inclusion of Divisia money affirms the Friedman-Schwartz hypothesis that money is procyclical. The procyclical nature of association was not robustly observed in recent data when simple sum money was used.
C32|The Spectral envelope: An Application to the decoupling problem in economics|In this paper we introduce the technique of spectral envelope into the analysis of decoupling problem in Economics. Decoupling refers to the phenomenon that the business cycles in emerging market economies are de-synchronized from cyclical movements in the advanced economies. The analysis shows that all the countries in the sample have a common cycle of approximately 42 months. The results point to a strong possibility of a common global cycle of a periodicity between 3 to 4 years.
C32|“Uncovering the time-varying relationship between commonality in liquidity and volatility”|This study examines the dynamic linkages between commonality in liquidity in international stock markets and market volatility. Using a recently proposed liquidity measure as input in a variance decomposition exercise, we show that innovations to liquidity in most markets are induced predominately by inter-market innovations. We also find that commonality in liquidity peaks immediately after large market downturns, coinciding with periods of crisis. The results from a dynamic Granger causality test indicate that the relationship between commonality in liquidity and market volatility is bi-directional and time-varying. We show that while volatility Granger-causes commonality in liquidity throughout the entire sample period, market volatility is enhanced by commonality in liquidity only in sub-periods. Our results are helpful for practitioners and policy makers.
C32|Shocking Interest Rate Floors|We identify the dynamic causal effects of interest rate floor shocks, exploiting regular auctions of Swiss central bank debt securities (SNB Bills). A theoretical model shows that variation in the volume of, and yield on, central bank debt changes the interest rate floor. In addition, the model establishes the equivalence between central bank debt and interest-bearing reserves when reserves are ample. Based on these insights, the empirical analysis identifies an interest rate floor shock in a dynamic event study of SNB Bill auctions. A restrictive interest rate floor shock causes an increase in the money market rate, a persistent appreciation of the Swiss franc, a decline in long-term interest rates, and a decline in stock prices. We then perform policy experiments under various identifying assumptions in which the central bank raises the interest rate floor from 0% to 0.25%. Such a policy change causes a 3-6% appreciation of the Swiss franc and a 5-20% decline in stock prices.
C32|Assessing Pension Expenditure Determinants – the Case of Portugal|Pension expenditure is a concern for the sustainability of public finances in the European Union. Therefore, assessing pension expenditure determinants is crucial. This study aims to disentangle the impact of demographic and economic variables, such as ageing, productivity, and unemployment, on pension expenditure. Using Portuguese time-series data, from 1975 to 2014, statistical evidence was found of co-integration between unemployed people aged between 15 and 64 years old, apparent productivity of labour, the old-age dependence index and pension expenditure as a share of gross domestic product. The use of a vector error correction model, with impulse-response functions and variance decomposition, showed that ageing has an almost insignificant impact in the long-run, when compared with unemployment and productivity.
C32|Interest rate bands of inaction and play-hysteresis in domestic investment: Evidence for the euro area|The interest rate represents an important monetary policy tool to steer investment in order to reach price stability. Therefore, implications of the exact form and magnitude of the interest rate-investment nexus for the European Central Bank's effectiveness in a low interest rate environment gain center stage. We first present a theoretical framework of the hysteretic impact of changes in the interest rate on macroeconomic investment under certainty and under uncertainty to investigate whether uncertainty over future interest rates in the Euro area hampers monetary policy transmission. In this non-linear model, strong reactions in investment activity occur as soon as changes of the interest rate exceed a zone of inaction, that we call 'play' area. Second, we apply an algorithm describing path-dependent play-hysteresis to estimate investment hysteresis using data on domestic investment and interest rates on corporate loans for 5 countries of the Euro area in the period ranging from 2001Q1 to 2018Q1. We find hysteretic effects of interest rate changes on investment in most countries. However, their shape and magnitude differ widely across countries which poses a challenge for a unified monetary policy. By introducing uncertainty into the regressions, the results do not change much which may be due to the interest rate implicitly incorporating uncertainty effects in investment decisions, e.g. by risk premia.
C32|How are oil supply shocks transmitted to the U.S. economy?|We investigate how oil supply shocks are transmitted to U.S. economic activity, consumer prices, and interest rates. Using a structural VAR approach with a combination of sign and zero restrictions, we distinguish between supply and demand channels in the transmission of exogenous changes in crude oil production. We nd that the adverse e ects of negative oil supply shocks are transmitted mainly through the demand side, as both output and interest rates react more strongly to oil supply shocks that shift the U.S. aggregate demand curve, while the supply side matters in transmitting oil supply shocks to consumer prices.
C32|Commodities risk premia and regional integration in gas-exporting countries|This study examines the fundamental driving forces of stock market integration with particular emphasis on major Gas-Exporting Countries (hereafter known as GECs), namely the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, Russia, and Kuwait, over the period from June 2003 to November 2017. The novelty of our study stems from the fact that we examine a dynamic process of international, regional and national stock markets integration using a set of local, regional, global and commodities as driving forces of integration. Particularly, we measure market integration using gas price as a common source of risk in addition to the world, regional and domestic sources of risk based on a conditional version of the International Capital Asset Pricing Model (ICAPM). Our study also differs from past ones in that we investigate the integration of stock markets into the international market as well as in the GECs countries. Our results show that the level of market integration of the major gas-exporting countries varies widely over time and depends on the interest rate spread, the level of market openness and market volatility. It also seems to be still significantly segmented from both the global and GECs markets. Gas risk represents a small part of the global risk in all the countries considered in this study.
C32|Potential Growth and Natural Yield Curve in Japan|We estimate the yield curve gap in Japan and examine whether it has contributed to the sustained low growth and low inflation rates observed since the beginning 2000s. We use a semi-structural empirical model that generalizes Laubach and Williams’ approach, considering the entire range of maturities of the interest rates and dealing with the issue of mixed frequency sampling. We consider global factors exerting downward pressures on inflation and examine how the neutral yield curve has affected the snowball effect in the dynamics of the Japanese public debt ratio.
C32|Transitory and Permanent Shocks in the Global Market for Crude Oil|This paper documents the determinants of real oil price in the global market based on SVAR model embedding transitory and permanent shocks on oil demand and supply as well as speculative disturbances. We find evidence of significant differences in the propagation mechanisms of transitory versus permanent shocks, pointing to the importance of disentangling their distinct effects. Permanent supply disruptions turn out to be a bigger factor in historical oil price movements during the most recent decades, while speculative shocks became less influential.
C32|A Comparison of Semiparametric Tests for Fractional Cointegration|There are various competing procedures to determine whether fractional cointegration is present in a multivariate time series, but no standard approach has emerged. We provide a synthesis of this literature and conduct a detailed comparative Monte Carlo study to guide empirical researchers in their choice of appropriate methodologies. Special attention is paid on empirically relevant issues such as assumptions about the form of the underlying process and the ability of the procedures to distinguish between short-run correlation and long-run equilibria. It is found that several approaches are severely oversized in presence of correlated short-run components and that the methods show different performance in terms of power when applied to common-component models instead of triangular systems.
C32|Testing for breaks in the cointegrating relationship: On the stability of government bond markets' equilibrium|In this paper, test procedures for no fractional cointegration against possible breaks in the persistence structure of a fractional cointegrating relationship are introduced. The tests proposed are based on the supremum of the Hassler and Breitung (2006) test statistic for no cointegration over possible breakpoints in the long-run equilibrium. We show that the new tests correctly standardized converge to the supremum of a chisquared distribution, and that this convergence is uniform. An in-depth Monte Carlo analysis provides results on the finite sample performance of our tests. We then use the new procedures to investigate whether there was a dissolution of fractional cointegrating relationships between benchmark government bonds of ten EMU countries (Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Belgium, Austria, Finland, the Netherlands and France) and Germany with the beginning of the European debt crisis.
C32|Robust Multivariate Local Whittle Estimation and Spurious Fractional Cointegration|This paper derives a multivariate local Whittle estimator for the memory parameter of a possibly long memory process and the fractional cointegration vector robust to low frequency contaminations. This estimator as many other local Whittle based procedures requires a priori knowledge of the cointegration rank. Since low frequency contaminations bias inference on the cointegration rank, we also provide a robust estimator of the cointegration rank. As both estimators are based on the trimmed periodogram we further derive some insights in the behaviour of the periodogram of a process under very general types of low frequency contaminations. An extensive Monte Carlo exercise shows the applicability of our estimators in finite samples. Our procedures are applied to realized betas of two American energy companies discovering that the series are fractionally cointegrated. As the series exhibit low frequency contaminations, standard procedures are unable to detect this relation.
C32|On the Limit Theory of Mixed to Unity VARs: Panel Setting With Weakly Dependent Errors|In this paper we re-visit a recent theoretical idea introduced by Phillips and Lee (2015). They examine an empirically relevant situation when multiple time series under consideration exhibit different degrees of non-stationarity. By bridging the asymptotic theory of the local to unity and mildly explosive processes, they construct a Wald test for the commonality of the long-run behavior of two series. Therefore, a vector autoregressive (VAR) setup is natural. However, inference is complicated by the fact that the statistic is degenerate under the null and divergent under the alternative. This is true if the parameters of the data generating process are known and re-normalizing function can be constructed. If the parameters are unknown, as is in practice, the test statistic may be divergent even under the null. We solve this problem by converting the original setting of one vector time series in a panel setting with N individual vector series. We consider asymptotics with fixed N and large T and extend the results to sequential asymptotics when T passes to infinity before N. We show that the Wald test statistic converges to nuisance parameter-free Chi-squared distribution under the null hypothesis.
C32|From Employment to Engagement? Stable Jobs, Temporary Jobs, and Cohabiting Relationships|Family formation has been substantially delayed in recent decades, and birth rates have fallen below the replacement rates in many OECD countries. Research suggests that these trends are tightly linked to recent changes in the labor market; however, little is know about the role played by increases in job insecurity. In this paper, we investigate to what extent the decline in the share of permanent jobs among young workers explains observed delays in age at first cohabitation and age at first child. Using French data on the work and family history of large samples of young adults, we provide evidence that access to permanent jobs has a much stronger effect than access to temporary jobs on the probability of entering a first cohabiting relationship as well as on the probability of having a first child. We find that about half of the increases in age at first cohabitation and at first child can be explained by the rise in unemployment and in the share of temporary jobs among young workers.
C32|The Relation between Municipal and Government Bond Yields in an Era of Unconventional Monetary Policy|In this paper we investigate how the five-year Swedish municipal bond yield has been related to the corre-sponding yield on government bonds during the period that the Riksbank has conducted unconventional monetary policy in terms of bond purchases. Using daily Swedish data on bond yields from February 2015 to January 2018, we first conduct an event study to assess the short-run effects of the Riksbank’s bond-purchase announcements. We then estimate bivariate vector autoregressive models in order to study the dynamic relationship between the yields. Results from the event study suggest that the accumulated short-run effect of the Riksbank’s announcements was to lower the government bond yield by approximately 40 to 50 basis points and municipal bond yields by 30 to 35 basis points. Our vector autoregressive analysis indicates – in line with the event study – that an unexpected decrease in the government bond yield initially increases the municipal bond-yield spread. However, after approximately four weeks, the effect has been reversed and the municipal bond-yield spread is lower than it was initially. By conducting this analysis, we contribute to the understanding of the transmission of unconventional monetary policy.
C32|The Relation between the Corporate Bond-Yield Spread and the Real Economy: Stable or TimeVarying?|In this paper we assess whether the relation between the corporate bond-yield spread and the real economy has been stable over time. Using quarterly US data from 1953Q1 to 2018Q2, we estimate Bayesian VAR models which allow for drifting parameters and/or stochastic volatility and conduct formal model selection in a Bayesian setting. Our results indicate that the relation between the variables has been stable; we do, however, find strong support for stochastic volatility. We conclude that the corporate bond-yield spread’s usefulness for predicting real economic activity has not changed to a relevant extent after the Great Reces-sion.
C32|The Interaction Between Fiscal and Monetary Policies: Evidence from Sweden|This paper estimates the interaction between monetary- and fiscal policy using a structural VAR model with time-varying parameters. For demand and supply shocks, the two policies are estimated to be complementary, while for monetary and fiscal policies shocks the two policies act as substitutes. The budget elasticity varies between 0.3–0.6, indicating that an economic downturn can get a non-negligible negative impact on public finances. The fiscal multiplier is estimated to be stable and higher than one suggesting that fiscal policy can be used to support monetary policy to stabilize the economy in case monetary policy is constrained by the lower effective bound.
C32|The Great Moderation: Updated Evidence with Joint Tests for Multiple Structural Changes in Variance and Persistence|"We assess the empirical evidence about the Great Moderation using a comprehensive framework to test for multiple structural changes in the coeffcients and in the variance of the error term of a linear regression model provided by Perron, Yamamoto, and Zhou (2019). We apply it to U.S. real GDP and its major components for the period 1960:1 to 2018:4. A notable feature of our approach is that we adopt an unobserved component model, allowing for two breaks in the trend function in 1973:1 and 2008:1, in order to obtain a stationary or cyclical component modelled as an autoregressive process. First, we confirm evidence about the Great Moderation, i.e., a structural change in variance of the errors in the mid-80s for the various series. Second, additional breaks in variance are found in 1970:3 for GDP and production (goods), after which the sample standard deviation increased by three times. Hence, a part of the Great Moderation can be viewed as a reversion to the pre-70s level of volatility. Third, the evidence about systematic changes in the sum of the autoregressive coefficients (a measure of persistence) is weak over the whole sample period. Finally, we find little evidence of structural changes occurring in both the variance and the coeffcients following the Great Recession (2007-2008). These results support views emphasizing the ""good luck"" hypothesis as a source of the Great Moderation, which continues even after the Great Recession."
C32|Estimating long run e ects in models with cross-sectional dependence using xtdcce2|This paper describes how to estimate long run effects in a large heterogeneous panel data model with cross sectional dependence in Stata using the user written command xtdcce2. It builds on Chudik et al. (2016) and explains how to estimate models using the CS-DL and CS-ARDL estimator. In addition it includes a method how to estimate an error correction model.
C32|Will the real eigensystem VAR please stand up? A univariate primer|I introduce the essential aspects of the eigensystem vector autoregression (EVAR), which allows VARs to be specified and estimated directly in terms of their eigensystem, using univariate examples for clarity. The EVAR guarantees non-explosive dynamics and, if included, non-redundant moving-average components. In the empirical application, constraining the EVAR eigenvalues to be real and positive leads to “desirable” impulse response functions and improved out-of-sample forecasts.
C32|Tourist arrivals, energy consumption and pollutant emissions in a developing economy–implications for sustainable tourism|Sustainable tourism management policies should aim at maximising economic benefits from tourist arrivals while minimizing associated adverse impacts on the environment. This study assesses the short-run and long-run relationships between tourist arrivals, per capita economic output, emissions, energy consumption and capital formation, citing Nepal as a specific case study. We developed four hypotheses and tested them using time-series econometrics based on the autoregressive distributed lag model and Granger causality tests. The results provide strong evidence of an economy driven tourism sector where expansion in economic output leads to expansion in tourist arrivals. More tourist arrivals, in turn, generate positive impacts on gross capital formation. Energy consumption negatively affects tourist arrivals, calling for increased attention towards improving energy efficiency and energy diversity. We conclude that national policies to increase tourist arrivals should be integrated with national energy and environmental policies in order to facilitate the transition towards a sustainable tourism sector.
C32|Variational Bayesian Inference in Large Vector Autoregressions with Hierarchical Shrinkage|Many recent papers in macroeconomics have used large Vector Autoregressions (VARs) involving a hundred or more dependent variables. With so many parameters to estimate, Bayesian prior shrinkage is vital in achieving reasonable results. Computational concerns currently limit the range of priors used and render difficult the addition of empirically important features such as stochastic volatility to the large VAR. In this paper, we develop variational Bayes methods for large VARs which overcome the computational hurdle and allow for Bayesian inference in large VARs with a range of hierarchical shrinkage priors and with time-varying volatilities. We demonstrate the computational feasibility and good forecast performance of our methods in an empirical application involving a large quarterly US macroeconomic data set.
C32|Uncertainty and sign-dependent effects of oil market shocks|This paper investigates the oil market reaction to its fundamental shocks: supply, aggregate demand and oil-specific demand in different regimes characterised by high versus low uncertainty in the market. We do so by first proposing a novel oil uncertainty index that is measured by the conditional volatility of the unpredictable component of oil prices. Then, we employ a nonlinear model to show that the structural oil market shocks have asymmetric effects. For instance, in relation to real economic activity, we find that both supply shocks and oil-specific demand shocks have negligible impacts in periods of low oil price uncertainty but sizeable effects in periods of high oil price uncertainty. Our model also enables us to evaluate the hypothesis that real economic activity responds asymmetrically to unexpected increases and decreases in oil prices driven by supply and specific demand shocks. We find that the effects of oil supply shocks are asymmetric but oil specific demand shocks are not, which indicates that the (a)symmetric oil market reaction depends on the underlying market shocks.
C32|Measuring the fiscal multiplier when plans take time to implement|The paper describes how to measure the fiscal multiplier using budget statements on planned government spending in the current and following years alongside the data on actual outcomes. The multiplier effects can be decomposed to distinguish the effects of ‘policy reactions’ versus ‘policy initiatives’, with the latter shown to be substantially larger than the former in a study of annual US data over 1957-2016. It is noted that the fiscal initiatives undertaken following the events of 2007/8 played an important role in mitigating the recessionary effects of the global financial crisis in the US.
C32|The Australian real-time fiscal database: An overview and an illustration of its use in analysing planned and realised fiscal policies|This paper describes a fiscal database for Australia including measures of government spending, revenue, deficits, debt and various sub-aggregates as initially published and subsequently revised. The data vintages are collated from various sources and provide a comprehensive description of the Australian fiscal environment as experienced in realtime. Methods are described which exploit the richness of the real-time datasets and they are illustrated through an analysis of the extent to which stated fiscal plans are realised in practice and through the estimation of fiscal multipliers which draw a distinction between policy responses and policy initiatives. We find predictable differences between plans and actual fiscal policy, consistent with a desire of the government to appear more prudent than in reality, and a larger multiplier for policy initiatives than implementation errors.
C32|Macroeconomic time-series evidence that energy efficiency improvements do not save energy|The size of the economy-wide rebound effect is crucial for estimating the contribution that energy efficiency improvements can make to reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. We provide the first empirical general equilibrium estimate of the economy-wide rebound effect. We use a structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model that is estimated using search methods developed in machine learning. We apply the SVAR to U.S. monthly and quarterly data, finding that after four years rebound is around 100%. This implies that policies to encourage cost-reducing energy efficiency innovation are not likely to significantly reduce energy use and greenhouse gas emissions.
C32|An analysis of the global oil market using SVARMA models|The paper analyses the importance of supply versus demand shocks on the global oil market from 1974 to 2017, using a parsimonious structural vector autoregressive mov- ing average (SVARMA) model. The superior out-of-sample forecasting performance of the reduced form VARMA compared to VAR alternatives advocates the suitabil- ity of this framework. We specifically account for the changes in the oil market over three distinctive sub-periods - pre moderation, great moderation and post moderation periods, to provide a means of identifying the changing nature of shock transmission mechanism across times. The findings shed some light on the effects of supply versus demand related oil shocks under different economic environment. Oil supply shocks explain large fraction of the movements in the global oil market in the pre and post moderation periods, i.e. during the slower economic growth periods. The importance of global activity shock on oil price movements is obvious during the 2003-2008 boom period. The oil specific shock has an interesting transmission path on the global eco- nomic activity, where the global activity responded positively and negatively during the global economic expansion and contraction respectively, emphasising the precautionary nature of the shock.
C32|New Kid on the Block? China vs the US in World Oil Markets|China has recently overtaken the US to become the world largest importer of crude oil. In light of this fact, we formally compare contributions of demand shocks from China, the US and the rest of the world. We find that China's in fluence on the real price of oil has increased over the past two decades and surpassed that of the US. Despite this result, oil prices are more sensitive to demand shocks from the US than China. Finally, we document that demand shocks from China alone were too small to have caused the mid 2003-2008 price surge. Instead, oil specific demand shocks are found to be the major determinant of the real oil price during this period.
C32|Analyzing Credit Risk Transmission to the Non-Financial Sector in Europe: A Network Approach|A high-dimensional network of European CDS spreads is modeled to assess the transmission of credit risk to the non-financial corporate sector in Europe. We build on a network connectedness approach that uses variance decompositions in vector autoregressions (VARs) to characterize the dependence structure in the panel of CDS spreads. Our main findings suggest a sectoral clustering in the CDS network, where financial institutions are located in the center of the network and non-financial as well as sovereign CDS are grouped around the financial center. The network has a geographical component re flected in differences in the magnitude and direction of real-sector risk transmission across European countries. We identify an increase in the transmission of financial and sovereign credit risk to the non-financial sector during the global financial crisis and the European debt crisis. By contrast, we find that the transmission of risk within the non-financial sector remains largely unaffected by crisis events.
C32|How resilient is ASEAN-5 to trade shocks? Regional and global shocks compared|This paper revisits the resilience of the ASEAN region to external shocks amidst the unfolding effects of the US-China trade war. It investigates and compares the effects of regional(ASEAN) and global (US, China) shocks on ASEAN-5 using a structural VAR framework. To identify the propagation of economic shocks and spillovers on ASEAN-5, the changing trade links between the economies considered are used to account for time variations spanning the period 1978Q1 to 2018Q2. Three major results follow from the analyses on trade links and output multiplier effects. First, the response of ASEAN-5 to shocks from the US and China were more pronounced than regional shocks for the period after the Asian financial crisis. Second, the increasing cumulative impact of China’s shock on ASEAN was congruous to the growing trade links and trade intensities between ASEAN and China. Third, the US and China were dominant growth drivers for the weaker trade-linked ASEAN partners. Taken together, the results suggest that global shocks matter for the region, and the economic resilience of the region to global shocks depends on indirect effects, apart from the direct trade links.
C32|Dutch Disease Dynamics Reconsidered|In this paper we develop the first model to incorporate the dynamic productivity consequences of both the spending e ect and the resource movement e ect of oil abundance. We show that doing so dramatically alters the conclusions drawn from earlier models of learning by doing (LBD) and the Dutch disease. In particular, the resource movement e ect suggests that the growth e ects of natural resources are likely to be positive, turning previous growth results in the literature relying on the spending e ect on their head. We motivate the relevance of our approach by the example of a major oil producer, Norway, where it seems clear that the predictions based on existing theory do not apply. Although the e ects of an increase in the price of oil may resemble results found in the earlier Dutch disease literature, the effects of increased oil activity do not. Therefore, models that only focus on windfall gains due to increased spending potential from higher oil prices, would conclude - incorrectly based on our analysis - that the resource sector cannot be an engine of growth.
C32|Global factors and trend inflation|We develop a model to empirically study the influence of global factors in driving trend inflation and the inflation gap.We apply our model to five established inflation targeters and a group of heterogeneous Asian economies. Our results suggest that while global factors can have a sizeable influence on the inflation gap, they play only a marginal role in driving trend inflation. Much of the influence of global factors in the inflation gap may be reflecting commodity price shocks. We also find global factors have a greater influence on inflation, and especially trend inflation, for the group of Asian economies relative to the established inflation targeters. A possible interpretation is that inflation targeting may have reduced the influence of global factors on inflation, and especially so on trend inflation.
C32|Temporal disaggregation of short time series with structural breaks: Estimating quarterly data from yearly emerging economies data| This article develops a methodology to compute up-to-date quarterly macroeconomic data for emerging countries by adapting a well known method of temporal disaggregation to time series with small sample size and instable relationships between them. By incorporating di erent procedures of structural break detection, the prediction of higher-frequency estimations of yearly official data can be improved. A methodology with a model selection procedure and disaggregation formulas is proposed. Its predictive performance is assessed by using empirical advanced countries data and simulated time series. An application to the Chinese national accounts allows the estimation of the cyclical components of the Chinese expenditure accounts and shows the Chinese economy to have second order moments more in line with emerging countries than advanced economies like the United States.
C32|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity, and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) Model|In order to hedge efficiently, persistently high negative covariances or, equivalently, correlations, between risky assets and the hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against financial risk and subsequent losses. If there is more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances and correlations have to be calculated. As optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, it is essential to specify dynamic time-varying models of covariances and correlations. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of this paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the only multivariate dynamic conditional correlation model to have been developed to date, namely the widely used Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) model. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. This paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation, and presentation of caveats relating to the DCC model, with an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the DCC model, as well as a related model, in practice.
C32|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Full BEKK Dynamic Conditional Covariance Model|Persistently high negative covariances between risky assets and hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against risk and subsequent financial losses. In the event of having more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances need to be calculated. Optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, so it is essential to specify dynamic covariance models. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of the paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the most widely-used multivariate dynamic conditional covariance model to have been developed to date, namely the Full BEKK model, named for Baba, Engle, Kraft and Kroner. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. The paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation and presentation of caveats relating to the Full BEKK model, and an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the Full BEKK and related non-Diagonal BEKK models, such as Triangular BEKK and Hadamard BEKK, in practice.
C32|The Impact of jumps and leverage in forecasting the co-volatility of oil and gold futures|The paper investigates the impact of jumps in forecasting co-volatility in the presence of leverage effects. We modify the jump-robust covariance estimator of Koike (2016), such that the estimated matrix is positive definite. Using this approach, we can disentangle the estimates of the integrated co-volatility matrix and jump variations from the quadratic covariation matrix. Empirical results for daily crude oil and gold futures show that the co-jumps of the two futures have significant impacts on future co-volatility, but that the impact is negligible in forecasting weekly and monthly horizons.
C32|Estimates of quarterly GDP growth using MIDAS regressions|This paper provides new estimates of year-to-year quarterly real GDP growth in Suriname for 2013Q1 to 2018Q4. The methodology to arrive at these estimates consists of the following steps. Using the familiar Chow and Lin method, the available annual data are disaggregated into a first round of quarterly data. The quarterly data are then included in a MIDAS model, which links the quarterly observations with a new but well established monthly observed indicator of economic activity. The best-performing MIDAS model is then used to update the initial estimates of quarterly GDP growth to final estimates, which in turn can be used in macro-economic modelling and analysis.
C32|Analyzing the Dynamic Relationship between Physical Infrastructure, Financial Development and Economic Growth in India|The paper investigates dynamic relationship between physical infrastructure, financial development and economic growth in the case of India, using an Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) and Toda-Yamamoto (T-Y) causality approach for the period 1980 to 2016. Physical infrastructure index and financial development index are con-structed using Principal Component Analysis method. Empirical results suggest that physical infrastructure has a positive effect on economic growth both in the long-run and short-run, whereas financial development, though significant, has a weak impact on eco-nomic growth. The causality test supports a bi-directional causal relationship between infrastructure development and economic growth, while it finds a unidirectional causa-tion running from economic growth to financial development. It also finds that gross in-vestment and employment have a positive, and inflation has an adverse effect on eco-nomic growth. As India is aiming for higher growth for a sustained period, our results suggest that there is a need for Government intervention in expanding the physical infra-structure and this, in turn, could lead to the growth of the financial sector in the country.
C32|Testing the Friedman-Schwartz hypothesis using time varying correlation|This study analyses the time varying correlation of money and output using the DCC GARCH model for the Euro, India, Poland, the UK and the US. Apart from simple sum money, this model uses Divisia monetary aggregate, which is theoretically shown as the actual measure of monetary services. The inclusion of Divisia money affirms the Friedman-Schwartz hypothesis that money is procyclical. The procyclical nature of association was not robustly observed in recent data when simple sum money was used.
C32|Response surface regressions for critical value bounds and approximate p-values in equilibrium correction models|Single-equation conditional equilibrium correction models can be used to test for the existence of a level relationship among the variables of interest. The distributions of the respective test statistics are nonstandard under the null hypothesis of no such relationship and critical values need to be obtained with stochastic simulations. We compute more than 95 billion F -statistics and 57 billion t-statistics for a large number of specifications of the Pesaran, Shin, and Smith (2001, Journal of Applied Econometrics 16: 289Ð326) bounds test. Our large-scale simulations enable us to draw smooth density functions and to estimate response surface models that improve upon and substantially extend the set of available critical values for the bounds test. Besides covering the full range of possible sample sizes and lag orders, our approach notably allows for any number of variables in the long-run level relationship by exploiting the diminishing effect on the distributions of adding another variable to the model. The computation of approximate p-values enables a fine-grained statistical inference and allows us to quantify the finite-sample distortions from using asymptotic critical values. We find that the bounds test can be easily oversized by more than 5 percentage points in small samples.
C32|Financial reforms and industrialisation: evidence from Nigeria|Abstract Nigeria adopted the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) in 1986 after the crash in world oil price in the early 1980s. Financial reforms are part of the reforms implemented during the SAP. Since industrialisation is seen as an engine of growth, we conduct an empirical assessment of the effects of financial sector reforms on industrialisation in Nigeria using an annual time series data over 1981–2015. Using an autoregressive distributed lag model, our findings show that financial reforms have a positive and significant impact on industrialisation.
C32|Does Agricultural Value Added Induce Environmental Degradation? Empirical Evidence from an Agrarian Country|This study empirically investigates the agriculture-induced environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis in an agrarian framework. Annual time series data from 1981–2014 was employed using Augmented Dickey–Fuller and the Phillips–Perron (PP) unit root test complemented by the Zivot and Andrews unit root test that accounts for a single structural break to ascertain stationarity properties of variables under consideration. For the cointegration analysis, an autoregressive distributive lag methodology and the recent novel Bayer and Hanck combined cointegration technique is employed. For the direction of causality, the Granger causality test is used as estimation technique. Empirical findings lend support for the long-run equilibrium relationship among the variables under consideration. This study also validates the inverted U-shaped pattern of EKC for the case of Nigeria, affirming that Nigeria remains at the scale-effect stage of its growth trajectory. Further empirical results show that foreign direct investment attraction helps mitigate carbon emissions in Nigeria. Based on these results, several policy prescriptions on the Nigerian energy mix and agricultural operations in response to quality of the environment were suggested for policymakers, stakeholders, and environmental economists that formulate and design environmental regulations and strategies to realise the Goal 7 of sustainable development goals (SDGs).
C32|Assessing International Commonality in Macroeconomic Uncertainty and Its Effects|This paper uses a large vector autoregression to measure international macroeconomic uncertainty and its effects on major economies. We provide evidence of significant commonality in macroeconomic volatility, with one common factor driving strong comovement across economies and variables. We measure uncertainty and its effects with a large model in which the error volatilities feature a factor structure containing time-varying global components and idiosyncratic components. Global uncertainty contemporaneously affects both the levels and volatilities of the included variables. Our new estimates of international macroeconomic uncertainty indicate that surprise increases in uncertainty reduce output and stock prices, adversely affect labor market conditions, and in some economies lead to an easing of monetary policy.
C32|Frequency Dependence in a Real-Time Monetary Policy Rule|We estimate a monetary policy rule allowing for possible frequency dependence - i.e. allowing the central bank to respond diÂ¤erently to persistent innovations than to transitory innovations, in both the real-time unemployment rate and the real-time inflation rate. The method is flexible, and requires no strong a priori assumptions on the pattern of frequency dependence or on the nature of the data-generating process. The data convincingly reject linearity in the monetary policy rule, in the direction suggested by theory. Our two major â€¦ndings are 1) the post-Volcker central bank responds more strongly to unemployment rate fluctuations than previous regimes do and 2) while the post-Volcker central bank reacts more strongly to persistent inflation fluctuations, it actually accommodates inflation at higher frequencies.
C32|Asymptotically Valid Bootstrap Inference for Proxy SVARs|Proxy structural vector autoregressions identify structural shocks in vector autoregressions with external variables that are correlated with the structural shocks of interest but uncorrelated with all other structural shocks. We provide asymptotic theory for this identification approach under mild α-mixing conditions that cover a large class of uncorrelated, but possibly dependent innovation processes, including conditional heteroskedasticity. We prove consistency of a residual-based moving block bootstrap for inference on statistics such as impulse response functions and forecast error variance decompositions. Wild bootstraps are proven to be generally invalid for these statistics and their coverage rates can be badly and persistently mis-sized.
C32|Mis-Specification in Phillips Curve Regressions: Quantifying Frequency Dependence in This Relationship While Allowing for Feedback|We use recently developed econometric tools to demonstrate that the Phillips curve unemployment rate–inflation rate relationship varies in an economically meaningful way across three phases of the business cycle. The first (“bust phase”) relationship is the one highlighted by Stock and Watson (2010): A sharp reduction in inflation occurs as the unemployment rate is rising rapidly. The second (“recovery phase”) relationship occurs as the unemployment rate subsequently begins to fall; during this phase, inflation is unrelated to any conventional unemployment gap. The final (“overheating phase”) relationship begins once the unemployment rate drops below its natural rate. We validate our findings in a forecasting exercise and find statistically significant episodic forecast improvement. Our analysis allows us to provide a unified explanation of many prominent findings in the literature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C32|Upstream, Downstream & Common Firm Shocks|We develop a multi-sector DSGE model to calculate upstream and downstream industry exposure networks from U.S. input-output tables and test the relative importance of shocks from each direction by comparing these with estimated networks of firms’ equity return responses to one another. The correlations between the upstream exposure and equity return networks are large and statistically significant, while the downstream exposure networks have lower — but still positive — correlations that are not statistically significant. These results suggest a low short-term elasticity of substitution across inputs transmitting shocks from suppliers, but more flexible ties with downstream firms. Additionally, both the DSGE model and simulations of our empirical approach highlight the importance of accounting for common factors in network estimation, which become more important over our 1989-2017 sample period, explaining 11.7% of equity return variation over the first ten years and 35.0% over the final ten.
C32|Uncertainty and Labor Market Fluctuations|We investigate how a macroeconomic uncertainty shock affects the labor market. We focus on the uncertainty transmission mechanism, for which we employ a set of worker flow indicators in addition to labor stock variables. We incorporate common factors from such indicators into a framework that can simultaneously estimate historical macroeconomic uncertainty and its impacts on the macroeconomy and labor market. We find firms defer hiring as the real option value of waiting increases. Moreover, significantly more workers are laid off while voluntary quits drop, suggesting other mechanisms such as the aggregate demand channel play a crucial role.
C32|Assessing Abenomics: Evidence from Inflation-Indexed Japanese Government Bonds|We assess the impact of news concerning the reforms associated with “Abenomics” using an arbitrage-free term structure model of nominal and real yields. Our model explicitly accounts for the deflation protection enhancement embedded in Japanese inflation-indexed bonds issued since 2013, which pay their original nominal principal when deflation has occurred from issue to maturity. The value of this enhancement is sizable and time-varying, with substantive impacts on estimates of expected inflation compensation. After properly accounting for deflation protection, our results suggest that Japanese inflation risk premia were mostly negative during this period. Moreover, long-term inflation expectations remained positive throughout, despite extensive spells of realized deflation. Finally, initial market responses to policy changes associated with Abenomics and afterwards were not as inflationary as they appear under standard modeling procedures, implying that the program was less “disappointing” than many perceive.
C32|Aggregate Implications of Changing Sectoral Trends|We find disparate trend variation in TFP and labor growth across major U.S. production sectors over the post-WWII period. When aggregated, these sector-specific trends imply secular declines in the growth rate of aggregate labor and TFP. We embed this sectoral trend variation into a dynamic multi-sector framework in which materials and capital used in each sector are produced by other sectors. The presence of capital induces important network effects from production linkages that amplify the consequences of changing sectoral trends on GDP growth. Thus, in some sectors, changes in TFP and labor growth lead to changes in GDP growth that may be as large as three times these sectors' share in the economy. We find that trend GDP growth has declined by more than 2 percentage points since 1950, and that this decline has been primarily shaped by sector-specific rather than aggregate factors. Sustained contractions in growth specific to Construction, Nondurable Goods, and Professional and Business and Services make up close to sixty percent of the estimated trend decrease in GDP growth. In addition, the slow process of capital accumulation means that structural changes have endogenously persistent effects. We estimate that trend GDP growth will continue to decline for the next 10 years absent persistent increases in TFP and labor growth.
C32|Likelihood Evaluation of Models with Occasionally Binding Constraints|Applied researchers interested in estimating key parameters of DSGE models face an array of choices regarding numerical solution and estimation methods. We focus on the likelihood evaluation of models with occasionally binding constraints. We document how solution approximation errors and likelihood misspecification, related to the treatment of measurement errors, can interact and compound each other.
C32|Business Cycles Across Space and Time|We study the comovement of international business cycles in a time series clustering model with regime-switching. We extend the framework of Hamilton and Owyang (2012) to include time-varying transition probabilities to determine what drives similarities in business cycle turning points. We find four groups, or “clusters”, of countries which experience idiosyncratic recessions relative to the global cycle. Additionally, we find the primary indicators of international recessions to be fluctuations in equity markets and geopolitical uncertainty. In out-of-sample forecasting exercises, we find that our model is an improvement over standard benchmark models for forecasting both aggregate output growth and country-level recessions.
C32|Contagious Switching|In this paper, we analyze the propagation of recessions across countries. We construct a model with multiple qualitative state variables that evolve in a VAR setting. The VAR structure allows us to include country-level variables to determine whether policy also propagates across countries. We consider two different versions of the model. One version assumes the discrete state of the economy (expansion or recession) is observed. The other assumes that the state of the economy is unobserved and must be inferred from movements in economic growth. We apply the model to Canada, Mexico, and the U.S. to test if spillover effects were similar before and after NAFTA. We find that trade liberalization has increased the degree of business cycle propagation across the three countries.
C32|International Evidence on Long Run Money Demand|This paper explores the long-run demand for M1 based on a dataset comprising 31 countries since 1851. In many cases, co integration tests identify a long-run equilibrium relationship between either velocity and the short rate, or M1, GDP, and the short rate. Evidence is especially strong for the United States and the United Kingdom over the entire period since World War I, and for high-inflation countries such as Israel. For low-inflation countries the data often, prefer the specification in the levels of velocity and the short rate originally estimated by Selden (1956) and LatanÃ© (1960) to either the log-log, or the semi-log ones. This is especially clear for the United States. [Working Paper 22475]
C32|Online Appendix for: International Evidence on Long-Run Money Demand|This appendix supports Staff Report 587. An earlier version of this Staff Report circulated as Working Paper 738.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C32|Money, credit, monetary policy and the business cycle in the euro area: what has changed since the crisis?|This paper studies the relationship between the business cycle and financial intermediation in the euro area. We establish stylized facts and study their stability during the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. Long-term interest rates have been exceptionally high and long-term loans and deposits exceptionally low since the Lehman collapse. Instead, short-term interest rates and short-term loans and deposits did not show abnormal dynamics in the course of the financial and sovereign debt crisis. JEL Classification: E32, E51, E52, C32, C51
C32|Announcement-Specific Decompositions of Unconventional Monetary Policy Shocks and Their Macroeconomic Effects|I propose to identify announcement-specific decompositions of asset price changes into monetary policy shocks based on intraday time-varying volatility. This approach is the first to accommodate changes in both the nature of shocks and the state of the economy across announcements. I compute daily historical decompositions with respect to three monetary policy shocks for the United States from 2007 to 2018. I derive expressions for the asymptotic variance of such historical decompositions and apply them to assess the statistical significance of notable announcements. Only a handful spark significant shocks, and I discuss the characteristics of those announcements in detail. For many announcements, asset purchase shocks lower corporate borrowing costs, but spreads increase in response to both asset purchases and forward guidance. Turning to the real economy, I find that the asset purchase shock has significant effects on consumer and professional expectations of inflation and GDP growth. I compute dynamic responses of inflation and GDP growth; asset purchases have significant expansionary effects, while fed funds shocks and forward guidance do not.
C32|Online Estimation of DSGE Models|"This paper illustrates the usefulness of sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods in approximating DSGE model posterior distributions. We show how the tempering schedule can be chosen adaptively, explore the benefits of an SMC variant we call generalized tempering for \online"" estimation, and provide examples of multimodal posteriors that are well captured by SMC methods. We then use the online estimation of the DSGE model to compute pseudo-out-of-sample density forecasts of DSGE models with and without financial frictions and document the benefits of conditioning DSGE model forecasts on nowcasts of macroeconomic variables and interest rate expectations. We also study whether the predictive ability of DSGE models changes when we use priors that are substantially looser than those that are commonly adopted in the literature."
C32|Assessing U.S. aggregate fluctuations across time and frequencies|We study the behavior of key macroeconomic variables in the time and frequency domain. For this purpose, we decompose U.S. time series into various frequency components. This allows us to identify a set of stylized facts: GDP growth is largely a high-frequency phenomenon whereby inflation and nominal interest rates are characterized largely by low-frequency components. In contrast, unemployment is a medium-term phenomenon. We use these decompositions jointly in a structural VAR where we identify monetary policy shocks using a sign restriction approach. We find that monetary policy shocks affect these key variables in a broadly similar manner across all frequency bands. Finally, we assess the ability of standard DSGE models to replicate these findings. While the models generally capture low-frequency movements via stochastic trends and business cycle fluctuations through various frictions they fail at capturing the medium-term cycle.
C32|Sectoral and Aggregate Structural Change|We estimate that trends in TFP and employment growth have steadily declined across a majority of U.S. sectors over the post-war period. Most of the secular decline in aggregate TFP and employment growth results from the combination of sector-specific rather than aggregate disturbances. We embed these observations into a dynamic multi-sector framework in which materials and capital used in each sector are produced by other sectors. The presence of capital, in particular, induces quantitatively important sectoral multiplier effects from production linkages on GDP growth. Thus, in some sectors, the effects of changes in TFP or employment growth on GDP growth may be as large as 3 times their share in the economy. Taken together, structural changes across sectors have lowered trend GDP growth by around 2 percentage points since the early 1950s. Sustained contractions in growth specific to Durable and Non-Durable Goods, and most importantly Construction, account for close to 2=3 of this decline. Because of capital accumulation, structural changes have endogenously persistent effects. Consequently, we estimate that trend GDP growth will continue to decline for the next 10 years even if trend TFP and employment growth stabilize.
C32|Dynamic specification tests for dynamic factor models|We derive computationally simple expressions for score tests of misspecification in parametric dynamic factor models using frequency domain techniques. We interpret those diagnostics as time domain moment tests which assess whether certain autocovariances of the smoothed latent variables match their theoretical values under the null of correct model specification. We also reinterpret reduced‐form residual tests as checking specific restrictions on structural parameters. Our Gaussian tests are robust to nonnormal, independent innovations. Monte Carlo exercises confirm the finite‐sample reliability and power of our proposals. Finally, we illustrate their empirical usefulness in an application that constructs a US coincident indicator.
C32|Realized variance modeling: decoupling forecasting from estimation|In this paper we evaluate the in-sample fit and out-of-sample forecasts of various combinations of realized variance models and estimation criteria . Our empirical findings highlight that: independently of the econometricianâ€™s forecasting loss function, certain estimation criteria perform significantly better than others; the simple ARMA modeling of the log realized variance generates superior forecasts than the HAR family, for any of the forecasting loss functions considered; the (2,1) parameterizations with negative lag-2 coefficient emerge as the benchmark specifications generating the best forecasts and approximating long-run dependence as well as the HAR family.
C32|New Evidence on the Effects of Quantitative Easing|Have the macroeconomic effects of QE programs been overestimated empirically? Using a large set of model specifications that differ in the degree of time-variation in parameters, the answer is yes. Our forecasting exercise suggests that it is crucial to allow for time-variation in parameters, but not for stochastic volatility to improve the fit with data. Having a more reliable specification, we find that the portfolio balance and signaling channels had sizable contributions to the transmission of QE programs. Finally, our identified structural shocks show that QE1 had larger macroeconomic effects than QE2 and QE3, but much smaller than usually found in the literature.
C32|An Empirical Analysis of the Impact of Total Debt on the Economic Growth of Sri Lanka|No abstract is available for this item.
C32|Dynamic Factor Models|Dynamic factor models are parsimonious representations of relationships among time series variables. With the surge in data availability, they have proven to be indispensable in macroeconomic forecasting. This chapter surveys the evolution of these models from their pre-big-data origins to the large-scale models of recent years. We review the associated estimation theory, forecasting approaches, and several extensions of the basic framework.
C32|Coupling cycle mechanisms: Minsky debt cycles and the multiplier-accelerator|While there exists a substantial literature on different business cycle mechanisms, there is little literature on economies with more than one business cycle mechanism operating and the relation of stability of these subsystems with the stability of the aggregate system. We construct a model where a multiplier-accelerator subsystem in output-investment space (a real cycle) and a Minskyian subsystem in investment-debt space (a financial cycle) can generate stable/unstable cycles in 2D in isolation. We then derive a theorem showing that if two independent cycle mechanisms that generate stable closed orbits in 2D share a self-destabilizing common variable and the true representation of the system is a fully-coupled 3D system where a weighted average of the common variable is in effect, then the 3D system will generate locally stable closed orbits in 3D if and only if the subsystems have the same frequencies and/or the self-destabilizing effects of the common variable evaluated at the fixed point are equal in both subsystems. Our results indicate that in the presence of multiple cycle mechanisms which share common variables in an economy, the stability of the aggregate economy crucially depends on the frequencies of these sub-cycle mechanisms.
C32|Modeling of Economic and Financial Conditions for Nowcasting and Forecasting Recessions: A Unified Approach|This paper puts forward a unified framework for the joint estimation of the indexes that can broadly capture economic and financiall conditions together with their cyclical regimes of recession and expansion. We do this by utilizing a dynamic factor model together with Markov regime switching dynamics of model parameters that specifically exploit the temporal link between the cyclical behavior of economic and financial factors. This is achieved by constructing the cycle in the financial factor using the cycle in the economic factor together with phase shifts. The resulting framework allows the financial cycle to potentially lead/lag the business cycle in a systematic manner and exploits the information in economic and financial variables for estimation of both economic and financial conditions as well as their cyclical behavior in an efficient way. We examine the potential of the model using a mixed frequency and mixed time span ragged-edge dataset for Turkey. Comparison of our framework with more conventional polar cases imposing a single common cyclical dynamics as well as independent cyclical dynamics for economic and financial conditions reveal that the proposedspecification provides precise estimates of economic and financial conditions and it delivers quite accurate probabilities of recessions that match with stylized facts. We further conduct a recursive real-time exercise of nowcasting and forecasting business cycle turning points. The results show convincing evidence of superior predictive power of our specification by signaling oncoming recessions (expansions) as early as 3.5 (3.4) months ahead of the actual realization.
C32|A Primer On Bootstrap Testing Of Hypotheses In Time Series Models: With An Application To Double Autoregressive Models|In this paper we discuss the general application of the bootstrap as a tool for statistical inference in econometric time series models. We do this by considering the implementation of bootstrap inference in the class of double-autoregressive [DAR] models discussed in Ling (2004). DAR models are particularly interesting to illustrate implementation of the bootstrap to time series: first, standard asymptotic inference is usually difficult to implement due to the presence of nuisance parameters under the null hypothesis; second, inference involves testing whether one or more parameters are on the boundary of the parameter space; third, under the alternative hypothesis, fourth or even second order moments may not exist. In most of these cases, the bootstrap is not considered an appropriate tool for inference. Conversely, and taking testing (non-) stationarity to illustrate, we show that although a standard bootstrap based on unrestricted parameter estimation is invalid, a correct implementation of a bootstrap based on restricted parameter estimation (restricted bootstrap) is first-order valid; that is, it is able to replicate, under the null hypothesis, the correct limiting null distribution. Importantly, we also show that the behaviour of this bootstrap under the alternative hypothesis may be different because of possible lack of finite second-order moments of the bootstrap innovations. This features makes - for some parameter configurations - the restricted bootstrap unable to replicate the null asymptotic distribution when the null is false. We show that this drawback can be fixed by using a new 'hybrid' bootstrap, where the parameter estimates used to construct the bootstrap data are obtained with the null imposed, while the bootstrap innovations are sampled with replacement from the unrestricted residuals. We show that this bootstrap, novel in this framework, mimics the correct asymptotic null distribution, irrespetively of the null to be true or false. Throughout the paper, we use a number of examples from the bootstrap time series literature to illustrate the importance of properly defining and analyzing the bootstrap generating process and associated bootstrap statistics.
C32|Time-Varying General Dynamic Factor Models and the Measurement of Financial Connectedness|Ripple effects in financial markets associated with crashes, systemic risk and contagion are characterized by non-trivial lead-lag dynamics which is crucial for understanding how crises spread and, therefore, central in risk management. In the spirit of Diebold and Yilmaz (2014), we investigate connectedness among financial firms via an analysis of impulse response functions of adjusted intraday log-ranges to market shocks involving network theory methods. Motivated by overwhelming evidence that the interdependence structure of financial markets is varying over time, we are basing that analysis on the so-called time-varying General Dynamic Factor Model proposed by Eichler et al. (2011), which extends to the locally stationary context the framework developed by Forni et al. (2000) under stationarity assumptions. The estimation methods in Eichler et al. (2011), however, present the major drawback of involving two-sided filters which make it impossible to recover impulse response functions. We therefore introduce a novel approach extending to the time-varying context the one-sided method of Forni et al. (2017). The resulting estimators of time-varying impulse response functions are shown to be consistent, hence can be used in the analysis of (time-varying) connectedness. Our empirical analysis on a large and strongly comoving panel of intraday price ranges of US stocks indicates that large increases in mid to long-run connectedness are associated with the main financial turmoils.
C32|Speculative Bubbles in Segmented Markets|We propose a novel approach for testing for rational speculative bubbles in segmented capital markets. The basic idea is that, under capital controls, heterogeneity of speculative expectations across international equity markets causes financial assets with identical cash flow promises to trade at different prices. Because these deviations from the law of one price inherit the properties of the speculative bubble process, they display periods of explosive dynamics and have predictive power for future movements in equity prices in sample. These two hypotheses can be examined empirically using sequential unit root tests and predictive regressions. An attractive feature of this approach for bubble detection is that it does not require the specification of a model for market fundamentals, thus mitigating the well-known joint hypothesis problem. The focus of the paper is on mainland Chinese companies that cross list shares in Hong Kong. China is an ideal setting for our analysis because of the significant restrictions on capital movements imposed by the authorities and the turbulent behaviour of its stock market over the last decades.
C32|The Economic Correlation between China and Southeast Asian Countries: derivative market and real sector analysis|This paper attempts to analyse the economic integration of China and Southeast Asian countries. This paper adopts several methods: One, stationarity for correlation, Error Correction Model (ECM) for short-run relation and Cointegration for long-run relationships. Two, Structural Vector Autoregression (SVAR) analysis to identify the cause and impact. As stock market index follows real sector performance this paper utilizes: One, elasticity analysis of economic growth between China and these countries as a proxy for real sector economic relations between them and two, descriptive statistical analysis on real effective exchange rate as well as Current Account Balance as a proxy of external economic performance between them. In correlation analysis, this paper found that one, stationarity of each country is the difference at level; two, short-run economic relations (ECM) between China and these Southeast Asian countries and three, they have long-run economic relations. In causality, this paper found that China affects all of these Southeast Asian countries and no causality between Singapore and the Philippines. In term of real sector analysis, this paper found that one, economic growth in China significantly affects all of these countries’ economic growth. Two, the external economic performance of these countries are the difference with special finding on Indonesia’s current account.
C32|Another Look at Calendar Anomalies|We employ daily aggregate and sectoral S&P500 data to shed further light on the day-of-the-week anomaly using GARCH and EGARCH models. We obtain the following results: First, there is strong evidence for day-of-the-week effects in all sectors, implying that these effects are part of a wide phenomenon affecting the entire market structure. Second, using rolling-regressions, we find that significant seasonality represents a small proportion of the total sample. Third, using a logit setup, we examine the impact of four factors, namely recessions, uncertainty, trading volume and bearish sentiment on seasonality. We reveal that recessions and uncertainty have explanatory power for anomalies whereas trading volume does not.
C32|Desperate times call for desperate measures: government spending multipliers in hard times|We investigate state-dependent effects of fiscal multipliers and allow for endogenous sample splitting to determine whether the US economy is in a slack state. When the endogenized slack state is estimated as the period of the unemployment rate higher than about 12 percent, the estimated cumulative multipliers are significantly larger during slack periods than non-slack periods and are above unity. We also examine the possibility of time-varying regimes of slackness and find that our empirical results are robust under a more flexible framework. Our estimation results points out the importance of the heterogenous effects of fiscal policy.
C32|Economic growth, Environmental degradation and business cycles in Eswatini|This study investigates the impact of the business cycle on the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) for the Eswatini Kingdom over the period 1970 – 2014. To this end, we employ the nonlinear autoregressive distributive lag (NARDL) model to capture the long-run and short-run cointegration effects between economic activity and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over different phases of the business cycle. Our findings reveal that economic activity only degrades the environment during upswing of the economic cycle whilst this relationship is insignificant during downswing of the cycle. We specifically compute a value of $3.57 worth of output been gained at the cost of a metric unit of emissions during economic expansionary phases. Altogether, these results insinuate much needed government intervention in the market for emissions via environmental tax reforms (ETR) which should be designed with countercyclical bias towards upswing the business cycle.
C32|South African unemployment in the post-financial crisis era: What are the determinants?|High unemployment rates is one of the greatest economic challenges facing post-apartheid South African government over the past two decades and this problem has become more worrisome in the post-global financial crisis period. Our study examines the determinants of unemployment for the South African economy in the post-crisis period over a quarterly frequency period of 2009:Q1 to 2018:Q4. The determinants are examined for 4 classes of unemployment rates (total, male, female and youth) and we further partition possible unemployment determinants into fiscal, monetary and macroeconomic variables. The estimation results from the employed autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) models find income tax, repo rates, economic growth, trade, investment, household debt and savings to be significant determinants of unemployment in the post-crisis South African economy and yet we note discrepancies of the significance of these determinants amongst different unemployment categories. Relevant policy implications are matched against our obtained empirical findings.
C32|On the (in)efficiency of cryptocurrencies: Have they taken daily or weekly random walks?|The legitimacy of virtual currencies as an alternative form of monetary exchange has been the centre of an ongoing heated debated since the catastrophic global financial meltdown of 2007-2008. We contribute to the relative fresh body of empirical research on the informational market efficiency of cryptomarkets by investigating the weak-form efficiency of the top-five cryptocurrencies. In differing from previous studies, we implement random walk testing procedures which are robust to asymmetries and unobserved smooth structural breaks. Moreover, our study employs two frequencies of cryptocurrency returns, one corresponding to daily returns and the other to weekly returns. Our findings validate the random walk hypothesis for daily series hence validating the weak-form efficiency for daily returns. On the other hand, weekly returns are observed to be stationary processes which is evidence against weak-form efficiency for weekly returns. Overall, our study has important implications for market participants within cryptocurrency markets.
C32|The human capital-economic growth nexus in SSA countries: What can strengthen the relationship?|The World Bank has recently placed increasing emphasis on the role of human capital development in facilitating economic development in the Sub-Saharan African (SSA) region. Our study examines the impact of human capital on economic growth for a selected sample of 9 SSA countries between 1980 and 2016 using a panel econometric approach. Interestingly enough, our empirical analysis shows an insignificant effect of human capital on economic growth for our selected sample. These findings remain unchanged even after adding interactive terms to human capital which are representative of government spending as well as foreign direct investment. Nevertheless, we establish a positive and significant effect of the interactive term between urbanization and human capital on economic growth, a result which emphasizes the importance of developing urbanized, ‘smart’, technologically-driven cities within the SSA region as a platform towards strengthening the impact of human capital- economic growth relationship.
C32|Fiscal cyclicality in South African public expenditures: Do asymmetries explain inconsistencies?|The most recent sub-prime crisis, the Euro-debt crisis and the global recessionary period have resurrected a debate on the nature of fiscal cyclicality in the South African economy. Our study questions whether the cyclicality of public policy has evolved asymmetrically and holds differently over the recessionary and expansionary phases of the South African business cycle for a quarterly period of 2001:01 – 2018:04. To ensure that the business cycle is inherent to our estimation process we rely on the nonlinear autoregressive distributive lag (N-ARDL) model as empirical framework. Our empirical results point to nonlinear cyclicality in fiscal expenditures where government behaves procyclical in the upswing of the business cycle whilst behaving countercyclical during economic downswings. These findings are robust to alternative specifications, inclusion of control variables and estimations across different subsamples. Policy implications are also offered.
C32|The Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy and Government Spending Shocks on Unemployment in the Peripheral Euro Area Countries|In this paper we study the response of unemployment to monetary policy and fiscal shocks in the peripheral Euro-area countries. By applying the structural near-VAR methodology, we jointly model Euro area-wide and national variables while preserving the invariance of the set of Euro-area common shocks. Our main finding is that fiscal multipliers vary across countries and the results are consistent with the prediction of the standard New Keynesian model only in Italy and Greece. Instead, the multipliers exhibit a nonKeynesian sign in Ireland, Portugal and Spain. These results seem to be robust to alternative identification strategies. As far as the monetary policy shock is concerned, we find that it plays an important role, jointly with the other Euro-area wide shocks, as a long-term driver of national unemployment.
C32|The Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy and Government Spending Shocks on Unemployment in the Peripheral Euro Area Countries|In this paper we study the response of unemployment to monetary policy and fiscal shocks in the peripheral Euro-area countries. By applying the structural near-VAR methodology, we jointly model Euro area-wide and national variables while preserving the invariance of the set of Euro-area common shocks. Our main finding is that fiscal multipliers vary across countries and the results are consistent with the prediction of the standard New Keynesian model only in Italy and Greece. Instead, the multipliers exhibit a nonKeynesian sign in Ireland, Portugal and Spain. These results seem to be robust to alternative identification strategies. As far as the monetary policy shock is concerned, we find that it plays an important role, jointly with the other Euro-area wide shocks, as a long-term driver of national unemployment.
C32|A Near Unit Root Test for High-Dimensional Nonstationary Time Series|"This paper considers a p-dimensional time series model of the form x(t)-δ(t)=φ(x(t-1)-δ(t-1))+Σ^(1/2)y(t), 1≤t≤T, where y(t) = (y(t1),...,y(tp)) and and Σ^(1/2) is the square root of a symmetric positive definite matrix. Here φ≤1 and T(1-φ) is bounded and the linear processes y(tj) is of the form Σb(k)z(t-k,j) where Σ|bi| < infinity and {z(ij)} are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random variables with E(z(ij))=0, E|z(ij)|^2=1 and E|z(ij)|^4< infinity. We first investigate the asymptotic behavior of the first k largest eigenvalues of the sample covariance matrices of the time series model. We then propose an estimator of φ and use it to test for near unit roots. Simulations and empirical applications are also conducted to demonstrate the performance of the statistic."
C32|A New Tidy Data Structure to Support Exploration and Modeling of Temporal Data|"Mining temporal data for information is often inhibited by a multitude of formats: irregular or multiple time intervals, point events that need aggregating, multiple observational units or repeated measurements on multiple individuals, and heterogeneous data types. On the other hand, the software supporting time series modeling and forecasting, makes strict assumptions on the data to be provided, typically requiring a matrix of numeric data with implicit time indexes. Going from raw data to model-ready data is painful. This work presents a cohesive and conceptual framework for organizing and manipulating temporal data, which in turn flows into visualization, modeling and forecasting routines. Tidy data principles are extended to temporal data by: (1) mapping the semantics of a dataset into its physical layout; (2) including an explicitly declared index variable representing time; (3) incorporating a ""key"" comprising single or multiple variables to uniquely identify units over time. This tidy data representation most naturally supports thinking of operations on the data as building blocks, forming part of a ""data pipeline"" in time-based contexts. A sound data pipeline facilitates a fluent workflow for analyzing temporal data. The infrastructure of tidy temporal data has been implemented in the R package tsibble."
C32|An Integrated Panel Data Approach to Modelling Economic Growth|Accurate estimation for extent of cross-sectional dependence in large panel data analysis is paramount to further statistical analysis on the data under study. Grouping more data with weak relations (cross-sectional dependence) together often results in less efficient dimension reduction and worse forecasting. This paper describes cross-sectional dependence among a large number of objects (time series) via a factor model and parametrizes its extent in terms of strength of factor loadings. A new joint estimation method, benefiting from unique feature of dimension reduction for high dimensional time series, is proposed for the parameter representing the extent and some other parameters involved in the estimation procedure. Moreover, a joint asymptotic distribution for a pair of estimators is established. Simulations illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed estimation method in the finite sample performance. Applications in cross-country macro-variables and stock returns from S&P 500 are studied.
C32|Do SVARs with sign restrictions not identify unconventional monetary policy shocks?|A growing empirical literature has shown, based on structural vector autoregressions (SVARs) identified through sign restrictions, that unconventional monetary policies implemented after the outbreak of the Great Financial Crisis (GFC) had expansionary macroeconomic effects. In a recent paper, Elbourne and Ji (2019) conclude that these studies fail to identify true unconventional monetary policy shocks in the euro area. In this note, we show that their findings are actually fully consistent with a successful identification of unconventional monetary policy shocks by the earlier studies and that their approach does not serve the purpose of evaluating identification strategies of SVARs.
C32|The impact of the excess reserves of the banking sector on interest rates and money supply in Poland|In this study we aim to analyse the eﬀects of leaving excess reserves in the banking sector by the central bank on the level and the variability of interest rates, as well as on money supply. To this end, we use mainly data for Poland, but in some cases, for robustness, also for a panel of Poland, the euro area, the Czech Republic and Hungary, as there had only been a limited variability in some policy variables in our sample for Poland. We estimate the parameters of GARCH, (P)VAR and (panel) linear regression models. We ﬁnd that excess reserves aﬀect the level and the variability of an overnight money market interest rate. However, the variability of the overnight money market interest rate, shaped to a large extent by excess reserves, does not aﬀect the level of longer-term interest rates, and we ﬁnd little evidence of its impact on their variability. Neither do excess reserves translate into higher money supply. Our results imply that the current monetary policy operational framework in Poland is adequate to ensure the transmission of the central bank policy rate to money market interest rates. Furthermore, it appears unlikely that raising the amount of excess reserves left, as proposed by some policymakers, would aﬀect money supply. Instead, it would lower the money multiplier and the overnight money market interest rate, as well as increase its volatility.
C32|The spillover effects of Chinese economy on Southeast Asia and Oceania|The slowdown of economy and widening of domestic imbalances in China bothers economists and politicians across the globe. The effects of a Chinese transition to a new growth model for other countries are uncertain. We quantify them by estimating the influence of a negative output shock in China on a number of different economies. We concentrate on China’s neighbouring countries. We compare the results from the Global VAR model and from the Bayesian VAR models that include Chinese variables as endogenous. Also we search for determinants of Chinese spillovers for the global economy. To this end, having a large number of factors potentially explaining differences in responses compared to the number of observations, we use Bayesian model averaging. We find that spillovers are stronger to economies with less flexible exchange rates, a higher share of manufacturing in gross value added and to economies which are larger.
C32|Practising Subnational Public Finance in an Emerging Economy: Fiscal Marksmanship in Kerala|Abstract Our paper analyses the subnational public finance practices in one of the States in India –Kerala- and estimate the fiscal marksmanship. Fiscal marksmanship is the analysis of fiscal forecasting errors. Kerala, though well known for its achievements in human development outcomes, is facing fiscal stress within the rule-based fiscal framework and innovating policy tools to achieve a revenue-led fiscal consolidation. We have examined the Budget Estimates, Revised Estimates and Actuals for the macro-fiscal variables from the Kerala State Budgets, during the period 2011-12 to 2016-17 to analyse the significant deviation between the projections and realizations of the State finances. We found that the magnitude of forecasting errors was relatively significant in case of tax revenue. While partitioning the sources of errors in the budgetary forecasting in Kerala, we found that the random components of the error were larger than the systematic components for all the macro-fiscal variables, except for own revenue, grants and capital expenditure. This has three macro policy implications. One, the volatility in intergovernmental fiscal transfers can affect the stability of finances at subnational level. Two, the State needs to identify innovative policy tools in Additional Resource Mobilisation (ARM) to maintain the human development achievements. Three, within the rule-based fiscal framework, State has to innovate financing strategies for strengthening growth-inducing capital infrastructure formation.
C32|Variational Bayesian inference in large Vector Autoregressions with hierarchical shrinkage|Many recent papers in macroeconomics have used large Vector Autoregressions (VARs) involving a hundred or more dependent variables. With so many parameters to estimate, Bayesian prior shrinkage is vital in achieving reasonable results. Computational concerns currently limit the range of priors used and render difficult the addition of empirically important features such as stochastic volatility to the large VAR. In this paper, we develop variational Bayes methods for large VARs which overcome the computational hurdle and allow for Bayesian inference in large VARs with a range of hierarchical shrinkage priors and with time-varying volatilities. We demonstrate the computational feasibility and good forecast performance of our methods in an empirical application involving a large quarterly US macroeconomic data set.
C32|Modelling and forecasting the dollar-pound exchange rate in the presence of structural breaks|We employ a newly-developed partial cointegration system allowing for level shifts to examine whether economic fundamentals form the long-run determinants of the dollar-pound exchange rate in an era of structural change. The paper uncovers a class of local data generation mechanisms underlying long-run and short-run dynamic features of the exchange rate using a set of economic variables that explicitly reï¬‚ect the central banksâ€™ monetary policy stances and the inï¬‚uence of a forward exchange market. The impact of the Brexit referendum is evaluated by examining forecasts when the dollar-pound exchange rate fell substantially around the vote.
C32|Does Agricultural Value Added Induce Environmental Degradation? Empirical Evidence from an Agrarian Country|This study empirically investigates the agriculture-induced environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis in an agrarian framework. Annual time series data from 1981â€“2014 was employed using Augmented Dickeyâ€“Fuller and the Phillipsâ€“Perron (PP) unit root test complemented by the Zivot and Andrews unit root test that accounts for a single structural break to ascertain stationarity properties of variables under consideration. For the cointegration analysis, an autoregressive distributive lag methodology and the recent novel Bayer and Hanck combined cointegration technique is employed. For the direction of causality, the Granger causality test is used as estimation technique. Empirical findings lend support for the long-run equilibrium relationship among the variables under consideration. This study also validates the inverted U-shaped pattern of EKC for the case of Nigeria, affirming that Nigeria remains at the scale-effect stage of its growth trajectory. Further empirical results show that foreign direct investment attraction helps mitigate carbon emissions in Nigeria. Based on these results, several policy prescriptions on the Nigerian energy mix and agricultural operations in response to quality of the environment were suggested for policymakers, stakeholders, and environmental economists that formulate and design environmental regulations and strategies to realise the Goal 7 of sustainable development goals (SDGs).
C32|Potential Growth and Natural Yield Curve in Japan|We estimate the yield curve gap in Japan and examine whether it has contributed to the sustained low growth and low inflation rates observed since the beginning 2000s. We use a semi-structural empirical model that generalizes Laubach and Williams' approach, considering the entire range of maturities of the interest rates and dealing with the issue of mixed frequency sampling. We consider global factors exerting downward pressures on inflation and examine how the neutral yield curve has affected the snowball effect in the dynamics of the Japanese public debt ratio.
C32|Transitory and Permanent Shocks in the Global Market for Crude Oil|This paper documents the determinants of real oil price in the global market based on SVAR model embedding transitory and permanent shocks on oil demand and supply as well as speculative disturbances. We find evidence of significant differences in the propagation mechanisms of transitory versus permanent shocks, pointing to the importance of disentangling their distinct effects. Permanent supply disruptions turn out to be a bigger factor in historical oil price movements during the most recent decades, while speculative shocks became less influential.
C32|Dynamic Factor Models in gretl. The DFM package|This package deals with the estimation of dynamic factor models (DFM); for the moment, three factor extraction techniques are available, but we plan to add more in future versions. Further additions will include parameter restrictions.
C32|Structural Factor Analysis of Interest Rate Pass Through In Four Large Euro Area Economies|In this paper we examine the influence of unconventional monetary policy at the ECB on mortgage and business lending rates offered by banks in the major euro area countries (Germany, France, Italy and Spain). Since there are many different policy measures that have been undertaken, we utilise a dynamic factor model based on the Bernanke Boivin and Eliasz (2005) approach, which allows examination of impulse responses to a policy rate conditioned by structurally identified latent factors. The distinct feature of this paper is that it explores the effects of all three phases of monetary policy to emphasize the transmission channels - through short-term rates, long-term yields and and perceived risk - ultimately directed towards bank lending rates. Further analysis of unconventional monetary policy is provided through rolling window impulse responses and variance decompositions of the identified financial factors on lending rates to demonstrate the changing influence of different policy measures on lending rates.
C32|Virtual Historical Simulation for estimating the conditional VaR of large portfolios|"In order to estimate the conditional risk of a portfolio's return, two strategies can be advocated. A multivariate strategy requires estimating a dynamic model for the vector of risk factors, which is often challenging, when at all possible, for large portfolios. A univariate approach based on a dynamic model for the portfolio's return seems more attractive. However, when the combination of the individual returns is time varying, the portfolio's return series is typically non stationary which may invalidate statistical inference. An alternative approach consists in reconstituting a ""virtual portfolio"", whose returns are built using the current composition of the portfolio and for which a stationary dynamic model can be estimated. This paper establishes the asymptotic properties of this method, that we call Virtual Historical Simulation. Numerical illustrations on simulated and real data are provided."
C32|Does the Cost of Private Debt Respond to Monetary Policy? Heteroskedasticity-Based Identification in a Model with Regimes|We investigate the effects of a conventional monetary expansion, the quantitative easing, and maturity extension programs on the yields of corporate bonds. We adopt a multiple-regime VAR identification based on heteroskedasticity. An impulse response function analysis shows that a traditional, rate based expansionary policy leads to an increase in yields. The response to quantitative easing is instead a general and persistent decrease, in particular for long-term bonds. The responses generated by the maturity extension program are significant and of larger magnitude. A decomposition shows that the unconventional programs reduce the cost private debt primarily through a reduction in risk premia.
C32|Multivariate Fractional Components Analysis|We propose a setup for fractionally cointegrated time series which is formulated in terms of latent integrated and short-memory components. It accommodates nonstationary processes with different fractional orders and cointegration of different strengths and is applicable in high-dimensional settings. In an application to realized covariance matrices, we find that orthogonal short- and long-memory components provide a reasonable fit and competitive out-of-sample performance compared to several competing methods.
C32|Shadow Banking and the Great Recession: Evidence from an Estimated DSGE Model|We argue that shocks to credit supply by shadow and retail banks were key to understanding the behavior of the US economy during the Great Recession and the Slow Recovery. We base this result on an estimated DSGE model featuring a rich representation of credit flows. Our model selects the two banking shocks as the most important drivers of the crisis because they account simultaneously for the fall in real activity, the decline in credit intermediation, and the rise in lending-borrowing spreads. On the other hand, in contrast with the existing literature,our results assign only a moderate role to productivity and investment efficiency shocks.
C32|Measuring real and financial cycles in Luxembourg: An unobserved components approach|We use unobserved components time series models to extract real and financial cycles for Luxembourg over the period 1980Q1-2018Q2. We find that financial cycles are longer and have larger amplitude compared to standard business cycles. Furthermore, financial cycles are highly correlated with cycles in GDP. We compare our results to other approaches to measure financial cycles and show how unobserved components models can serve to evaluate uncertainty and to monitor cyclical developments in real time. Overall, our estimates indicate that in mid 2018 both real and financial cycles in Luxembourg were close to zero, with financial conditions near their long-run trend.
C32|An application of dynamic factor models to nowcast regional economic activity in Spain|The goal of this paper is to propose a model to produce nowcasts of GDP growth of Spanish regions, by means of dynamic factor models. This framework is capable to incorporate in a parsimonious way the relevant information available at the time that each forecast is made. We employ a Bayesian perspective to provide robust estimation of all the ingredients involved in the model. Accordingly, we introduce the Bayesian Factor model for Regions (BayFaR), which allows for the inclusion of missing data and combines quarterly data on regional real output growth (taken from the database of the AIReF and from the individual regional statistics institutes, when available) and monthly information associated to indicators of regional real activity. We apply the BayFaR to nowcast the GDP growth of the four largest regions of Spain, and illustrate the real-time nowcasting performance of the proposed framework for each case. We also apply the model to nowcast Spanish GDP in order to be able to assess the relative growth of each region.
C32|Ciclos económicos y clusters regionales en Europa|El análisis de los ciclos económicos de las regiones europeas pone de relieve la existencia de importantes asimetrías, que pueden esquematizarse en la configuración de distintos clusters caracterizados por patrones de comportamiento diferentes. La identificación de los distintos grupos debería revelar las singularidades territoriales que afronta cada país y, por tanto, la necesidad de complementar las políticas macroeconómicas comunes con otras dirigidas a atender situaciones específicas de carácter regional. El artículo muestra que la introducción del euro ha sido decisiva para aumentar la sincronización de los ciclos regionales, al tiempo que supuso una mayor distancia entre el grupo central de regiones europeas y los países que quedaron fuera de la moneda única. También resulta destacable que, a pesar del efecto del euro, se mantienen importantes singularidades entre las regiones alemanas, por una parte, y entre las de Grecia, Portugal e Italia, por otra.
C32|Measuring retail trade using card transactional data|In this paper we present a high-dimensionality Retail Trade Index (RTI) constructed to nowcast the retail trade sector economic performance in Spain, using Big Data sources and techniques. The data are the footprints of BBVA clients from their credit or debit card transactions at Spanish point of sale (PoS) terminals. The resulting indexes have been found to be robust when compared with the Spanish RTI, regional RTI (Spain’s autonomous regions), and RTI by retailer type (distribution classes) published by the National Statistics Institute (INE). We also went one step further, computing the monthly indexes for the provinces and sectors of activity and the daily general index, by obtaining timely, detailed information on retail sales. Finally, we analyzed the high-frequency consumption dynamics using BBVA retailer behavior and a structural time series model.
C32|Fluctuations in Global Macro Volatility|We rely on a hierarchical volatility factor approach to estimate and decompose timevarying second moments of output growth into global, regional and idiosyncratic contributions. We document a “global moderation” of international business cycles, defined as a persistent decline in macroeconomic volatility across the main world economies. This decline in volatility was induced by a reduction in the underlying global component, uncovering a new level of interconnection of the world economy. After assessing the importance of different economic factors, we find that the reduction in overall countries macroeconomic volatility can be mainly explained by the increasing trade openness exhibited in recent decades. Likewise, the idiosyncratic component of countries volatility is also influenced by domestic monetary policies.
C32|Do SVARs with sign restrictions not identify unconventional monetary policy shocks ?|A growing empirical literature has shown, based on structural vector autoregressions (SVARs) identified through sign restrictions, that unconventional monetary policies implemented after the outbreak of the Great Financial Crisis (GFC) had expansionary macroeconomic effects. In a recent paper, Elbourne and Ji (2019) conclude that these studies fail to identify true unconventional monetary policy shocks in the euro area. In this note, we show that their findings are actually fully consistent with a successful identification of unconventional monetary policy shocks by the earlier studies and that their approach does not serve the purpose of evaluating identification strategies of SVARs.
C32|Mapping China’s time-varying house price landscape|The recent increase in China’s house prices at the national level masks tremendous variation at the city level – a feature largely overlooked in the macroprudential literature. This paper considers the evolving heterogeneity in China’s house price dynamics across 70 cities and assess the main deter-minants. We gauge the heterogeneity of house price dynamics using a novel regime-switching modelling approach to estimate the time-varying patterns of China’s city-level housing price synchronization. After sorting city-level housing prices into four clusters sharing similar cyclical features, we see that each group shows increasing synchronization in the years leading up to 2015, and a decoupling pattern thereafter. We document high synchronization within each of the clusters of cities, but low synchronization among them. The empirical evidence suggests that differentials in the growth of households, income, investment and even differences in air quality explain housing price synchronization among cities.
C32|Do the ECB’s monetary policies benefit emerging market economies? A GVAR analysis on the crisis and post-crisis period|This paper studies the spillover effects of the ECB’s monetary policies on non-euro area countries over the period 2004-2016, using a GVAR methodology, applied to a large sample of countries and an ample set of variables. Monetary policies are proxied by short-term interest rates and the Wu and Xia’s (2016) shadow rates in the euro area, the US and the UK. Identification is performed via a Cholesky decomposition in the euro area only. An increase in the euro area shadow interest rate triggers a broad-based and persistent output decline abroad, especially strong in Central Eastern and South-Eastern European economies. The euro area shadow rate increase is also transmitted to the short-term interest rates of a number of countries, although such rises are short-lived and not as widespread as the GDP spillovers. There is evidence that differences in countries’ responses to the euro area monetary shock depend on their characteristics. The spillover effects are transmitted mainly through the trade channel and also, to a lesser extent, the short-term interest rate channel.
C32|Evolution and Characteristics of the Exchange Rate Pass Through to Prices in Mexico|This paper analyzes the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices in Mexico using different methodologies. First, we estimate Vector Autoregressive Models (VAR). Subsequently, we estimate Autoregressive Distributed Lags Models (ARDL) in order to make a long run analysis. In particular, we find that the exchange rate pass through to consumer prices is low and has barely changed in relation with the findings in previous studies. We also estimate that when the economy grows above its long-run trend, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is larger on average. Finally, we provide some evidence of asymmetry in the exchange rate pass through, that is, the point estimation of the exchange rate pass through is greater when there is a depreciation than when there is a currency appreciation. It should be noted that in the long run analysis these results are preserved.
C32|Understanding the Consumer Confidence Index in Colombia: A structural FAVAR analysis|The consumer confidence index (CCI) is very relevant for economic analysis due to its timely publication and forecasting capacities. Although there is extensive literature on the link between CCI and macroeconomic aggregates, in particular with households' consumption, few papers have studied the fundamental factors that explain the CCI behaviour. Actually, no attempt has been made for the Colombian case. In this paper we aim to fill this gap. We estimate a Structural Factor-Augmented VAR (SFAVAR) model and perform a historical decomposition (HD) on the CCI series to obtain the underlying structural innovations that drove the CCI dynamics over the past few years. Our findings suggest that the CCI responded to changes in the underlying determinants and to non-fundamental shocks possibly related to uncertainty periods and noneconomic, socio-political or electoral events. Moreover, a counterfactual analysis shows that households' consumption forecasts improve when using the CCI series that are not affected by these non-fundamental shocks. **** ABSTRACT: El Índice de Confianza del Consumidor (ICC) es un instrumento relevante para el análisis económico, dada su oportuna publicación y sus capacidades de pronóstico. A pesar de que existe una gran cantidad de trabajos que estudian la relación entre el ICC y los agregados macroeconómicos, y en particular con el consumo privado, son pocos los estudios que han analizado los factores fundamentales que definen el comportamiento del ICC. De hecho, no hay ningún estudio al respecto para el caso colombiano. Con este documento tratamos de resolver este problema. Estimamos un modelo VAR estructural de factores (SFAVAR) y realizamos una descomposición histórica de choques del ICC para obtener los errores estructurales que determinaron la dinámica del ICC en años recientes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el comportamiento observado del ICC obedeció tanto a cambios en sus determinantes como a choques no fundamentales relacionados, posiblemente, con eventos coyunturales de naturaleza no-económica, socio-política y/o electoral. Adicionalmente, un ejercicio contrafactual permite ver que el pronóstico del consumo privado mejora cuando se utiliza una serie del ICC que no está afectada por los choques no explicados por sus fundamentales.
C32|¿Cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda pública a las tasas de interés de mercado?|La relación entre la deuda pública y las tasas de interés de mercado ha sido un tema de amplia discusión en la literatura internacional, por sus implicaciones sobre los mercados financieros, las decisiones de ahorro e inversión de los agentes económicos y el agregado de la economía. En este artículo se analiza cómo y qué tanto impacta la deuda del pública la pendiente o spread de la estructura a plazos de las tasas de interés en Colombia en el periodo 2003-2017. Para alcanzar su objetivo, primero se estima el spread a diferentes plazos, mediante un modelo de estado-espacio. Posteriormente, se determina el impacto de la deuda sobre aquel; utilizando modelos de series de tiempo univariados y multivariados. Por último, se realiza una descomposición histórica de choques del spread. Los principales resultados obtenidos muestran que la deuda pública tiene un efecto positivo sobre el spread, tanto la emitida a tasa fija como a tasa variable. Así mismo se encuentra que la emisión de deuda a tasa variable tiene un mayor efecto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de corto plazo, mientras la de tasa fija, más sensible a las condiciones del mercado, tiene un mayor impacto sobre el spread de las tasas de interés de largo plazo. La implicación de política más importante es el llamado a la reducción del endeudamiento público, con el objetivo de aminorar su impacto no deseado sobre el mercado financiero y la actividad económica. **** ABSTRACT: The relationship between public debt and market interest rates has been a subject of wide discussion in the international literature, due to its implications for the financial markets, saving and investment decisions of economic agents and for the aggregate of the economy. This article analyzes how and how much public debt impacts the slope or spread of the term structure of interest rates in Colombia in the period 2003-2017. To reach its objective, the spread is estimated at different terms, using a state-space model. Subsequently, the impact of the debt on the spread is determined; using univariate and multivariate time series models. Finally, a historical decomposition of the spread shocks is carried out. The main results obtained show that the public debt has a positive effect on the spread, both debts issued at a fixed rate and at a variable rate. It is also found that the issuance of debt at a variable rate has a greater effect on the spread of the short-term interest rates, while the fixed-rate debt, which is more sensitive to market conditions, has a greater impact on the spread of long-term rates. The most important policy implication is the call for the reduction of public indebtedness, with the aim of reducing its undesired impact on the financial market and economic activity.
C32|Nonlinear relationship between the weather phenomenon El Niño and Colombian food prices|Extreme weather events, like a strong El Niño (ENSO), affect society in many different ways especially in the context of recent globe warming. In the Colombian case, ENSO had a significant impact on consumer food prices during the strongest event in 2015-16. Our research evaluates the relationship between ENSO and Colombian food inflation growth by using a smooth transition non-linear model. We estimate the impacts of a strong ENSO on food inflation growth by adopting Generalized Impulse Response Functions (GIRFs) and the results suggest that the weather shocks are transitory and asymmetric on inflation. A strong El Niño shock has a significate effect on the food inflation growth from six to nine months after the shock and the accumulated elasticity is close to 465 basic points. We build the GIRFs for eight different episodes associated with a strong El Niño in the period corresponding from March 1962 to December 2018 and there is no evidence of changes in the size of Colombian food inflation growth responses over time. **** RESUMEN: Eventos extremos del clima como El Niño (ENSO) fuerte afectan la sociedad de diferentes maneras en especial en el reciente contexto de calentamiento global. En 2015-16, se observó el evento de El Niño más fuerte en los últimos cien años el cual presentó un impacto significativo sobre los precios de alimentos al consumidor en el caso colombiano. El presente trabajo de investigación evalúa la relación entre ENSO y el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos para el consumidor en Colombia usando un modelo no lineal de transición suave y estimando funciones de impulso respuesta generalizadas (GIRFs). Los resultados sugieren que dichos choques climáticos son transitorios y asimétricos sobre la inflación. Así, El Niño fuerte tiene un impacto significativo sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos entre seis y nueve meses después del choque climático y la elasticidad acumulada es 465 puntos básicos. Adicionalmente, se construyeron GIRFs para ocho diferentes episodios de tiempo asociados con un fenómeno de El Niño fuerte que se observaron entre marzo de 1962 y diciembre de 2018 y se encontró que no hay evidencia estadística de cambios en el tamaño de las respuestas del crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos en Colombia a través del tiempo.
C32|Regime-Dependent Effects of Uncertainty Shocks: A Structural Interpretation|Using a Markov-switching VAR, we show that the effects of uncertainty shocks on output are four times higher in a regime of economic distress than in a tranquil regime. We then provide a structural interpretation of these facts. To do so, we develop a business cycle model, in which agents are aware of the possibility of regime changes when forming expectations. The model is estimated using a Bayesian minimum distance estimator that minimizes, over the set of structural parameters, the distance between the regime-switching VAR-based impulse response functions and those implied by the model. Our results point to changes in the degree of financial frictions. We discuss the implications of this structural interpretation and show that the expectation effect of regime switching in financial conditions is an important component of the financial accelerator mechanism. If agents hold pessimistic expectations about future financial conditions, then shocks are amplified and transmitted more rapidly to the economy.
C32|French Households’ Portfolio: The Financial Almost Ideal Demand System Appraisal|Over the last decades, the composition of financial wealth of French households has dramatically changed. We seek explanatory factors for these changes by estimating an extended version of Deaton and Muellbauer (1980) model applied to French households’ portfolio choices. We find that most of the estimated parameters of the benchmark model are in line with economic priors. In particular, wealth and real returns are the key determinants of the long run dynamics of the different asset shares in the portfolio. We use the model to simulate the effect on French households’ portfolio allocation for the replacement in 2018 of the various tax regimes of most financial products with a flat tax on savings income. We find that the flat tax should support investment in equities at the expense of life insurance contracts.
C32|The Phillips Multiplier|We propose a model-free approach for determining the inflation-unemployment trade-off faced by a central bank, i.e., the ability of a central bank to transform unemployment into inflation (and vice versa) via its interest rate policy. We introduce the Phillips multiplier as a statistic to non-parametrically characterize the trade-off and its dynamic nature. We compute the Phillips multiplier for the US, UK and Canada and document that the trade-off went from being very large in the pre-1990 sample period to being small (but significant) post-1990 with the onset of inflation targeting and the anchoring of inflation expectations.
C32|Identifying modern macro equations with old shocks|"Despite decades of research, the consistent estimation of structural forward looking macroeconomic equations remains a formidable empirical challenge because of pervasive endogeneity issues. Prominent cases |the estimation of Phillips curves, of Euler equations for consumption or output, or of monetary policy rules| have typically relied on using pre-determined variables as instruments, with mixed success. In this work, we propose a new approach that consists in using sequences of independently identi ed structural shocks as instrumental variables. Our approach is robust to weak instruments and is valid regardless of the shocks' variance contribution. We estimate a Phillips curve using monetary shocks as instruments and nd that conventional methods (i) substantially under-estimate the slope of the Phillips curve and (ii) over-estimate the role of forward-looking in ation expectations."
C32|The Identification Problem for Linear Rational Expectations Models|We consider the problem of the identification of stationary solutions to linear rational expectations models from the second moments of observable data. Observational equivalence is characterized and necessary and sufficient conditions are provided for: (i) identification under affine restrictions, (ii) generic identification under affine restrictions of analytically parametrized models, and (iii) local identification under non-linear restrictions. The results strongly resemble the classical theory for VARMA models although significant points of departure are also documented.
C32|What Drives Inventory Accumulation? News on Rates of Return and Marginal Costs|We study the effects of news shocks on inventory accumulation in a structural VAR framework. We establish that inventories react strongly and positively to news about future increases in total factor productivity. Theory suggests that the transmission channel of news shocks to inventories works through movements in marginal costs, through movements in sales, or through interest rates. We provide evidence that changes in external and internal rates of return are central to the transmission for such news shocks. We do not find evidence of a strong substitution effect that shifts production from the present into the future.
C32|Disinflation and reliability of underlying inflation measures|We estimated a Non-Stationary Dynamic Factor model and used it to generate artificial episodes of disinflation (permanent change in the mean inflation rate). These datasets were used to test the forecasting abilities of alternative underlying inflation indicators (i.e. the measures that capture sustained movements in inflation extracted from information in a disaggregated set of price data). We found that the out of sample forecast errors of the benchmark underlying inflation measures (based on unobserved trend extraction) are more severely affected by disinflation than the alternative simpler methods (based on exclusion or reweighting approaches). We also show that a Non-Stationary Dynamic Factor model may be employed for extraction of the unobserved trend to be used as an underlying inflation measure.
C32|A Flexible Regime Switching Model for Asset Returns|A non-Gaussian multivariate regime switching dynamic correlation model for fi nancial asset returns is proposed. It incorporates the multivariate generalized hyperbolic law for the conditional distribution of returns. All model parameters are estimated consistently using a new two-stage expectation-maximization algorithm that also allows for incorporation of shrinkage estimation via quasi-Bayesian priors. It is shown that use of Markov switching correlation dynamics not only leads to highly accurate risk forecasts, but also potentially reduces the regulatory capital requirements during periods of distress. In terms of portfolio performance, the new regime switching model delivers consistently higher Sharpe ratios and smaller losses than the equally weighted portfolio and all competing models. Finally, the regime forecasts are employed in a dynamic risk control strategy that avoids most losses during the fi nancial crisis and vastly improves risk-adjusted returns.
C32|Robust Desmoothed Real Estate Returns|This research starts from the observation that common desmoothing models are likely to generate some extreme returns. Such returns will distort risk measurement and hence can lead to investment decisions that are suboptimal relative to those that would be made if a transaction based index were available. Thus, we propose to improve the desmoothing models by incorporating a robust filter into the procedure. We report that in addition to properly treating for smoothing, the method prevents the occurrence of extreme values. As shown with U.S. data, our method leads to desmoothed series whose characteristics are akin to those of transaction-based indices.
C32|A Non-Elliptical Orthogonal GARCH Model for Portfolio Selection under Transaction Costs|Covariance matrix forecasts for portfolio optimization have to balance sensitivity to new data points with stability in order to avoid excessive rebalancing. To achieve this, a new robust orthogonal GARCH model for a multivariate set of non-Gaussian asset returns is proposed. The conditional return distribution is multivariate generalized hyperbolic and the dispersion matrix dynamics are driven by the leading factors in a principle component decomposition. Each of these leading factors is endowed with a univariate GARCH structure, while the remaining eigenvalues are kept constant over time. Joint maximum likelihood estimation of all model parameters is performed via an expectation maximization algorithm, and is applicable in high dimensions. The new model generates realistic correlation forecasts even for large asset universes and captures rising pairwise correlations in periods of market distress better than numerous competing models. Moreover, it leads to improved forecasts of an eigenvalue-based financial systemic risk indicator. Crucially, it generates portfolios with much lower turnover and superior risk-adjusted returns net of transaction costs, outperforming the equally weighted strategy even under high transaction fees.
C32|The Czech Exchange Rate Floor: Depreciation without Inflation?|After the introduction of an exchange rate commitment and an immediate 7% depreciation of the Czech koruna of in 2013, output growth resumed but inflation remained low. Consequently, the Czech National Bank did not return policy to normal for more than three years. Using a time-varying parameter VAR model with stochastic volatility, we show that this was not surprising. The exchange rate pass-through to prices had been rather low and gradually decreasing since the early 2000s, suggesting limited potential effects of the exchange rate commitment on inflation. On the other hand, the pass-through to output growth increased. These results hold even when the period of the exchange rate floor and the zero lower bound is excluded from the sample, and they are robust to other sensitivity checks. Our results are consistent either with a flattened Phillips curve, or rising quality of the Czech exports and participation in global value chains, or a small effect of the exchange rate commitment on inflation expectations when not paired with temporary price-level targeting. Moreover, we highlight the usefulness of models accounting for time variation of parameters for policy analysis.
C32|The Graduation approach for the reduction of extreme poverty: impact evaluation of Sembrando Oportunidades Familia por Familia in Paraguay|Rural poverty, a widespread problem for the Paraguayan government over the last decade –as well as for other economies in the region-, led to the implementation, in 2016 and 2017, of the “Sembrando Oportunidades Familia por Familia” pilot program, an initiative based on the graduation approach to reduce the incidence of extreme poverty in rural areas. Evaluating the intervention results is essential to understand the effectiveness of this approach in reducing poverty in the Paraguayan context, where the government is in charge of its implementation. For this evaluation, an instrumental-variable impact evaluation and a results evaluation were conducted, showing significant positive changes in the treated households’ productive capacity and savings behavior as well in their perception of wellbeing. These results are useful for the design of a program that can help to effectively overcome extreme poverty in this and other developing countries. This exercise is part of the set of evaluations carried out by the Platform for Evaluation and Learning of the Graduation Program in Latin America (www.plataformagraduacionla.info).
C32|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
C32|Análisis de correlacción condicional. Evidencia para el mercado colombiano|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Analizó el período que abarca desde enero de 2001 hasta Septiembre de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, encuentro evidencia de un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la co-variabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales.
C32|Do zero and sign restricted SVARs identify unconventional monetary policy shocks in the euro area?|This research re-examines the findings of the existing literature on the effects of unconventional monetary policy. It concludes that the existing estimates based on vector autoregressions in combination with zero and sign restrictions do not successfully isolate unconventional monetary policy shocks from other shocks impacting the euro area economy. In our research, we show that altering existing published studies by making the incorrect assumption that expansionary monetary shocks shrink the ECBâ€™s balance sheet or even ignoring all information about the stance of monetary policy results in the same shocks and, therefore, the same estimated responses of output and prices. As a consequence, it is implausible that the shocks previously identified in the literature are true unconventional monetary policy shocks. Since correctly isolating unconventional monetary policy shocks is a prerequisite for subsequently estimating the effects of unconventional monetary policy shocks, the conclusions from previous vector autoregression models are unwarranted. We show this lack of identification for different specifications of the vector autoregression models and different sample periods.
C32|The Origins and Effects of Macroeconomic Uncertainty|We construct and estimate a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model that features demand- and supply-side uncertainty. Using term structure and macroeconomic data, we find sizable effects of uncertainty on risk premia and business cycle fluctuations. Both demand-side and supply-side uncertainty imply large contractions in real activity and an increase in term premia, but supply-side uncertainty has larger effects on inflation and investment. We introduce a novel analytical decomposition to illustrate how multiple distinct risk propagation channels account for these differences. Supply and demand uncertainty are strongly correlated in the beginning of our sample, but decouple in the aftermath of the Great Recession.
C32|The global component of inflation volatility|Global developments play an important role in domestic inflation rates. Previous literature has found that a substantial amount of the variation in a large set of national inflation rates can be explained by a single global factor. However, inflation volatility has been typically neglected, while it is clearly relevant both from a policy point of view and for structural analysis and forecasting purposes. We study the evolution of inflation rates in several countries, using a novel model that allows for commonality in both levels and volatilities, in addition to country-specific components. We find that inflation stochastic volatility is indeed important, and a substantial share of it can be attributed to a global factor that also drives the levels and persistence of inflation. While various phenomena may contribute to global inflation dynamics, it turns out that since the early 1990s, the estimated global factor is correlated with China’s PPI and with oil inflation levels and volatilities. The extent of commonality among core inflation rates and volatilities is substantially smaller than for overall inflation, which leaves scope for national monetary policies.
C32|The Phillips multiplier|We propose a model-free approach for determining the inflation-unemployment trade-off faced by a central bank, i.e., the ability of a central bank to transform unemployment into inflation (and vice versa) via its interest rate policy. We introduce the Phillips multiplier as a statistic to non-parametrically characterize the trade-off and its dynamic nature. We compute the Phillips multiplier for the US, UK and Canada and document that the trade-off went from being very large in the pre-1990 sample period to being small (but significant) post-1990 with the onset of inflation targeting and the anchoring of inflation expectations.
C32|Idiosyncratic shocks: a new procedure for identifying shocks in a VAR with application to the New Keynesian model|A key issue in VAR analysis is how best to identify economic shocks. The paper discusses the problems that the standard methods pose and proposes a new type of shock. Named an idiosyncratic shock, it is designed to identify the component in each VAR residual associated with the corresponding VAR variable. The procedure is applied to a calibrated New Keynesian model and to a VAR based on the same variables and using US data. The resulting impulse response functions are compared with those from standard procedures.
C32|Identification with external instruments in structural VARs under partial invertibility|This paper discusses the conditions for indentification with external instruments in Structural VARs under partial invertibility. We observe that in this case the shocks of interest and their effects can be recovered using an external instrument, provided that a condition of limited lag exogeneity holds. This condition is weaker than that required for LP-IV, and allows for recoverability of impact effects also une VAR misspecification. We assess our claims in a simulated environment, and provide an emirical application to the relevant cas of identification of monetary policy shocks.
C32|Sup-ADF-style bubble-detection methods under test|In this paper we analyze the performance of supremum augmented Dickey-Fuller (SADF), generalized SADF (GSADF), and backward SADF (BSADF) tests, as introduced by Phillips et al. (International Economic Review 56:1043-1078, 2015) for detecting and date-stamping financial bubbles. In Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the SADF and GSADF tests may reveal substantial size distortions under typical financial-market characteristics (like the empirically well-documented leverage effect). We consider the rational bubble specification suggested by Rotermann and Wilfl ing (Applied Economics Letters 25:1091-1096, 2018) that is able to generate realistic stock-price dynamics (in terms of level trajectories and volatility paths). Simulating stock-price trajectories that contain these parametric bubbles, we demonstrate that the SADF and GSADF tests can have extremely low power under a wide range of bubble-parameter constellations. In an empirical analysis, we use NASDAQ data covering a time-span of 45 years and find that the outcomes of the bubble date-stamping procedure (based on the BSADF test) are sensitive to the data-frequency chosen by the econometrician.
C32|Co-integration and common trends analysis with score-driven models : an application to the federal funds effective rate and US inflation rate|Co-integration and common trends are studied for time series variables, by introducing the new t-QVARMA (quasi-vector autoregressive moving average) model. t-QVARMA is an outlier-robust nonlinear score-driven model for the multivariate t-distribution. In t-QVARMA, the I(0) and I(1) components of the variables are separated in a way that is similar to the Granger-representation of VAR models. The relationship between the co-integrated federal funds effective rate and United States (US) inflation rate variables is studied for the period of July 1954 to January 2019. The in-sample statistical and out-of-sample forecasting performances of t-QVARMA are superior to those of the classical Gaussian-VAR model
C32|Bias assessment and reduction for the 2SLS estimator in general dynamic simultaneous equations models|We consider the bias of the 2SLS estimator in general dynamic simultaneousequation models with g endogenous regressors. By using asymptotic expansion techniques we approximate 2SLS coefficient estimation bias under innovation errors, p lagged-dependent variables and strongly-exogenous explanatory variables. Large-T approximations bias of the structural form is then used to construct corrected estimators for the parameters of interest in the general DSEM (C2SLS). Simulations show that the C2SLS gives almost unbiased estimators and low mean squared errors. Alternatively, the numerical bootstrap method results suggest that the non-parametric bootstrap could be used in 2SLS for improving estimation in general DSEM.
C32|Forecasting crude oil prices with DSGE models|We run an oil prices forecasting competition among a set of structural models, includ- ing vector autoregressions and dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models. Our results highlights two principles. First, forecasts should exploit the mean reversion of the real oil price over long horizons. Second, models should not replicate the high volatility of oil prices observed in sample. Abiding by these principles, we show that a small scale DSGE model performs much better in real oil price forecasting than the random walk as well as vector autoregressions.
C32|China's Monetary Policy and the Loan Market: How Strong is the Credit Channel in China?|We study the credit channel of Chinese monetary policy in a structural vector autoregressive framework. Using combinations of zero and sign restrictions, we identify monetary policy shocks linked to supply and demand responses in the loan market. Our results show that policy shocks coinciding with loan supply effects account for roughly 10 percent of output dynamics after two years, while loan demand effects represent up to 7 percent of output dynamics depending on the policy measure. The credit channel thus constitutes an important and economically relevant transmission channel for monetary policy in China. Monetary policy in China also accounts for a relatively high share of business cycle dynamics.
C32|Modelling returns and volatility connectedness between food prices and exchange rate in Nigeria|This study measures the connectedness between food prices and exchange rate in Nigeria using the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) approach. Using weekly data from January 2012 to January 2019 on five major food prices â€“ rice, maize, millet gari and sorghum, and naira to dollar exchange rate, the study tests for spillovers transmission between food prices and Nigeria domestic currency against the most traded foreign currency - US dollar. The paper finds evidence of interdependence among the food prices and exchange rate based on the obtained spillover indexes. The study further accounts for the 2016 naira to dollar exchange rate crash. The results show that the huge depreciation in the exchange rate have a greater spillover effects on the food prices with this finding is robust to varying lag structure and VAR lag order.
C32|Exchange Rates, Foreign Currency Exposure and Sovereign Risk|We quantify the causal link between exchange rate movements and sovereign risk of 16 major emerging market economies (EMEs) by means of structural vector autoregressive models (SVARs) using data from 10/2004 through 12/2016. We apply a novel data based identification approach of the structural shocks that allows to account for the complex interrelations within the triad of exchange rates, sovereign risks and interest rates. We find that the direction and size of the response of sovereign risk to FX rate movements depend on the type of exchange rate measure we look at and on the size of the net foreign currency exposure of an economy. A depreciation of the domestic currency against the USD increases sovereign risk. In contrast, a depreciation of the effective exchange rate turns out to have only a significant effect on sovereign risk for countries with large negative net foreign currency exposures of the private sector. In this case, a depreciation of the NEER also induces an increase in sovereign risk. We conclude that the `financial channel' is more important in the transmission of exchange rate shocks to sovereign risk in comparison with the traditional `net trade channel'.
C32|Bayesian Structural VAR models: a new approach for prior beliefs on impulse responses| Structural VAR models are frequently identified using sign restrictions on impulse responses. Moving beyond the popular but restrictive Normal-inverse-Wishart-Uniform prior, we develop a methodology that can handle almost any prior distribution on contemporaneous responses. We then propose a new sampler that explores the posterior just as efficiently as done by the existing algorithm for the Normal-inverse-Wishart-Uniform case. We use this exible and tractable framework to combine sign restrictions with information on the volatility of the data, giving less prior mass to impulse effects that are inconsistent with the data from a training sample. This approach sharpens posterior bands and makes sign restrictions more informative. We apply the methodology to the oil market and show that oil supply shocks have a non-negligible effect on oil price dynamics.
C32|Heterogeneity and Asymmetric Macroeconomic Effects of Changes in Loan-to-Value Limits|We estimate the macroeconomic effects of changes in loan-to-value limits using an approach that involves the cross-sectional loan-to-value distribution and does not require that a limit is actually in place. We show that the effects are asymmetric and non-linear as tighter limits constrain a larger fraction of borrowers. Symmetry is a good approximation when the limit is tight but not at other points. We find that an increase in heterogeneity can substantially increase the effects of a change in loan-to-value caps. We document that if one abstracts from borrower heterogeneity, one understates the size of the effects of LTV limits when the limit lies above the average LTV.
C32|New kid on the block? China vs the US in world oil markets|China has recently overtaken the US to become the world largest importer of crude oil. In light of this fact, we formally compare contributions of demand shocks from China, the US and the rest of the world. We find that China’s influence on the real price of oil has increased over the past two decades and surpassed that of the US. Despite this result, oil prices are more sensitive to demand shocks from the US than China. Finally, we document that demand shocks from China alone were too small to have caused the mid 2003-2008 price surge. Instead, oil specific demand shocks are found to be the major determinant of the real oil price during this period.
C32|Tail risk interdependence|We present a framework focused on the interdependence of high-dimensional tail events. This framework allows us to analyse and quantify tail interdependence at different levels of extremity, decompose it into systemic and residual part and to measure the contribution of a constituent to the interdependence of a system. In particular, tail interdependence can capture simultaneous distress of the constituents of a (financial or economic) system and measure its systemic risk. We investigate systemic distress in several financial datasets confirming some known stylized facts and discovering some new findings. Further, we devise statistical tests of interdependence in the tails and outline some additional extensions.
C32|Trend and cycle shocks in Bayesian unobserved components models for UK productivity|This paper presents a range of unobserved components models to study productivity dynamics in the United Kingdom. We introduce a set of univariate and bivariate models that allow for shocks between the trend and the cycle to be correlated, and use Bayesian sampling techniques to estimate the models. We show that the size of the priors on the trend and cycle shock has an effect on the results, suggesting that a range of priors need to be considered for policy-making purposes. If the prior is set to a smooth trend, then models with little correlation between the trend and cycle shocks are the likeliest to fit the data. On the other hand, if there is a prior belief that the trend shock is allowed to vary relatively freely, the results suggest that there is a negative correlation between trend and cycle shocks to LIK productivity. This is consistent with real-business cycle type narratives, where trend shocks are the main driver of productivity dynamics. Finally, our evidence suggests that the trend productivity growth rate in the UK has been weaker since the financial crisis. There is also a significant positive correlation between shocks to UK trend productivity and those of other advanced economies.
C32|China's monetary policy and the loan market : How strong is the credit channel in China?|We study the credit channel of Chinese monetary policy in a structural vector autoregressive framework. Using combinations of zero and sign restrictions, we identify monetary policy shocks linked to supply and demand responses in the loan market. Our results show that policy shocks coinciding with loan supply effects account for roughly 10 percent of output dynamics after two years, while loan demand effects represent up to 7 percent of output dynamics depending on the policy measure. The credit channel thus constitutes an important and economically relevant transmission channel for monetary policy in China. Monetary policy in China also accounts for a relatively high share of business cycle dynamics.
C32|Assessing U.S. Aggregate Fluctuations Across Time and Frequencies|We study the behavior of key macroeconomic variables in the time and frequency domain. For this purpose, we decompose U.S. time series into various frequency components. This allows us to identify a set of stylized facts: GDP growth is largely a high-frequency phenomenon whereby inflation and nominal interest rates are characterized largely by low-frequency components. In contrast, unemployment is a medium-term phenomenon. We use these decompositions jointly in a structural VAR where we identify monetary policy shocks using a sign restriction approach. We find that monetary policy shocks affect these key variables in a broadly similar manner across all frequency bands. Finally, we assess the ability of standard DSGE models to replicate these findings. While the models generally capture low-frequency movements via stochastic trends and business-cycle fluctuations through various frictions, they fail at capturing the medium-term cycle.
C32|Measuring household uncertainty in EU countries|I provide a measure of household uncertainty available for European Union (EU) countries. The measure draws from the same consumer survey data used to construct widely-used consumer sentiment indices. I find that increases in household uncertainty are followed by declines in consumer sentiment and household financial conditions. Using Euro Area-wide indices, I also find that the effects of increases in household uncertainty differ from increases in uncertainty from other sources such as financial markets and economic policy. Notably, household uncertainty shocks are inflationary. These results challenge the notion that (household) uncertainty shocks act like negative demand shocks.
C32|Estimating a Markov Switching DSGE Model with Macroeconomic Policy Interaction|This paper estimates a Markov switching dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model (MS-DSGE) allowing for changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction. The key feature of the model is that it seeks to quantitatively examine the impact of changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction on economic outcomes even during a period when the ZLB is binding and unconventional monetary policy is implemented. To this end, we estimate our model using the shadow interest rate, which can be interpreted as an aggregate that captures the overall effect of unconventional monetary policies as well as conventional monetary policy. Applying our model to Japan, we identify changes in monetary/fiscal policy interaction even during the period when unconventional monetary policy has been implemented. We find that the introduction of Qualitative and Quantitative Easing (QQE) enables the Bank of Japan to actively respond to the inflation rate, which has helped to push up inflation.
C32|Inflation Expectations Curve in Japan|"In this paper, we estimate ""inflation expectations curve"" - a term structure of inflation expectations - combining forecast data of various agents. We use a state-space model which considers consistency among expectations at different horizons, and for relationships between inflation rate, real growth rate and nominal interest rate. We find that the slope of the curve in Japan is positive in almost all periods since the 1990s. In addition, looking at the estimated inflation expectations in time series, the inflation expectations at all horizons rose in the mid-2000s and from late 2012 to 2013, after the downward trend from the early 1990s to the early 2000s. Short-term inflation expectations in particular have tended to shift upwards since the launch of Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing, while being affected by fluctuations in the import price. Finally, a structural VAR analysis shows that the estimated inflation expectations in Japan are largely adaptive, meaning their formation is affected by actual inflation rates."
C32|Foreign Direct Investment and Tax: OECD Gravity Modelling in a World with International Financial Institutions|In this paper, bilateral OECD FDI flow data from 1985 to 2017 is evaluated and compiled to create a new dataset in order to clarify the controversial role (in the literature) of corporate tax levels on the decisions of firms regarding whether or not, and where, to undertake investments. In the course of our research we find the need to control for interaction with international financial institutions: Membership in BIS, EBRD, ADB and MIGA. Quantitative analyses via gravity models firstly provide findings which are consistent with previous studies and, secondly, expand the knowledge about FDI and tax by providing new results relevant for policymakers in the context of globalization and international institutions. It is shown that falling corporate tax rate levels lead to increasing FDI inflows, the effect is, however, smaller than expected; if deviation from international cooperation is chosen as a national strategy (i.e. unilateralism), the tax rate, however, gains in importance. On the other hand, unilateralism triggers various effects decreasing FDI inflows, as trade openness is likely to decrease, the opportunity costs for other nations to deviate decrease, and therefore bilateral tax differences are likely to decrease as well; which will further reduce the effect of low tax levels. Evidence for the phenomenon of implementing low corporate tax levels in order to keep domestic firms within the country and reduce their incentives to invest abroad is not found.
C32|Some Dynamic and Steady-State Properties of Threshold Autoregressions with Applications to Stationarity and Local Explosivity|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the dynamics and steady-state properties of threshold autoregressive models with exogenous states that follow Markovian processes; these processes are widely used in applied economics although their statistical properties have not been explored in detail. We use characteristic functions to carry out the analysis and this allows us to describe limiting distributions for processes not considered in the literature previously. We also calculate analytical expressions for some moments. Furthermore, we see that we can have locally explosive processes that are explosive in one regime whilst being strongly stationary overall. This is explored through simulation analysis where we also show how the distribution changes when the explosive state become more frequent although the overall process remains stationary. In doing so, we are able to relate our analysis to asset prices which exhibit similar distributional properties.
C32|European Gas Markets, Trading Hubs, and Price Formation: A Network Perspective|We apply network theory to analyse the interactions of trading hub prices, and to assess the harmonisation of the European gas market. We construct dynamic networks, where the nodes correspond to the twelve EU trading hubs, and where the edges weight the causality between the variations of the respective gas prices. Network density dynamically calculates the aggregate quantity of causal interactions recorded within the system, which provides information pertaining to the integration of the European gas network. We document a number of spikes in network density, suggesting short periods of improved connectivity of European gas markets. We argue that these results appear to be driven by exogenous factors, such as unseasonal weather patterns, seismic activity and pipeline capacity reductions or outages. The findings elucidate the time varying nature of European gas market dynamics, and the importance of continual monitoring of market evolution.
C32|Tracking the Course of the Economy (Nowcasting of basic macroeconomic indicators of Slovakia)|Real GDP and its structure are available within 70 days after the end of the reference quarter. By using leading indicators of higher frequency, it is possible to nowcast GDP in real-time. With an assumption of unobserved factor driving the business cycle we estimate dynamic factor models for real GDP, its demand components, inflation, wages and employment using statistically significant domestic and foreign indicators. To ensure the consistency of out-of-sample forecasts for GDP and its components, past forecast deviations and correlation coefficients are used to adjust the forecast, which helps to reduce the bias of individual models. Forecasts using real-time database are carried out since the 1st January of 2017 using daily data vintages. Real-time forecasts display a reduction of forecasting error with the arrival of new data in the last month of the quarter until the official publication. The main role of nowcasting in CBR is to track the actual positive and negative macroeconomic risks of the Slovak economy in relation to the latest official national macroeconomic forecast by the Macroeconomic Forecasting Committee. Additionally, the nowcast models help to improve precision of estimates of initial conditions of the economy by bridging the short-term forecast and mid-term forecast.
C32|State-dependent Monetary Policy Regimes|Are monetary policy regimes state-dependent? To answer the question this paper estimates New Keynesian general equilibrium models that allow the state of the economy to influence the monetary authority’s stance on inflation. I take advantage of recent developments in solving rational expectations models with state-dependent parameter drift to estimate three models on U.S. data between 1965-2009. In these models, the probability of remaining in a monetary policy regime that is relatively accommodative towards inflation, varies over time and depends on endogenous model variables; in particular, either deviations of inflation or output from their respective targets or a monetary policy shock. The main contribution of this paper is that it finds evidence of state-dependent monetary policy regimes. The model that allows inflation to influence the monetary policy regime in place, fits the data better than an alternative model with regime changes that are not state-dependent. This finding points towards reconsidering how changes in monetary policy are modeled.
C32|DCC-HEAVY: a multivariate GARCH model with realized measures of variance and correlation|This paper proposes a new class of multivariate volatility model that utilising high-frequency data. We call this model the DCC-HEAVY model as key ingredients are the Engle (2002) DCC model and Shephard and Sheppard (2012) HEAVY model. We discuss the models' dynamics and highlight their differences from DCC-GARCH models. Specifically, the dynamics of conditional variances are driven by the lagged realized variances, while the dynamics of conditional correlations are driven by the lagged realized correlations in the DCC-HEAVY model. The new model removes well known asymptotic bias in DCC-GARCH model estimation and has more desirable asymptotic properties. We also derive a Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation and provide closed-form formulas for multi-step forecasts. Empirical results suggest that the DCC-HEAVY model outperforms the DCC-GARCH model in and out-of-sample.
C32|Asymptotic F Tests under Possibly Weak Identification|This paper develops asymptotic F tests robust to weak identification and temporal dependence. The test statistics are modified versions of the S statistic of Stock and Wright (2000) and the K statistic of Kleibergen (2005), both of which are based on the continuous updating generalized method of moments. In the former case, the modification involves only a multiplicative degree-of-freedom adjustment. In the latter case, the modification involves an additional multiplicative adjustment that uses a J statistic for testing overidentification. By adopting fixed-smoothing asymptotics, we show that both the modified S statistic and the modified K statistic are asymptotically F-distributed. The asymptotic F theory accounts for the estimation errors in the underlying heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation robust variance estimators, which the asymptotic chi-squared theory ignores. Monte Carlo simulations show that the F approximations are much more accurate than the corresponding chi-squared approximations in finite samples.
C32|Stock market linkages between the ASEAN countries, China and the US: a fractional cointegration approach|This paper examines stock market integration between the ASEAN five and the US and China, respectively, over the period from November 2002 to March 2018. The linkages between both aggregate and financial sector stock indices (both weekly and monthly) are analysed using fractional integration and fractional cointegration methods. Further, recursive cointegration analysis is carried out for the weekly series to study the impact of the 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 China stock market crash on the pattern of stock market co-movement. The main findings are the following. All stock indices exhibit long memory. There is cointegration between the ASEAN five and the US but almost none between the former and China, except between Indonesia and China in the case of the financial sector. The 2007-8 global financial crisis and the 2015 Chinese stock market plunge weakened the linkages between the ASEAN five and both China and the US. The implications of these results for market participants and policy makers are discussed.
C32|Bitcoin and web search query dynamics: is the price driving the hype or is the hype driving the price?|Using a battery of timely multivariate time series techniques I study the Bitcoin cryptocurrency price series and web search queries with regard to their mutual predictability, Granger-causality and cause-effect delay structure. The Bitcoin is at first treated as a general currency, then as a generic asset. Google queries, although cointegrated, are found to be not helpful in predicting the USD exchange rate of Bitcoin as the speculative bubble in the latter antedates explosive behavior in the former. Chinese Baidu engine queries and compounded Baidu-Google queries predict Bitcoin price dynamics at relatively high frequencies ranging from two to five months. In the other direction, causality runs from the cryptocurrency price to queries statistics across nearly all frequencies. In both directions, the reaction time computed from a phase delay measure for the relevant frequency bands with significant causality ranges from slightly more than one month to about four months.
C32|Financial integration in the GCC region: market size versus national effects|This paper examines financial spillovers between the four largest equity markets (by market capitalization) in the GCC region using a VAR-GARCH (1,1) framework that sheds light on interdependence as well as the effects of the 2014 oil crisis. Since the UAE is a federation including two stock exchanges (Abu Dhabi and Dubai), it is possible to test whether being part of a federal union matters more than market size in terms of financial integration. Our results suggest that the latter is more important, since we could not find evidence of stronger linkages between the Abu Dhabi and Dubai markets compared to those between other markets in the region. By contrast, there are significant spillover effects, both in the mean and in the volatility, from the largest market of Saudi Arabia to Qatar and the two markets in the UAE, which confirms that market capitalization is a more important determinant of financial integration than belonging to a federal union. Further, spillovers from the larger markets have become stronger as a result of the 2014 oil crisis. Finally, there is also evidence of spillovers from the smaller to the larger markets.
C32|Uncertainty Shocks and Financial Crisis Indicators|The current paper broadens the understanding of the role played by uncertainty in the context of macroeconomic fluctuations. It focuses on the implications of uncertainty shocks for indicators that tend to precede financial crises. In an empirical analysis we show for a set of four euro area countries that negative uncertainty shocks, while boosting economic activity, are followed by unfavorable reactions of financial crisis indicators. We conclude that standard uncertainty measures contain some useful information on the potential buildup of vulnerabilities in the financial system.
C32|Time-Varying General Dynamic Factor Models and the Measurement of Financial Connectedness|Ripple effects in financial markets associated with crashes, systemic risk and contagion are characterized by non-trivial lead-lag dynamics which is crucial for understanding how crises spread and, therefore, central in risk management. In the spirit of Diebold and Yilmaz (2014), we investigate connectedness among financial firms via an analysis of impulse response functions of adjusted intraday log-ranges to market shocks involving network theory methods. Motivated by overwhelming evidence that the interdependence structure of financial markets is varying over time, we are basing that analysis on the so-called time-varying General Dynamic Factor Model proposed by Eichler et al. (2011), which extends to the locally stationary context the framework developed by Forni et al. (2000) under stationarity assumptions. The estimation methods in Eichler et al. (2011), however, present the major drawback of involving two-sided filters which make it impossible to recover impulse response functions. We therefore introduce a novel approach extending to the time-varying context the one-sided method of Forni et al. (2017). The resulting estimators of time-varying impulse response functions are shown to be consistent, hence can be used in the analysis of (time-varying) connectedness. Our empirical analysis on a large and strongly comoving panel of intraday price ranges of US stocks indicates that large increases in mid to long-run connectedness are associated with the main financial turmoils.
C32|Money, credit, monetary policy, and the business cycle in the euro area: what has changed since the crisis?|This paper studies the relationship between the business cycle and financial intermediation in the euro area. We establish stylized facts and study their stability during the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. Long-term interest rates have been exceptionally high and long-term loans and deposits exceptionally low since the Lehman collapse. Instead, short-term interest rates and short-term loans and deposits did not show abnormal dynamics in the course of the financial and sovereign debt crisis.
C32|The link between labor cost and price inflation in the euro area|This paper documents, for the first time in a systematic manner, the link between labor cost and price inflation in the euro area. Using country and sector quarterly data over the period 1985Q1-2018Q1 we find a strong link between labor cost and price inflation in the four major economies of the euro area and across the three main sectors. The dynamic interaction between prices and wages is time-varying and depends on the state of the economy and on the shocks hitting the economy. Our results show that it is more likely that labor costs are passed on to price inflation with demand shocks than with supply shocks. However, the pass-through is systematically lower in periods of low inflation as compared to periods of high inflation. These results confirm that, under circumstances of predominantly demand shocks, labor cost increases will be passed on to prices. Coming from a period of low inflation, however, this pass-through could be moderate at least until inflation stably reaches a sustained path. JEL Classification: C32, E24, E31
C32|Global growth on life support? The contributions of fiscal and monetary policy since the global financial crisis|This paper compares the role of monetary and fiscal policy shocks in advanced and emerging economies. Using a model with a hierarchical structure we capture the variability of GDP response to policy shocks both between and within the groups of advanced and emerging countries. Our results provide evidence that fiscal policy effects are heterogeneous across countries, with higher multipliers in advanced economies compared to emerging markets, while monetary policy is found to have more homogeneous effects on GDP. We then quantify the policy contribution on GDP growth in the last decade by means of a structural counterfactual analysis based on conditional forecasts. We find that global GDP growth benefited from substantial policy support during the global financial crisis but policy tightening thereafter, particularly fiscal consolidation, acted as a significant drag on the subsequent global recovery. In addition we show that the role of policy has differed across countries. Specifically, in advanced economies, highly accommodative monetary policy has been counteracted by strong fiscal consolidation. By contrast, in emerging economies, monetary policy has been less accommodative since the global recession. JEL Classification: C32, E42, E52
C32|Much ado about nothing? The shale oil revolution and the global supply curve|We focus on the implications of the shale oil boom for the global supply of oil. We begin with a stylized model with two producers, one facing low production costs and one higher production costs but potentially lower adjustment costs, competing à la Stackelberg. We find that the supply function is flatter for the high cost producer, and that the supply function for shale oil producers becomes more responsive to demand shocks when adjustment costs decline. On the empirical side, we apply an instrumental variable approach using estimates of demand-driven oil price changes derived from a standard structural VAR of the oil market. A main finding is that global oil supply is rather vertical, practically all the time. Moreover, for the global oil market as a whole, we do not find evidence of a major shift to a more price elastic supply as a result of the shale oil boom. JEL Classification: Q33, Q41, Q43, C32
C32|From CIP-Deviations to a Market for Risk Premia: A Dynamic Investigation of Cross-Currency Basis Swaps|The persistent deviations from the covered interest rate parity (CIP) since 2007 indicate that specific frictions continue to exist, which prevent them from being arbitraged away. In this study, we study the cross-currency basis swap market and put forward the argument that the risk premium expressed via the CIP-deviation constitutes a unique market that determines its own equilibrium price after receiving feedback from various sources, including contagion within the market itself. We investigate contagion using a TVP-VAR framework of analysis that measures the extent of connectedness across the bases on all G10 currencies against the US dollar between 2007 and 2018. Our main findings indicate that connectedness is event-dependent. Furthermore, we provide evidence that net-transmitting bases are typically associated with safe haven currencies (e.g. CHF) and banking sectors with significant overseas operations (e.g. EUR and JPY). On a pairwise level, results confirm that during tranquil times in international financial markets, connectedness subdues and even reaches negligible levels - particularly for stable banking systems (e.g. CAD) or without significant US dollar funding gaps (e.g. AUD).
C32|A Regional Decomposition of US Housing Prices and Volume: Market Dynamics and Economic Diversification Opportunities|In this study we employ a TVP-VAR model in order to investigate dynamic connectedness of housing prices and sales volume across four US regional housing markets; namely, Midwest, Northeast, South, as well as, West, for the period between January 1990 and March 2019. Furthermore, utilising an insightful decomposition of the results, we provide a thorough investigation of the underlying dynamics. Overall, results indicate that during turbulent economic periods, it is sales volume shocks that drive developments in the US housing market, rather than shocks in housing prices. In addition, we find that the South is rather a persistent net transmitter of both prices and volume housing market shocks, while the Northeast, a net receiver. On the whole, all four markets assume both roles over time. Results are important for policy makers and regulators aiming to alleviate the negative ramifications of an overheated housing market. In addition, given that over time, the four markets behave differently in connection with their short run shock-transmission capacity, results are also suggestive that there is potential for economic (i.e., rather than strictly geographical) portfolio diversification.
C32|EMU-Risk Synchronisation and Financial Fragility Through the Prism of Dynamic Connectedness|This study employs dynamic connectedness as a measure of financial risk synchronisation considering government bond yields in 11 EMU member states. In particular, large values of the relevant index can be an indication of comparable levels of risk further implying that the common currency area consists of a financially sensible set of countries. By contrast, small connectedness values can be an indication of fragmentation whereupon certain countries are considered to be safer than others. The latter would be detrimental for the EMU as it fuels financial fragility, which practically stipulates that crises occur as a result of self-fulfilling market fears. The results are based on a daily dataset which spans between 1st September 2003 and 31st August 2018. Findings show that fragmentation was present at the height of the European sovereign debt crisis and that the interconnectedness has not yet reverted to its pre-2009 levels. In addition, core countries appear to transmit shocks to periphery countries although, occasionally, there are noteworthy disparities. Further investigating these disparities on a pairwise connectedness level - which helps to identify sensible pairs of countries in terms of financial risk - shows that core countries dominate this exercise, with the exception of the bilateral relation between Italy and Spain. The fact that most periphery countries of our sample are not included in these pairs raises concerns and calls for a more substantial integration.
C32|Online Estimation of DSGE Models|This paper illustrates the usefulness of sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods in approximating DSGE model posterior distributions. We show how the tempering schedule can be chosen adaptively, explore the benefits of an SMC variant we call generalized tempering for “online” estimation, and provide examples of multimodal posteriors that are well captured by SMC methods. We then use the online estimation of the DSGE model to compute pseudo-out-of-sample density forecasts of DSGE models with and without financial frictions and document the benefits of conditioning DSGE model forecasts on nowcasts of macroeconomic variables and interest rate expectations. We also study whether the predictive ability of DSGE models changes when we use priors that are substantially looser than those commonly adopted in the literature.
C32|Coupling Cycle Mechanisms: Minsky debt cycles and the Multiplier-Accelerator|While there exists a substantial literature on different business cycle mechanisms, there is little literature on economies with more than one business cycle mechanism operating and the relation of stability of these subsystems with the stability of the aggregate system. We construct a model where a multiplier-accelerator subsystem in output-investment space (a real cycle) and a Minskyian subsystem in investment-debt space (a financial cycle) can generate stable/unstable cycles in 2D in isolation. We then derive a theorem showing that if two independent cycle mechanisms that generate stable closed orbits in 2D share a self-destabilizing common variable and the true representation of the system is a fully-coupled 3D system where a weighted average of the common variable is in effect, then the 3D system will generate locally stable closed orbits in 3D if and only if the subsystems have the same frequencies and/or the self-destabilizing effects of the common variable evaluated at the fixed point are equal in both subsystems. Our results indicate that in the presence of multiple cycle mechanisms which share common variables in an economy, the stability of the aggregate economy crucially depends on the frequencies of these sub-cycle mechanisms. Abstract While there exists a substantial literature on di¤erent business cycle mechanisms, there is little literature on economies with more than one business cycle mechanism operating and the relation of stability of these subsystems with the stability of the aggregate system. We construct a model where a multiplier-accelerator subsystem in output-investment space (a real cycle) and a Minskyian subsystem in investment-debt space (a …nancial cycle) can generate stable/unstable cycles in 2D in isolation. We then derive a theorem showing that if two independent cycle mechanisms that generate stable closed orbits in 2D share a self-destabilizing common variable and the true representation of the system is a fully-coupled 3D system where a weighted average of the common variable is in e¤ect, then the 3D system will generate locally stable closed orbits in 3D if and only if the subsystems have the same frequencies and/or the self-destabilizing e¤ects of the common variable evaluated at the …xed point are equal in both subsystems. Our results indicate that in the presence of multiple cycle mechanisms which share common variables in an economy, the stability of the aggregate economy crucially depends on the frequencies of these sub-cycle mechanisms.
C32|Integer-valued stochastic volatility|We propose a novel class of count time series models, the mixed Poisson integer-valued stochastic volatility models. The proposed specification, which can be considered as an integer-valued analogue of the discrete-time stochastic volatility model, encompasses a wide range of conditional distributions of counts. We study its probabilistic structure and develop an easily adaptable Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm, based on the Griddy-Gibbs approach that can accommodate any conditional distribution that belongs to that class. We demonstrate that by considering the cases of Poisson and negative binomial distributions. The methodology is applied to simulated and real data.
C32|Bayesian multivariate Beveridge--Nelson decomposition of I(1) and I(2) series with cointegration|The consumption Euler equation implies that the output growth rate and the real interest rate are of the same order of integration; thus if the real interest rate is I(1), then so is the output growth rate with possible cointegration, and log output is I(2). This paper extends the multivariate Beveridge--Nelson decomposition to such a case, and develops a Bayesian method to obtain error bands. The paper applies the method to US data to estimate the natural rates (or their permanent components) and gaps of output, inflation, interest, and unemployment jointly, and finds that allowing for cointegration gives much bigger estimates of all gaps.
C32|Exchange Rate Pass-Through to Prices: VAR Evidence for Albania|This paper estimates the impact of exchange rate shocks to prices in Albania from 2000Q1 to 2017Q1. The empirical analysis is based on a Vector Autoregressive approach for Albanian economy following Cholesky decomposition scheme. Impulse-response functions give evidence for an incomplete “pass-through” of exchange rate shocks to prices. Impulse-response functions to oil shocks indicates initial positive values for import and producer prices and negative value for consumer prices and interest rates. Variance decomposition reveal that the highest fluctuations of import prices is triggered by growth rate and oil prices shocks, whereas the variance of producer prices and consumer prices is explained by its own innovations. Exchange rate’s innovations are less aggressive to import prices and producer prices then to consumer prices. We perform the robustness check allowing interest rate to be ordered before exchange rates and the results do not change from the previous findings.
C32|A Bayesian Estimation of HANK models with Continuous Time Approach:Comparison between US and Japan|Abstract This paper estimates heterogeneous agent New Keynesian (HANK) model for US and Japan through three aggregate observations: real GDP, inflation and interest rate, by adopting combination of easy-to-use computational method for solving the model, developed by Ahn, Kaplan, Moll, Winberry and Wolf (2019), and sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) method with Kalman filter applied for Bayesian estimation with parallel computing. The combination make us enjoy the estimation of HANK just using a Laptop PC, e.g., Mac Book Pro, with MATLAB, neither many-core server computer nor FORTRUN language. We show estimation results of one Asset HANK model, i.e., impulse response, fluctuations of distributions of heterogeneous agent as well as historical decomposition for both countries. Even though using the same model, different data draws different pictures.
C32|Getting on and moving up the property ladder: Real hedging in the U.S. housing market before and after the crisis|Real hedging is the practice of getting onto the property ladder in order to trade up to a larger home in the future. We define the value of the real hedge of home ownership as the difference between the risk premiums of renting and owning and explore how this value depends on local housing price dynamics and household characteristics. Controlling for the potential endogeneity of housing bubble bursts across different U.S metropolitan areas, we find a significantly higher correlation in the appreciation rates across the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller tiered house price indices in the period after the housing crisis. We conclude that real hedging has become more attractive in the period after the crisis, particularly in markets exhibiting momentum and high volatility in returns.
C32|Modelación de la correlación condicional para el mercado bursátil colombiano: una aplicación de DCC – MGARCH<BR>[Modeling of the conditional correlation for the Colombian stock market: a DCC application - MGARCH]|El artículo investiga la incertidumbre y la interdependencia entre el mercado accionario colombiano y los principales mercados internacionales. Se estima un modelo Correlación Condicional Dinámica (DCC) para estudiar la interdependencia entre los mercados accionarios seleccionados y un modelo GARCH para analizar la volatilidad condicional. Para ello, se utiliza una muestra de datos diarios, que abarca el período comprendido entre el Enero de 2003 y Agosto de 2018. Los resultados muestran que el periodo de crisis subprime genera un efecto positivo significativo en la volatilidad condicional. Además, existe un co-movimiento significativo en el tiempo entre el mercado bursátil colombiano y los mercados nacionales e internacionales. En cuanto a la persistencia, la covariabilidad con los mercados nacionales es mayor, en relación a los mercados internacionales
C32|Time-varying Fiscal Multipliers Identified by Systematic Component: A Bayesian Approach to TVP-SVAR model|Abstract This study estimates time varying fiscal multipliers from the aspect of fiscal policy rules derived from the systematic component along the line of “Agnostic Identification Procedure” proposed by Caldara and Kamps (2017) for the US economy between 1952:Q1-2018:Q1. To do so, we adopt time-varying parameter structural vector autoregressive (TVP-SVAR) with MCMC procedure by a Bayesian approach, and identify both of government spending and tax cut shocks using the zero and sign restrictions method proposed by Arias, Rubio-Ramirez and Waggoner (2018). And we compare those values with time varying version identified by standard sign restriction along the line of Mountford and Uhlig (2009). Our estimation reports that time-varying fiscal multipliers of output by government spending rule could be nearly double for one year but decline to unity after eight years, and seem to have been very stable for long terms such as sixty years. By contrast, those of tax cut rule are more fluctuate and negative for long run except the 1990’s.
C32|Investissements Directs Étrangers Et Croissance Économique En République Démocratique Du Congo (Rdc)<BR>[Foreign Direct Investment And Economic Growth In Democratic Republic Of Congo (Drc)]|The objective of this paper is to analyze the effect of foreign direct investments on economic growth in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) over the period 1980-2016. To achieve this objective, we used the ARDL approach. The results indicate a negative effect of foreign direct investments on the economic growth of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the short and long term.
C32|Exchange Rate Pass-through to Prices : Bayesian VAR Evidence for Ghana|Using quarterly data from 2006q3 to 2017q4, this paper employed sign restrictions with rejection method in a Vector Autoregression to estimate the pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices in Ghana. The priors of the model belongs to the flat Normal inverted-Wishart family. Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is used to collect 1000 draws from the posterior distribution of the SVAR parameters that satisfy the sign restrictions. The model specification included some idiosyncratic features of the Ghanaian economy such as the dependence on primary export commodities for foreign exchange revenue and the dependence on foreign aid. Impulse response functions was used to analyze exchange rate pass-through whilst variance decomposition was used to explain the most dominant source of inflation in the study sample. The impulse response showed a fairly large but not unitary pass-through of exchange rate dynamics to domestic prices. The implication herein is that exchange rate depreciation led to upsurge in prices in Ghana albeit, the impact is incomplete. Results from the variance decomposition indicated a monetary expansion was most dominant in explaining inflationary pressures in Ghana. For inflation to be lowered, policy directives should be geared towards exchange rate stability as well as ensuring a stable interest rate environment.
C32|Tests for conditional heteroscedasticity with functional data and goodness-of-fit tests for FGARCH models|Functional data objects that are derived from high-frequency financial data often exhibit volatility clustering characteristic of conditionally heteroscedastic time series. Versions of functional generalized autoregressive conditionally heteroscedastic (FGARCH) models have recently been proposed to describe such data, but so far basic diagnostic tests for these models are not available. We propose two portmanteau type tests to measure conditional heteroscedasticity in the squares of financial asset return curves. A complete asymptotic theory is provided for each test, and we further show how they can be applied to model residuals in order to evaluate the adequacy, and aid in order selection of FGARCH models. Simulation results show that both tests have good size and power to detect conditional heteroscedasticity and model mis-specification in finite samples. In an application, the proposed tests reveal that intra-day asset return curves exhibit conditional heteroscedasticity. Additionally, we found that this conditional heteroscedasticity cannot be explained by the magnitude of inter-daily returns alone, but that it can be adequately modeled by an FGARCH(1,1) model.
C32|IFRS9 Expected Credit Loss Estimation: Advanced Models for Estimating Portfolio Loss and Weighting Scenario Losses|Estimation of portfolio expected credit loss is required for IFRS9 regulatory purposes. It starts with the estimation of scenario loss at loan level, and then aggregated and summed up by scenario probability weights to obtain portfolio expected loss. This estimated loss can vary significantly, depending on the levels of loss severity generated by the IFSR9 models, and the probability weights chosen. There is a need for a quantitative approach for determining the weights for scenario losses. In this paper, we propose a model to estimate the expected portfolio losses brought by recession risk, and a quantitative approach for determining the scenario weights. The model and approach are validated by an empirical example, where we stress portfolio expected loss by recession risk, and calculate the scenario weights accordingly.
C32|Short-term forecasting of the US unemployment rate|This paper aims to assess whether Google search data is useful when predicting the US unemployment rate among other more traditional predictor variables. A weekly Google index is derived from the keyword “unemployment” and is used in diffusion index variants along with the weekly number of initial claims and monthly estimated latent factors. The unemployment rate forecasts are generated using MIDAS regression models that take into account the actual frequencies of the predictor variables. The forecasts are made in real-time and the forecasts of the best forecasting models exceed, for the most part, the root mean squared forecast error of two benchmarks. However, as the forecasting horizon increases, the forecasting performance of the best diffusion index variants decreases over time, which suggests that the forecasting methods proposed in this paper are most useful in the short-term.
C32|South African unemployment in the post-financial crisis era: What are the determinants?|High unemployment rates is one of the greatest economic challenges facing post-apartheid South African government over the past two decades and this problem has become more worrisome in the post-global financial crisis period. Our study examines the determinants of unemployment for the South African economy in the post-crisis period over a quarterly frequency period of 2009:Q1 to 2018:Q4. The determinants are examined for 4 classes of unemployment rates (total, male, female and youth) and we further partition possible unemployment determinants into fiscal, monetary and macroeconomic variables. The estimation results from the employed autoregressive distributive lag (ARDL) models find income tax, repo rates, economic growth, trade, investment, household debt and savings to be significant determinants of unemployment in the post-crisis South African economy and yet we note discrepancies of the significance of these determinants amongst different unemployment categories. Relevant policy implications are matched against our obtained empirical findings.
C32|On the (in)efficiency of cryptocurrencies: Have they taken daily or weekly random walks?|The legitimacy of virtual currencies as an alternative form of monetary exchange has been the centre of an ongoing heated debated since the catastrophic global financial meltdown of 2007-2008. We contribute to the relative fresh body of empirical research on the informational market efficiency of cryptomarkets by investigating the weak-form efficiency of the top-five cryptocurrencies. In differing from previous studies, we implement random walk testing procedures which are robust to asymmetries and unobserved smooth structural breaks. Moreover, our study employs two frequencies of cryptocurrency returns, one corresponding to daily returns and the other to weekly returns. Our findings validate the random walk hypothesis for daily series hence validating the weak-form efficiency for daily returns. On the other hand, weekly returns are observed to be stationary processes which is evidence against weak-form efficiency for weekly returns. Overall, our study has important implications for market participants within cryptocurrency markets.
C32|Day-ahead electricity price forecasting with emphasis on its volatility in Iran (GARCH combined with ARIMA models)|This paper provides a method to forecast day-ahead electricity prices based on autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedastic (GARCH) models. In the competitive power market environment, electricity price forecasting is an essential task for market participants. However, time series of electricity price has complex behavior such as nonlinearity, nonstationarity, and high volatility. ARIMA is suitable in forecasting, but it is not able to handle nonlinearity and volatility are existent in time series. Therefore, GARCH models are used to handle volatility in the in time series forecasting. The proposed method is computed using the daily electricity price data of Iran market for a five-year period from March 2013 to February 2018. The results reported in this paper illustrate the potential of the proposed ARMA-GARCH model and this combined model has been successfully applied to real prices in the Iranian power market.
C32|A new approach to estimation of actively managed component of foreign exchange reserves|Changes in foreign exchange (FX) reserves are difficult to measure in an economically meaningful way because central banks do not decompose reported data into passive and active components. Only the latter should be used when the usefulness of FX reserves in crisis management is assessed or symptoms of currency manipulations are looked for. The applicability of the existing approach to identification of active component of FX reserves is highly limited as it relies on data that are available for a relatively short timespan. To overcome these problems the new approach to estimation of active component of FX reserves is laid out. It makes use of a time-varying coefficient model estimated with Bayesian techniques. The empirical results are obtained for 20 countries over 1995-2017 period. The main finding is that the estimates from the new approach are highly correlated with those from the existing approach, but the timespan of the former is substantially larger than that of the latter. The estimates based on the new approach are cross-checked against the data on FX market interventions of the Czech National Bank. It is demonstrated that the estimates are in general superior to plain changes in FX reserves as a measure of FX interventions and are not worse than those from the existing approach.
C32|Synchronisation des chocs d'offre et de demande dans la Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEDEAO)<BR>[Synchronization of supply and demand shocks in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)]|This paper focuses on the synchronization of supply and demand shocks in West Africa given the willingness of ECOWAS Heads of State to create a single currency by 2020. Based on the methodology of Blanchard and Quah (1989), the paper relies on structural autoregressive vector models (SVAR) to identify these shocks in the region. Unlike previous works in this area, it is innovative as it proposes a new way of analyzing the dynamic correlation of shocks in the region. In addition, the proposed study makes it possible to analyze the adjustment dynamics of macroeconomic variables to different shocks. The results show that the economies of the zone are marked by relatively high degrees of asymmetry in the sense that the responses to the same type of shock are different. However, the paper shows that the synchronization of shocks evolves over time between the countries in the region. Thus, the paper indicates the need to take into account the dynamic aspect of shocks, since a monetary union considered from the outset to be expensive may over time become beneficial.
C32|The dynamic causality between ESG and economic growth: Evidence from panel causality analysis|The relationship between Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance and economic growth is a controversial topic in economic literature. This paper applies the Granger causality test developed by Dumitrescu and Hurlin (2012) with an optimal lag length selection technique proposed by Han et al. (2017) to examine the causality relationship between ESG performance and economic growth for a set of 118 countries over the period 1999-2015. The empirical results show the presence of a bidirectional relationship between environmental and social performance and economic growth, while a unidirectional relationship from governance to growth for all countries. Unlike the clear overall pattern of the full sample results, the empirical evidence for different income groups of countries is mixed.
C32|Oil and pump prices: Is there any asymmetry in the Greek oil downstream sector?|The aim of this study is to assess whether fuel prices in Greece respond asymmetrically to changes in the global oil prices. To do so, we depart from the current practice in the literature that focuses on fuel prices. Rather, we consider the mark-up of both the refineries and retailers. Even more, unlike the bulk of the existing literature, we take into consideration the whole supply chain, i.e. both the refineries and the retail fuel sector. Hence, we first assess whether the refineries’ mark-up responds asymmetrically to the global oil prices and subsequently whether the retailers’ mark-up shows an asymmetric behaviour relatively to changes in the refineries’ fuel prices. Our findings show that the Greek fuel retailers do not change their mark-up behaviour based on changes of the refined fuel price. By contrast, the asymmetric behaviour is evident in the refineries mark-up relatively to changes in the global oil prices, which is then passed through to the retailers and consumers. Finally, we convincingly show that weekly and monthly data mask any such asymmetric relationship. Thus, we maintain that unless the appropriate data frequency, fuel price transformations and the whole supply chain are considered, misleading findings could be revealed.
C32|Nowcasting US GDP with artificial neural networks|We use a machine learning approach to forecast the US GDP value of the current quarter and several quarters ahead. Within each quarter, the contemporaneous value of GDP growth is unavailable but can be estimated using higher-frequency variables that are published in a more timely manner. Using the monthly FRED-MD database, we compare the feedforward artificial neural network forecasts of GDP growth to forecasts of state of the art dynamic factor models and the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and we evaluate the relative performance. The results indicate that the neural network outperforms the dynamic factor model in terms of now- and forecasting, while it generates at least as good now- and forecasts as the Survey of Professional Forecasters.
C32|Virtual Historical Simulation for estimating the conditional VaR of large portfolios|"In order to estimate the conditional risk of a portfolio's return, two strategies can be advocated. A multivariate strategy requires estimating a dynamic model for the vector of risk factors, which is often challenging, when at all possible, for large portfolios. A univariate approach based on a dynamic model for the portfolio's return seems more attractive. However, when the combination of the individual returns is time varying, the portfolio's return series is typically non stationary which may invalidate statistical inference. An alternative approach consists in reconstituting a ""virtual portfolio"", whose returns are built using the current composition of the portfolio and for which a stationary dynamic model can be estimated. This paper establishes the asymptotic properties of this method, that we call Virtual Historical Simulation. Numerical illustrations on simulated and real data are provided."
C32|A multivariate approach for the simultaneous modelling of market risk and credit risk for cryptocurrencies|This paper proposes a set of models which can be used to estimate the market risk for a portfolio of crypto-currencies, and simultaneously to estimate also their credit risk using the Zero Price Probability (ZPP) model by Fantazzini et al (2008), which is a methodology to compute the probabilities of default using only market prices. For this purpose, both univariate and multivariate models with different specifications are employed. Two special cases of the ZPP with closed-form formulas in case of normally distributed errors are also developed using recent results from barrier option theory. A backtesting exercise using two datasets of 5 and 15 coins for market risk forecasting and a dataset of 42 coins for credit risk forecasting was performed. The Value-at-Risk and the Expected Shortfall for single coins and for an equally weighted portfolio were calculated and evaluated with several tests. The ZPP approach was used for the estimation of the probability of default/death of the single coins and compared to classical credit scoring models (logit and probit) and to a machine learning algorithm (Random Forest). Our results reveal the superiority of the t-copula/skewed-t GARCH model for market risk, and the ZPP-based models for credit risk.
