C33|Experts, Reputation and Umbrella Effects: Empirical Evidence from Wine Prices|We investigate the relationship between external quality evaluation via experts, firm reputation and product prices and extend the existing empirical literature in three dimensions. First, we empirically account for endogenous reputation effects. An increase in quality has an immediate positive impact on product prices but also improves the reputation of a firm, which contributes to higher prices in the future. Secondly, we analyse umbrella effects of reputation: investments in product quality of the ’top product‘ are particularly profitable as they also generate a ’ reputational dividend‘ for other products with lower quality. And finally, we investigate selection effects in expert evaluations. Experts typically evaluate a selection of products only and we find endogenous selection effects to be important for analysing product quality empirically.
C33|The development of nations conditions the disease space|Using the economic complexity methodology on data for disease prevalence in 195 countries during the period of 1990-2016, we propose two new metrics for quantifying the relatedness between diseases, or the ‘disease space’ of countries. With these metrics, we analyze the geography of diseases and empirically investigate the effect of economic development on the health complexity of countries. We show that a higher income per capita increases the complexity of countries’ diseases. Furthermore, we build a disease-level index that links a disease to the average level of GDP per capita of the countries for which they have a relative disease disadvantage. With this index, we highlight the link between economic development and the complexity of diseases and illustrate, at the disease-level, how increases in income per capita are associated with more complex diseases.
C33|Time, space and hedonic prediction accuracy evidence from the Corsican apartment market|In this study, we propose a hedonic housing model to address spa- tial and temporal latent structures simultaneously. With the development of spatial econometrics and spatial statistics, economists can now better assess the impact of spatial correlation on house prices. How- ever, the simultaneous handling of spatial and temporal correlation is still under development. Since spatial econometric models are limited to account for two kinds of cor- relation simultaneously, we propose using a hierarchical spatiotemporal model from spatial statistics. Based on a Bayesian framework and a stochastic par- tial differential equation (SPDE) approach, the estimation is carried out via INLA. We then perform an empirical study on apartment transaction prices in Corsica (France) using the proposed model. The empirical results demonstrate that the prediction performance of the hierarchical spatiotemporal model is the best among all candidate models. Moreover, the hedonic housing estimates are affected by spatial effects and temporal effects. Ignoring these effects could result in serious forecasting issues.
C33|Partially heterogeneous tests for Granger non-causality in panel data|The power of Granger non-causality tests in panel data depends on the type of the alternative hypothesis: feedback from other variables might be homogeneous, homogeneous within groups or heterogeneous across different panel units. Existing tests have power against only one of these alternatives and may fail to reject the null hypothesis if the specified type of alternative is incorrect. This paper proposes a new Union-Intersections (UI) test which has correct size and good power against any type of alternative. The UI test is based on an existing test which is powerful against heterogeneous alternatives and a new Wald-type test which is powerful against homogeneous alternatives. The Wald test is designed to have good size and power properties for moderate to large time series dimensions and is based on a bias-corrected split panel jackknife-type estimator. Evidence from simulations confirm the new UI tests provide power against any direction of the alternative.
C33|Intersectoral Network-Based Channel of Aggregate TFP Shocks|This study investigates the role of intersectoral networks in the transmission of aggregate technology shocks to sectors’ growth. First, we develop a theoretical model to obtain insights into the propagation of shocks through input-output linkages, which suggests that the network effect arises via sectoral downstream linkages. We then quantitatively assess this theoretical implication with US manufacturing industries, where the aggregate technology shocks are derived from a dynamic factor model. We find that aggregate technology shocks lead to an increase in the output growth of the sector, both directly and indirectly via its intersectoral linkages. More interestingly, we document a crucial role of the intersectoral network channel, which contributes about 50 percent of the total effect. In addition, the network-based effect comes mostly from downstream linkages of sectors, which is broadly consistent with theory.
C33|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role as well as increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
C33|Structural Changes in Heterogeneous Panels with Endogenous Regressors| This paper extends Pesaran (2006) common correlated e¤ects (CCE) by allowing for endogenous regressors in large heterogeneous panels with unknown common structural changes in slopes and error factor structure. Since endogenous regressors and structural breaks are often encountered in empirical studies with large panels, this extension makes the Pesaran’s (2006) CCE approach empirically more appealing. In addition to allowing for slope heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence, we find that Pesaran’s CCE approach is also valid when dealing with unobservable factors in the presence of endogenous regressors and structural changes in slopes and error factor loadings. This is supported by Monte Carlo experiments.
C33|Vantagens Comparativas Reveladas e suas Determinantes: Uma Aplicação à Economia Portuguesa|Na era do “Made in the World” o valor bruto das exportações que atravessa a fronteira nacional é uma medida cada vez mais imperfeita do rendimento doméstico envolvido, comprometendo, por isso, a leitura de todos os indicadores de comércio externo derivados. A literatura económica tem feito grandes progressos para desenvolver um quadro de referência metodológico que isole devidamente o papel de cada país no contexto das Cadeias de Valor Globais (CVGs) e são já vários os projetos que, capitalizando estes contributos teóricos, procederam à construção de bases de dados multi-país a partir de matrizes input-output globais harmonizadas que identificam os recursos e empregos da produção na economia, com desagregação por setores de bens e serviços e países parceiros. Este trabalho utiliza a informação de comércio internacional em valor acrescentado, recentemente compilada pela OCDE-OMC, para (i) analisar a dinâmica da especialização produtiva portuguesa, no contexto das CVGs, com base no tradicional Índice de Vantagens Comparativas Reveladas (IVCR) de Balassa, considerando para efeitos de cálculo três tipos de fluxos no período 1995-2011 e (ii) discutir a validade da teoria clássica e neoclássica das vantagens comparativas no contexto das CVGs. Os dados confirmam que a utilização das estatísticas em valor acrescentado nacional é de facto muito relevante do ponto de vista da avaliação das capacidades com que Portugal se apresenta nas Cadeias de Valor Globais e sugerem que a estrutura setorial das vantagens comparativas reveladas para Portugal, no contexto das CVGs, obedece à teoria clássica e neoclássica do comércio internacional.
C33|A sectoral approach to the electricity-growth nexus in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa|This paper takes a sectoral, panel approach to investigating the electricity-growth nexus for the Eastern Cape province of South Africa between the period of 2003 and 2017. The empirical investigation was carried out using the Pooled Mean Group (PMG) panel estimators applied to an augmented dynamic growth model whilst the caulisty tests between electricity consumption and growth where performed using the Dumitrescu-Hurlin (2012) panel non-causality tests. The findings confirm the absence of significant long-run relationship between electricity and growth whilst finding a significant and positive effect over the short-run. Moreover, our causality tests provide strong evidence of causality running from electricity consumption to economic growth hence supporting the “growth hypothesis”. In a nutshell, our results not only demonstrate the importance of performing the electricity-growth analysis at provincial level as opposed to relying on national aggregated estimates but also provides important provincial-specific policy implications and recommendations.
C33|Is export diversification or export specialization responsible for economic growth in BRICS countries?|Is it export diversification or export specialization that is more useful towards promoting economic growth in the BRICS economies? To answer this query, we estimate a growth model augmented with trade activity to capture the diversification-concentration trade-off with economic growth over the period of 1995 to 2017. Our baseline Fully-Modified Ordinary Least Squares (FMOLS) and Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) regressions confirm a negative effect of diversification on growth whereas concentration has a positive effect on growth. We further estimate panel quantile regressions for the growth specifications and find that i) moderate levels of concentration are best for economic growth ii) diversification adversely affects growth across all quantiles though the effect diminishes as one approaches higher levels of diversification. This points to a semi inverted U-shaped diversification schedule, of which the BRICS countries have crossed their ‘inflexion point’ of development and need to re-specialize their export baskets.
C33|Spatial modelling of the two-party preferred vote in Australian federal elections: 2001-2016|We examine the relationships between electoral socio-demographic characteristics and two-party preference in the six Australian federal elections held between 2001 to 2016. Socio-demographic information is derived from the Australian Census, which occurs every five years. Since a Census is not directly available for each election, spatio-temporal imputation is employed to estimate Census data for the electorates at the time of each election. This accounts for both spatial and temporal changes in electoral characteristics between Censuses. To capture any spatial heterogeneity, a spatial error model is estimated for each election, which incorporates a spatially structured random effect vector that can be thought of as the unobserved political climate in each electorate. Over time, the impact of most socio-demographic characteristics that affect electoral two-party preference do not vary, with industry of work, incomes, household mobility and de facto relationships having strong effects in each of the six elections. Education and unemployment are amongst those that have varying effects. It is also found that between 2004 and 2013, the spatial effect was insignificant, meaning that electorates voted effectively independently. All data featured in this study has been contributed to the eechidna R package (available on CRAN).
C33|A Model for International Spillovers to Emerging Markets|This paper develops a small open economy (SOE) dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model that helps to explain business cycle synchronization between an emerging market and advanced economies. The model captures the specificities of both economies (e.g. primary commodity, manufacturing, intermediate inputs, and credit) that are most relevant for understanding the importance as well as the transmission mechanisms of a wide range of domestic and foreign (supply, demand, monetary policy, credit, primary commodity) shocks facing an emerging economy. We estimate the model with Bayesian methods using quarterly data from South Africa, the US and G7 countries. In contrast to the predictions of standard SOE models, we are able to replicate two stylized facts. First, our model predicts a high degree of business cycle synchronization between South Africa and advanced economies. Second, the model is able to account for the influence of foreign shocks in South Africa. We are also able to demonstrate the specific roles these shocks played during key historical episodes such as the global financial crisis in 2008 and the commodity price slump in 2015. The ability of our framework to capture endogenous responses of commodity and financial sectors to structural shocks is crucial to identify the importance of these shocks in South Africa.
C33|The impact of the excess reserves of the banking sector on interest rates and money supply in Poland|In this study we aim to analyse the eﬀects of leaving excess reserves in the banking sector by the central bank on the level and the variability of interest rates, as well as on money supply. To this end, we use mainly data for Poland, but in some cases, for robustness, also for a panel of Poland, the euro area, the Czech Republic and Hungary, as there had only been a limited variability in some policy variables in our sample for Poland. We estimate the parameters of GARCH, (P)VAR and (panel) linear regression models. We ﬁnd that excess reserves aﬀect the level and the variability of an overnight money market interest rate. However, the variability of the overnight money market interest rate, shaped to a large extent by excess reserves, does not aﬀect the level of longer-term interest rates, and we ﬁnd little evidence of its impact on their variability. Neither do excess reserves translate into higher money supply. Our results imply that the current monetary policy operational framework in Poland is adequate to ensure the transmission of the central bank policy rate to money market interest rates. Furthermore, it appears unlikely that raising the amount of excess reserves left, as proposed by some policymakers, would aﬀect money supply. Instead, it would lower the money multiplier and the overnight money market interest rate, as well as increase its volatility.
C33|Institutional determinants of export competitiveness among the EU countries: evidence from Bayesian model averaging|Although the impact of institutions has been broadly studied in the literature on economic growth, their impact on international trade is less well-established. We aim to fill this gap by creating an extended database that, apart from price and non-price factors traditionally analyzed as determinants of exports, also includes measures of institutional development. Next, we introduce the Bayesian Model Averaging to establish which factors play the most important role for the export performance. Our results show that institutions have two types of effects on exports: a direct positive effect on the overall export performance (e.g. regulation) as well as a transformational impact on the export structure (from less to more technologically advanced exports, e.g. freedom to trade internationally). Our results also confirm that technological factors (e.g. patents) have a much greater impact on export performance than price factors. Moreover, some technological factors only have a significant transformational impact on the export structure (e.g. R&D expenditure). Human capital also seems to have only a transformational, rather than direct, impact on exports.
C33|Should We Trust Clustered Standard Errors? A Comparison with Randomization-Based Methods|We compare the precision of critical values obtained under conventional sampling-based methods with those obtained using sample order statics computed through draws from a randomized counterfactual based on the null hypothesis. When based on a small number of draws (200), critical values in the extreme left and right tail (0.005 and 0.995) contain a small bias toward failing to reject the null hypothesis which quickly dissipates with additional draws. The precision of randomization-based critical values compares favorably with conventional sampling-based critical values when the number of draws is approximately 7 times the sample size for a basic OLS model using homoskedastic data, but considerably less in models based on clustered standard errors, or the classic Differences-in-Differences. Randomization-based methods dramatically outperform conventional methods for treatment effects in Differences-in-Differences specifications with unbalanced panels and a small number of treated groups.
C33|Selection into Identification in Fixed Effects Models, with Application to Head Start|Many papers use fixed effects (FE) to identify causal impacts of an intervention. In this paper we show that when the treatment status only varies within some groups, this design can induce non-random selection of groups into the identifying sample, which we term selection into identification (SI). We begin by illustrating SI in the context of several family fixed effects (FFE) applications with a binary treatment variable. We document that the FFE identifying sample differs from the overall sample along many dimensions, including having larger families. Further, when treatment effects are heterogeneous, the FFE estimate is biased relative to the average treatment effect (ATE). For the general FE model, we then develop a reweighting-on-observables estimator to recover the unbiased ATE from the FE estimate for policy-relevant populations. We apply these insights to examine the long-term effects of Head Start in the PSID and the CNLSY. Using our reweighting methods, we estimate that Head Start leads to a 2.6 percentage point (p.p.) increase (s.e. = 6.2 p.p.) in the likelihood of attending some college for white Head Start participants in the PSID. This ATE is 78% smaller than the traditional FFE estimate (12 p.p). Reweighting the CNLSY FE estimates to obtain the ATE produces similar attenuation in the estimated impacts of Head Start.
C33|Dynamic Social Interactions and Health Risk Behavior|We study risky behavior of adolescents. Concentrating on smoking and alcohol use, we structurally estimate a dynamic social interaction model in the context of students' school networks included in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). The model allows for forward-looking behavior of agents, addiction effects, and social interactions in the form of preferences for conformity in the social network. We find strong evidence for forward looking dynamics and addiction effects. We also find that social interactions in the estimated dynamic model are quantitatively large. A misspecified static model would fit data substantially worse, while producing a much smaller estimate of the social interaction effect. With the estimated dynamic model, a temporary shock to students' preferences in the 10th grade has effects on their behavior in grades 10, 11, 12, with estimated social multipliers 1.53, 1.03, and 0.76, respectively. The multiplier effect of a permanent shock is much larger, up to 3.7 in grade 12. Moreover, (semi-) elasticities of a permanent change in the availability of alcohol or cigarettes at home on child risky behavior implied by the dynamic equilibrium are 25%, 63%, and 79%, in grades 10, 11, 12, respectively.
C33|Are small farms really more productive than large farms?|We revisit the long-standing empirical evidence of an inverse relationship between farm size and productivity using rich microdata from Uganda. We show that farm size is negatively related to yields (output per hectare), as commonly found in the literature, but positively related to farm productivity (a farm-specific component of total factor productivity). These conflicting results do not arise because of omitted variables such as land quality, measurement error in output or inputs, or specification issues. Instead, we reconcile the findings emphasizing the role of farm-specific distortions and returns to scale in traditional farm production. We exploit unique regional variation in land tenure regimes in Uganda in evaluating the role of farm-specific distortions. Our findings point to the limited value of yields (or land productivity) in establishing the farm size-productivity relationship. More generally, we demonstrate the limitation of using farm size in guiding policy applications.
C33|The inflation-distribution nexus: a theoretical and empirical approach|There are two unconnected strands of the inflation-distribution literature, one that studies the impact of inflation on income distribution and the other the impact of distribution on inflation. This paper is an attempt to fill a gap in this literature, by taking into account the simultaneous determination between inflation and income distribution. We set forth a Post-Keynesian model in which inflation and income distribution are jointly determined in a dynamical system of difference equations. The theoretical framework advanced in the paper allows us to show that conflicting claims on income, expectation formation and the realisation of increasing returns to scale ascribed to demand-pull and distributive factors also play a key role in the determination of the inflation and income distribution dynamics. Then, we conducted an empirical investigation of the relationship between inflation and distribution. Both empirical exercises were done using GMM estimator. This econometric technique is robust to reverse causality as it uses lagged observations in difference and level of endogenous variables as instruments and hence is the preferred method of estimation. Our findings corroborate our theoretical model by showing that, in average, increases in the wage share tend to exert a downward pressure in future inflation. Our estimates also show that the wage share is highly dependent of its past values, thus suggesting that income distribution may be only sensitive to autonomous (political) factors.
C33|A model for international spillovers to emerging markets|This paper develops a small open economy (SOE) dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model that helps to explain business cycle synchronization between an emerging market and advanced economies. The model captures the specificities of both economies (e.g. primary commodity, manufacturing, intermediate inputs, and credit) that are most relevant for understanding the importance as well as the transmission mechanisms of a wide range of domestic and foreign (supply, demand, monetary policy, credit, primary commodity) shocks facing an emerging economy. We estimate the model with Bayesian methods using quarterly data from South Africa, the US and G7 countries. In contrast to the predictions of standard SOE models, we are able to replicate two stylized facts. First, our model predicts a high degree of business cycle synchronization between South Africa and advanced economies. Second, the model is able to account for the influence of foreign shocks in South Africa. We are also able to demonstrate the specific roles these shocks played during key historical episodes such as the global financial crisis in 2008 and the commodity price slump in 2015. The ability of our framework to capture endogenous responses of commodity and financial sectors to structural shocks is crucial to identify the importance of these shocks in South Africa.
C33|Long-term macroeconomic effects of climate change: A cross-country analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables - defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we find that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04oC per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01oC per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary significantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
C33|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role and increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
C33|Dynamic Social Interactions and Health Risk Behavior|We study risky behavior of adolescents. Concentrating on smoking and alcohol use, we structurally estimate a dynamic social interaction model in the context of students' school networks included in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). The model allows for forward-looking behavior of agents, addiction effects, and social interactions in the form of preferences for conformity in the social network. We find strong evidence for forward looking dynamics and addiction effects. We also find that social interactions in the estimated dynamic model are quantitatively large. A misspecified static model would fit data substantially worse, while producing a much smaller estimate of the social interaction effect. With the estimated dynamic model, a temporary shock to students' preferences in the 10th grade has effects on their behavior in grades 10, 11, 12, with estimated social multipliers 1:53, 1:03, and 0:76, respectively. The multiplier effect of a permanent shock is much larger, up to 3:7 in grade 12. Moreover (semi-) elasticities of a permanent change in the availability of alcohol or cigarettes at home on child risky behavior implied by the dynamic equilibrium are 25%, 63%, and 79%, in grades 10, 11, 12, respectively.
C33|Investing in agriculture when it is worth it. Evidence from rural Uganda|One of the reasons for the persistent low agricultural productivity in Sub-Saharan Africa is the lack of adoption of pro table agricultural technologies. Yet, what is pro table in a controlled experimental setting may not be pro table in a real-world setting. Estimating the returns to a single input is, in fact, challenging as farmers may respond to adoption by re-optimizing the use of other inputs. This paper explores farmers behavioral response to a positive random shock on future productivity by disentangling inputs returns from farmers' response. Using a unique household panel dataset collected in rural Uganda, I proxy a future productivity shock with the birth of a female calf against that of a male calf. Calves have no technical returns, but female calves will become cows producing milk, providing a stable source of income, while bulls and oxen are of little use in this context. The main OLS and di erence-in-di erences results show the existence of a crowd-in e ect. Farmers react to the birth of a female calf by increasing inputs' expenditures. They invest more on their cattle's health, increase hired labor and are more willing to pay for cattle-related investments but not for other activities. This increase in investments leads to an increase in milk production and revenues that lasts over time. Further results show that economies of scale associated with the number of female animals seem to explain this behavioral response.
C33|Long-Term Macroeconomic Effects of Climate Change: A Cross-Country Analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables-defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we fi?nd that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04° per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01° per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary signifi?cantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
C33|Supply Flexibility in the Shale Patch: Evidence from North Dakota|We analyse if output flexibility in oil production depends on the extraction technology.In particular, we ask to what extent shale oil producers respond to price incentives by changing completion of new wells as well as oil production from completed wells. Using a novel well-level monthly production data set covering more than 15,000 crude oil wells in North Dakota, we find large differences in response between conventional and unconventional (shale) extraction technology: While shale oil wells respond significantly to spot future spreads by changing both well completion and crude oil production, conventional wells do not. Our results indicate that firms using shale oil technology are more flexible in allocating output intertemporally. We interpret such output pattern of shale oil wells to be consistent with the Hotelling theory of optimal extraction.
C33|Cluster externalities, firm capabilities, and the recessionary shock: How the macro-to-micro-transition shapes firm performance during stable times and times of crisis|In this paper, we examine the macro-to-micro-transition of cluster externalities to firms and how it is affected by the macroeconomic instability caused by the recessionary shock of 2008/2009. Using data from 16,166 manufacturing and business services firms nested in 390 German regions, we employ within-firm regression techniques to estimate the impact of cross-level interactions between firm- and cluster-level determinants on phase-related differences in firm performance between a pre-crisis (2004-2007) and a crisis period (2009-2011). The empirical results validate the existence of a macro-to-micro-transition that evolves best in the case of broad firm-level capabilities and variety-driven externalities. Furthermore, the results indicate that the transition strongly depends on the macroeconomic cycle. While the transition particularly benefits from a stable macroeconomic environment (2004-2007), its mechanisms are interrupted when being exposed to economic turmoil (2009-2011). Yet, the crisis-induced interruption of the transition is mainly restricted to the national recession in 2009. As soon as the macroeconomic pressure diminishes (2010-2011), we observe a reversion of the transmission mechanisms to the pre-crisis level. Our study contributes to the existing literature by corroborating previous findings that the economic performance of firms depends on a working macro-to-micro transition of external resources, which presupposes sufficient cluster externalities and adequate firm-level combinative capabilities. In contrast to previous studies on this topic, the transition mechanism is not modeled as time-invariant. Instead, it is coupled to the prevailing macroeconomic regime.
C33|Simulating the impact of transport infrastructure investment on wages: A dynamic spatial panel model approach|This paper estimates the impact of a multi-billion pound investment in Britain's rail transport infrastructure, in the form of high-speed rail links, on wage levels across each of 347 districts of England and Wales. The impacts are based on a dynamic spatial panel model adaptation of standard urban economics based on employment density and commuting patterns. This allows estimation of these global impacts operating via improved commuting times. We demonstrate that while estimates of a traditional market potential approach with fixed effects are to some extent qualitatively and quantitatively similar to our predictions, our predictions allow more heterogeneous effects and give more accurate forecasts. The study finds that on average wages increase by around 2% as employment centres gain improved access to more skilled workers and as spillover effects become spatially more extensive. While most areas see modest positive effects, some locations are negatively affected, in the extreme case by as much as 7%.
C33|A Nonlinear Dynamic Factor Model of Health and Medical Treatment|Quantitative assessments of the relationship between health and medical treatment are of great importance to policy makers. However, simply looking at the raw correlation between health and medical care is unlikely to give the right answer because of endogeneity problems. We overcome these problems by formulating and estimating a tractable dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment where individual observed health outcomes are driven by the individual's latent health stock. The dynamics of latent health reflects both exogenous health depreciation and endogenous health investments. Our model allows us to investigate the effect of medical treatment on current health, as well as on future medical treatment and health outcomes. We estimate the model by maximum simulated likelihood and minimum distance methods using a rich longitudinal data set from Italy obtained by merging a number of administrative archives. These data contain detailed information on medical drug use, hospitalization, and mortality for a representative sample of elderly hypertensive patients. Our findings show that medical care consumption is highly correlated over time, and this relationship depends on both permanent and time-varying observed and unobserved heterogeneity. They also show that medical drug use significantly maintains future health levels and prevents transitions to worse health. These results suggest that policies aimed at increasing the awareness and the compliance of hypertensive patients help reduces cardiovascular risks and consequent hospitalization and mortality.
C33|The Impact of jumps and leverage in forecasting the co-volatility of oil and gold futures|The paper investigates the impact of jumps in forecasting co-volatility in the presence of leverage effects. We modify the jump-robust covariance estimator of Koike (2016), such that the estimated matrix is positive definite. Using this approach, we can disentangle the estimates of the integrated co-volatility matrix and jump variations from the quadratic covariation matrix. Empirical results for daily crude oil and gold futures show that the co-jumps of the two futures have significant impacts on future co-volatility, but that the impact is negligible in forecasting weekly and monthly horizons.
C33|The Evolution of Health over the Life Cycle|Recent studies have identified health dynamics and health shocks as major sources of risk over the life cycle. Health has implications for many economic variables includ- ing asset accumulation, labor supply, and income and wealth inequality. Despite the importance of health in economic studies, there is no unified objective measure of health status. In this paper we propose such a measure: frailty, defined as the cumulative sum of all adverse health indicators observed for an individual. There is overwhelming evidence in the gerontology literature that this simple measure is a strong predictor of mortality and other health outcomes. We construct a frailty index for individuals in the PSID, HRS and MEPS separately and make the following three observations. One, our constructed frailty index is remarkably consistent across the three datasets in terms of persistence, and dynamics of its distribution. This is in contrast to the most commonly used measure of health, self-reported health status. Two, individuals’ health decays at a substantially faster pace over the lifecycle when measured by frailty as opposed to self-reported health status. Three, health status is more persistent when measured by frailty as opposed to self reported health status. We estimate a dynamic process for frailty over the life cycle and show that an important driver of increasing inequality in health with age is dispersion in growth rates of frailty across individuals. Our frailty measure and dynamic process can be used by economists to study the evolution of health status over the life cycle and its implications.
C33|Dynamic Perspective of Trade Balance: Evidence from Southeast Asia before the Global Financial Crisis of 2008|Objective – This paper studies the influence of some determinants of trade balance for Southeast Asia countries in dynamics perspective before the global financial crisis of 2008. Methodology/Technique – Based on quarterly data (1980q1 to 2007q3), the investigation is carried out using VECM. Findings – The results show that in the long run: (i) income effect is found to be dominant in determining the change in trade balance; (ii) the cash balance effect does influence bilateral trade; (iii) bilateral trade is affected by exchange rate movements. Further, the effect of small economies are suspected to be present in Southeast Asia region. Meanwhile, in the short run: (i) the cash balance effect plays a major role in influencing trade balance improvement; (ii) compared to the cash balance effect, the income effect is present with slightly less contribution; (iii) the exchange rate effect is observed in the analysis, while a J-curve phenomenon exists in minor cases. Novelty – This paper concludes that in the long term, income effect is found to be dominant in determining the change in trade balance. Type of Paper: Empirical
C33|Non-performing loans and sovereign credit ratings|This paper examines the joint behaviour of sovereign ratings and their macroeconomic/financial determinants (namely uncertainty, GDP growth, government debt-to-GDP ratio, investment-to-GDP ratio and the fiscal balance-to-GDP ratio) in a multivariate Panel Vector Autoregressive (PVAR) framework. We reveal another channel of interconnection between sovereign and banking credit risk by identifying a two-way relationship between non-performing loans (NPLs) and sovereign ratings. Generalized impulse response functions (GIRFs) provide evidence of significant effects from NPLs on sovereign rating decisions over and above the effects of the remaining economic/financial variables. At the same time, sovereign rating decisions impact on NPLs and all other variables.
C33|Nonperforming Loans in Asia: Determinants and Macrofinancial Linkages|The recent rise of nonperforming loans (NPLs) in some Asian economies calls for close analysis of the determinants, the potential macrofinancial feedback effects, and the implications for financial stability in the region. Using a dynamic panel model, we assess the determinants of the evolution of bankspecific NPLs in Asia and find that macroeconomic conditions and bank-specific factors—such as rapid credit growth and excessive bank lending—contribute to the buildup of NPLs. Further, a panel vector autoregression analysis of macrofinancial implications of NPLs in emerging Asia offers significant evidence for the feedback effects of NPLs on the real economy and financial variables. Impulse response functions demonstrate that a rising NPL ratio decreases gross domestic product growth and credit supply and increases unemployment rate. Our findings underline the importance of considering policy options to swiftly and effectively manage and respond to a buildup of NPLs. The national and regional mechanisms underlying NPL resolution are important for safeguarding financial stability in an increasingly interconnected global financial system.
C33|On Factor Models with Random Missing: EM Estimation, Inference, and Cross Validation|We consider the estimation and inference in approximate factor models with random missing values. We show that with the low rank structure of the common component, we can estimate the factors and factor loadings consistently with the missing values replaced by zeros. We establish the asymptotic distributions of the resulting estimators and those based on the EM algorithm. We also propose a cross validation-based method to determine the number of factors in factor models with or without missing values and justify its consistency. Simulations demonstrate that our cross validation method is robust to fat tails in the error distribution and significantly outperforms some existing popular methods in terms of correct percentage in determining the number of factors. An application to the factor-augmented regression models shows that a proper treatment of the missing values can improve the out-of-sample forecast of some macroeconomic variables.
C33|Panel threshold regressions with latent group structures|In this paper, we consider the least squares estimation of a panel structure threshold re-gression (PSTR) model where both the slope coeﬃcients and threshold parameters may exhibit latent group structures. We study the asymptotic properties of the estimators of the latent group structure and the slope and threshold coeﬃcients. We show that we can estimate the latent group structure correctly with probability approaching 1 and the estimators of the slope and threshold coeﬃcients are asymptotically equivalent to the infeasible estimators that are obtained as if the true group structures were known. We study likelihood-ratio-based inferences on the group-speciﬁc threshold parameters under the shrinking-threshold-eﬀect framework. We also propose two speciﬁcation tests: one tests whether the threshold parameters are homogenous across groups, and the other tests whether the threshold eﬀects are present. When the number of latent groups is unknown, we propose a BIC-type information criterion to determine the number of groups in the data. Simulations demonstrate that our estimators and tests perform reasonably well in ﬁnite samples. We apply our model to revisit the relationship between capital market imperfection and the investment behavior of ﬁrms and to examine the impact of bank deregulation on income inequality. We document a large degree of heterogeneous eﬀects in both applications that cannot be captured by conventional panel threshold regressions.
C33|A nonlinear dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment|Quantitative assessments of the relationship between health and medical treatment are of great importance to policy makers.However, simply looking at the raw correlation between health and medical care is unlikely to give the right answer because of endogeneity problems. We overcome these problems by formulating and estimating a tractable dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment where individual observed health outcomes are driven by the individual’s latent health stock. The dynamics of latent health reflects both exogenous health depreciation and endogenous health investments. Our model allows us to investigate the effect of medical treatment on current health, as well as on future medical treatment and health outcomes. We estimate the model by maximum simulated likelihood and minimum distance methods using a rich longitudinal data set from Italy obtained by merging a number of administrative archives. These data contain detailed information on medical drug use, hospitalization, and mortality for a representative sample of elderly hypertensive patients. Our findings show that medical care consumption is highly correlated over time, and this relationship depends on both permanent and time-varying observed and unobserved heterogeneity. They also show that medical drug use significantly maintains future health levels and prevents transitions to worse health. These results suggest that policies aimed at increasing the awareness and the compliance of of hypertensive patients help reduce cardiovascular risks and consequent hospitalization and mortality.
C33|Institutional determinants of export competitiveness among the EU countries: evidence from Bayesian model averaging|Although the impact of institutions has been broadly studied in the literature on economic growth, their impact on international trade is less well-established. We aim to fill this gap by creating an extended database that, apart from price and non-price factors traditionally analyzed as determinants of exports, also includes measures of institutional development. Next, we introduce the Bayesian Model Averaging to establish which factors play the most important role for the export performance. Our results show that institutions have two types of effects on exports: a direct positive effect on the overall export performance (e.g. regulation) as well as a transformational impact on the export structure (from less to more technologically advanced exports, e.g. freedom to trade internationally). Our results also confirm that technological factors (e.g. patents) have a much greater impact on export performance than price factors. Moreover, some technological factors only have a significant transformational impact on the export structure (e.g. R&D expenditure). Human capital also seems to have only a transformational, rather than direct, impact on exports.
C33|Global Spillover Effects of US Uncertainty|Spillover effects of US uncertainty shocks are studied in a panel VAR of ?fteen emerging market economies (EMEs). A US uncertainty shock negatively affects EME stock prices and exchange rates, raises EME country spreads, and decreases capital inflows into them. It decreases EME output and consumer prices while increasing net exports. Negative effects on output and asset prices are weaker, but effects on external balance stronger, for Latin American EMEs. We attribute such heterogeneity to di?erential EME monetary policy response to US uncertainty shocks. Analysis of central bank minutes shows Latin American EMEs pay less attention to smoothing capital ?ows.
C33|Do information contagion and business model similarities explain bank credit risk commonalities?|This paper revisits the credit spread puzzle in bank CDS spreads from the perspective of information contagion. The puzzle, first detected in corporate bonds, consists of two stylized facts: Structural determinants of credit risk not only have low explanatory power but also fail to capture common factors in the residuals (Collin-Dufresne et al., 2001). For the case of banks, we hypothesize that the puzzle exists because of omitted network effects. We therefore extend the structural models to account for information spillovers based on bank business model similarities. To capture this channel, we propose and construct a new intuitive measure for portfolio overlap using the complete asset holdings of the largest banks in the Eurozone. Incorporating the network information into the structural model for bank credit spreads increases explanatory power and removes a systemic common factor as well as a North-South common factor from the residuals. Furthermore, neglecting the network likely overstates the importance of structural determinants.
C33|The impact of public R&D support on firms' patenting|We examine the impact of both R&D tax credits and direct R&D subsidies on Norwegian firms' patenting. Whereas direct subsidies are aimed at projects with low private and high social return, tax credits do not discriminate between projects or technologies. We find that both direct subsidies and tax credits have significant positive effects on patenting. However, the magnitude of the effects depend critically on the firms' pre-treatment characteristics. In particular, the statistically significant estimates are all related to firms with no patent applications prior to obtaining support. Moreover, we estimate that direct subsidies have triggered at least three times as many granted patents per NOK million of support compared to tax credits. Our results suggest that R&D support should be directed to promote innovations at the extensive margin, i.e. to firms with a high potential of becoming innovative rather than to firms with a record of being innovative. Moreover, as targeted subsidies generate more innovations, society would benefit from distributing more of the subsidies to priority areas.
C33|Global Spillover Effects of US Uncertainty|We study spillover effects of US uncertainty fluctuations using panel data from fifteen emerging market economies (EMEs). A US uncertainty shock negatively affects EME stock prices and exchange rates, raises EME country spreads, and leads to capital outflows from them. Moreover, it decreases EME output, while increasing their consumer prices and net exports. The negative effects on output, exchange rates, and stock prices are weaker, but the effects on capital and trade flows stronger, for South American countries compared to other EMEs. We present a model of a small open economy that faces an external shock to interpret our findings.
C33|Full Information Estimation of Household Income Risk and Consumption Insurance|Blundell, Pistaferri, and Preston (2008) report an estimate of household consumption insurance with respect to permanent income shocks of 36%. Their estimate is distorted by an error in their code and is not robust to weighting scheme for GMM. We propose instead to use quasi maximum likelihood estimation (QMLE), which produces a more precise and signiﬁcantly higher estimate of consumption insurance at 55%. For sub-groups by age and education, diﬀerences between estimates are even more pronounced. Monte Carlo experiments with non-Normal shocks demonstrate that QMLE is more accurate than GMM, especially given a smaller sample size.
C33|A Doubly Corrected Robust Variance Estimator for Linear GMM|We propose a new finite sample corrected variance estimator for the linear generalized method of moments (GMM) including the one-step, two-step, and iterated estimators. Our formula additionally corrects for the over-identification bias in variance estimation on top of the commonly used finite sample correction of Windmeijer (2005) which corrects for the bias from estimating the efficient weight matrix, so is doubly corrected. Formal stochastic expansions are derived to show the proposed double correction estimates the variance of some higher-order terms in the expansion. In addition, the proposed double correction provides robustness to misspecification of the moment condition. In contrast, the conventional variance estimator and the Windmeijer correction are inconsistent under misspecification. That is, the proposed double correction formula provides a convenient way to obtain improved inference under correct specification and robustness against misspecification at the same time.
C33|Convergence in House Prices: Cross-Regional Evidence for Turkey|This paper analyzes the long-run convergence of regional house prices in Turkey. Using a non-linear time-varying factor model and quarterly house price data for the period between 2010 and 2018, we find that house prices do not converge across the 26 regions. The results reveal that the regions can be grouped into seven convergence clubs and one divergent club, confirming the heterogeneity and complexity of the Turkish housing market. These results also imply the existence of multiple steady states in the housing market. These outcomes will be beneficial to home buyers/sellers, investors, regulators and policymakers, who are interested in analyzing the dynamic interlinkages among house prices and the effects of shocks originating from the regional housing markets.
C33|Dynamics in clickthrough and conversion probabilities of paid search advertisements|We develop a dynamic Bayesian model for clickthrough and conversion probabilities of paid search advertisements. These probabilities are subject to changes over time, due to e.g. changing consumer tastes or new product launches. Yet, there is little empirical research on these dynamics. Gaining insight into the dynamics is crucial for advertisers to develop effective search engine advertising (SEA) strategies. Our model deals with dynamic SEA environments for a large number of keywords: it allows for time-varying parameters, seasonality, data sparsity and position endogeneity. The model also discriminates between transitory and permanent dynamics. Especially for the latter case, dynamic SEA strategies are required for long-term profitability. We illustrate our model using a 2 year dataset of a Dutch laptop selling retailer. We find persistent time variation in clickthrough and conversion probabilities. The implications of our approach are threefold. First, advertisers can use it to obtain accurate daily estimates of clickthrough and conversion probabilities of individual ads to set bids and adjust text ads and landing pages. Second, advertisers can examine the extent of dynamics in their SEA environment, to determine how often their SEA strategy should be revised. Finally, advertisers can track ad performances to timely identify when keywords’ performances change.
C33|Are Small Farms Really more Productive than Large Farms?|We revisit the long-standing empirical evidence of an inverse relationship between farm size and productivity using rich micro data from Uganda. We show that farm size is nega- tively related with yields (output per hectare), as commonly found in the literature, but positively related with farm productivity (a farm-specific component of total factor pro- ductivity). These conflicting results do not arise because of omitted variables such as land quality, measurement error in output or inputs, or specification issues. Instead, we reconcile the findings emphasizing decreasing returns to scale in farm production and farm-specific distortions. We exploit regional variation in land tenure regimes in Uganda in evaluating the role of farm-specific distortions. Our findings point to the limited value of yields (or land productivity) in establishing the size-productivity relationship. More generally, we highlight farm size as an ineffective instrument for policy implementation since size is deeply con- founded by distortions in developing countries.
C33|Estimating the Benefits of New Products: Some Approximations|A major challenge facing statistical agencies is the problem of adjusting price and quantity indexes for changes in the availability of commodities. This problem arises in the scanner data context as products in a commodity stratum appear and disappear in retail outlets. Hicks suggested a reservation price methodology for dealing with this problem in the context of the economic approach to index number theory. Feenstra and Hausman suggested specific methods for implementing the Hicksian approach. The present paper evaluates these approaches and suggests some alternative approaches to the estimation of reservation prices. The various approaches are implemented using some scanner data on frozen juice products that are available online.
C33|The Effect of the Great Recession on Health: A longitudinal study of Irish Mothers 2001-2011|The relationship between recessions and health is mixed, with some evidence from the most recent financial crisis finding a positive effect on heath behaviours. This study uses longitudinal data spanning the periods before, during and after the Irish crisis of 2008, to test the impact of economic expansion and contraction on mothers physical and mental health and health behaviours. Three waves of data from the Irish Lifeways Cohort Study for the period 2001-2011, and local area employment rates from the Irish Census, are used to capture the impact of the recession on health, independent of individual employment status. The results from fixed effect linear probability models demonstrate that increases in the local unemployment rate are associated with significant increases in the probability of mothers reporting poor self-rated health and poor mental well-being. Yet the association between local area unemployment and health behaviours is mostly positive, with higher unemployment reducing the probability of being obese and tobacco consumption. The relationship with physical activity is more ambiguous. These results are largely consistent with the US literature, which is predominantly based on working men, thus demonstrating the universal impact of recessions on health.
C33|The Effect of the Great Recession on Health: A Longitudinal Study of Irish Mothers 2001-2011|The relationship between recessions and health is mixed, with some evidence from the most recent financial crisis finding a positive effect on heath behaviours. This study uses longitudinal data spanning the periods before, during and after the Irish crisis of 2008, to test the impact of economic expansion and contraction on mothers physical and mental health and health behaviours. Three waves of data from the Irish Lifeways Cohort Study for the period 2001-2011, and local area employment rates from the Irish Census, are used to capture the impact of the recession on health, independent of individual employment status. The results from fixed effect linear probability models demonstrate that increases in the local unemployment rate are associated with significant increases in the probability of mothers reporting poor self-rated health and poor mental well-being. Yet the association between local area unemployment and health behaviours is mostly positive, with higher unemployment reducing the probability of being obese and tobacco consumption. The relationship with physical activity is more ambiguous. These results are largely consistent with the US literature, which is predominantly based on working men, thus demonstrating the universal impact of recessions on health.
C33|Testing for Attrition Bias in Field Experiments|We approach attrition in field experiments with baseline outcome data as an identification problem in a panel model. A systematic review of the literature indicates that there is no consensus on how to test for attrition bias. We establish identifying assumptions for treatment effects for both the respondent subpopulation and the study population. We then derive their sharp testable implications on the baseline outcome distribution and propose randomization procedures to test them. We demonstrate that the most commonly used test does not control size in general when internal validity holds. Simulations and applications illustrate the empirical relevance of our analysis.
C33|Reexamining the growth effects of ENSO: the role of local weather conditions|This paper examines the growth effects of ENSO events through their interactions with local weather conditions using the Standardized Precipitation and Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) from 1975 to 2014 and over a sample of 74 countries. The inclusion of SPEI in panel estimation makes it possible to control for time-varying country-specific effects of ENSO events, therefore outlining their heterogeneous effects on growth and eliminating a potential source of omitted variable bias. By better identifying the persistence of ENSO effects on local weather conditions, we evidence that ENSO events generate heterogeneous and local effects depending not only on countries' climate regime but also on their weather patterns. Our results suggest that examining the growth effects of ENSO events should thus explicitly account for their interaction with weather patterns to capture more precisely the heterogeneity across countries.
C33|Inflation, Unemployment and Happiness: empirical evidences of the contribution of Economic Growth|This paper improves the understanding of the trade-off between inflation and unemployment and its impact on Subjective Well-Being (SWB), considering the role of the (Growth Domestic Product) GDP Growth and the issue of heterogeneity/nonlinearity. Effects on SWB depends on the spread between observed and potential GDP growth. The results point out country heterogeneity and nonlinearity of the marginal effects of macroeconomic variables on SWB. Economic growth moderates the relationship between unemployment as well as inflation and SWB. Both unemployment and GDP per capita growth rates have an important impact on Europeans’ SWB. Fostering economic growth must be one of the priorities of European policy.
C33|Beyond RCP8.5: Marginal Mitigation Using Quasi-Representative Concentration Pathways|Assessments of decreases in economic damages from climate change mitigation typically rely on climate output from computationally expensive precomputed runs of general circulation models (GCMs) under a handful of scenarios with discretely varying targets, such as the four representative concentration pathways (RCPs) for CO2 and other anthropogenically emitted gases. Although such analyses are extremely valuable in informing scientists and policymakers about specific, well-known, and massive mitigation goals, we add to the literature by considering potential outcomes from more modest policy changes that may not be represented by any concentration pathway or GCM output. We construct computationally efficient Quasi-representative Concentration Pathways (QCPs) in order to leverage existing scenarios featuring plausible concentration pathways. Computational efficiency allows for common statistical methods for assessing model uncertainty based on iterative replication, such as bootstrapping. We illustrate by feeding two QCPs through a computationally efficient statistical emulator and dose response functions extrapolated from estimates in the recent literature in order to gauge effects of mitigation on the relative risk of heat stress mortality.
C33|Can we have growth when population is stagnant? Testing linear growth rate formulas and their cross-unit cointegration of non-scale endogenous growth models|We sub-divide scale-invariant fully or semi-endogenous growth models into six sub-categories for formulas relating steady-state growth rates of income per capita and the growth rate of the population depending on the properties of slopes and intercepts. We capture their steady-state relation by a long-term relation in panel vector-error-correction models for 16 countries, and estimate the 16 models simultaneously allowing successively for more heterogeneity. The slope and intercepts of the growth equations are positive in this setting under slope homogeneity but less significant or even negative when allowing for heterogeneity. Slopes are mostly non-positive. Intercepts are positive for a large majority of countries. Results therefore favour fully over semi-endogenous growth with and without slope homogeneity and allow for growth rate policies. The more frequent case is that long-run growth can remain positive if population stops growing. Analysis of cross-unit cointegration suggests that long-run results are internationally connected.
C33|An arbitrage-free yield net model with application to the euro debt crisis|"We develop a parsimonious arbitrage-free yield net model for consistent bond pricing across maturities and issuers. Containing a core curve and multiple periphery curves, the yield net is spanned by three layers of factors: base factors spanning all curves, common spread factors spanning all periphery yield spreads, and specific factors each spanning yield spreads of a periphery issuer. Under the arbitrage-free assumption, we prove a parsimonious solution to the risk-neutral process that guarantees strong identification on the latent risk factors and parameters. We apply the model to Treasury yields of Germany and GIIPS countries from 2009 to 2016. The model fits data remarkably well and disentangles the common credit risk, market liquidity risk, and country-specific risks. The results demonstrate that relative risk pricing determines signs and magnitudes of the ""flight to liquidity"" effect and spillover effects among bonds of different issuers."
C33|Effects of Parental Job Loss and Insecurity on Childrenâ€™s Health: Evidence from Korea|In the last two decades, after the Asian financial crisis, Korea has witnessed a rapid increase in the share of temporary contractual work in its employment composition. In this paper, we investigate the impact of job insecurity and job loss on childrenâ€™s health using Korea Welfare Panel Study data. We find that paternal job loss and insecurity has a significantly negative effect on health, while maternal job loss and insecurity has no effect. This could be because the effects of income loss and financial hardship are greater for male workers than for females.
C33|Country factors and the investment decision-making process of sovereign wealth funds|In this paper, we examine the complex decision-making processes that lead to sovereign wealth funds' (SWFs’) choice of investment location. Using a two-tiered dynamic Tobit panel model, we find that country-level factors do not have the same impacts on the investment decision and the amount to invest and that SWFs tend to invest more frequently and at higher amounts in countries in which they have already invested. More specifically, we find that SWFs prefer to invest in countries with higher political stability, whereas they are more prone to invest large amounts in countries that are less democratic and more financially open. Our results also lend support to the idea that SWFs are prudent in their choice of a target country with regard to their investment decision but behave as more opportunistic investors with regard to the amounts to be invested.
C33|On the Limit Theory of Mixed to Unity VARs: Panel Setting With Weakly Dependent Errors|In this paper we re-visit a recent theoretical idea introduced by Phillips and Lee (2015). They examine an empirically relevant situation when multiple time series under consideration exhibit different degrees of non-stationarity. By bridging the asymptotic theory of the local to unity and mildly explosive processes, they construct a Wald test for the commonality of the long-run behavior of two series. Therefore, a vector autoregressive (VAR) setup is natural. However, inference is complicated by the fact that the statistic is degenerate under the null and divergent under the alternative. This is true if the parameters of the data generating process are known and re-normalizing function can be constructed. If the parameters are unknown, as is in practice, the test statistic may be divergent even under the null. We solve this problem by converting the original setting of one vector time series in a panel setting with N individual vector series. We consider asymptotics with fixed N and large T and extend the results to sequential asymptotics when T passes to infinity before N. We show that the Wald test statistic converges to nuisance parameter-free Chi-squared distribution under the null hypothesis.
C33|Household Saving, Health, and Healthcare Utilisation in Japan|The impact of health and healthcare utilisation on household savings and financial portfolios is explored using data from the Japanese Household Panel Survey (JHPS) and he Keio Household Panel Survey (KHPS). Whereas poor physical health is associated with higher savings and larger financial portfolios, poor mental health is found to have the opposite effects. Hospital visits, hospitalisation, and screening are associated with greater savings and larger financial portfolios. We also explore how the share of savings expressed as a proportion of total financial assets is affected by our health measures. We find that portfolio re-balancing effects associated with our health measures are outweighed by pure 'size' effects, in that our health measures affect the total value of a household's financial portfolio and its components (i.e., savings and securities), but not its overall composition.
C33|Estimating long run e ects in models with cross-sectional dependence using xtdcce2|This paper describes how to estimate long run effects in a large heterogeneous panel data model with cross sectional dependence in Stata using the user written command xtdcce2. It builds on Chudik et al. (2016) and explains how to estimate models using the CS-DL and CS-ARDL estimator. In addition it includes a method how to estimate an error correction model.
C33|Determinants Of Prepaid Systems Of Healthcare Financing - A Worldwide Country-Level Perspective|In this paper we examine determinants of prepaid modes of health care financing in a worldwide cross-country perspective. We use three different indicators to capture the role of prepaid modes in health care financing: (i) the share of total prepaid financing as percent of total current health expenditures, (ii) the share of voluntary prepaid financing as percent of total prepaid financing, and (iii) the share of compulsory health insurance as percent of total compulsory financing arrangements. We refer to a panel data set comprising 158 countries and covering the time period 2000-2015. We apply a static as well as a dynamic panel data model. We find that the current structure of prepaid financing is significantly determined by its different forms in the past. The significant influence of governmental revenues, development assistance for health and regulatory quality varies depending on the financing structure we look at. The country's GDP per capita, the agricultural value added, the degree of urbanization and the share of the elderly are only of minor importance for explaining the variation in a country's structure of health care financing. From our analysis we conclude that more detailed information on indicators which reflect the distribution of individual characteristics (such as income and health risks) within a country's population would be needed to gain deeper insight into the decisive determinants for prepaid health care financing.
C33|Impact de l'expérimentation de coopération entre médecin généraliste et infirmière Asalée sur l'activité des médecins|Dans de nombreux pays, les politiques et réformes ont explicitement encouragé l'intégration des organisations de soins primaires et la coopération pluri-professionnelle afin d'améliorer l'efficience productive et allocative de l’offre de soins et lutter contre l'inégale répartition géographique des médecins. En France, la Direction de la Sécurité sociale et une association dénommée Asalée (« Action de santé libérale en équipe », depuis 2004) ont mis en place une expérimentation destinée à favoriser l'intégration verticale et le travail en équipe entre médecins généralistes et infirmières par la mise en place de nouveaux modes de rémunération et la formation d’infirmières sélectionnées. Cet article évalue l'extension de cette expérimentation sur la période 2010-2016 en étudiant l'influence de cette coopération, mais aussi de l’organisation et des incitations financières à l’œuvre, sur l’activité des médecins généralistes appréhendée à partir de trois indicateurs : le nombre de jours travaillés, de patients rencontrés (en file active et, parmi eux, ceux inscrits médecin traitant) et d’actes (consultations au cabinet et visites à domicile). Nous contrôlons autant que possible des biais d’endogénéité et de sélection en recourant à un design cas-témoins, selon une méthode d'appariement exact, et des méthodes d'estimation en différence de différences sur données de panel. Dans ce cadre, nous montrons un effet positif du dispositif mais relativement modeste sur le nombre de jours travaillés (+1,2 %) par les médecins et un effet plus marqué sur le nombre de patients rencontrés (+7,55 %) et inscrits médecin traitant (+6,87 %). En revanche, aucun effet significatif n’est mis en évidence sur le nombre de consultations et visites.
C33|The transmission of unconventional monetary policy to bank credit supply: evidence from the TLTRO|We assess the transmission of the Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) to the bank credit supply for the Euro area (2014:05-2018:01) and for Portugal (2011:01-2018:01), using a panel data setup. For the Euro area, we find a positive relationship between the TLTRO and the amount of credit granted to the real economy. For the vulnerable countries, the effects of the TLTRO on the stock of credit increased from 2016 to 2017. Among the group of small banks, the effects are stronger in less vulnerable countries. We also find that competition has no statistically significant impact on the transmission of the TLTRO to the bank credit supply for the Euro area. For Portugal, using a difference-in-differences model, we find no statistically significant impact of the TLTRO on credit granted by banks. Finally, bidding banks set lower interest rates than non-bidding banks and the difference seems to be larger in 2017. In Portugal, the effects of the TLTRO on loan interest rates also increased from 2016 to 2017 and are stronger for small banks.
C33|Efficiency of the European banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis: A panel stochastic frontier approach|Using panel estimates and Stochastic Frontier Analysis this paper aims to contribute to the analysis of bank efficiency of the European banks in the aftermath of the international financial crisis and the sovereign crisis that seriously affected many EU countries. It also considershypothetical scenarios of exit from the EU of some of the particularly relevant member-states, including the Brexit scenario. The results obtained very clearly demonstrate the existence of statistically significant technical inefficiencies in all considered scenarios. Nevertheless, the results reveal that the exclusion of the Italian banks and of the UK banks from our estimates would be more beneficial to the decrease of the banks’ cost inefficiencies than the exclusion of the French and the German banks. Moreover, the worst scenario in terms of the decrease of the EU banks’ cost inefficiencies would be the exclusion of the banks from the five EU countries that were deeply affected by the international financial and sovereign crises and were obliged to restructure their bank systems, that is, Cyprus, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.
C33|Human Capital and the Economic Convergence Mechanism: Evidence from China|"We examine the mechanism by which human capital affects economic growth and convergence, using provincial level panel data from China. We specify alternative measures of human capital and apply them to an enhanced growth model which we estimate parametrically, nonparametrically, and with a threshold model. Our results show that economic convergence is pronouncedly conditional on human capital across all our measures of human capital. The positive ""benefit of being backward"" due to lower initial income is almost trumped by the negative impact of low levels of human capital among the poorest areas."
C33|Exploiting Information from Singletons in Panel Data Analysis: A GMM Approach|We propose a novel procedure, built within a Generalized Method of Moments framework, which exploits unpaired observations (singletons) to increase the efficiency of longitudinal fixed effect estimates. The approach allows increasing estimation efficiency, while properly tackling the bias due to unobserved time-invariant characteristics. We assess its properties by means of Monte Carlo simulations, and apply it to a traditional Total Factor Productivity regression, showing efficiency gains of approximately 8-9 percent.
C33|The Persistent Effects of Monsoon Rainfall Shocks in India: A Nonlinear VAR Approach|We examine the effects of monsoon rainfall shocks on agricultural output, wages, and prices in India. The effects are highly asymmetric: agricultural output falls by 16% after a negative shock, but a positive shock has no significant effects. Although the drop in agricultural output is very short-lived, it elicits a persistent decline (increase) in wages (food prices). This indicates that famines are caused by a persistent disruption in food acquisition, rather than by a shortage in food supply.
C33|Public Employment Decline in Developing Countries in the 21st Century: The Role of Globalization|"The impact of globalization on developing countries has been debated: While the ""compensation hypothesis"" suggests that globalization increases the need for public employees, the ""efficiency hypothesis"" states that the size of government should be smaller while competing with the world. We are the first to re-visit the debate for 2000-2016 using panel data for 92 developing countries and new innovative bureaucracy and globalization indicators to find robust evidence for the ""efficiency hypothesis”."
C33|Labour mobility and interprovincial trade in Canada|This study estimates the impact of interprovincial and international migration on interprovincial trade using annual data from 1981- 2016 for Canadian provinces. We apply both the gravity and the spatial trade models for estimation using a number of panel estimators. We find that the endogeneity issue should be addressed when estimating the relationship between migration and interprovincial trade. Estimated results show that interprovincial and international net migrations are positive and significant determinants for interprovincial trade of Canada. Interprovincial immigration is more influential than international immigration in explaining interprovincial trade. Interprovincial imports are influenced more by interprovincial and international migration than interprovincial exports. Province-wise estimates indicate that Quebec, British Columbia, Saskatchewan, and New Brunswick are positively affected by interprovincial migration. Among them, all except New Brunswick are also positively affected by international migration. The gravity and the spatial trade models are useful to explain Canadian interprovincial trade. The pooled OLS, fixed effects, 2SLS and SGMM estimators are used in this study. Our results are robust to different estimation methods and alternative measures using both the flow and the stock net migration in Canada’s provinces.
C33|Economic Uncertainty and Fertility|In this paper, we conduct an empirical study of the effect of uncertainty on fertility. The precautionary motive for saving predicts that an increase in uncertainty increases saving by reducing both consumption and fertility. We use a new measure of uncertainty, the World Uncertainty Index, and focus on data from 126 countries for the period from 1996 to 2017. The empirical findings indicate that uncertainty shocks decrease the fertility rate. This evidence is robust to different model specifications and econometric techniques as well as to the inclusion of various controls.
C33|Bootstrap Methods for Inference in the Parks Model|The Parks (1967) estimator is a workhorse for panel data and seemingly unrelated regression equation systems because it allows the incorporation of serial correlation together with heteroskedasticity and cross-sectional correlation. It is efficient both asymptotically and in small samples. Kmenta and Gilbert (1970) and more recently Beck and Katz (1995) note that estimated standard errors are biased downward, often severely. Instead of fixing the Parks standard errors, Beck and Katz abandon the efficient estimator in favor of a Prais-Winston estimator together with “panel corrected standard errors” (PCSE), a procedure that only partially reduces the standard error bias. In this paper we develop both parametric and nonparametric bootstrap approaches to inference that avoid the need to use biased standard errors. We then illustrate the effectiveness of our procedures using Monte Carlo experiments that show that the bootstrap gives rejection probabilities close to the nominal level chosen by the researcher.
C33|Chinese regional inequality and sectoral foreign direct investment|Following the 1978 economic reforms, China gradually became first amongst developing countries and the second in the world, after the USA, in terms of stock of inward Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Sustained GDP growth, a high rate of capital return and brisk economic development made China one of the best destinations for foreign capital; however, the benefits of this spectacular growth have not been evenly distributed throughout the various Chinese regions. There are many low-income and poor economic performing provinces in China although poverty is mainly concentrated in the inland regions. Since the beginning of the 2000s, a series of policies have been designed and implemented by the Chinese government to encourage foreign company investment in central and western provinces to help decrease the regional inequality with limited successes. This paper uses Panel Least Squares method to empirically analyze the impact of industrial sector FDI on Chinese regional inequality during 2003-2013. The resulting analysis shows the connection between FDI in industrial sectors and regional inequality in China. In particular, regional inequality affects FDI location choices. The findings show that economic and non-economic indicators such as human capital, infrastructure, per capita income, and government policies affect regional inequality and foreign firms' location choices. Despite government policies to support inland regional economic development, foreign firms still prefer to invest in coastal provinces further illustrating the effects of clusters in this region.
C33|Size and persistence matter: Wage and employment insurance at the micro level|Firms provide substantial insurance against wage fl uctuations and job loss. This paper studies how the interaction between shock size and persistence affects the firm's ability to insure workers against idiosyncratic firm-level shocks. Using linked employer-employee data from Germany, I find that wages respond largely symmetrically to positive and negative permanent shocks. Whereas transitory shocks lead to upward wage rigidity. Individual layoff probabilities only increase in response to negative permanent shocks. Interestingly, wage cuts and job loss after negative shocks are limited to blue-collar workers. Whereas white-collar workers are fully insured against negative shocks both in terms of wages and employment.
C33|Cluster externalities, firm capabilities, and the recessionary shock: How the macro-to-micro-transition shapes firm performance during stable times and times of crisis|In this paper, we examine the macro-to-micro-transition of cluster externalities to firms and how it is affected by the macroeconomic instability caused by the recessionary shock of 2008/2009. Using data from 16,166 manufacturing and business services firms nested in 390 German regions, we employ within-firm regression techniques to estimate the impact of crosslevel interactions between firm- and cluster-level determinants on phase-related differences in firm performance between a pre-crisis (2004-2007) and a crisis period (2009-2011). The empirical results validate the existence of a macro-to-micro-transition that evolves best in the case of broad firm-level capabilities and variety-driven externalities. Furthermore, the results indicate that the transition strongly depends on the macroeconomic cycle. While the transition particularly benefits from a stable macroeconomic environment (2004-2007), its mechanisms are interrupted when being exposed to economic turmoil (2009-2011). Yet, the crisisinduced interruption of the transition is mainly restricted to the national recession in 2009. As soon as the macroeconomic pressure diminishes (2010-2011), we observe a reversion of the transmission mechanisms to the pre-crisis level. Our study contributes to the existing literature by corroborating previous findings that the economic performance of firms depends on a working macro-to-micro transition of external resources, which presupposes sufficient cluster externalities and adequate firm-level combinative capabilities. In contrast to previous studies on this topic, the transition mechanism is not modeled as time-invariant. Instead, it is coupled to the prevailing macroeconomic regime.
C33|Assessing predictive accuracy in panel data models with long-range dependence|This paper proposes tests of the null hypothesis that model-based forecasts are uninformative in panels, allowing for individual and interactive fixed effects that control for cross-sectional dependence, endogenous predictors, and both short-range and long-range dependence. We consider a Diebold-Mariano style test based on comparison of the model-based forecast and a nested nopredictability benchmark, an encompassing style test of the same null, and a test of pooled uninformativeness in the entire panel. A simulation study shows that the encompassing style test is reasonably sized in finite samples, whereas the Diebold-Mariano style test is oversized. Both tests have non-trivial local power. The methods are applied to the predictive relation between economic policy uncertainty and future stock market volatility in a multi-country analysis.
C33|Capital Flight and Extent of Corruption control in the Least Corrupt African Countries: An Empirical assessment|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of corruption control on capital flight in the least corrupt African countries and uses panel data covering the period of 1996-2010. The results show that the extent of corruption proxy, the total natural resources rent are statistically significant and affect positively the capital across the pooled, random and fixed effects. Inflation and economic growth are also found to have a negative impact on capital flight. Moreover, exchange rate has a negative and significant effect on capital flight. The findings of this study suggest that the extent of corruption control by responsible institutions can be considered as one of the most effective weapons in the fight against capital flight in the least corrupt African countries. The paper recommends to the government of the least corrupt countries in Africa to create an enabling political and economic environment for investorâ€™s attractiveness. This in turn will reduce the occurrence of capital flight and lead to the sustainable development.
C33|Asymptotic theory for clustered samples|We provide a complete asymptotic distribution theory for clustered data with a large number of independent groups, generalizing the classic laws of large numbers, uniform laws, central limit theory, and clustered covariance matrix estimation. Our theory allows for clustered observations with heterogeneous and unbounded cluster sizes. Our conditions cleanly nest the classical results for i.n.i.d. observations, in the sense that our conditions specialize to the classical conditions under independent sampling. We use this theory to develop a full asymptotic distribution theory for estimation based on linear least-squares, 2SLS, nonlinear MLE, and nonlinear GMM.
C33|Inference in Differences-in-Differences: How Much Should We Trust in Independent Clusters?|We analyze the conditions in which ignoring spatial correlation is problematic for inference in differences-in-differences (DID) models. Assuming that the spatial correlation structure follows a linear factor model, we show that inference ignoring such correlation remains reliable when either (i) the second moment of the difference between the pre- and post-treatment averages of common factors is low, or (ii) the distribution of factor loadings has the same expected values for treated and control groups, and do not exhibit significant spatial correlation. We present simulation results with real datasets that corroborate these conclusions. Our results provide important guidelines on how to minimize inference problems due to spatial correlation in DID applications.
C33|The Effects of Government Spending Over the Business Cycle: A Disaggregated Analysis for OECD and Non-OECD Countries|Using a panel of OECD and non-OECD economies, we estimate the effects of three types of government expenditure (compensation of government employees, government use of goods and services and government investment) and social benefits on output, private consumption and investment. In OECD economies, we find that compensation of government employees and government investment generate significantly positive multipliers, whereas government use of goods and services does not. However, only the multipliers of compensation of government employees are found higher during recessions and only for horizons of up to two years ahead. In non-OECD economies, the multipliers of compensation of government employees and government investment are positive but smaller than those for the OECD group and they do not tend to differ in recessions and in expansions. We also provide evidence that social benefits generate increases of private consumption, for both OECD and non-OECD countries.
C33|Testing for Correlated Factor Loadings in Cross Sectionally Dependent Panels|A large strand of the literature on panel data models has focused on explicitly modelling the cross-section dependence between panel units. Factor augmented approaches have been proposed to deal with this issue. Under a mild restriction on the correlation of the factor loadings, we show that factor augmented panel data models can be encompassed by a standard two-way fixed effect model. This highlights the importance of verifying whether the factor loadings are correlated, which, we argue, is an important hypothesis to be tested, in practice. As a main contribution, we propose a Hausman-type test that determines the presence of correlated factor loadings in panels with interactive effects. Furthermore, we develop two nonparametric variance estimators that are robust to the presence of heteroscedasticity, autocorrelation as well as slope heterogeneity. Via Monte Carlo simulations, we demonstrate desirable size and power performance of the proposed test, even in small samples. Finally, we provide extensive empirical evidence in favour of uncorrelated factor loadings in panels with interactive effects.
C33|Estimation and Inference for Multi-dimensional Heterogeneous Panel Datasets with Hierarchical Multi-factor Error Structure|Given the growing availability of large datasets and following recent research trends on multi-dimensional modelling, we develop three dimensional (3D) panel data models with hierarchical error components that allow for strong cross-sectional dependence through unobserved heterogeneous global and local factors. We propose consistent estimation procedures by extending the common correlated effects (CCE) estimation approach proposed by Pesaran (2006). The standard CCE approach needs to be modified in order to account for the hierarchical factor structure in 3D panels. Further, we provide the associated asymptotic theory, including new nonparametric variance estimators. The validity of the proposed approach is confirmed by Monte Carlo simulation studies. We also demonstrate the empirical usefulness of the proposed approach through an application to a 3D panel gravity model of bilateral export flows.
C33|Exploring Wage Phillips Curves in Advanced Economies|We investigate the extent to which excess supply (demand) in labour markets contributes to a lower (higher) growth rate of average nominal wages for workers. Using panel methods on data from 10 advanced economies for 1992–2018, we produce reduced-form estimates of a wage Phillips curve specification that is consistent with a New Keynesian framework. We find comparable effects on nominal wage growth from several indicators of “slack” in the labour market: unemployment rates, unemployment rate gaps, the prime-age employment-to-population ratios, a composite labour market indicator constructed using a principal component for a wide range of labour force data, and unemployment rates separated by duration of unemployment. Our results provide evidence that while the slope of the wage Phillips curve seems to have become flatter following the global financial crisis in 2008, the relationship still appears to be highly significant. We find that the long-term unemployment rate (unemployment longer than six months) has had a larger effect on wage growth in the period since 2008. We also investigate the shape of the Phillips curve and find some evidence of a convex relationship between labour market slack and nominal wage growth, particularly for the pre-crisis period. Piecewise regressions suggest some mixed evidence on nominal rigidities in the aggregate data.
C33|Is market liquidity less resilient after the financial crisis? Evidence for us treasuries|We analyse the market liquidity level and resilience of US 10-year Treasury bonds. Having checked that five indicators show inconclusive results on the liquidity level, we fit a bivariate CC-GARCH model to evaluate its resilience, that is, how liquidity reacts to financial shocks. According to our results, spillovers from liquidity volatility to returns volatility and viceversa are more intense after the crisis. Further, the volatility persistence of both returns and liquidity becomes lower after the crisis. These results are consistent with the existence of more frequent short-lived episodes of high volatility and more unstable liquidity that is more prone to evaporation.
C33|Risk endogeneity at the lender/investor-of-last-resort|We address the question to what extent a central bank can de-risk its balance sheet by unconventional monetary policy operations. To this end, we propose a novel risk measurement framework to empirically study the time-variation in central bank portfolio credit risks associated with such operations. The framework accommodates a large number of bank and sovereign counterparties, joint tail dependence, skewness, and time-varying dependence parameters. In an application to selected items from the consolidated Eurosystem's weekly balance sheet between 2009 and 2015, we find that unconventional monetary policy operations generated beneficial risk spill-overs across monetary policy operations, causing overall risk to be nonlinear in exposures. Some policy operations reduced rather than increased overall risk. JEL Classification: G21, C33
C33|xtserialpm: A portmanteau test for serial correlation in a linear panel model|We introduce the command xtserialpm to perform the portmanteau test developed in Jochmans (2019). The procedure tests for serial correlation in the errors of a linear panel model after estimation of the regression coefficients by the within-group estimator. The test is different from the test of Inoue and Solon (2006) that is performed by xtistest (Wursten 2018) in that it allows for heteroskedasticity. In simulations documented below, xtserialpm is found to provide a much more powerful test than xtistest. xtserialpm can deal with unbalanced panel data.
C33|twexp and twgravity: Estimating exponential regression models with two-way fixed effects|We introduce the commands twexp and twgravity that implement the estimators developed in Jochmans (2017) for exponential regression models with two-way fixed effects. twexp is applicable to generic n x m panel data. twgravity is written for the special case where the data is a cross-section on dyadic interactions between n agents. A prime example of the latter is cross-sectional bilateral trade data, where the model of interest is a gravity equation with importer and exporter effects. Both twexp and twgravity can deal with data where n and m are large, that is, the case of many fixed effects. They make use of Mata and are very fast to execute.
C33|Firm soundness and knowledge externalities: a comparative regional analysis|This paper investigates the role of regional context with regard to human capital and knowledge spillover effects in SMEs’ financial soundness. Our empirical setting is based on the multilevel analysis for panel data, which better allows for the treatment of hierarchical data. It is applied to firms belonging to the industrial sector and operating in four European countries over the 2010–2015 period. We find that a combination of individual- and regional-level characteristics explain firm soundness more accurately than individual features alone. Furthermore, we find that a higher local educational level and knowledge spillover improve the firm soundness.
C33|On the impact of capital and liquidity ratios on financial stability|In response to the 2007-2008 global financial crisis, the G20 mandated the Basel Committee to put in place prudential regulations capable of ensuring financial stability: the Basel III agreements. This paper tackles this issue by investigating the impact of capital and liquidity ratios on financial stability for a sample of 1600 banks from 23 countries over the 2005-2016 period. We pay particular attention to the nonlinear character of this potential effect through the estimation of a polynomial model with interaction terms and a panel smooth transition regression. Distinguishing between different types of banks depending on their level of systemicity, we find evidence of a nonlinear effect of prudential ratios on financial stability: a low level of capital improves financial stability, but its effect tends to diminish for higher values. Finally, we show that bank profitability is a significant determinant of financial stability.
C33|Exposure to Pollution and Infant Health: Evidence from Colombia|We study the impact of air pollution exposure (CO, O3 and Pm10) during pregnancy and early years of life on infant health for a sample of children attending public kinder- gartens in Bogota, Colombia. The study uses a unique database that gathers information on children health which allows to combine information of residential location of the mother with information from the city air quality monitors. To overcome endogeneity problems due to residential sorting we identify pairs of siblings in the dataset and imple- ment panel data models with mother xed e ects. Results show evidence that mothers, who are exposed to higher levels of CO and O3 during pregnancy, have a higher proba- bility of their babies being born with a low birth weight. Furthermore, a child exposed in-utero to higher levels of O3 has a higher probability of being diagnosed with a lung- related disease. Our ndings advocate for more strict environmental regulations as a way to improve human capital in developing countries.
C33|Risk endogeneity at the lender/investor-of-last-resort|We address to what extent a central bank can de-risk its balance sheet by unconventional monetary policy operations. To that end, we propose a novel risk measurement framework to empirically study the time variation in central bank portfolio credit risks associated with such operations. The framework accommodates a large number of bank and sovereign counterparties, joint tail dependence, skewness, and time-varying dependence parameters. In an application to selected items from the consolidated Eurosystem's weekly balance sheet between 2009 and 2015, we find that unconventional monetary policy operations generated beneficial risk spillovers across monetary policy operations, causing overall risk to be non-linear in exposures. Some policy operations reduced rather than increased overall risk.
C33|Do public wages in the euro area explain private wage developments? An empirical investigation|This paper investigates the relationship between public and private wages in the five largest euro area countries for the period 1997-2017. The analysis shows that there exists a positive and significant response of private wages to a public wage shock. This effect is found to be temporary and to differ across countries (positive and significant in France, Spain, Italy and non-significant in Germany and the Netherlands). Interestingly, the response of private wages is found to be asymmetric: a positive and statistically significant response is found in case of a positive shock to public wages, while no statistically significant effects are detected in case of a cut to public wages. As the public wage containment policies adopted during the sovereign debt crisis are expected to be gradually lifted in several euro area countries, the findings of this paper suggest that knock-on effects on private sector wages cannot be excluded in the years to come. JEL Classification: E24, E62, J30, C33, C11
C33|From cash- to securities-driven euro area repo markets: the role of financial stress and safe asset scarcity|Focussing on repo specialness premia, using ISIN-specific transaction-by-transaction data of one-day maturity repos, we document a gradual shift from cash- to securities-driven transactions in euro area repo markets over the period 2010-2018. Compared to earlier studies focussing only on specific sub-periods or market segments we extend, illustrate, and validate evidence on financial frictions that are relevant in driving repo premia: controlling for a comprehensive range of bond-market specific characteristics, we show that repo premia have been systematically affected by fragmentation in the sovereign space, bank funding stress, and safe asset scarcity. These channels exhibit very strong country-specific differences, as also reflected by large discrepancies in country-specific interest rates on General Collateral. To ensure robustness of our empirical findings, we apply panel econometric and data mining approaches in a complementary and mutually informative way. JEL Classification: E52, E44, C33, C38
C33|Alternative Estimators For The Fdi Gravity Model: An Application To German Outward Fdi|Despite the sound theoretical foundations of FDI gravity models and its popularity in empirical studies, there is a lack of consensus regarding the econometric specification and the estimation of the gravity equation. This paper provides a comprehensive empirical evidence of the determinants of German outward FDI comparing several estimation methods in their multiplicative form. We use four versions of the Generalized Linear Model (GLM), namely, Poisson Pseudo Maximum Likelihood(PPML), Gamma Pseudo Maximum Likelihood (GPML), Negative Binomal Pseudo Maximum Likelihood (NBPML) and Gaussian-GLM. The results of the empirical application indicate that NBPML is the best performing estimator followed by GPML.
C33|Productivity and wage effects of firm-level collective agreements: Evidence from Belgian linked panel data|How do firm-level collective agreements affect firm performance in a multi-level bargaining system? Using detailed Belgian linked employer-employee panel data, our findings show that firm agreements increase both wage costs and productivity (with respect to sector-level agreements). Relying on a recent approach developed by Bartolucci (2014), they also indicate that firm agreements exert a stronger impact on wages than on productivity, so that profitability is hampered. However, this rent-sharing effect only holds in manufacturing. In private sector services, the raw wage premium associated to firm agreements is entirely driven by compositional effects. Furthermore, estimates show that firm agreements lead to significantly more rent-sharing among firms operating in less competitive environments. Firm agreements are thus mainly found to raise wages beyond productivity when the rents to be shared between workers and firms are relatively big. Overall, this suggests that firm-level agreements benefit to both employers and employees – through higher productivity and wages – without being very detrimental to firms’ performance.
C33|Determinants of Liquidity in Selected CEE Countries| The aim of this paper is to describe the development of bank liquidity in six selected Central and Eastern European Countries (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, Serbia and Slovenia) and to find out if selected liquidity ratios are influenced by the affiliation of banks with financial conglomerate or if other determinants are more important. The data cover the period from 2011 to 2017. Results of the panel data regression analysis showed that the affiliation of banks with the financial conglomerate does not statistically significant affect values of liquidity ratios in the selected CEE countries. Instead, other bank-specific and macroeconomic factors are important, such as bank solvency and profitability, quality of the loan portfolio, gross domestic product, the unemployment rate, interest rate on loans and interbank interest rate matter, at least for some countries. Focusing on the buffer of liquid assets, size of the bank is important for all six selected CEE countries. Bank profitability, quality of the loan portfolio, gross domestic product, the unemployment rate, interest rate on loans, interbank interest rate and lagged value of bank solvency matter, at least for some countries. In case of the net interbank position, the lagged value of bank solvency, economic cycle, bank size, interbank interest rate, and quality of the loan portfolio are significant.
C33|Evaluating time-varying treatment effects in latent Markov models: An application to the effect of remittances on poverty dynamics|To assess the effectiveness of remittances on the poverty level of recipient households, we propose a causal inference approach that may be applied with longitudinal data and time-varying treatments. The method relies on the integration of a propensity score based technique, the inverse propensity weighting, with a general Latent Markov (LM) framework. It is particularly useful when the interest is in an individual characteristic that is not directly observable and the analysis is focused on: (i) clustering individuals in a finite number of classes according to this latent characteristic and (ii) modelling its evolution across time depending on the received treatment. Parameter estimation is based on a two-step procedure in which individual weights are computed for each time period based on predetermined covariates and a weighted version of the standard LM model likelihood based on such weights is maximised by means of an expectation-maximisation algorithm. Finite-sample properties of the estimator are studied by simulation. The application is focused on the effect of remittances on the poverty status of Ugandan households, based on a longitudinal survey spanning the period 2009-2014 and where response variables are indicators of deprivation.
C33|Cluster externalities, firm capabilities, and the recessionary shock: How the macro-to-micro-transition shapes firm performance during stable times and times of crisis|In this paper, we examine the macro-to-micro-transition of cluster externalities to firms and how it is affected by the macroeconomic instability caused by the recessionary shock of 2008/2009. Using data from 16,166 manufacturing and business services firms nested in 390 German regions, we employ within-firm regression techniques to estimate the impact of cross-level interactions between firm- and cluster-level determinants on phase-related differences in firm performance between a pre-crisis (2004-2007) and a crisis period (2009-2011). The empirical results validate the existence of a macro-to-micro-transition that evolves best in the case of broad firm-level capabilities and variety-driven externalities. Furthermore, the results indicate that the transition strongly depends on the macroeconomic cycle. While the transition particularly benefits from a stable macroeconomic environment (2004-2007), its mechanisms are interrupted when being exposed to economic turmoil (2009-2011). Yet, the crisis-induced interruption of the transition is mainly restricted to the national recession in 2009. As soon as the macroeconomic pressure diminishes (2010-2011), we observe a reversion of the transmission mechanisms to the pre-crisis level. Our study contributes to the existing literature by corroborating previous findings that the economic performance of firms depends on a working macro-to-micro transition of external re-sources, which presupposes sufficient cluster externalities and adequate firm-level combinative capabilities. In contrast to previous studies on this topic, the transition mechanism is not modeled as time-invariant. Instead, it is coupled to the prevailing macroeconomic regime.
C33|Effet de l’aide publique au développement sur la mobilisation des ressources fiscales dans les pays de l’UEMOA<BR>[Effect of foreign aid on fiscal resources mobilization in WAEMU countries]|In WAEMU countries, the lack of consistent domestic resources for financing development is a real financial handicap. Foreign aid is necessary. However, economic literature is not unanimous on the ability of foreign aid to promote fiscal resources mobilization. In this paper, we analyze the effect of different forms and components of international aid on tax revenues of WAEMU countries using WDI, OECD and BDSM databases. We apply the instrumental variable method to a panel data set covering the period 1985-2016. In our analyzes, we first distinguish bilateral and multilateral aid. Then we also differentiate concessional aid, technical assistance and grants or loans contained in international aid. The results indicate firstly that multilateral aid has a positive and significant impact on tax revenues, while bilateral aid does not. Secondly, with axamine the decomposed effect of aid. Our results show that concessional form of aid and technical assistance enhance fiscal resources mobilization. But loans reduce tax effort. Finally, these results reveal that when aid is taken in aggregate form, its effect on tax revenues is ambiguous. As economic policies implications, we argue that improving institutional quality would make foreign aid efficient in tax collection. We also recommend that foreign aid would be redirected towards investment for effective tax systems in these countries. Moreover, to remedy the disincentive effect created by loans, we particularly argue that they should be channelled more to non-governmental organisations or to the private sector rather than to governments of these countries.
C33|A sectoral approach to the electricity-growth nexus in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa|This paper takes a sectoral, panel approach to investigating the electricity-growth nexus for the Eastern Cape province of South Africa between the period of 2003 and 2017. The empirical investigation was carried out using the Pooled Mean Group (PMG) panel estimators applied to an augmented dynamic growth model whilst the caulisty tests between electricity consumption and growth where performed using the Dumitrescu-Hurlin (2012) panel non-causality tests. The findings confirm the absence of significant long-run relationship between electricity and growth whilst finding a significant and positive effect over the short-run. Moreover, our causality tests provide strong evidence of causality running from electricity consumption to economic growth hence supporting the “growth hypothesis”. In a nutshell, our results not only demonstrate the importance of performing the electricity-growth analysis at provincial level as opposed to relying on national aggregated estimates but also provides important provincial-specific policy implications and recommendations.
C33|Inference in Differences-in-Differences: How Much Should We Trust in Independent Clusters?|We analyze the conditions in which ignoring spatial correlation is problematic for inference in differences-in-differences (DID) models. Assuming that the spatial correlation structure follows a linear factor model, we show that inference ignoring such correlation remains reliable when either (i) the second moment of the difference between the pre- and post-treatment averages of common factors is low, or (ii) the distribution of factor loadings has the same expected values for treated and control groups, and do not exhibit significant spatial correlation. We present simulations with real datasets that corroborate these conclusions. Our results provide important guidelines on how to minimize inference problems due to spatial correlation in DID applications.
C33|Current Account and Credit Growth: The Role of Household Credit and Financial Depth|Understanding the impact of financial variables on the current account balance is one of the priorities of academic literature and policy makers. Evidence from a broad panel of countries shows that an increase in the credit growth causes a significant deterioration in the current account balance. We find that this result is driven by household credit. Furthermore, we show that total and household credit growth rates have a stronger negative effect on the current account balance for lower levels of financial depth. In other words, the demand boom associated with the credit expansion gets weaker for higher levels of financial depth. Thus, our findings are in line with the ``too much finance'' hypothesis which states that positive impact of financial development on economic growth vanishes as the level of financial depth increases. Our results suggest that targeted policy measures which curb the excessive household credit growth might be more effective to reduce the external imbalances particularly at the early stages of financial deepening.
C33|To be, or not to be: A study of suicides in India|Suicide is a complex public health and social issue of global dimension, which has taken a staggering toll on global public health, with almost one million people dying annually due to suicide worldwide. A WHO report in 2016 found that 79% of the global suicides occur in low- and middle-income countries like India. This study looks at the regional and across time variations in the incidence of suicides across the different states and union territories of India. The rates of suicide differ across the different demographics and regions of the country, with there being specific clusters of states with high or low suicide rates. Suicide is a societal crisis and is hence related to various socio-economic factors like income, inequality, education, unemployment, etc. A regression analysis has been done studying the dependence of such variables on suicide rates of various states, with income, degree of industrialisation of the economy and education levels evidencing to be important correlates with suicide rate.
C33|Are attitudes towards immigration changing in Europe? An analysis based on bidimensional latent class IRT models|We analyse the changing attitudes towards immigration in EU host countries in the last few years (2010-2016) on the basis of the European Social Survey data. These data are collected by the administration of a questionnaire made of items concerning different aspects related to the immigration phenomenon. For this analysis we rely on a class of item response theory models that allow for: (i) multidimensionality; (ii) discreteness of the latent trait distribution; (iii) time-constant and time-varying covariates; and (iv) sample weights. Through these models we find latent classes of Europeans with similar levels of immigration acceptance, we study the effect of different socio-economic covariates on the probability of belonging to these classes, and we assess the item characteristics. In this way we show which countries tend to be more or less positive towards immigration and the temporal dynamics of the phenomenon under study.
C33|The impact of large lending on bank efficiency in U.S.A|This paper investigates a rather neglected issue in the banking literature regarding the impact of large lending (LL) on the three banks’ performance aspects (cost, profit and productive). Possible influences may arise in the context of banks’ credit risk as trade credit, which is provided by large, creditworthy firms, and it is a method of monitoring and enforcing loan contracts to relatively riskier firms. Indeed, trade credit providers view payments beyond the discount period as a sign of financial difficulty while the option to cut off shipments for nonpayment is a potentially powerful means for a trade creditor to force repayment, especially if a supplier provides its costumer with a product that has no close substitutes. A unique dataset was constructed concerning all USA banks collected from SDI (Statistics on Depository Institutions) report compiled by FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation). Our sample contains 7960 banks and tracked yearly for the period 2010 -2017, creating an unbalanced panel of year observations. An econometric framework based on nested non-neutral frontiers, was developed to estimate the influence and the decomposition of large lending on the three banks' performance aspects (cost, profit and productive). Moreover, different types of frontiers aiming at the cost, profit, and production side have been investigated. The empirical findings reveal that the large lending plays a crucial role on banks' technical efficiency. Significant variations among different frontier models, type of bank and size, banks’ ownership structure and macroeconomic conditions appear to be present. By considering all CAMEL (Capital Adequacy Asset Quality Management Earnings Liquidity) parameters we notice that banks’ financial strength affects banks’ efficiency. Some policy implications are derived based on the empirical evidence supporting a safer and sounder banking system can be emerged as banks finance large firms, increasing the willingness of people to save and bank’s attitude to finance profitable investments projects that rise firm’s value and promote economic growth.
C33|Forecasting Volatility and Co-volatility of Crude Oil and Gold Futures: Effects of Leverage, Jumps, Spillovers, and Geopolitical Risks|For purposes of forecasting the covariance matrix for the returns of crude oil and gold futures, this paper examines the effects of leverage, jumps, spillovers, and geopolitical risks, using their respective realized covariance matrices. In order to guarantee the positive definiteness of the forecasts, we consider the full BEKK structure on the conditional Wishart model. By the specification, we can divide flexibly the direct and spillover effects of volatility feedback, negative returns, and jumps. The empirical analysis indicates the benefits in accommodating the spillover effects of negative returns and the geopolitical risks indicator for modelling and forecasting the future covariance matrix.
C33|The Transmission of Unconventional Monetary Policy to Bank Credit Supply: Evidence from the TLTRO|We assess the transmission of the Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO) to the bank credit supply for the Euro area (2014:05-2018:01) and for Portugal (2011:01-2018:01), using a panel data setup. For the Euro area, we find a positive relationship between the TLTRO and the amount of credit granted to the real economy. For the vulnerable countries, the effects of the TLTRO on the stock of credit increased from 2016 to 2017. Among the group of small banks, the effects are stronger in less vulnerable countries. We also find that competition has no statistically significant impact on the transmission of the TLTRO to the bank credit supply for the Euro area. For Portugal, using a difference-in-differences model, we find no statistically significant impact of the TLTRO on credit granted by banks. Finally, bidding banks set lower interest rates than non-bidding banks and the difference seems to be larger in 2017. In Portugal, the effects of the TLTRO on loan interest rates also increased from 2016 to 2017 and are stronger for small banks.
C33|Regional fiscal equalization. A simultaneous equation approach to assess the economic effects of fiscal policy|Regional fiscal equalization in Germany aims to reduce fiscal disparities by allocating financial resources to less promising regions in order to support the supply of public goods. This paper aims to analyse secondary economic effects of regional fiscal equalization on several economic in- and output variables. Additionally, the paper examines the potential regional characteristics to influence the transformation of fiscal inputs into economic outcomes. Lastly, I compare the effects of fiscal equalization to these of the major German structural funding program GRW. My findings reveal a significant positive effect of fiscal equalization on the regional employment rate. Moreover, the findings suggest different transmission channels of fiscal equalization in East and West Germany. Particularly, I find higher effects in right-wing CDU/CSU preferring regions on the employment, human capital and private-sector investment rate. Finally, while structural funding affects more economic variables significantly, the magnitude of the estimated economic responses of fiscal equalization compared to these of German structural funding are not statistically different.
C33|The impact of place-based policies on perceived regional living conditions across German labor market regions. Examining the impacts on migration flows|The paper analyzes the impact of the two major German regional development and redistribution policies, the municipal fiscal equalization scheme and the economic funds GRW, on perceived regional living conditions, measured through interregional migration between German labor market regions. Using a spatial vector-autoregressive panel model (SpVar), we find evidence that equalization transfers have a significant positive impact on perceived living conditions and contribute to the aim of regional equity. These effects are especially found for regions with low endogenous fiscal capacities. GRW funding reveals no significant effects on net migration rates in total, but short-term effects in rural regions.
C33|Effects of R&D subsidies on regional economic dynamics: Evidence from Chinese provinces|We investigate the impact of research and development (R&D) subsidies on R&D inputs of large- and medium-sized firms and on additional innovation and economic activities in Chinese provinces. A panel vector autoregressive (VAR) model and corresponding impulse response function (IRF) analysis allow us to differentiate between direct and indirect effects, which add up to total effects. We find that an increase of R&D subsidies significantly decreases private R&D investments, although there is a significant positive effect on the R&D personnel employed in firms. We interpret these findings as a partial crowding-out effect because public funds substitute some private funds while total R&D inputs still increase. Complementarily, we find a positive secondary effect on the provincial patent activity, our measure of technological progress. Interestingly, we also find potentially unintended effects of R&D subsidies on increases in the investment rate in physical capital and residential buildings. Although R&D subsidies fail to incentivize private R&D expenditures, firms increase total R&D inputs, and provincial economies benefit from secondary effects on technological progress and capital deepening.
C33|The North-South Divide, the Euro and the World|The European north-south divide has been an issue of a long-standing debate. We employ a Global VAR model for 28 developed and developing countries to examine the interaction between the global trade imbalances and their impact within the euro-area framework. The aim is to assess the propagation mechanisms of real shocks, focusing on the interconnections among the north euro area and the south euro area. We incorporate theory-based long-run restrictions and examine the effects of (i) non-export real output shocks, (ii) expansionary shocks and (iii) real exchange rate shocks. The results provide support for symmetric adjustment in the euro area; an expansionary policy of the north euro area and increased competitiveness in the south euro area can alleviate trade imbalances of the debtor euro area economies. From the south euro area perspective, internal devaluation is the most beneficial policy. North euro area and U.S. origin shocks to domestic output exert a dominant influence in the rest of the Europe and Asia while the strong linkage between trade flows within the euro area is confirmed.
C33|A Note on Growth, Energy Intensity and the Energy Mix: A Dynamic Panel Data Analysis|This paper explores how changes in energy intensity and the switch to renewables can boost economic growth. In doing so, we implement a dynamic panel data approach on a sample of 134 countries over the period 1960 to 2010. We incorporate a set of control variables, related to human and physical capital, socio-economic conditions, and policies which are widely used in the associated literature. According to our results, and given the current state of technology, improving energy intensity is an approach that could reconcile growth and the environment at the worldwide level. Moving to conventional renewables (biomass and hydro) may reduce CO2 emissions, consistent with the related literature, although we do not find evidence that supports a growth enhancing effect. However, moving to frontier renewables (wind, solar, wave or geothermic) does reconcile the reduction of CO2 emissions with economic growth. Our results are robust to the specification of the dynamic panel with respect to three alternative methods, namely, the pooled OLS regression, the regression under fixed effects, and the GMM estimation.
C33|Fighting alone or fighting for a team: Evidence from experimental pairwise contests|People who compete alone may entertain different psychological motivations from those who compete for a team. Using a real-effort experiment, we examine the behavioural consequences of these psychological motivations, absent strategic interdependence and uncertainty among team members. We exploit a dynamic pairwise team contest in which strategic uncertainties among team members play a minimised role in individual rational behaviour; and we create strategically-equivalent individual contests to isolate the pure psychological effects of team situation on individual competitive behaviour. We find that behaviour in individual contests and in sterile team contests follows a psychological momentum effect in which leaders work harder than trailers. In contrast, in team contests enriched with intra-team communication, behaviour follows a neutral effect. We discuss the implications of our results for theoretical modelling of contests and practical implications for the optimal design of team incentive schemes and personnel management.
C33|Renewable Energy, Quality of Institutions and Economic Growth in MENA Countries: a Panel Cointegration Approach|In this paper, we examine the relationship between renewable energy and economic growth taking into account institutional measures. Using panel cointegration tests, we found that these two variables and any institutional measure, of all considered in this study, are co-integrated. Furthermore, we found a strong causality running from renewable energy and any institutional measure, except for law and order, to growth. A reverse path is also observed since there is also a strong causality running from growth to renewable energy when the causal regression includes any institutional measure. Policy implications are accordingly derived.
C33|Trade Openness and Economic Growth in SADC Countries|In spite of the wave of liberalisation studied during the past decades, the debate still remains open on the issue of the trade openness and economic growth nexus. The paper reviews the relationship between trade openness and economic growth for 11 SADC countries for the period between 1990 and 2016. Investments, labour and inflation are incorporated in the model to form a multivariate framework. The study employed the ARDL-bounds test approach and the Pooled Mean Group (PMG) model to estimate the long-run relationship among the variables. The evidence suggests that co-integration is detected at the 1% level in all countries with the exception of Malawi, Mauritius, Swaziland and Tanzania. Co-integration is only detected at the 10% level in Tanzania while Malawi, Mauritius and Swaziland the null of no co-integration is not rejected. Furthermore, the PMG results revealed that trade openness has a negative impact on economic growth in the long-run. A positive relationship between the variables was found only in the short-run. Apertura commerciale e crescita economica nei paesi SADC Nonostante l’onda liberista che ha caratterizzato gli studi degli ultimi decenni, il dibattito sulla relazione tra apertura commerciale e crescita economica è ancora aperto. Questo articolo rivede detta relazione su un campione di 11 paesi SADC (Southern African Development Cooperation) nel periodo 1990-2016. Investimenti, lavoro e inflazione sono incorporati nel modello. Lo studio impiega i test ARDL-bound (Autoregressive Distributed Lag) e il modello PMG (Pooled Mean Group) per valutare la relazione di lungo periodo tra le variabili. Vi sono evidenze di cointegrazione all’1% in tutti i paesi ad eccezione di Malawi, Muritius, Swaziland e Tanzania. La cointegrazione è significativa solo al 10% in Tanzania mentre per Malawi, Mauritius e Swaziland non si rifiuta il valore zero di non cointegrazione. Inoltre, i risultati PGM rivelano che l’apertura commerciale ha un impatto negativo sulla crescita economica nel lungo periodo. Una relazione positiva tra le due variabili è stata riscontrata solo nel breve periodo.
C33|Simultaneous Generalized Method of Moments Estimator for Panel Data Models with Spatially Correlated Error Components|This paper develops estimators for simultaneous equations with spatial autoregressive or spatial moving average error components. We derive a limited information estimator and a full information estimator. We give the simultaneous generalized method of moments to get each component of the variance covariance of the disturbance in spatial autoregressive case as well as spatial moving average case. The results of our Monte Carlo suggest that our estimators are consistent. When we estimate the coefficient of spatial dependence it seems better to use instrumental variables estimator that takes into account simultaneity. We also apply these set of estimators on real data.
C33|Electricity supply shocks and economic growth across the US states: evidence from a time-varying Bayesian panel VAR model, aggregate and disaggregate energy sources|This paper investigates spillovers between electricity supply shocks and US growth, using monthly data from 48 US States, spanning the period January 2001-September 2016, while employs a novel strategy for electricity supply shocks based on a time-varying Bayesian panel VAR model. It accounts for the decomposition of electricity supply per fuel mixture and links its possible interactions with the US macroeconomic conditions. In that sense, the methodology models the coefficients as a stochastic function of multiple structural characteristics. The findings document that GDP growth increases after a positive electricity supply shock, irrelevant to the source of energy that generates it.
C33|Who Bears the Corporate Tax Incidence? Empirical Evidence from India|Against the backdrop of corporate tax policy changes in India, the paper attempts to measure the incidence of corporate income tax in India under a general equilibrium setting. Using seemingly uncorrelated regression coefficients and dynamic panel estimates, we tried to analyze both the relative burden of corporate tax borne by capital and labor and the efficiency effects of corporate income tax. The data for the study is compiled from corporate firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) for the period 2000–15. Our empirical estimates suggest that in India capital bears more of the burden of corporate taxes than labor. However, the results vary with different proxies of capital used in the models. Though it is contrary to the Harberger (1962) hypothesis that the burden of corporate tax is shifted to labor rather than capital, it confirms the existing empirical results in the context of India.
C33|The Impact of Financial Distress Risk on Equity Returns: A Case Study of Non-Financial Firms of Pakistan Stock Exchange|This study aims to investigate the relationship of financial distress risk and the equity returns of financially distressed firms listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX). Several studies have suggested that firm distress risk factor could be behind the book-to-market and size effects. Fama and French (1993) three factor Model is used for examining the relationship among equity returns, financial distress risk, size and book-to-market equity ratio. Non-financial firms listed on PSX are taken from the time-period of 2010-2016. Ohlson’s (1980) O-Score “bankruptcy prediction model” is used for the prediction of financial distress risk and forecasted the distress risk firms listed on PSX. The panel (unbalanced) data is used to get the empirical findings and showed that the financial distress risk and book-to-market equity effect are statistically insignificant to explain the stock returns of distress firms due to the inefficiency of market. However, size effect is significant in explaining the stock returns of distress firms. The study also reveals that it is important to predict financial distress risk with a better predictor in order to avoid the uncertainties in PSX.
C33|Spatial panel data models with structural change|Spatial panel data models are widely used in empirical studies. The existing theories of spatial models so far have largely confine the analysis under the assumption of parameters stabilities. This is unduely restrictive, since a large number of studies have well documented the presence of structural changes in the relationship of economic variables. This paper proposes and studies spatial panel data models with structural change. We consider using the quasi maximum likelihood method to estimate the model. Static and dynamic models are both considered. Large-$T$ and fixed-$T$ setups are both considered. We provide a relatively complete asymptotic theory for the maximum likelihood estimators, including consistency, convergence rates and limiting distributions of the regression coefficients, the timing of structural change and variance of errors. We study the hypothesis testing for the presence of structural change. The three super-type statistics are proposed. The Monte Carlo simulation results are consistent with our theoretical results and show that the maximum likelihood estimators have good finite sample performance.
C33|Livestock holdings during and after 2011 drought in Ethiopia: Heterogeneous responses and livestock types|Livestock have long been considered as a buffer stock, though recent studies on asset smoothing suggest that the extent of use of livestock sale as self-insurance bifurcates between the asset rich (i.e., those with an abundance of livestock to sustain their livelihoods) and the asset poor (i.e., those without enough livestock). Using two-period panel surveys of rural Ethiopia, this paper extends the discussion of the asset dynamics bifurcation by disaggregating rainfall shocks into drought- and flood-related ones. My empirical analysis implies that the asset rich sold their small livestock in the face of below-normal rainfalls, though the asset poor did not. Faced with above-normal rainfall shocks, on the other hand, the asset poor depleted their livestock. I discuss possible explanations for these results.
C33|Exploring Brexit with dynamic spatial panel models : some possible outcomes for employment across the EU regions|Starting with a reduced form derived from standard urban economics theory, this paper estimates the possible job-shortfall across UK and EU regions using a time-space dynamic panel data model with a Spatial Moving Average Random Effects (SMA-RE) structure of the disturbances. The paper provides a logical rational for the presence of spatial and temporal dependencies involving the endogenous variable, leading to estimates based on a dynamic spatial Generalized Moments (GM) estimator proposed by Baltagi, Fingleton and Pirotte (2018). Given state-of-the art interregional trade estimates, the simulations are based on a linear predictor which utilizes different regional interdependency matrices according to assumptions about interregional trade post-Brexit.
C33|Hierarchically structured determinants and phase-related patterns of economic resilience – An empirical case study for European regions|Our paper seeks to provide empirical evidence for a spatial-temporal system of (short-term) regional resilience determinants. Based on groundwork from Martin (2012) and Martin and Sunley (2015), we employ a nested hierarchy of regional and national determinants to constitute the spatial dimension, while we model the temporal dimension through a resistance and a recovery phase. Utilising hierarchical panel data models for a sample of 22 European countries, we can confirm the presence of a spatial-temporal system as we find significant determinants at both spatial levels that are connected via cross-level interactions and reveal varying, if not opposing directions of influences across the sensitivity and recovery phase.
C33|Collaborative knowledge creation: Evidence from Japanese patent data|In this paper, we quantitatively characterize the mechanism of collaborative knowledge creation at the individual researcher level a la Berliant and Fujita(2008) by using Japanese patent data. The key driver for developing new ideas is found to be the exchange of differentiated knowledge among collaborators. To stay creative, inventors seek opportunities to shift their technological expertise to unexplored niches by utilizing the differentiated knowledge of new collaborators in addition to their own stock of knowledge. In particular, while collaborators' differentiated knowledge raises all the average cited count, average (technological) novelty and the quantity of patents for which an inventor contributes to the development, it has the largest impact on the average novelty among the three.
C33|Quantile co-movement in financial markets: A panel quantile model with unobserved heterogeneity|This paper introduces a new procedure for analyzing the quantile co-movement of a large number of financial time series based on a large-scale panel data model with factor structures. The proposed method attempts to capture the unobservable heterogeneity of each of the financial time series based on sensitivity to explanatory variables and to the unobservable factor structure. In our model, the dimension of the common factor structure varies across quantiles, and the factor structure is allowed to be correlated with the explanatory variables. The proposed method allows for both cross-sectional and serial dependence, and heteroskedasticity, which are common in financial markets. We propose new estimation procedures for both frequentist and Bayesian frameworks. Consistency and asymptotic normality of the proposed estimator are established. We also propose a new model selection criterion for determining the number of common factors together with theoretical support. We apply the method to analyze the returns for over 6,000 international stocks from over 60 countries during the subprime crisis, European sovereign debt crisis, and subsequent period. The empirical analysis indicates that the common factor structure varies across quantiles. We find that the common factors for the quantiles and the common factors for the mean are different.
C33|Assessing the Impact of Ease of Doing Business and Corruption on Economic Growth for Africa Free Trade Zone (AFTZ) Member States|A positive economic growth is one crucial macroeconomic objective of every nation. Many countries have formed regional as well as international trading blocs in an attempt to enhance economic growth and maximise welfare of each member state, the AFTZ member states are not an exception. This paper seeks to investigate the impact of ease of doing business and corruption on economic growth of AFTZ member states. The study employed a panel data analysis for the period 2010-2016, using Stata Statistical Software. The study findings for the bloc, indicated that corruption, trading across borders, getting credit, registration of property, dealing with construction permits, and starting business have a significant impact on the bloc’s economic growth; with insolvency resolving and investor protection of concern as well. Paying attention to country effects test, with the quest for efficient results, the study further divided the AFTZ bloc into 3 groups using average GDP as the determining variable. The usual 3 panel models were run for each group, with efficiency noted from the reported adjusted R-squared and overall R-squared. The study recommends each member state to pay particular attention to the identified affecting variables for improved economic growth. The onus to improve economic wellbeing of each state does not lie on the bloc only but on individual efforts as well, since individual differences prevail. All this will enable the broader efficacy and vision of AFTZ to be realised.
C33|An Economic Impact Analysis of Oil and Natural Gas Development in the Permian Basin|This study analyzes the economic impact of oil and natural gas development in the Permian Basin with a focus on the NM part of the Basin. The analysis looks at the impacts on state revenue, local employment and income levels. Several existing economic impact reports from other states have been criticized by the peer-review literature that the impact estimates are very likely overstated due to questionable methodologies. In this analysis, a panel data regression model with county fixed effects and year effects is deployed to identify the impact of oil and natural gas production on employment and per job annual income at the county level. The analysis covers 62 counties (12 counties in NM and 50 counties in TX) for the time period of 1998 – 2016. The main findings of the analysis can be summarized as: 1. Over the last decade, according to different estimates the state revenue generated by the oil and natural gas industries in NM has been consistently exceeding one billion dollars per year. In the meantime, a large amount of intensive direct investment has been capitalized into the southeast NM. 2. In aggregate, per job annual income (in the real term) and the number of jobs have both experienced significant growth in the last two decades of active oil and natural gas development in the region. It is reasonable to speculate that much of the growth can be attributed to the ongoing energy development. 3. It is estimated that on average additional one million BBLs of oil equivalent production brings 54 jobs and about $170 (2015 dollar) extra annual income per job (or a 0.5% increase) in the county of production. 4. The intensive oil and natural gas production around the center of the basin (Lea County and Eddy County in NM) have had significant spatial spillover effects to the surrounding counties. Depending on the distance from the given county to the center of the Basin and for additional one million BBLs of oil equivalent production, the employment effect ranges from 35 to 10 jobs and the income effect ranges from $170 to $90 (2015 dollar) extra annual income per job. The paper also provides details on methodology and guidelines on how to interpret estimation results. The estimated economic impact coefficients can be used for prediction purpose with available future production scenarios. The paper includes instructions and suggestions on how the prediction may proceed.
C33|Does financial sector development affect the growth gains from trade openness?|A sizeable literature suggests that financial sector development could be an important enabler of the growth benefits of trade openness. We provide a comprehensive analysis of how financial development can affect the relationship between trade openness and growth using a dynamic panel threshold model and an extensive dataset for a large sample of countries for the 1970-2015 period. We find that there is a financial development threshold in which trade openness has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. We also find that when splitting the sample into industrialized and non-industrialized countries, the financial development threshold that enables the growth benefits of trade is higher in the former group of countries than in the latter. This finding is consistent with the fact that the export composition of industrialized countries is tilted towards more capital-intensive finance-constrained goods.
C33|How Cash Flow News and Discount Rate News Impact the Unexpected Stock Returns of Energy Firms of Pakistan|This study has used the model of Volunteeno (2000). The objective of this study is to analyse the impact of the cash flow news and discount rate news on stock returns of energy firms of Pakistan from 2000 to 2015. We used the balanced panel data technique. Estimated the random effect model after employing the Hausman Test. The results of this research show that only discount rate news is significance and positively related with unexpected stock return returns of energy firms which describe that increase in variability in the discount rate news increase the variability in unexpected stock returns. As cash flow news is insignificance which conclude that there is no permanent effect occur in the unexpected stock return due to change in book value and earning. Moreover these firms are large; it’s also concluded that large firms are not affected by the cash flow news
C33|Insurance-Growth Nexus in Africa|Economic growth may be influenced by insurance-market activity through risk pooling, financial intermediations, indemnification against losses, mobilization of savings and provision of investment opportunities. Over the past few decades, there has been increasing interest in the role of the insurance sector in the economic growth of Africa. This study examines whether there is a causal relationship between the continent’s economic growth and insurance-market activity (life, non-life, and total). Applying panel-estimation techniques that are robust to heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence to a model of panel data for 11 African countries between 1995 and 2016, we find significant evidence in support of such a relationship. Total-insurance penetration has a long-term impact on economic growth, and when disaggregated into its components (life- and non-life-insurance penetration), we find evidence in support of short-term and long-term impacts on economic growth in both cases. Our study also confirms the feedback hypothesis, as we find a positive, bi-directional causality between insurance-market activity and economic growth. We also find that the contribution from non-life-insurance market activity toward economic growth far outweighs that of life-insurance market activity.
C33|Does Financial Development Affect Income Inequality in the U.S. States? A Panel Data Analysis|This paper examines the role of financial development on U.S. state-level income inequality in the 50 states from 1976 to 2011, using fixed-effect estimation. We find robust results where by financial development linearly increases income inequality for the 50 states. When we divide 50 states into two separate groups of higher and lower inequality states than the cross-state average inequality, the effect of financial development on income inequality appears non-linear. When financial development improves, the effect increases at an increasing rate for high income inequality states, whereas an inverted U-shaped relationship exists for low-income inequality states. To our knowledge, this paper is the first to examine the role of financial development on U.S. state-level inequality.
C33|Geopolitical risks and recessions in a panel of advanced economies: evidence from over a century of data| This paper uses a panel of 17 advanced countries over the annual period of 1899–2013, to analyze for the first time, the role played by geopolitical risks in predicting recessions. After controlling for other standard predictors based on a logit model, we find that while aggregate geopolitical risks do not have any predictive ability, geopolitical acts enhance the probability of future recessions, with geopolitical threats reducing the same.
C33|Oil Price Volatility and Economic Growth: Evidence from Advanced OECD Countries using over One Century of Data|In this paper we make use of a number of different panel data estimators, including fixed effects, bias-corrected least squares dummy variables (LSDVC), generalised methods of moments (GMM), feasible generalised least squares (FGLS), and random coefficients (RC) to analyse the impact of real oil price volatility on the growth in real GDP per capita for 17 member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), over a 144-year time period from 1870 to 2013. Our main findings can be summarised as follows: overall, oil price volatility has a negative and statistically significant impact on economic growth of OECD countries in our sample. In addition, when allowing for slope heterogeneity, oil producing countries are significantly negatively impacted by oil price uncertainty, most notably Norway and Canada.
C33|The synergistic effect of insurance and banking sector activities on economic growth in Africa|It is widely understood that the insurance and banking sectors of every economy perform some functions in driving economic growth. What is not yet well documented is whether their roles are complimentary or substitutive. With the aid of the dynamic panel generalized method of moments (GMM) estimation technique, this paper evaluates the synergistic effect of both sectors on economic growth in a panel of 10 African countries that are responsible for most of the activities in the continent’s financial sector. The insurance-banking-growth nexus was also examined through bootstrap panel causality tests. The results show that the life insurance market and the banking sector, as well as the non-life insurance market and the banking sector, are complimentary. We find that, overall, the relationship between the insurance and banking sectors in Africa is a complimentary one and that their synergistic impact on economic growth is positive. The feedback hypothesis was also confirmed in the relationship between the insurance sector and economic growth and between the banking sector and economic growth.
C33|Is there a role for uncertainty in forecasting output growth in OECD countries? Evidence from a time-varying parameter-panel vector autoregressive model| This paper uses a time-varying parameter-panel vector autoregressive (TVP-PVAR) model to analyze the role played by domestic and US news-based measures of uncertainty in forecasting the growth of industrial production of 12 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. Based on a monthly out-of-sample period of 2009:06 to 2017:05, given an in-sample of 2003:03 to 2009:05, there are only 46% of cases where domestic uncertainty can improve the forecast of output growth relative to a baseline monetary TVP-PVAR model, which includes inflation, interest rate and nominal exchange rate growth, besides output growth. Moreover, including US uncertainty does not necessarily improve the forecasting performance of output growth from the TVP-PVAR model which includes only the domestic uncertainty along with the baseline variables. So, in general, while uncertainty is important in predicting the future path of output growth in the 12 advanced economies considered, a forecaster can do better in majority of the instances by just considering the information from standard macroeconomic variables.
C33|Insurance activity and economic performance: Fresh evidence from asymmetric panel causality tests|Insurance plays a fundamental role in any modern economy, but the literature has not accounted for the potential asymmetric causal impacts from the dynamic interaction between the insurance market and economic performance. This paper aims to fill this gap by studying the causal relationship between several measures of insurance per capita and real GDP per capita in the G7 countries over the period 1980–2014 via asymmetric panel causality tests. Our results show that insurance market activity and economic performance exhibit bidirectional causalities, but their direction, intensity and significance are different due to distinct market situations. In general, insurance activity plays a passive role in economic performance, while economic performance has a significant role in insurance activity. These findings offer several useful insights for policy makers and researchers.
C33|Effects of Geopolitical Risks on Trade Flows: Evidence from the Gravity Model|Using a classical gravity model, this paper examines the effects of geopolitical risks on trade flows, from 18 exporter emerging economies into 164 importer countries, for the period of 1985 to 2013. We use the new index of geopolitical risks (GPR index) and to the best of our knowledge, it is the first paper in the literature that considers the new GPR index in a gravity model. The paper implements the fixed-effects (FE), the random-effects (RE), the Hausman-Taylor (HT), and the Poisson Pseudo-maximum Likelihood (PPML) estimations. The findings indicate that geopolitical risks negatively affect the trade flows. The paper also discusses the potential policy implications.
C33|Conflict Heterogeneity in Africa|One of the Sustainable Development Goals is to significantly reduce all forms of violence and related death rates everywhere. The economic development literature widely concurs that conflicts have adverse economic consequences that contribute to poverty, disinvestment, and lower human capital leading to widespread inequality and lower economic growth. As such, understanding the nature of conflict has been an important focus for political leaders, policymakers and researchers alike. However, the existing literature does not typically distinguish between the types of conflict, and empirical evidence relies on the assumption that effects are similar across the world. Using panel data analysis and a comprehensive disaggregated georeferenced conflict dataset from 1997 to 2016, we find significant evidence of heterogeneity in the predictors' effects on different types of conflicts in Africa.
C33|The Impact of US Uncertainty Shocks on a Panel of Advanced and Emerging Market Economies: The Role of Exchange Rate, Trade and Financial Channels|In this paper, we analyze the spillovers of uncertainty from the United States (US) on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in a large panel of 50 advanced and emerging economies. We allow the response of GDP in each country to vary according to its exchange rate regime, trade openness, and a vulnerability index (based on current account, foreign reserves, inflation, and external debt). We observe large heterogeneity in the response of advanced and emerging economies to uncertainty surprises of the US. In response to an increase in US uncertainty, GDP in foreign economies drops about as much as it does in the US. In addition we find that, for advanced economies trade intensity with the US and the exchange rate regime account for a large portion of the contraction in activity. In emerging economies, however, the responses do not depend on the exchange rate regime, but are larger when trade openness is high and vulnerability is low.
C33|Does domestic demand matter for firms’ exports?|The existence of a link between exports and domestic demand challenges the standard theoretical assumption in international trade models and carries out important policy implications. Being a small open economy and one of the hardest hit economies during the latest economic and financial crisis, Portugal is a natural case study for assessing the role of this channel, in particular given the large export market share gains that mitigated the negative effects on economic activity. A key difference of our empirical approach vis-`a-vis previous literature is that the estimated relationship between exports and domestic sales results directly from a monopolistic model of a firm selling to both domestic and external markets. Drawing on an appropriate estimation strategy, it is found a noteworthy negative relationship between domestic demand and firms’ exports covering the manufacturing sector over the period 2009–2016. This result holds for almost all industries although with a heterogeneous magnitude. Aditionally, there is also evidence that this effect is stronger for larger firms.
C33|More publicly funded research, more knowledge spillovers, more economic growth. An empirical analysis for German regions|This paper deals with the effects of publicly funded research on regional technological progress and economic growth. We adopt a system approach and investigate the effects on all regional input factors and output by means of a flexible spatial panel VAR SpPVAR model. This allows us to deal with the evolutionary nature of regional dynamic processes. We further extend the existing empirical literature on the role of publicly funded research for economic development by differentiating between public research activities conducted by universities, technical colleges, Fachhochschulen, and non-university research institutes. The empirical results show that an increase in ,public, third-party funds to technical colleges leads to positive effects on regional investment and employment rates as well as the human capital stock. We also find a positive link between the publication rate of non-university research institutes and regional investment and employment rates. Furthermore, an overall increase in combined public third party funding of universities and technical colleges affects regional patent activities, the employment rate and output positively.
C33|Hierarchically structured determinants and phase related patterns of economic resilience. An empirical case study for European regions|Our paper seeks to provide empirical evidence for a spatial temporal system of (short term) regional resilience determinants. Based on groundwork from Martin (2012) and Martin and Sunley (2015), we employ a nested hierarchy of regional and national determinants to constitute the spatial dimension, while we model the temporal dimension through a resistance and a recovery phase. Utilising hierarchical panel data models for a sample of 22 European countries, we can confirm the presence of a spatial temporal system as we find significant determinants at both spatial levels that are connected via crosslevel interactions and reveal varying, if not opposing directions of influences across the sensitivity and recovery phase.
C33|Absorptive capacity, economic freedom and the conditional effects of regional policy|This paper analyzes the role played by regional conditioning factors, namely absorptive capacity and economic freedom, for the working of regional policy in Germany. We construct synthetic composite indicators to measure differences in these factors across German regions and stratify regions by their respective values. We then identify the subsample-specific transmission channels of regional policies in a spatial panel vector-autoregressive (VAR) framework and compare the direction and magnitude of effects by impulse-response function analysis and ex-post t-tests. The results point to two main channels of policy impact: While regions with low levels of absorptive capacity and economic freedom benefit from public funding only in terms of a traditional funding channel (i.e. higher investment rates and partly increased human capital levels), the link between regional policy, GDP and technology growth is very weak for these regions. In comparison, our findings hint at significant positive effects on regional GDP per workforce and patent activity for regions with a high absorptive capacity and economic freedom (i.e. a knowledge-based funding channel). This underlines the role of regional conditions for the direction and magnitude of funding effects and should be considered by policy makers as a means to trigger policy effectiveness in times of stagnating or decreasing funding volumes.
C33|Climate sensitivity of wheat yield in Bangladesh: Implications for Sustainable Development Goals 2 (SDG2) and 6 (SDG6)|Significant manifestations of adverse effects of climate change exist for crop agriculture throughout the developing word including Bangladesh. Despite wheat being the second most important staple crop, any rigorous analysis of its sensitivity to climate change remains a neglected area. This paper fills this gap by investigating wheat yield sensitivity to climate change over time and across climatic zones using 45-year panel data; and exploring policy implications for achieving SDG2 (food security) and SDG6 (sustainable water management) through expanded wheat cultivation. Average seasonal temperature and number of seasonal dry days trended upwards while rainfall (planting, flowering, harvesting) while bright sunshine trended downwards. Rise in average temperature, number of dry days, and relative humidity had adverse effects on wheat yield. Planting and flowering stage rainfall and sunnier weather conditions improved yield. Significant variations across regions and a positive time trend were evident implying technological progress. Strengthening institutional support systems, market accessibility, and science-driven climate change adaptation including generation and wider dissemination of drought tolerant wheat varieties, and enhancing farmersâ€™ capacity to switch from rice to wheat constitute key areas of policy intervention. This will help ensure food security alongside sustainable water management.
C33|Measuring sovereign risk spillovers and assessing the role of transmission channels: A spatial econometrics approach|We contribute to the literature on international risk spillovers by developing a unified framework based on spatial econometrics that enables us to address the following questions: (i) what are the effective transmission channels – real linkages and informational channels – of international risk spillovers across countries and/or regions, (ii) what are the most dominant ones, and (iii) which countries are most at risk for their environment and which are suffering the most from international exposure. Our analysis, based on 41 advanced and emerging economies from 2008Q1 to 2012Q4, shows that among the considered channels for explaining international spillovers of sovereign bond spreads, the informational channel is of utmost importance. Our results challenge previous findings from the literature in which the empirical strategy did not accommodate altogether important features of country spillovers, such as the co-existence of multiple transmission channels in the presence of contemporaneous and time-lagged interactions. Ultimately, our stress-testing analysis reveals important insights on countries prone either to international spillovers, international exposure or both at the regional and the worldwide level.
C33|The Wall’s Impact in the Occupied West Bank: A Bayesian Approach to Poverty Dynamics Using Repeated Cross-Sections|In 2002, the Israeli government decided to build a wall inside the occupied West Bank. The wall had a marked effect on the access to land and water resources as well as to the Israeli labour market. It is difficult to include the effect of the wall in an econometric model explaining poverty dynamics as the wall was built in the richer region of the West Bank. So a diff-in-diff strategy is needed. Using a Bayesian approach, we treat our two-period repeated cross-section data set as an incomplete data problem, explaining the income-to-needs ratio as a function of time invariant exogenous variables. This allows us to provide inference results on poverty dynamics. We then build a conditional regression model including a wall variable and state dependence to see how the wall modified the initial results on poverty dynamics. We find that the wall has increased the probability of poverty persistence by 58 percentage points and the probability of poverty entry by 18 percentage points.
C33|Did specialised courts affect the frequency of business bankruptcy petitions in Spain?|Abstract Spanish small businesses rarely file for bankruptcy, and Spanish bankruptcy rates are abnormally small. The historical inadequacy of the Spanish insolvency system has led most enterprises to rely on the de facto alternative mortgage system and to overinvest in fixed tangible assets: a distortion that may trigger significant adverse effects, for instance on the enabling environment of novel entrepreneurship. The reform of the bankruptcy law that took place in Spain some 10 years in order to modernise the insolvency system involved, as a main novelty, the establishment of specialised commercial courts (Juzgados de lo Mercantil). Since the net benefits of specialised judicial functions are in principle ambiguous, we study empirically whether these new bodies had any impact, over and above the economic crisis, on the use of the bankruptcy system. Exploiting the staggered timing of the new courts geography, we estimate an endogenous treatment model with a binary policy variable which allows to measure the effect of the reform on bankruptcy rates. The results support the view that the new bankruptcy law took the right path, but the size of the estimated parameters call for further policy efforts in that direction.
C33|Conﬁdence Set for Group Membership|We develop new procedures to quantify the statistical uncertainty from sorting units in panel data into groups using data-driven clustering algorithms. In our setting, each unit belongs to one of a ﬁnite number of latent groups and its regression curve is determined by which group it belongs to. Our main contribution is a new joint conﬁdence set for group membership. Each element of the joint conﬁdence set is a vector of possible group assignments for all units. The vector of true group memberships is contained in the conﬁdence set with a pre-speciﬁed probability. The conﬁdence set inverts a test for group membership. This test exploits a characterization of the true group memberships by a system of moment inequalities. Our procedure solves a high-dimensional one-sided testing problem and tests group membership simultaneously for all units. We also propose a procedure for identifying units for which group membership is obviously determined. These units can be ignored when computing critical values. We justify the joint conﬁdence set under N, T → ∞ asymptotics where we allow T to be much smaller than N. Our arguments rely on the theory of self-normalized sums and high-dimensional central limit theorems. We contribute new theoretical results for testing problems with a large number of moment inequalities, including an anti-concentration inequality for the quasi-likelihood ratio (QLR) statistic. Monte Carlo results indicate that our conﬁdence set has adequate coverage and is informative. We illustrate the practical relevance of our conﬁdence set in two applications.
C33|Public R&D Support and Firms’ Performance. A Panel Data Study|We analyse all the major sources of direct and indirect R&D subsidies in Norway in the period 2002- 2013 and compare their effects on individual firms’ performance. Firms that received support are matched with a control group of firms that did not receive support using a combination of stratification and propensity score matching. Changes in performance indicators before and after support in the treatment group are compared with contemporaneous changes in the control group. We find that the average effects of R&D support among those who obtained grants and/or subsidies are positive and significant in terms of performance indicators related to economic growth: value added, sales revenue and number of employees. The estimated effects are larger for start-up firms than incumbent firms when the effects are measured as relative effects (in percentage points), but smaller when these effects are translated into level effects. Finally, we do not find positive effects on return to total assets or productivity for firms who received support compared with the control group.
C33|Political parties and climate change policy: why do parties sometimes talk about it, but sometimes keep silent|The paper studies the factors that shape party issue competition on climate change and environmentalism. It covers the quantitative study on political parties' positions in 22 European countries during electoral campaigns between 1990 and 2016, as well as two case studies: Polish electoral campaign in 2011 and German electoral campaign in 2013. The paper concludes that more favourable public opinion towards environment, lower socio-economic inequality and weaker trade unions are associated with high party competition on climate change and environmentalism.
C33|Fixed Effects Estimation of Large-TPanel Data Models|This article reviews recent advances in fixed effects estimation of panel data models for long panels, where the number of time periods is relatively large. We focus on semiparametric models with unobserved individual and time effects, where the distribution of the outcome variable, conditional on covariates and unobserved effects, is specified parametrically while the distribution of the unobserved effects is left unrestricted. In contrast to existing reviews on long panels, we discuss models with both individual and time effects, split-panel jackknife bias corrections, unbalanced panels, distribution and quantile effects, and other extensions. Understanding and correcting the incidental parameter bias caused by the estimation of many fixed effects are our main focuses, and the unifying theme is that the order of this bias is given by the simple formula p/n for all models discussed, with p being the number of estimated parameters and n the total sample size.
C33|If not now, when? The timing of childbirth and labour market outcomes|We study the effect of childbirth and its timing on female labour market outcomes in italy. The impact on yearly labour earnings and participation is traced up to 21 years since school completion by estimating a factor analytic model with dynamic selection into treatments. We find that childbearing, especially the first delivery, negatively affects female labour supply. Women having their first child soon after school completion are able to catch up with childless women only after 12-15 years. The timing matters, with minimal negative consequences observed if the first child is delayed up to 7-9 years after exiting formal education
C33|Homeownership, Labour Market Transitions and Earnings|The paper investigates the links between homeownership, employment and earnings for which no consensus exists in the literature. Our analysis is cast within a dynamic setting and the endogeneity of each outcome is assessed through the estimation of a flexible panel multivariate model with random effects. The data we use are drawn from the French sample of the EU Survey on Income and Living Conditions for the years 2004Ð2013. The error terms are both correlated across equations and autocorrelated. Individual random effects are also correlated across equations. The model is estimated using a simulated maximum likelihood estimator and particular care is given to the initial conditions problem. Our results show that while homeowners have longer employment and unemployment spells, they must contend with lower earnings than tenants upon reemployment. They also stress the importance of unobserved heterogeneity in explaining the transitions on the labour and housing markets, and the relationship between earnings and the latter two. Failure to properly account for this is likely to yield biased parameter estimates.
C33|Health and income: testing for causality on European elderly people|" Socioeconomic status and health are positively related, also known as the ""healthincome gradient"". However, when considering the causal impact of income on health, the reverse causality might be at play. Income inequalities are an important factor in health inequality such that policy makers who aim at improving general health or narrowing inequalities using public policies, need to understand the sources and the direction of the causality between income and health. We thus investigate bivariate causal effects between the two by highlighting the Granger causality. Using the Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE), we find evidence of persistent causal effects running from income to health and from health to income. Results, using a Full Information Maximum Likelihood estimator (FIML), suggest that considering a simultaneous equations approach is required because there are unobservable factors common to both equations in the individual e ects (statistically significant correlation between the two equations)."
C33|The Long-run Effect of Geopolitical Risks on Insurance Premiums|This paper deals with the estimation of the risk-insurance nexus. We specifically examined the effect of geopolitical risk on insurance premium in a panel of 18 countries while controlling for the effect of real income. We did this by employing second generation econometric methods. We found strong evidence of a positive impact of geopolitical risks on insurance premiums. We specifically found that the impact of geopolitical risks on non-life insurance premium is higher than the impact on life insurance premium. Real income was also found to have a significantly positive effect on insurance premiums, and the impact on non-life insurance premium similarly larger than the impact on life insurance premium. On the basis of the income elasticity, we found that insurance has the semblance of a luxury good, and on the basis of the panel causality tests, we confirmed the feedback hypothesis. We therefore conclude that exposure to geopolitical risks raises insurance premiums either as a result of increased insurance demand to hedge against geopolitical uncertainty or as a result of uncertainty tax factored into insurance premiums in unstable environments.
C33|European Industrial Energy Intensity: The Role of Innovation 1995-2009|No abstract is available for this item.
C33|A Nowcasting Model for the Growth Rate of Real GDP of Ecuador : Implementing a Time-Varying Intercept|This paper proposes a model to nowcast the annual growth rate of real GDP for Ecuador. The specification combines monthly information of 28 macroeconomic variables with quarterly information of real GDP in a mixed-frequency approach. Additionally, our setup includes a time-varying mean coefficient on the annual growth rate of real GDP to allow the model to incorporate prolonged periods of low growth, such as those experienced during secular stagnation episodes. The model produces reasonably good nowcasts of real GDP growth in pseudo out-of-sample exercises and is marginally more precise than a simple ARMA model.
C33|Study on the correlation between the development of the capital market and the economic growth by groups of countries|The correlation between financial market development and economic growth was and is still an intensively studied theme from the theoretical and empirical point of view. Because of this fact, the main goal of this article is to theoretically and empirically discover the relationship between thefinancial markets and economic growth using panel regression, OLS method. The database used is composed from some variables for 30 countries during the period 2006-2016 and the frequency of the data is annual.
C33|Higher Frequency Hedonic Property Price Indices: A State Space Approach| The hedonic imputation method estimates separate characteristic shadow prices for each period. These are used to construct matched samples, which are inserted into standard price index formulas. We implement two innovations to improve the method’s effectiveness on housing data at higher frequencies. First, we use a time-varying parameter model in state-space form to increase the reliability of the estimated characteristic shadow prices. Second, we significantly reduce the number of parameters by replacing postcode dummies by a geospatial spline surface. Empirically, using a novel criterion, we show that in higher frequency comparisons our hedonic method outperforms competing alternatives.
C33|Is globalisation taking away jobs? An empirical assessment for advanced economies|We empirically investigate the link between economic globalisation and unemployment for a sample of 20 OECD countries over the 1981-2013 period. Controlling for the usual determinants of unemployment, our results show that unemployment is related in a complex way to global economic factors. Specifically , we show that outflows of foreign direct investment and restrictions reduce the unemployment rate, whereas capital account openness raises it. We also find that the standard trade openness measure does not explain unemployment in advanced economies. Finally, the increase in the share of China's imports is not to be blamed for slack in Western labour markets. JEL Classification: E24, F62, C33.
C33|Fiscal consolidation by intergovernmental transfers cuts? The unpleasant effect on expenditure arrears|For the period 2003–2014, we investigate unexplored effects of fiscal consolidation in decentralized public finance on a large dataset of Italian municipalities. Based on a simple, realistic theoretical model, we show that municipalities increase arrears on committed investment expenditure as a response to intergovernmental transfer cuts. Then, we test our predictions controlling for potential sources of endogeneity, and find that a reduction in intergovernmental transfers causes a significant increase in arrears, in addition to other common adjustments to local fiscal policies (e.g., tax revenues). Our results highlight a perverse effect of fiscal consolidation packages implemented by centrally imposed fiscal restraints.
C33|Institutional integration and economic growth in Europe|The literature on the growth effects of European integration remains inconclusive. This is due to severe methodological difficulties mostly driven by country heterogeneity. This paper addresses these concerns using the synthetic control method. It constructs counterfactuals for countries that joined the European Union (EU) from 1973 to 2004. We find that growth effects from EU membership are large and positive, with Greece as the exception. Despite substantial variation across countries and over time, we estimate that without European integration, per capita incomes would have been, on average, approximately 10% lower in the first ten years after joining the EU.
C33|Counterintuitive facts regarding household saving in China: the saving glut|This study begins by confirming that China has been in a state of overaccumulation over the past decade. Against this backdrop, we empirically investigate the underlying determinants of Chinese household saving, and present both intuitive and distinct insights. Considering that overaccumulation has become a major threat to China's economic performance, we find that certain policies and phenomena, which are usually regarded as positive factors (e.g., the SOE reform), are primarily responsible for China's excess saving, and those usually deemed to be negative factors (e.g., the real estate bubble), have essentially mitigated the surplus saving.
C33|Nowcasting real GDP growth with business tendency surveys data: A cross country analysis|We use nowcasting methodology to forecast the dynamics of the real GDP growth in real time based on the business tendency surveys data. Nowcasting is important because key macroeconomic variables on the current state of the economy are available only with a certain lag. This is particularly true for those variables that are collected on a quarterly basis. To conduct out‐of‐sample forecast evaluation we use business tendency surveys data for 22 European countries. Based on the different dataset and using outof‐sample recursive regression scheme we conclude that nowcasting model outperforms several alternative short‐term forecasting statistical models, even when the volatility of the real GDP growth is increasing both in time and across different countries. Based on the Diebold‐Mariano test statistics, we conclude that nowcasting strongly outperforms BVAR and BFAVAR models, but comparison with AR, FAAR and FAVAR does not produce sufficient evidence to prefer one over another.
C33|Spatial Pattern and City Size Distribution|This paper reviews the extant formal models that explain the spatial pattern together with the size distribution of cities, and discusses the remaining research questions to be answered in this literature. To obtain meaningful results about the spatial patterns of cities, a model needs to depart from the most popular, a two-region and the systems-of-cities frameworks in urban and regional economics in which there is no variation in interregional distance. This is one of the major reasons that only few formal models have been proposed in this literature. To draw implications as much as possible from the extant theories, this review involves extensive discussions on the behavior of the many-region extension of the extant models. The mechanisms that link the spatial pattern of cities and the diversity in city sizes are also discussed separately in detail.
C33|Collaborative Knowledge Creation: Evidence from Japanese Patent Data|This paper presents micro-econometric evidence for collaborative knowledge creation at the level of individual researchers. The key determinant for developing new ideas is the exchange of differentiated knowledge among collaborators. To stay creative, inventors seek opportunities to shift their technological expertise to unexplored niches by utilizing the differentiated knowledge of new collaborators. Moreover, the knowledge stock of an inventor, proxied by the scope of an inventor’s past research, has positive and negative effects on their productivity. This is because it facilitates successful collaboration; however, simultaneously, the dependence on older knowledge hinders invention possibly due to the obsolescence and exhaustion of niches by imitation.
C33|Homeownership, Labour Market Transitions and Earnings|The paper investigates the links between homeownership, employment and earnings for which no consensus exists in the literature. Our analysis is cast within a dynamic setting and the endogeneity of each outcome is assessed through the estimation of a flexible panel multivariate model with random effects. The data we use are drawn from the French sample of the EU Survey on Income and Living Conditions for the years 2004–2013. The error terms are both correlated across equations and autocorrelated. Individual random effects are also correlated across equations. The model is estimated using a simulated maximum likelihood estimator and particular care is given to the initial conditions problem. Our results show that while homeowners have longer employment and unemployment spells, they must contend with lower earnings than tenants upon reemployment. They also stress the importance of unobserved heterogeneity in explaining the transitions on the labour and housing markets, and the relationship between earnings and the latter two. Failure to properly account for this is likely to yield biased parameter estimates.
C33|Homeownership, Labour Market Transitions and Earnings|The paper investigates the links between homeownership, employment and earnings for which no consensus exists in the literature. Our analysis is cast within a dynamic setting and the endogeneity of each outcome is assessed through the estimation of a flexible panel multivariate model with random effects. The data we use are drawn from the French sample of the EU Survey on Income and Living Conditions for the years 2004â€“2013. The error terms are both correlated across equations and autocorrelated. Individual random effects are also correlated across equations. The model is estimated using a simulated maximum likelihood estimator and particular care is given to the initial conditions problem. Our results show that while homeowners have longer employment and unemployment spells, they must contend with lower earnings than tenants upon reemployment. They also stress the importance of unobserved heterogeneity in explaining the transitions on the labour and housing markets, and the relationship between earnings and the latter two. Failure to properly account for this is likely to yield biased parameter estimates.
C33|The Impact of the ECB’s Quantitative Easing Policy on Capital Flows in the CESEE Region|This paper attempts to empirically assess the impact of the ECB’s quantitative easing policy on capital flows in the countries of the Central and South Eastern region. Given the tight trade and financial linkages of the region with the euro area, one should expect that the buoyant liquidity provided by the ECB might affect the size of the capital inflows. We test this hypothesis by employing panel estimation on a sample of 14 countries CESEE countries for the 2003-2015 period. Contrary to the expected outcome, the results reveal either negative or insignificant impact of the change in the ECB balance sheet on the different types of capital inflows. The results suggest that the magnitude of the crisis, to which the ECB responded to was immense, hence precluding any significant impact of the monetary easing on capital flows in the region. The inclusion of a dummy in the model, to control for the 2008 crisis confirms the findings from the first specification and also does not change the finding on the ECB quantitative easing impact on the capital flows. The impact of the crisis dummy on capital flows is negative and it holds for almost all types of capital inflows, except for the government debt flows, which is consistent with the countercyclical fiscal policies and rising public debt after the crisis.
C33|Sectoral FDI and the Real Exchange Rate: The Role of Financial Development|Increasing FDI inflows into a booming sector resulting in an appreciation of the real exchange rate may entail further capital inflows and greater appreciation pressure on the real exchange rate up to an abrupt reversal of the capital (Botta, 2015). The macroeconomic instability of such boom-and-bust cycles is detrimental to economic growth, as is the appreciated real exchange rate. This paper applies dynamic system generalized methods of moments (GMM) estimation techniques to empirically find different effects of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows into the main economic sectors on the real exchange rate in a panel of 66 developing and developed economies. While the effect of FDI in the primary sector appears to be insignificant, FDI in the manufacturing and in the service sector lead to a real depreciation and a real appreciation respectively. Furthermore, evidence suggests that financial sector development may help in dampening the real exchange rate movements induced by FDI in the latter two sectors, as well as distinctly attenuates the real appreciation effect of other capital inflows. Hence, deep financial markets seem to contribute to the mitigation of macroeconomic instability in consequence of capital inflows.
C33|Testing for Inflation Convergence among European Union Countries:A Panel Approach|This paper attempts to test for inflation convergence in a sample of twenty-four European Union countries. To tackle this issue, first- and second-generation panel unit root and stationarity tests are employed so as to provide evidence of inflation convergence before and after the launch of the single currency, the euro. We also test for and then allow for cross-sectional dependence. In general, the findings reveal that conditional inflation convergence exists for all panels under study. The estimation of half lives shows that the evidence for faster speed of convergence applies for the new member states followed by the core countries and the old member states.
C33|The Determinants of TFP Growth in the Portuguese Service Sector|As services today are of great complexity and usually a bundle of different individual inputs, it is sometimes hard to identify characteristics for the overall service sector. As such, empirical research on productivity is less common in this sector. Given the connection between Total Factor Productivity (TFP) and economic growth, and the importance of services for overall economic activity, it is crucial to study, at the firm level, which factors may drive TFP growth in this particular sector. Our empirical assessment is based on a firm-level panel dataset covering Portuguese service firms, between 2010 and 2016. We first estimate TFP through the Levinsohn-Petrin (LP) algorithm and compare results amongst different traditional estimating methods. Secondly, we conclude our econometric framework with a fixed-effects estimation, hence, trying to shed further light on the determinants of TFP growth in the Portuguese service sector. We found evidence for a positive correlation between financial health, innovation, wage premium, and TFP growth, whereas capital intensity, training, and age show a non-linear relationship with TFP growth.
C33|Exchange Rate Regimes As Thresholds: The Main Determinants Of Capital Inflows In Emerging Market Economies|This study investigates whether the impacts of the main common push (global financial conditions, GFC) and country-specific pull (growth) factors on capital inflows are invariant to the prevailing exchange rate regimes (ERRs) in emerging market economies. Our results suggest that endogenously estimated ERR thresholds do matter especially for the impact of GFC. The impact of GFC is substantially high under more flexible ERRs for all capital inflow types except FDI. FDI inflows are basically determined by the pull factor across all ERRs. Portfolio inflows are mainly determined by GFC. The sensitivity of aggregate and other investment inflows to the pull factor seems to be much higher under more rigid ERRs. Our results are broadly in line with the literature suggesting that credible managed ERRs encourage capital inflows by allowing countries to import monetary policy credibility of the center country and to provide exchange rate guarantee.
C33|Housing Market Shocks in Italy: a GVAR approach|In this paper, we use a Global Vector Autoregression (GVAR) model to assess the spatio-temporal mechanism of house price spillovers, also known as “ripple effect”, among 93 Italian provincial housing markets, over the period 2004 - 2016. In order to better capture the local housing market dynamics, we use data not only on house prices but also on transaction volumes. In particular, we focus on estimating, to what extent, exogenous shocks, interpreted as negative housing demand shocks, arising from 10 Italian regional capitals, impact on their house prices and sales and how these shocks spill over to neighbours housing markets. The negative housing market demand shock hitting the GVAR model is identified by using theory-driven sign restrictions. The spatio-temporal analysis carried through impulse response functions shows that there is evidence of a “ripple effect” mainly occurring through transaction volumes.
C33|Panel Data Binary Response Model In A Triangular System|We propose a new control function (CF) method for binary response outcomes in a triangular system with unobserved heterogeneity of multiple dimensions. The identified CFs are the expected values of the heterogeneity terms in the reduced form equations conditional on the endogenous, Xi ≡ (xi1, . . . ,xiT ), and the exogenous, Zi ≡ (zi1, . . . , ziT ), variables. The method requires weaker restrictions compared to traditional CF methods for triangular systems with imposed structures similar to ours, and point-identifies average partial effects with discrete instruments. We discuss semiparametric identification of structural measures using the proposed CFs. An application and Monte Carlo experiments compare several alternative methods with ours.
C33|Spillovers in Sub-Saharan Africa’s sovereign Eurobond yields|This paper investigates the possibility of spillovers among Sub-Saharan African (SSA) eurobonds. Twelve SSA countries are examined from January 1, 2015 to June 30, 2017. Following the methodology of Diebold and Yilmaz (2012), we proceed as in Antonakakis and Vergos (2013) to compute both the overall and time-varying total spillover index and directional spillovers using secondary market daily yields. Ours results indicate significant contagion effects among these bonds as, on average, 66.37% of the forecast error variance in our model come from spillovers. The results of the time-varying analysis shows that the total spillover index has been sensitive to major economic events and news announcements over this period. More important, they suggest that less resilient economies transmit more to and receive less from their peers, but that this relationship is not linear: cases of extreme fragility such as that of Mozambique do no translate into higher spillovers to peers. This non-linear relationship between countries’ macroeconomic performance and spillover levels confirms to some extent the market discipline hypothesis in the case of SSA eurobonds as markets have proven able to factor-in and discriminate against issuers’ salient abnormal behaviors.
C33|Does domestic demand matter for firms’ exports?|The existence of a link between exports and domestic demand challenges the standard theoretical assumption in international trade models and carries out important policy implications. Being a small open economy and one of the hardest hit economies during the latest economic and financial crisis, Portugal is a natural case study for assessing the role of this channel, in particular given the large export market share gains that mitigated the negative effects on economic activity. A key difference of our empirical approach vis-à-vis previous literature is that the estimated relationship between exports and domestic sales results directly from a monopolistic model of a firm selling to both domestic and external markets. Drawing on an appropriate estimation strategy, it is found a noteworthy negative relationship between domestic demand and firms’ exports covering the manufacturing sector over the period 2009–2016. This result holds for almost all industries although with a heterogeneous magnitude. Additionally, there is also evidence that this effect is stronger for larger firms.
C33|Sectoral and regional determinants of firm dynamics in developing countries: evidence for low-, mediumand high-tech manufacturing in Argentina|This study analyses the determinants of firm dynamics in developing countries, using Argentina as an illustrative case. It explains firm entry and exit at the regional level, distinguishing three groups of manufacturing activities: low-, medium- and high-tech. The study finds that both region- and sector- specific determinants explain firm dynamics, but the impact is not homogeneous across sectors. In particular, for low-tech industries, there is a need for explanatory variables as a proxy for the specificities of developing economies (poverty, informal economy and idle capacity). There is also evidence of a core-periphery pattern according to which agglomeration economies and previous entries/exits have different effects in core and peripheral regions. These results are relevant for policymakers in developing countries, who should take into account not only the specificities of such economies, but also the regional heterogeneity both in terms of the level of development and industrial composition within the country.
C33|Factores sectoriales y regionales que determinan la dinámica empresarial en los países en desarrollo: evidencia sobre las actividades manufactureras de tecnología baja, media y alta en la Argentina|En este artículo se analizan los determinantes de la dinámica empresarial en los países en desarrollo, tomándose como ejemplo la Argentina. Se explica la entrada y salida de las empresas a nivel regional y distinguen actividades manufactureras de tecnología baja, media y alta. Se concluye que hay factores regionales y sectoriales que explican esa dinámica, aunque el efecto no es homogéneo en todos los sectores. En los sectores de tecnología baja son particularmente relevantes las variables explicativas características de las economías en desarrollo (pobreza, economía informal y capacidad ociosa). Existe un patrón centro-periferia por el que las economías de aglomeración y las entradas y salidas anteriores tienen efectos diferentes en la región central o periférica. Los encargados de formular políticas en los países en desarrollo deberían tener en cuenta no solo las particularidades de esas economías, sino también la heterogeneidad regional en materia de desarrollo y composición industrial del país.
C33|Federalism, Fiscal Asymmetries and Economic Convergence: Evidence from Indian States|This paper tests economic convergence across States in India by incorporating federal fiscal asymmetries and differentials in gross fixed capital formation at the state level. Using dynamic panel models, it is observed that there is no unconditional convergence of economic growth. Controlling for state-wise asymmetries in fiscal policy variables, financial parameters, capital formation and human development outcomes using Arenallo and Bond (1991) panel data methodology, no strong evidence for conditional convergence is observed. It is observed from the GMM estimations that public capital spending has positive and significant relationship with economic growth. It is also observed that the quality of human capital formation is a pre-requisite for economic growth, both for club and (aggregate) conditional convergence.
C33|Financial Globalisation and Economic Growth in South Asia|The paper examines the relationship between financial globalization and growth. While the existing literature suggests divergent conclusions and mostly in the case of de-veloped countries, there is dearth of such studies in the case of developing countries, and South Asia is not an exception. Here, an attempt has been made to study the relationship between financial globalization and growth in seven South Asian countries namely Bhu-tan, Bangladesh, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Following the framework suggested by Bekaert et al. (2005) and with the help of Panel VAR and Panel causality (in GMM framework) models, the study concludes that the causation from financial globalization to growth in the region appears to be weak. Rather there appears a reverse causation running from growth to financial globalization. This suggests that it is the domestic macroeconomic policies (fiscal prudence, strong domestic financial sector and better growth policies) that act as pull factors for foreign capital. At the individual country level, the results are found to be divergent. The study finds that output growth appears to cause financial globalization in countries such as India, Paki-stan, Maldives, and Nepal. However, in countries such as Sri Lanka and Bhutan, it clearly suggests that foreign capital has a significant positive impact on output growth. In Bang-ladesh, the impact seems to be through indirect channel, where foreign capital seems to have disciplining impact on domestic financial markets, which in turn causes output growth. Similar indirect channel is found in the case of Sri Lanka and this is in addition to the direct channel of financial globalization causing growth.
C33|Time-invariant Regressors under Fixed Effects: Identification via a Proxy Variable|Identification of a coefficient associated with a time-invariant regressor (TIR) often relies on the assumption that the TIR is uncorrelated with the unobserved heterogeneity across panel units. We derive an estimator which avoids the random-effects assumption by employing a proxy for the unobserved heterogeneity thus extending the existing results on proxy variables from the cross-sectional literature. In addition, we quantify the sensitivity of the estimates to potential violations of the random-effects assumption when no proxy is available. The utility of this approach is illustrated on the problem of implausibly high distance elasticity produced by gravity models of international trade.
C33|Does Tax Evasion Affect Economic Crime?|This paper examines the impact of tax evasion on criminal activities in Italy. Specifically, we consider three types of crime that are related to economic determinants: property crimes (including robbery, theft and car theft), fraud and usury. We estimate a dynamic panel using annual data from the Italian provinces (NUTS-3) for the 2006-2010 period and show that tax evasion positively affects economic crimes. Notably, the elasticity of tax evasion to fraud is related to the size of the tax burden; in addition, these crimes demonstrate different levels of persistence over time, reflecting different adjustment costs. Finally, we find that property crimes, fraud and usury are not influenced by deterrence or clearing-up variables.
C33|Common Correlated Effects Estimation of Heterogeneous Dynamic Panel Quantile Regression Models|This paper proposes a quantile regression estimator for a heterogeneous panel model with lagged dependent variables and interactive effects. The paper adopts the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach proposed by Pesaran (2006) and Chudik and Pesaran (2015) and demonstrates that the extension to the estimation of dynamic quantile regression models is feasible under similar conditions to the ones used in the literature. We establish consistency and derive the asymptotic distribution of the new quantile regression estimator. Monte Carlo studies are carried out to study the small sample behavior of the proposed approach. The evidence shows that the estimator can significantly improve on the performance of existing estimators as long as the time series dimension of the panel is large. We present an application to the evaluation of Time-of-Use pricing using a large randomized control trial.
C33|Current Account Balance in Emerging Asia|The current account balance is an important indicator which reveals information on a country’s economic situation such as investments, capital flows, and indebtedness. The main purpose of this study is to examine the current account balance conditions in emerging Asian countries. In this respect, the long-run and causality relationship between current account balance, economic growth, government expenditure, real interest rates, and foreign direct investment was examined. The panel data analysis was applied using the data dated 1986 to 2015. Our results revealed a causal effect from economic growth and government expenditure to current account balance mainly dependent on saving tendency.
C33|U.S. metropolitan house price dynamics|Using data for 70 U.S. metropolitan areas, this study explores spatial heterogeneity in house price dynamics. We use recent advances in panel econometrics that allow for spatial heterogeneity, cross-sectional dependence, and non-stationary but cointegrated data. We test for spatial differences and analyze the relationship between the price elasticity of housing supply and the income elasticity of prices, as well as bubble size and duration. The long-term elasticity of house prices with respect to aggregate personal income averages 0.81, but varies considerably across metropolitan areas. The long-term income elasticity generally is greater in the more supply-inelastic metropolitan areas, and we show that bubble size and duration are inversely related to supply elasticity. Also short-term momentum and reversion dynamics show substantial spatial heterogeneity.
C33|The Cross-Sectional Distribution of Fund Skill Measures|We develop a simple, non-parametric approach for estimating the entire distribution of skill. Our approach avoids the challenge of correctly specifying the distribution, and allows for a joint analysis of multiple measures---a key requirement for examining skill. Our results show that more than 85% of the funds are skilled at detecting profitable trades, but unskilled at overriding capacity constraints. Aggregating both skill dimensions using the value added, we find that around 70% of the funds are able to generate profits. The average value added after funds have reached their long-term size equals 7.1 mio. per year, which represents two thirds of the optimal value predicted by neoclassical theory. For all skill measures, the distribution is highly non-normal and reveals a strong heterogeneity across funds.
C33|The tale of two international phenomena: International migration and global imbalances|Following the dynamics of globalization, international migration has increased dramatically since the 1990s. Given that these migrations may obscure the natural demographic structure of nations, they are likely to explain a significant part of global imbalances. This paper tackles this issue by investigating the role played by international migration in the dynamics of global imbalances. To this end, we rely on an overlapping generations model to derive the theoretical relationship between international migration and current account position. Through a series of robust estimates, we empirically investigate this relationship by relying on a panel of 157 developed and developing countries over the period 1990-2014. Our results point to substantial effects of international migration. Specifically, we show that an increase in migration improves national savings and the current account balance in the destination country, while it has opposite impacts in the origin country. These effects are particularly pronounced in developing economies, explaining the structural current account deficits that most of them face.
C33|Currency misalignments and economic growth: the foreign currency-denominated debt channel|"The literature on the growth effects of currency misalignments, although prolific, revolves around two main axes: one the one hand, the export-oriented growth literature which attributes positive effects to undervaluations (competitiveness gains) and, on the other hand, the Washington Consensus view according to which any deviations from equilibrium hamper economic growth. In this paper, we show that there is no ""one size fits all"" relationship in this regard. Indeed, relying on a panel of 72 developing and emerging countries, we evidence the existence of a foreign currency-denominated debt channel through which misalignments impact growth. Compared to the ""traditional"" competitiveness channel, this channel works in the opposite direction. The paper therefore reconciles the two strands of the literature: undervaluations may have indeed a positive growth effect, but it is crucial to take into account the possible costs related to this undervaluation to have a clearer picture of the net total effect."
C33|Determinants of Total Factor Productivity: The cases of the main Latin American and emerging economies of Asia (1960 - 2015)|No abstract is available for this item.
C33|Determinants of Total Factor Productivity: The cases of the main Latin American and emerging economies of Asia (1960 - 2015)|No abstract is available for this item.
C33|Determinantes de la productividad multifactorial: los casos de las principales economías latinoamericanas y emergentes de Asia (1960 - 2015)|Resumen: El objetivo de este trabajo fue explicar el mayor o menor ritmo de crecimiento de la productividad total de los factores (PTF) en las principales economías del este asiático y latinoamericanas entre 1960 y 2015. Encontramos evidencia econométrica favorable a una hipótesis: el aumento del gasto público de consumo, dada la evolución de otros factores, tiene un efecto negativo sobre la PTF. Otros resultados del ejercicio econométrico, aquellos relativos a hipotéticos efectos positivos de la inversión pública y de las importaciones sobre la PTF, no fueron, unos, tan robustos, ni, otros, tan confiables como hubiésemos esperado. / Abstract : The objective of this paper was to explain the greater or lesser growth rate of total factor productivity, TFP, in the main East Asian and Latin American economies between 1960 and 2015. We found econometric evidence favorable to this hypothesis: the increase in public consumption expenditures, given the evolution of other factors, reduces the TFP. Other results of the econometric exercise, those that are related to hypothetical positive effects of public investment and imports on TFP were not as robust or as reliable as we would have expected.
C33|Sobre la estructura de gasto y la curva de Engel de los hogares urbanos: evidencia empírica para Medellín|Resumen: Este artículo busca analizar y caracterizar el comportamiento del gasto y los patrones de consumo de los hogares de Medellín. El análisis se basa en las curvas de Engel para hogares, la cual relaciona el gasto total con el gasto específico en ciertos bienes. Se recurrió a una metodología empírica basada en tres modelos: modelos semiparamétricos, para capturar no- linealidades, modelos de variables instrumentales y modelos Tobit. Concluimos que los bienes en Alimentación, Bebida y Tabaco y Vestido y Calzado, responden a la Ley de Engel, y dependiendo del segmento de gasto en el cual se ubiquen las familias para algunas será un bien normal o inferior o de lujo. / Abstract : In this paper we are interested in investigate the consumer behavior and their consumption patterns in Medellin households. To this end we analyses and compute the Engel curves for urban households, which relates the total expenditure to expenditure in specific goods. We perform three empirical models: semiparametric models, to capture non-linearities, models of instrumental variables because of endogeneity and Tobit models due to censoring of dependent variable. We conclude that the Food and Beverage, Tobacco and Clothing and Footwear, respond to the Engel Law; moreover depending on the expense segment in which the families are located for some will be a normal or inferior good or luxury.
C33|Desbalances en cuenta corriente: sus determinantes y efectos sobre las crisis bancarias|Este documento relaciona los factores que determinan los desbalances en cuenta corriente y su efecto en la probabilidad de crisis bancarias. Para este fin, se usa un panel de 50 países para el periodo 1980-2013, en el cual se aplican cuatro métodos de estimación para encontrar los determinantes tanto de largo como de corto plazo de la cuenta corriente, con el objetivo de incluir aquellos que tengan consistencia estadística y teórica en un modelo Logit cuya variable dependiente es la probabilidad de crisis bancaria. Los resultados muestran que países con balances primarios superavitarios, mejor Posición de Activos Externos Netos y mayor apertura comercial, enfrentan una menor probabilidad de experimentar una crisis bancaria. En contraste, países con mayor participación del crédito privado, incrementan la probabilidad de crisis bancaria.
C33|Quantile Factor Models|Quantile FactorModels (QFM) represent a new class of factor models for high-dimensional panel data. Unlike Approximate Factor Models (AFM), where only mean-shifting factors can be extracted, QFM also allow to recover unobserved factors shifting other relevant parts of the distributions of observed variables. A quantile regression approach, labeled Quantile Factor Analysis (QFA), is proposed to consistently estimate all the quantile-dependent factors and loadings. Their asymptotic distribution is then derived using a kernel-smoothed version of the QFA estimators. Two consistent model selection criteria, based on information criteria and rank minimization, are developed to determine the number of factors at each quantile. Moreover, in contrast to the conditions required for the use of Principal Components Analysis in AFM, QFA estimation remains valid even when the idiosyncratic errors have heavy-tailed distributions. Three empirical applications (regarding climate, financial and macroeconomic panel data) provide evidence that extra factors shifting quantiles other than the means could be relevant in practice.
C33|Measuring economic vulnerability: a Structural Equation Modeling approach|The aim of this paper is to use a multivariate approach to improve the methodology for measuring the economic vulnerability of developing countries. The official index used by the United Nations, the Economic Vulnerability Index (EVI), is a composite indicator defined as the weighted average of a set of variables measuring i) the exposure to exogenous shocks and ii) the consequences of such shocks. We propose to extend the EVI model in order to include variables measuring resilience, i.e. the ability of a country to recover after a shock has occurred, and we evaluate the Structural Equation Model approach to compute a general vulnerability index. Since we analyse data covering 98 countries and 19 years we propose a strategy for dealing with repeated SEM results.
