C34|The formation of hidden negative capital in banking : A product mismatch hypothesis|This paper investigates the phenomenon of hidden negative capital (HNC) associated with bank failures and introduces a product mismatch hypothesis to explain the formation of HNC. Given that troubled banks tend to hide negative capital in financial statements from regulators to keep their licenses, we attempt to capture this gambling behavior by evaluating product mismatches reflecting disproportions between the allocation of bank assets and the sources of funding. We manually collect unique data on HNC and test our hypothesis using U.S. and Russian banking statistics for the 2004{2017 period (external validity argument). To manage the sample selection concerns, we apply the Heckman selection approach. Our results clearly indicate that product mismatch matters and works similarly in both U.S. and Russian banking systems. Specifically, an increase in mismatch has two e ects: it leads to a higher probability that a bank's capital is negative and raises the conditional size of the bank's HNC. Further, we demonstrate that the mismatch e ect is heterogeneous with respect to bank size being at least partially consistent with the informational asymmetry view. Our results may facilitate improvements in the prudential regulation of banking activities in other countries that share similar features with either the U.S. or Russian banking systems.
C34|The Formation of Hidden Negative Capital in Banking: A Product Mismatch Hypothesis|This paper investigates the phenomenon of hidden negative capital (HNC) associated with bank failures and introduces a product mismatch hypothesis to explain the formation of HNC. Given that troubled banks tend to hide negative capital in financial statements from regulators to keep their licenses, we attempt to capture this gambling behavior by evaluating product mismatches reflecting disproportions between the allocation of bank assets and the sources of funding. We manually collect unique data on HNC and test our hypothesis using U.S. and Russian banking statistics for the 2004–2017 period (external validity argument). To manage the sample selection concerns, we apply the Heckman selection approach. Our results clearly indicate that product mismatch matters and works similarly in both U.S. and Russian banking systems. Specifically, an increase in mismatch has two effects: it leads to a higher probability that a bank’s capital is negative and raises the conditional size of the bank’s HNC. Further, we demonstrate that the mismatch effect is heterogeneous with respect to bank size being at least partially consistent with the informational asymmetry view. Our results may facilitate improvements in the prudential regulation of banking activities in other countries that share similar features with either the U.S. or Russian banking systems.
C34|Mothers and Fathers : Education, Co-residence and Child Health|We use four waves of Demographic and Health Surveys from Zimbabwe to evaluate the effect of mother’s and father’s education on child health outcomes. We identify causal effects using the 1980 education reform. A simultaneous-equation model is estimated to take into account possible selection and endogeneity biases. Our results suggest some specialization within parents, as mothers and fathers do not affect the same health outcomes of their under-5 children. Fathers matter more than mothers, and mother’s education improves health only when she is matched to a low-educated man. There is selection in our sample, as is usual. The inverse Mills ratio capturing the likelihood of living with one’s father or mother significantly affects child health. Last, parental educational sorting is shown to be important, so that estimation that does not take both mother’s and father’s education into account will produce biased results.
C34|Fostering, Child Welfare, and Ethnic Cultural Values|This article examines the effects of fostering on children's labour supply and schooling in host families in Niger. The focus is on the causal role of ethnic inherited cultural values and behaviours in perpetuating fostering. In particular, at the ethnic group level, we rely on the inherited level of community integration, the situation of frequent interethnic violence, and an indicator of great importance attributed to foster parents. We specify a simultaneous equations model with three outcomes for children (school attendance, hours of market work and hours of domestic work) and a treatment variable (fostering). The results show that foster children are more likely to attend school and to have longer hours of domestic work than biological children. Importantly, we find evidence of a schooling fostering for boys and a domestic fostering for girls. We provide heterogeneous effects for different samples and test the robustness of the results to different empirical specifications. All in all, ethnic inherited values and behaviours are found to have an important causal effect on children's welfare.
C34|Uncertainty Shocks, Monetary Policy and Long-Term Interest Rates|"We study the relationship between monetary policy and long-term rates in a structural, general equilibrium model estimated on both macro and yields data from the United States. Regime shifts in the conditional variance of productivity shocks, or ""uncertainty shocks"", are an important model ingredient. First, they account for countercyclical movements in risk premia. Second, they induce changes in the demand for precautionary saving, which affects expected future real rates. Through changes in both risk-premia and expected future real rates, uncertainty shocks account for about 1/2 of the variance of long-term nominal yields over long horizons. The remaining driver of long-term yields are changes in in ation expectations induced by conventional, autoregressive shocks. Long-term in ation expectations implied by our model are in line with those based on survey data over the 1980s and 1990s, but less dogmatically anchored in the 2000s."
C34|Detecting turning points in global economic activity|We present non-linear models to capture the turning points in global economic activity as well as in advanced and emerging economies from 1980 to 2017. We first estimate Markov Switching models within a univariate framework. These models support the relevance of three business cycle regimes (recessions, low growth and high growth) for economic activity at the global level and in advanced and emerging economies. In a second part, we find that the regimes of the Markov Switching models can be well explained with activity, survey and commodity price variables within a discrete choice framework, specifically multinomial logit models, therefore reinforcing the economic interpretation of the regimes. JEL Classification: C34, C35, E32
C34|Uncertainty shocks, monetary policy and long-term interest rates|"We study the relationship between monetary policy and long-term rates in a structural, general equilibrium model estimated on both macro and yields data from the United States. Regime shifts in the conditional variance of productivity shocks, or ""uncertainty shocks"", are an important model ingredient. First, they account for countercyclical movements in risk premia. Second, they induce changes in the demand for precautionary saving, which affects expected future real rates. Through changes in both risk-premia and expected future real rates, uncertainty shocks account for about 1/2 of the variance of long-term nominal yields over long horizons. The remaining driver of long-term yields are changes in inflation expectations induced by conventional, autoregressive shocks. Long-term inflation expectations implied by our model are in line with those based on survey data over the 1980s and 1990s, but less strongly anchored in the 2000s. JEL Classification: C11, C34, E40, E43, E52"
C34|How Auctioneers Set Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Reserve Prices in English Auctions|We compare two commonly used procurement English auction formats - the ex-ante reserve price and the ex-post reserve price, with symmetric and independently distributed private costs. Both formats are indirect implementations of Myerson's optimal mechanism. Both formats yield the same ex post payoffs when auctioneers optimally choose reserve prices. However, the optimal reserve prices follow two counter-intuitive prescriptions: optimal ex-ante reserve prices do not vary with the number of bidders, and optimal ex-post reserve prices are invariant to the realized auction prices. Anticipated regret, Davis et al (2011), and subjective posterior probability judgement, Shachat and Tan (2015), are two different approaches to rationalize observed auctioneers' choices that violate the two counter-intuitive prescriptions respectively. We generalized the latter model to one of Subjective Conditional Probabilities (SCP) which predicts optimal ex-ante reserve prices decreasing in the number of bidders and also predicts optimal ex-post reserve prices increasing in the realized auction prices. In our first experiment, in which costs follow a uniform distribution, we find two possible explanations to the experimental results. First, the auctioneers use the SCP model for both formats. Second, they use format-specific models. In our second experiment with a left-skewed cost distribution, we finally find that the SCP provides a unified behavioral model of how auctioneer set reserve prices in the two formats.
C34|Economic Policy Uncertainty and Herding Behavior Evidence from the South African Housing Market|This paper examines the link between economic policy uncertainty and herding behaviour in financial markets with an application to the South African housing market. Building on the evidence in the literature that herding behaviour driven by human emotions is not only limited to financial markets, but is also present in real estate investments, we examine the presence of herding in this emerging market via static and dynamic herding tests. While the static model fails to detect herding in the South African housing market, a dynamic model based on a two-regime Markov switching specification shows evidence of herding during the high volatility regime only, consistent with the notion that herd behaviour is primarily driven by increased market uncertainty. Extending our analysis via quantile regressions, we further show that higher quantiles of policy uncertainty are associated with greater likelihood of being in the herding regime, thus establishing a link between policy uncertainty and herding behaviour. Overall, our findings suggest that policy uncertainty can serve as a driver of market inefficiencies, which in our case, is associated by the presence of herding.
C34|The nonlinear dynamics of corporate bond spreads: Regime-dependent effects of their determinants|This paper studies the behavior of corporate bond spreads during different market regimes between 2004 and 2016. Applying a Markov-switching vector autoregressive (MS-VAR) model, we document that the dynamic impact of spread determinants varies substantially with market conditions. In periods of high volatility, systematic credit risk - rather than interest rate movements - contributes to driving up spreads. Moreover, while market-wide liquidity risk is not priced when volatility is low, it becomes a crucial factor during stress periods. Our results challenge the notion that spreads predominantly capture credit risk and suggest it must be reassessed during periods of financial distress.
C34|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach|This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
C34|The Impact of Credit Market Sentiment Shocks - A TVAR Approach| This paper investigates the role of credit market sentiments and investor beliefs on credit cycle dynamics and their propagation to business cycle fluctuations. Using US data from 1968 to 2019, we show that credit market sentiments are indeed able to detect asymmetries in a small-scale macroeconomic model. By exploiting recent developments in behavioral finance on expectation formation in financial markets, we are able to identify an unexpected credit market news shock exhibiting different impacts in an optimistic and pessimistic credit market environment. While an unexpected movement in the optimistic regime leads to a rather low to muted impact on output and credit, we find a significant and persistent negative impact on those variables in the pessimistic regime. Therefore, this article departs from the current literature on the role of financial frictions for explaining business cycle behavior in macroeconomics and argues in line with recent theoretical contributions on the relevance of expectation formation and beliefs as source of cyclicity and instability in financial markets.
C34|Global recessions and booms: What do probit models tell us?|We present non-linear binary Probit models to capture the turning points in global economic activity as well as in advanced and emerging economies from 1980 to 2016. For that purpose, we use four different business cycle dating methods to identify the regimes (upswings, downswings). We find that especially activity-driven variables are important indicators for the turning points. Moreover, we identify similarities and differences between the different regions in this respect.
C34|Testing for cointegration with threshold adjustment in the presence of structural breaks|In this paper, we develop new threshold cointegration tests with SETAR and MTAR adjustment allowing for the presence of structural breaks in the equilibrium equation. We propose a simple procedure to simultaneously estimate the previously unknown breakpoint and test the null hypothesis of no cointegration. Thereby, we extend the well-known residual-based cointegration test with regime shift introduced by Gregory and Hansen (1996a) to include forms of nonlinear adjustment. We derive the asymptotic distribution of the test statistics and demonstrate the finite-sample performance of the tests in a series of Monte Carlo experiments. We find a substantial decrease of power of the conventional threshold cointegration tests caused by a shift in the slope coefficient of the equilibrium equation. The proposed tests perform superior in these situations. An application to the 'rockets and feathers' hypothesis of price adjustment in the US gasoline market provides empirical support for this methodology.
C34|Innovation and Productivity in the service sector of emerging and developing countries|This paper conducts a large cross-country study of innovation decisions and its effect on the productivity of the firms in the service sectors in developing countries. A structural model relating innovation and productivity is fitted with data from 97 emerging and developing countries. We find that R&D generates gains in labor productivity as well as in terms of an aggregate measure of capital and total factor productivity. However, the introduction of new products does not seem to have relevant impact on productivity measures. From a policy perspective, we find that tax burden and difficulties to access credit are significant obstacles to innovation in services. Considering the positive relationship between service innovation and productivity, these obstacles should be on top of policy agenda in the countries under study. Finally, competition from the international market and from the informal sector are both fostering innovation in services.
C34|Business Training Allocation and Credit Scoring: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|The microcredit market, where inexperienced micro-borrowers meet experienced microfinance institutions (MFIs), is subject to reversed asymmetric information. Thus, MFIs' choices can shape borrowers' beliefs and their behavior. We analyze how this mechanism may influence microfinance institution decisions to allocate business training. By means of a theoretical model, we show that superior information can lead the MFI not to train (or to train less) riskier borrowers. We then investigate whether this mechanism is empirically relevant, using data from a French MFI.Confirming our theoretical reasoning, we find a non-monotonic relationship between the MFI's decision to train and the risk that micro-borrowers represent.
C34|Censored Quantile Instrumental Variable Estimation with Stata|Many applications involve a censored dependent variable and an endogenous independent variable. Chernozhukov et al. (2015) introduced a censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) for use in those applications, which has been applied by Kowalski (2016), among others. In this article, we introduce a Stata command, cqiv, that simplifies application of the CQIV estimator in Stata. We summarize the CQIV estimator and algorithm, we describe the use of the cqiv command, and we provide empirical examples.
C34|A Time Series Model of Interest Rates With the Effective Lower Bound|Modeling interest rates over samples that include the Great Recession requires taking stock of the effective lower bound (ELB) on nominal interest rates. We propose a flexible time– series approach which includes a “shadow rate”—a notional rate that is less than the ELB during the period in which the bound is binding—without imposing no–arbitrage assumptions.{{p}}The approach allows us to estimate the behavior of trend real rates as well as expected future interest rates in recent years.
C34|The Effects of Job Training Programs on Employability among College Graduates (in Korean)|This paper examines the effects of various training programs on employment rate of college graduates. Training programs for youth in Korea are conducted by several types of providers, and are thus likely to generate heterogeneous effects. Using the Graduate Occupational Mobility Survey (2009-2013), we estimate the effects of job training on employability by applying a Generalized Propensity Score Matching method. The results confirm heterogeneous treatment effects among training types – while no effects are found with respect to training by private providers, there exist statistically significant effects of training by both public and college providers.
C34|Censored Quantile Instrumental Variable Estimation with Stata|Many applications involve a censored dependent variable and an endogenous independent variable. Chernozhukov, Fernandez-Val, and Kowalski (2015) introduced a censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) for use in those applications, which has been applied by Kowalski (2016), among others. In this article, we introduce a Stata command, cqiv, that simplifes application of the CQIV estimator in Stata. We summarize the CQIV estimator and algorithm, we describe the use of the cqiv command, and we provide empirical examples.
C34|Compétences externes et innovation: le cas des firmes de l'industrie manufacturière algérienne|This paper addresses an hypothesis on the contribution of the external capabilities to the birth of the innovation activity within the firm. The econometric analysis conducted on a sample of Algerian manufacturing entreprises, allowed to highlight four robust results which remain significant and stable after adjustment by various indicators. The main result is that the development of different firm capabilities was not exclusively originated from an edogenous effort, but also induced by an exogenous shock resulting from participating to the upgraded firms' program financially supported by the Algerian government and the European Union. Furthermore, the improvement of human resources competencies, the use of ICT and the compliance to performance criteria explain significantly firm engagement differences in the product innovation activity. The R&D and firm size as traditional factors seem not to be significant predictors of innovation capacity in the present case.
C34|Belief adjustment: A double hurdle model and experimental evidence|We present an experiment where subjects sequentially receive signals about the true state of the world and need to form beliefs about which one is true, with payoffs related to reported beliefs. We control for risk aversion using the Offerman et al. (2009) technique. Against the baseline of Bayesian updating, we test for belief adjustment under-reaction and over-reaction and model the decision making process of the agent as a double hurdle model where agents first decide whether to adjust their beliefs and then, if so, decide by how much. We find evidence for periods of belief inertia interspersed with belief adjustment. This is due to a combination of: random belief adjustment; state dependent belief adjustment, with many subjects requiring considerable evidence to change their beliefs; and Quasi-Bayesian belief adjustment, with insufficient belief adjustment when a belief change does occur.
C34|Assessing the Productivity Consequences of Agri-Environmental Practices When Adoption Is Endogenous| We address the general problem of selection bias, endemic to analyzing the effects of any policy where adoption is voluntary, with empirical application to environmental policies for agriculture. Many voluntary practices for mitigating the environmental impacts of agriculture provide external benefits while lowering productivity. Policy analysis of the productivity consequences is complicated by the fact that decision-makers can choose their own policy levers, an action that ruins any notion of random assignment. We introduce an identification strategy to correct this kind of endogeneity, combining classic methods from stochastic frontier analysis and selection models. Applying it to micro-level data from Finnish grain farms, we find that more efficient producers are more likely to enroll in subsidized practices. And, because these practices tend to reduce yield, frontier analysis without the endogeneity correction greatly understates productivity losses. In other words, naively basing the frontier estimator on the subset of less productive farms leads to downward bias in the resulting frontier estimates. In fact, average inefficiency more than doubles after the correction in this case. An outlier investigation also suggests that the lowest decile of farms are responsible for most of the selection bias in the uncorrected model.
C34|The Nonlinear Effects of Uncertainty Shocks|We consider the effects of uncertainty shocks in a nonlinear VAR that allows uncertainty to have amplification effects. When uncertainty is relatively low, fluctuations in uncertainty have small, linear effects. In periods of high uncertainty, the effect of a further increase in uncertainty is magnified. We find that uncertainty shocks in this environment have a more pronounced effect on real economic variables. We also conduct counterfactual experiments to determine the channels through which uncertainty acts. Uncertainty propagates through both the household consumption channel and through businesses delaying investment, providing substantial contributions to the decline in GDP observed after uncertainty shocks. Finally, we find evidence of the ability of systematic monetary policy to mitigate the adverse effects of uncertainty shocks.
C34|Regulatory behaviour under threat of court reversal: Theory and evidence from the Swedish electricity market|This paper investigates how regulators influence outcomes in regulated markets when their decisions are subject to the threat of court review. We develop a theoretical model that provides a number of behavioural implications when (i) all regulators' dislike having their decisions overturned by courts, (ii) inexperienced regulators care more about not having their decisions overturned than experienced regulators, and (iii) experienced regulators also care about consumer surplus. The theoretical implications are tested using a database of Swedish regulatory decisions from the electricity distribution sector. We provide empirical evidence that inexperienced regulators are more likely to set higher regulated prices than experienced regulators, and as the complexity of the case increases, there are on average more overturned decisions and higher prices for inexperienced regulators. The links between experience, complexity and regulatory outcomes are both statistically and economically significant. Simulations show that if those decisions that were not appealed had been appealed, then the court would have lowered the prices by 10% on average.
C34|Business Training and Loan Repayment: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|Although most Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) invest in non-financial services such as business training, empirical evidence on the impact of training on microborrowers’ performance is at best mixed. We address this issue by accounting for business training allocation and its possible effects on borrowers’ behavior. We first show empirically (using data from a French MFI) that the relationship between business training allocation and borrowers’ risk is complex and non- linear. By taking this into account, we establish a positive effect of business training on the survival time of loans. These results are robust to controlling for the MFI’s selection process. We moreover propose a theoretical explanation for the non-linear relationship between borrowers’ risk and training allocation based on reverse asymmetric information, showing that it can lead to increased MFI outreach.
C34|A Model for Policy Interest Rates|This paper introduces a model that addresses the key worldwide features of modern monetary policy making: the discreteness of policy interest rates both in magnitude and in timing, the preponderance of status quo decisions, policy inertia and regime switching. We capture them by developing a new dynamic discrete-choice model with switching among three latent policy regimes (dovish, neutral and hawkish), estimated via the Gibbs sampler with data augmentation. The simulations and an application to federal funds rate target demonstrate that ignoring these features leads to biased estimates, worse in- and out-of-sample fit, and qualitatively different inference. Using all Federal Open Market Committee?s (FOMC) decisions made both at scheduled and unscheduled meetings as sample observations, we model the Federal Reserve?s response to real-time data available right before each meeting, and control for the endogeneity of monetary policy shocks. The new model, fitted for Greenspan?s tenure, correctly predicts the directions of about 90% of the next decisions on the target rate (hike, no change, or cut) out of sample during Bernanke?s term including the status quo decisions after reaching the zero lower bound, while the conventional linear model fails to adequately tackle the zero bound and wrongly predicts further cuts.
C34|Sharp Bounds And Testability Of A Roy Model Of Stem Major Choices|We analyze the empirical content of the Roy model, stripped down to its essential features, namely sector specific unobserved heterogeneity and self-selection on the basis of potential outcomes. We characterize sharp bounds on the joint distribution of potential outcomes and testable implications of the Roy self-selection model under an instrumental constraint on the joint distribution of potential outcomes we call stochastically monotone instrumental variable (SMIV). We show that testing the Roy model selection is equivalent to testing stochastic monotonicity of observed outcomes relative to the instrument. We apply our sharp bounds to the derivation of a measure of departure from Roy self-selection to identify values of observable characteristics that induce the most costly misallocation of talent and sector and are therefore prime targets for intervention. Special emphasis is put on the case of binary outcomes, which has received little attention in the literature to date. For richer sets of outcomes, we emphasize the distinction between point-wise sharp bounds and functional sharp bounds, and its importance, when constructing sharp bounds on functional features, such as inequality measures. We analyze a Roy model of college major choice in Canada and Germany within this framework, and we take a new look at the under-representation of women in STEM.
C34|The effects of bank loan renegotiation on corporate policies and performance|I investigate the effects of bank loan renegotiation on firm’s financial and investment policies, and performances. I employ OLS and endogenous switching regime regressions using a large crosscountry sample of loans issued and amended on a long-time period. I find that bank loan renegotiation has an economically significant and causal impact on financial policy and performances. Renegotiation provides the firm with additional degrees of freedom and unlocks its economic potential, implying important effects of firm’s tangibility, growth, opportunities and cash on financial policy and performances. Bank loan renegotiation also exhibits a certification and signaling effect which can increase the effect of amendments to the credit agreement on firm’s financial policy.
C34|Accounting for Non-Response Bias using Participation Incentives and Survey Design|Standard corrections for missing data rely on the strong and generally untestable assumption of missing at random. Heckman selection models relax this assumption, but have been criticized because in practice they typically require a selection variable which predicts non-response but not the outcome of interest, and can impose bivariate normality. Using a copula methodology which does not rely on this assumption, we implement the selection model approach in data on HIV testing at a demographic surveillance site in rural South Africa which are affected by non-response. Randomized incentives are the ideal selection variable, particularly when implemented ex ante to deal with potential missing data. However, elements of survey design may also provide a credible method of correcting for non-response bias ex post. For example, although not explicitly randomized, allocation of food gift vouchers during our survey was plausibly exogenous and substantially raised participation, as did effective survey interviewers. Based on models with receipt of a voucher and interviewer identity as selection variables, our results imply that 37% of women in the population are HIV positive, compared to imputation-based estimates of 28%. For men, confidence intervals are too wide to reject the absence of non-response bias. Consistent results obtained when comparing different selection variables and error structures strengthen these conclusions.
C34|Sharp Bounds and Testability of a Roy Model of STEM Major Choices|We analyze the empirical content of the Roy model, stripped down to its essential features, namely sector specific unobserved heterogeneity and self-selection on the basis of potential outcomes. We characterize sharp bounds on the joint distribution of potential outcomes and testable implications of the Roy self-selection model under an instrumental constraint on the joint distribution of potential outcomes we call stochastically monotone instrumental variable (SMIV). We show that testing the Roy model selection is equivalent to testing stochastic monotonicity of observed outcomes relative to the instrument. We apply our sharp bounds to the derivation of a measure of departure from Roy self-selection to identify values of observable characteristics that induce the most costly misallocation of talent and sector and are therefore prime targets for intervention. Special emphasis is put on the case of binary outcomes, which has received little attention in the literature to date. For richer sets of outcomes, we emphasize the distinction between point-wise sharp bounds and functional sharp bounds, and its importance, when constructing sharp bounds on functional features, such as inequality measures. We analyze a Roy model of college major choice in Canada and Germany within this framework, and we take a new look at the under-representation of women in STEM.
C34|When multiple objectives meet multiple instruments: Identifying simultaneous monetary shocks|Central bank intervention typically entails the use of multiple and possibly non-linear policies. In this paper we introduce a dynamic Tobit model embedded in a Vector Autoregression in order to identify simultaneous monetary shocks. Our method is easily estimated using only least squares and a maximum likelihood function. Also, impulse-responses are carried out as in the traditional time-series setting and can be applied in a structural framework. In simulation exercises we show that, as policy covariance grows, our method increasingly outperforms a benchmark case of estimating policy functions separately. We find significant differences when estimating our method in emerging market economies.
C34|El efecto de la política fiscal en expansión y recesión para Ecuador: un modelo MSVAR|En este artículo se evidencia el efecto de la política fiscal en la economía de Ecuador, considerando la recesión y expansión entre 2003 y 2013. Para esto se utiliza un MSVAR con el gasto público, ingreso petrolero, impuestos e IAE-NP. Se muestra que el gasto tiene un impacto positivo en la actividad económica, con mayor efecto en tiempos de recesión que en bonanza. El aumento de los impuestos provoca un efecto negativo, con mayor impacto en crisis. El ingreso petrolero genera un efecto positivo permanente en la economía, con mayor efecto en expansión. Se debe considerar que solo el efecto del incremento de los impuestos tiene significancia estadística, resultado consistente con estudios previos de la economía ecuatoriana. ***** This paper provides evidence of the effect of fiscal policy on the Ecuadorian economy in periods of recession and expansion between 2003-2013, using a MSVAR with government spending, oil income, taxes, and an IAE-NP. We show that government spending has a positive impact on economic activity, and there is a greater effect during recessions than there is during expansions. An increase in taxes has a negative effect, and there is a greater effect during times of crisis. Oil income generates a permanent positive impact on the economy, and it has a greater effect during periods of expansion. It should be noted that only the effect of the tax increase is statistically significant: a result that is consistent with previous studies of the Ecuadorian economy.
C34|So close yet so unequal: Reconsidering spatial inequality in U.S. cities|Spatial income inequality in cities is assessed by looking at the distribution of income across individuals and their neighbors. Two new Gini-type spatial inequality indices are introduced: the first index measures the average degree of income inequality within individual neighborhoods; the second index measures the inequality of average incomes among individual neighborhoods. Connections with geostatistics are investigated and the asymptotic distributions of these indices are derived. A rich income database from the U.S. census is used to establish new stylized facts about the patterns of spatial inequality in the 50 largest American cities during the last 35 years. Four different types of city are identified, according to the level of inequality between and within individual neighborhoods. Inequality within the neighborhood is shown to be associated with lifelong economic and health expectations of urban residents.
C34|Does it really matter how a firm diversifies? Assets-in-place diversification versus growth options diversification|This study analyses whether the effect of corporate diversification on a firm's market value depends on how this strategy is implemented. According to the real options approach, two opposite diversification strategies may be implemented: one based on fully exercising available options (assets-in-place diversification) and the other aimed at seeding new opportunities for future growth in multiple businesses (growth options diversification). We propose an index to measure these two diversification patterns and we explore their impact on firm market value for a sample of U.S. firms during 1998–2014. We find that as a firm's diversification strategy shifts towards a growth options pattern, it becomes a more value-enhancing strategy.
C34|Return expectations and risk aversion heterogeneity in household portfolios|We develop a structural econometric model to elicit household-specific expectations about future financial asset returns and risk attitudes by using data on observed portfolio holdings and self-assessed willingness to bear financial risk. Our framework assumes that household portfolios are subject to short-selling constraints in stocks and bonds, and that financial investment decisions are taken conditional on real estate and business wealth. We derive an explicit solution for the model, and estimate its parameters using the US Survey of Consumer Finances from 1995 to 2013. The results show that our modified mean-variance model fits the data adequately, and that the demographic, occupational and educational characteristics of the investors are relevant in shaping risk aversion and return expectations. In contrast, wealth, income, and past market performance have limited impacts on expectations and risk aversion.
C34|China’s intervention in the central parity rate: A Bayesian Tobit analysis|This paper investigates China’s daily foreign exchange intervention through the setting and adjustment of the central parity rate, using daily data from July 22, 2005 to July 22, 2013. Applying a Bayes Tobit model, we find evidence that China’s daily price intervention decision is driven by market developments regarding the Chinese currency, international currency movements and macroeconomic conditions. The results further suggest that the objectives of China’s daily price intervention change not only over time, but also between high and low interventions.
C34|Dynamical Interaction Between Financial and Business Cycles|We adopt the Dynamical Influence model from computer science and transform it to study the interaction between business and financial cycles. For this purpose, we merge it with Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (MS-DFM) which is frequently used in economic cycle analysis. The model suggested in this paper, the Dynamical Influence Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (DI-MS-FM), allows to reveal the pattern of interaction between business and financial cycles in addition to their individual characteristics. More specifically, this model allows to describe quantitatively the existing regimes of interaction in a given economy and to identify their timing, as well as to evaluate the effect of the government policy on the duration of each of the regimes. We are also able to determine the direction of causality between the two cycles for each of the regimes. The model estimated on the US data demonstrates reasonable results, identifying the periods of higher interaction between the cycles in the beginning of 1980s and during the Great Recession, while in-between the cycles evolve almost independently. The output of the model can be useful for policymakers since it provides a timely estimate of the current interaction regime, which allows to adjust the timing and the composition of the policy mix.
C34|Financial Conditions and Monetary Policy in Uruguay: An MS-VAR Approach|"This study analyzes the effects of ""financial stress"" on the Uruguayan macroeconomy in the 1998Q3-2016Q2 period with the underlying idea that financial shocks propagate differently during ""normal times"" than during times of ""stress."" This behavior is captured in a multivariate framework through a Markovswitching vector auto regressive (MS-VAR) model. The evidence found so far supports the idea that financial conditions affect the macroeconomy, as they not only change the private investment long-run average growth rate but also directly modify the behavior of monetary policy."
C34|Education Effects on Days Hospitalized and Days out of Work by Gender: Evidence from Turkey|The strong relationship between various health indicators and education is widely documented. However, the studies that investigate the nature of causality between these variables became available only recently and provide evidence mostly from developed countries. We add to this literature by studying the causal effect of education on days hospitalized and days out of work for health reasons. We consider two educational reforms. One is the educational expansion of the early 1960s and the other is the 1997 increase in compulsory level of schooling from five to eight years. However, due to the possibility of weak instruments we do not further pursue this avenue. We focus on individuals in two cohorts namely, 1945-1965 which is an older cohort and 1980-1980 which is a younger cohort. We estimate Tobit models as well as Double Hurdle models. The results suggest that an increase in years of education causes to reduce the number of days hospitalized for both men and women unambiguously and the number of days out of work only for men while an increase in education increases the number of days out of work for a randomly selected women.
C34|An endogenous regime-switching model of ordered choice with an application to federal funds rate target|This paper introduces a class of ordered probit models with endogenous switching among N latent regimes and possibly endogenous explanatory variables. The paper contributes to and bridges two strands of microeconometric literature. First, it extends endogenous switching regressions to models of ordered choice with N unknown regimes. Second, it generalizes the existing zero-inflated ordered probit models to make them suitable for ordinal data that take on negative, zero and positive values and characterized by abundant and heterogeneous zero observations. From a macroeconomic perspective, it is the first attempt to implement regime switching and accommodate endogenous regressors in discrete-choice monetary policy rules. Recurring oscillating regime switches in the three regimes evolving endogenously in response to the state of economy are detected during a relatively stable policy period such as the Greenspan era. The Monte Carlo experiments and an application to the federal funds rate target demonstrate that ignoring endogeneity and regime-switching environment can lead to seriously distorted statistical inference. In the simulations, the new models perform well in small samples. In the application, they not only have better in-sample fit for the Greenspan era than the existing models but also forecast better out of sample for the entire Bernanke era, correctly predicting 91 percent of policy decisions.
C34|Education Effects on Days Hospitalized and Days out of Work by Gender: Evidence from Turkey|The strong relationship between various health indicators and education is widely documented. However, the studies that investigate the nature of causality between these variables became available only recently and provide evidence mostly from developed countries. We add to this literature by studying the causal effect of education on days hospitalized and days out of work for health reasons. We consider two educational reforms. One is the educational expansion of the early 1960s and the other is the 1997 increase in compulsory level of schooling from five to eight years. However, due to the possibility of weak instruments we do not further pursue this avenue. We focus on individuals in two cohorts namely, 1945–1965 which is an older cohort and 1980–1980 which is a younger cohort. We estimate Tobit models as well as Double Hurdle models. The results suggest that an increase in years of education causes to reduce the number of days hospitalized for both men and women unambiguously and the number of days out of work only for men while an increase in education increases the number of days out of work for a randomly selected women.
C34|Wage Profiles in the Japanese Dual Labor Market|This study examines the dual structure of wage formation in regular and non-regular employment sectors in Japan. By using data from a series of surveys conducted in the Tokyo metropolitan area during 2002--2014, two sectoral wage functions and an employment status determination function are estimated simultaneously. The estimated results reveal several facts regarding the new era of the Japanese dual labor market. While the wages of regular workers rise with years of tenure and external experience, those of non-regular workers increase only with the latter. The wage increases owing to experience are of a similar magnitude between employment statuses (except for female regular workers), and the firm-size and educational-background premiums exist only in the regular employees' wages. The study also shows that the slopes of regular workers' wage-tenure profiles have been rather stable for more than 10 years since the early 2000s.
C34|Investigation the Pass-Through of Global Food Prices to Domestic Prices in Iran|This paper investigates whether global food price shocks have been affected consumer price index in Iran. For this purpose, we estimate the pass-through of global food price inflation to domestic consumer price index using Markov Switching Vector Auto-Regressive (MS-VAR) and Vector Auto-Regressive (VAR) models and quarterly data from 1990:2 to 2015:1. With respect to the linearity test results, the MS-VAR model has better fit to data than linear VAR model. According to the information criteria statistics, the MSIAH(2)-VAR(1) specification is the chosen kind of MS-VAR model. The results show that the magnitude of global food prices pass-through to the consumer price index in the first and second regime is 0.05 and 0.35 after a year, respectively. Pass-through effect increases in second year that higher in second regime than first regime. The pass-through magnitude in first and second regime is 0.12 and 0.85 after two years, respectively. Because of substantial amount of agricultural inputs and food imports, the Iranian policymakers can limit the pass-through of global prices to domestic prices by applying the inflation targeting policies.
C34|Sticky Belief Adjustment: A Double Hurdle Model and Experimental Evidence|Given a lack of perfect knowledge about the future, agents need to form expectations about variables a?ecting their decisions. We present an experiment where subjects sequentially receive signals about the true state of the world and need to form beliefs about which one is true, with payo?s related to reported beliefs. We control for risk aversion using the O?erman et al. (2009) technique. Against the baseline of Bayesian updating, we test for belief adjustment under-reaction and over-reaction and model the decision making process of the agent as a double hurdle model where agents ?rst decide whether to adjust their beliefs and, if so, then decide by how much. We ?nd evidence for sticky belief adjustment. This is due to a combination of: random belief adjustment; state-dependent belief adjustment, with many subjects requiring considerable evidence to change their beliefs; and Quasi-Bayesian belief adjustment, with insu?cient belief adjustment when a belief change does occur.
C34|Los determinantes del autosuministro de agua para actividades productivas en un entorno urbano. El caso del municipio de Zaragoza|El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar el autosuministro de agua procedente de captaciones subterráneas para usos productivos en un entorno urbano, utilizando el modelo en dos etapas de Heckman. Disponemos de microdatos de 2.893 empresas localizadas en el municipio de Zaragoza para el año 2012. Los resultados indican que el agua autosuministrada y el agua de red son sustitutivos, lo que alerta sobre la limitada eficacia de las políticas de precios centradas sólo en el abastecimiento público de agua para conseguir reducir la presión sobre el recurso y confirma la necesidad de una gestión integral del agua. Comprobamos también que el volumen de agua autosuministrada no depende de su coste variable, lo que evidencia su reducida magnitud en la escala de costes de la empresa. Resulta reseñable, en particular, la ausencia de una tarifa que grave la captación de agua de los acuíferos, imprescindible para disponer de un instrumento económico de gestión de esta demanda.
C34|Education Effects On Days Hospitalized And Days Out Of Work By Gender: Evidence From Turkey|The strong relationship between various health indicators and education is widely documented. However, the studies that investigate the nature of causality between these variables became available only recently and provide evidence mostly from developed countries. We add to this literature by studying the causal effect of education on days hospitalized and days out of work for health reasons. We consider two educational reforms. One is the educational expansion of the early 1960s and the other is the 1997 increase in compulsory level of schooling from five to eight years. However, due to the possibility of weak instruments we do not further pursue this avenue. We focus on individuals in two cohorts namely, 1945-1965 which is an older cohort and 1980-1980 which is a younger cohort. We estimate Tobit models as well as Double Hurdle models. The results suggest that an increase in years of education causes to reduce the number of days hospitalized for both men and women unambiguously and the number of days out of work only for men while an increase in education increases the number of days out of work for a randomly selected women.
C34|Dynamical Interaction between Financial and Business Cycles|We adopt the Dynamical Influence model from computer science and transform it to study the interaction between business and financial cycles. For this purpose, we merge it with Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (MS-DFM) which is frequently used in economic cycle analysis. The model suggested in this paper, the Dynamical Influence Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (DI-MS-FM), allows to reveal the pattern of interaction between business and financial cycles in addition to their individual characteristics. More specifically, this model allows to describe quantitatively the existing regimes of interaction in a given economy and to identify their timing, as well as to evaluate the effect of the government policy on the duration of each of the regimes. We are also able to determine the direction of causality between the two cycles for each of the regimes. The model estimated on the US data demonstrates reasonable results, identifying the periods of higher interaction between the cycles in the beginning of 1980s and during the Great Recession, while in-between the cycles evolve almost independently. The output of the model can be useful for policymakers since it provides a timely estimate of the current interaction regime, which allows to adjust the timing and the composition of the policy mix.
C34|Is Sprawling Residential Behavior Influenced by Climate?|This paper addresses the question of a causal link between climate and urban sprawl by focusing on the role local climate plays in determining household behavior regarding housing decisions. We consider the hypothesis that under warmer climates, households exhibit “sprawling behavior”: they locate in larger plots, farther away from city centers. This hypothesis is tested empirically on household data by controlling for sample selection in simultaneous equations for housing size and distance to city center. We find evidence that such sprawling behavior is related to climate, suggesting that global warming and urban sprawl reinforce each other.
C34|On the importance of testing structural identification schemes and the potential consequences of incorrectly identified models|Identification schemes are of essential importance in structural analysis. This paper focuses on testing a commonly used long-run structural parameter identification scheme claiming to identify fundamental and non-fundamental shocks to stock prices. Five related widely used structural models on assessing stock price determinants are considered. All models are either specified in vector error correction (VEC) or in vector autoregressive (VAR) form. A Markov switching in heteroskedasticity model is used to test the identifying restrictions. It is found that for two of the models considered, the long-run identification scheme appropriately classifies shocks as being either fundamental or non-fundamental. A small empirical exercise finds that the models with properly identified structural shocks deliver realistic conclusions, similar as in some of the literature. On the other hand, models with identification schemes not supported by the data yield dubious conclusions on the importance of fundamentals for real stock prices. This is because their structural shocks are not properly identified, making any shock labelling ambiguous. Hence, in order to ensure that economic shocks of interest are properly captured, it is important to test the structural identification scheme.
C34|Transaction-Based Timberland Investment Returns|Using property-level data of 1987 quarter 1–2014 quarter 2 provided by the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries (NCREIF), transaction-based timberland indices are constructed via the Heckman procedure. Results show that liquidity of private-equity timberland assets varies with business cycles; variance of transaction-based timberland indices is twice as large as that of the appraisal-based NCREIF Timberland Index; the role of private-equity timberland in a mixed portfolio is overstated by using the appraisal-based index; and the average of estimated ask and bid prices well captures the mean price of identified timberland sales, although timberland sellers reserve higher prices than buyers.
C34|Efficiency Evaluation Of Rice Production In Bangladesh| The purpose of this paper is to compare and explain the production efficiencies across rice varieties grown in Bangladesh. Specifically, this study compares the efficiencies among three main rice varieties (Local Aman, HYV Aman and HYV Boro), between two monsoon season varieties (Local Aman and HYV Aman), and between high yielding varieties of monsoon (HYV Aman ) and dry season (HYV Boro) across the seven administrative divisions of Bangladesh. Result indicates that HYV Boro is more efficient (technical, cost and allocative) among all three main rice varieties in Bangladesh. HYV Aman is more efficient than Local Aman in all seven divisions and HYV Boro is more efficient than HYV Aman across all divisions except Sylhet. Several determinants of these efficiency scores were identified using the Tobit regression. The coefficient estimates suggest that off-farm activities of households, loan status, farm subsidies, extension services, household head characteristics (age, literacy, gender and occupation), and dependency ratio of households are the key explanatory variables of these efficiency scores.
C34|Determinants Of The Offer For Educational Services Ofthe Romanian Military Higher Education Institutions|In a society of changes which is dynamic, in a state of permanent change, the offerfor educational products and services is fundamented on the needs for instruction, it is flexibleand addresses to diverse types of consumers. Adapting the educational offer to the demands ofthe labor market and of the employers, adjusting depending on the qualification needs, arepriorities of the higher education institutions, of the Romanian educational policies. Beginningwith the hypothesis that the educational offer of the military higher education system depends onmacroeconomic factors, our analysis reveals that the demographic evolution does not exert asignificant influence over the number of admission places for the military higher educationinstitutions, the number of national military high school graduates having the strongest influenceover the educational offer of the military higher education system.
C34|State dependence and unobserved heterogeneity in a double hurdle model for remittances: evidence from immigrants to Germany|The empirical modelling of remitting behaviour has been the object of a considerable amount of micro-level literature. The increasing availability of panel datasets makes it possible to explore the persistence in transfer decisions as a result of intertemporal choices, that may be consistent with several motivations to remit. Building a dynamic model with panel data poses the additional problem of dealing properly with permanent unobserved heterogeneity; moreover, the specific censored nature of international transfers has to be accounted for as well. In this paper, we propose a dynamic, random-effects double hurdle model for remittances: we combine the Maximum Likelihood estimator of the traditional double hurdle model for cross-section data (Jones, 1989) with the approach put forward by Heckman (1981b) for dealing with state dependence and unobserved heterogeneity in a non-linear setting. Our empirical evidence based on the German SOEP dataset suggests that there is significant state dependence in remitting behaviour consistent with migrants. intertemporal allocation of savings; at the same time, transaction costs are likely to affect the steadiness of transfers over time.
C34|Determinantes de la morosidad de la cartera de microcrédito en Colombia|El microcrédito es una modalidad de préstamos orientada a financiar microempresas, hogares y personas que tienen acceso limitado al mercado de crédito formal. Teniendo en cuenta que desde 2002 la cartera de microcrédito ha crecido en la mayoría del tiempo a un ritmo mayor que la cartera total del sistema financiero y que esta modalidad de préstamos presenta un deterioro en los indicadores de riesgo de crédito desde finales de 2011, el objetivo de este trabajo es identificar los principales determinantes de la morosidad de los deudores en el pago de los microcréditos. Con tal fin, se hace uso del concepto de Información Suave, que incluye variables socioeconómicas de los deudores y características de las microempresas para determinar su impacto sobre la probabilidad de mora. Usando las metodologías Probit y Logit multinomial se encuentra que entre 2002 y mediados de 2014, existe evidencia estadística a favor de la hipótesis de que variables tales como la edad del deudor, el género, el número de personas que tiene a su cargo, el tipo de vivienda en que vive, los años de experiencia en la actividad que desarrolla, entre otras, clasificadas dentro de la categoría de Información Suave, tienen una relación significativa con dicha morosidad.
C34|Opt Out or Top Up? Voluntary Health Care Insurance and the Public vs. Private Substitution|We investigate whether people enrolled into voluntary health insurance (VHI) substitute public consumption with private (opt out) or just enlarge their private consumption, without reducing reliance upon public provisions (top up). We study the case of Italy, where a mixed insurance system is in place. To this purpose, we specify a joint model for public and private specialist visits counts, and allow for different degrees of endogenous supplementary insurance coverage, looking at the insurance coverage as driven by a trinomial choice process. We disentangle the effect of income and wealth by going through two channels: the direct impact on the demand for healthcare and that due to selection into VHI. We find evidence of opting out: richer and wealthier individuals consume more private services and concomitantly reduce those services publicly provided through selection into for-profit VHI. These results imply that the market for VHI eases the redistribution from high income (doubly insured) individuals to low income (not doubly insured) ones operated by the Italian National Health Service (NHS). Accounting for VHI endogeneity in the joint model of the two counts is crucial to this conclusion.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C34|Food Demand Characteristics in Uganda: Estimation and Policy Relevance|This article estimates a household demand system for Uganda from cross-sectional household survey data. More specifically, a 13 item two-stage demand system model is estimated for rural and urban households separately where the main second-stage is represented by a Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System which accounts for socio-demographic household characteristics and censoring and focuses on food items. Elasticities are calculated for three household expenditure groups as well as for the aggregate. We find that food expenditures tend to be more elastic for poorer households than for richer ones. All foods are generally price inelastic and price elasticities tend to decrease with rising expenditure level. A number of substitutional and complementary relationships between food items are identified.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C34|The place of gold in the cross-market dependencies|This paper investigates the inter-relationships between the gold price on the one hand, other precious metals (e.g. silver, palladium, platinum) and asset markets (e.g. stocks, bonds, crude oil) on the other hand. The econometric methodology relies on the Markov-switching BEKK model by Haas and Mittnik (2008) that captures time-varying correlations and bull-bear regimes for bivariate specifications. The model is applied to daily data from 1988 to 2013. The main results indicate that gold’s influence, through return and/or volatility spillovers, seems almost intact whatever the economic regime. Robustness checks of the statement that gold occupies a special place among commodities are provided under the form of a multi-asset portfolio management exercise.
C34|Insertion des jeunes sur le marché du travail, diplôme et quartier d’origine : une modélisation dynamique|We study the impact of the initial localization at the end of studies on the transitions between the states of the labor market.?We consider a sufficiently long period to account for the insertion process of young people into working life.?The trajectories of youth who all left school in 1998 go through five states of the labour market?: permanent employment contracts, temporary employment contracts, subsidized employments, unemployment, non-participation.?The model we use allows to disentangle true from spurious state dependence.?This allows to compare the insertion of young people with different observed or unobserved characteristics. Our main results show that the subsidized jobs do not significantly improve the insertion into stable employment.?The original neighborhood of these young people has a significant negative impact on their insertion on the labor market.?More specifically, the original neighborhood has a negative impact on access to unstable jobs. Classification JEL?: C33, C34, J60, C53, R23.
C34|Wage Determination in Social Occupations: The Role of Individual Social Capital|"We make use of predicted social and civic activities (social capital) to account for selection into ""social"" occupations. Individual selection accounts for more than the total difference in wages observed between social and nonsocial occupations. The role that individual social capital plays in selecting into these occupations and the importance of selection in explaining wage differences across occupations is similar for both men and women. We make use of restricted data from the 2000 decennial census and the 2000 Social Capital Community Benchmark Survey. Individual social capital is instrumented by distance-weighted surrounding census tract characteristics."
C34|The Importance of Geographic Access for the Impact of Microfinance|The geographic distance between a household and financial institutions may constitute a significant obstacle to achieving the benefits of modern financial institutions. We measure the impact of improved distance-related access to microcredits in Uzbekistan. Residents living closer to microfinance institutions are propensity score matched to those further away using both household and village characteristics. Households located closer to microfinance institutions have larger businesses in terms of income, profits and employees than similar households located further away. Similarly, they spend more on most forms of consumption and have greater savings.
C34|‘Flattening’ tax evasion? : Evidence from the post‐communist natural experiment|We analyze the response of tax evasion to the introduction of a flat tax in several transition economies. Using a novel estimator based on household level data, we show that in most of the countries studied there was no discernible effect on the measured size of unreported income following a flat tax reform. This may imply that decreases in marginal tax rates may frequently have been accompanied by a parallel deterioration in attitudes towards public services and the government in general. The countries that show a response to the flat tax reform appear to be those where satisfaction with government services increased.
C34|The Influence of Personality Traits on Private Retirement Savings in Germany|This paper analyzes private retirement savings, the amount for German individuals and how these savings are influenced by personality traits. With the 2002 to 2009 cross section of the Socio-Economic Panel for Germany (SOEP), it is investigated how the Big-Five and the Locus of Control influence the decision to have private retirement savings, and the estimated amount of these savings. Results indicate a positive effect for Extraversion and a negative effect for Agreeableness on the probability to have such savings. Extraversion also positively effects the size of retirement related savings as does having an more internal Locus of Control. Similar to the probability to have retirement savings Agreeableness also reduces the expected amount of such savings. Personality traits only seem to influence the retirement savings if the individual has scores further away from the average of the specific trait. Additionally regressions are implemented that include the personality measures as dummies to allow for non-linear effects. Furthermore, other types of wealth accumulation such as house related savings are investigated to study how the effects might differ for different types of wealth accumulation.
C34|Lung Cancer Study with Tobit Regression Analysis: Sivas Case|: Tobit regression models are the limited dependent variable models in a statement which is widely used and is defined as a non-parametric alternative for the method of least squares regression. Model is known as knowledge of the dependent variable models for some samples containing censored observations. Some experimental process, cannot be achieved for all values of the dependent variable. Dependent variables for these models are called limited dependent variable which value limited by ordered models. In this study Tobit model is used for the analysis, which widely used in the statement in limited dependent variable models. Data taken from Sivas Cumhuriyet University Faculty of Medicine Research and Application Hospital Oncology Center, consists 535 patients who have lung cancer. Tobit regression analysis was applied in the measurement of lung cancer patients (the lifetime) was tried to measure the effect of certain arguments. Using right and left censored models, cancers that are thought to trigger the patient's age, stage of disease, determining the variables affecting the disease status variables , data infrastructure has been created for the disease. Tobit regression results when the dependent variable phase of the patient's disease, the patient's gender, patient's condition , the pathological consequences of the disease was found to be statistically significant variables. The sex of the patient, while a positive effect on the stage of disease, condition and pathological condition of the patients were found to negative influences.
C34|Have monetary data releases helped markets to predict the interest rate decisions of the European Central Bank?|This paper examines whether monetary data releases by the European Central Bank (ECB) have provided markets with additional clues about the future course of its monetary policy. It conducts a novel econometric approach based on a combination of an Ordered Probit model explaining future policy rate changes (sample 2000 to 2014) and the Vuong test for model selection. Overall, our results suggest that information contained in press releases on monetary developments for the euro area has helped markets in forming their expectations on the next monetary policy decision. JEL Classification: C34, D78, E52, E58
C34|Credit constraints and the international propagation of US financial shocks|This paper investigates whether credit constraints in the US economy amplify the international propagation of US financial shocks. We model the dynamics of the US economy jointly with global macroeconomic and financial variables using a threshold vector autoregression. This model captures regime-specific dynamics conditional on the severity of credit constraints in the US economy. We identify three main episodes of tight credit in US financial history over the past thirty years. These occur in the late-1980s, in the early 2000s, and during the 2007–09 financial crisis. We find that US financial shocks are associated with a significant contraction in global economic activity in times of tight credit. By contrast, there is little impact of US financial shocks on the global economy in normal times. This asymmetry highlights an international dimension of the US financial accelerator mechanism.
C34|Have FOMC minutes helped markets to predict FED funds rate changes?|This paper examines whether the release of minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has provided markets with systematic clues about its future policy rates. We explain the future fed funds rate changes using Ordered Probit models (sample 1996 to 2008). We find that timely FOMC meeting minutes have provided assurance to markets about the most likely path of future interest rates. Though, their release did not cause markets to fundamentally revise their expectations on future policy decisions. The paper also discusses lessons from the Fed experience for the ECB and other central banks. JEL Classification: C34, E52, E58
C34|Testing threshold cointegration in Wagner's Law: The role of military spending|This paper analyses historical data since the mid-19th century to find support for Wagner's Law in the Italian economy. Unlike previous studies, we accommodate possible nonlinear asymmetric effects of government spending and GDP towards their long-run equilibrium. The results reveal a threshold cointegrating relationship between the two variables with significantly different error correction adjustments in normal and extreme regimes. A long-run tendency for the public sector to grow relative to GDP from 1862 to 2009 is observed only when nonlinearities generated by temporary higher military spending during wars are take into account.
C34|Partial copula methods for models with multiple discrete endogenous explanatory variables and sample selection|We present a flexible parametric approach for models with multiple discrete endogenous explanatory variables (EEV) with finite support. The joint distributions of each EEV and structural error are modeled by using copulae and their marginal distributions, but the ones among the EEV’s are left unspecified. Our partial copula approach can be applied in any models with discrete EEV’s. It can be also used for correcting selection bias and finding average treatment effects.
C34|Modeling rating transitions with instantaneous default|The time-continuous discrete-state Markov process is a common model for rating transitions. We present a low-dimensional model that jointly models defaults as a consequence of a cascade of downgrades, as well as an instantaneous default from a good rating grade, and study the resulting maximum-likelihood estimator. By using a martingale limit theorem, we show asymptotic normality. Using a regional cooperative bank portfolio as a sample, reveals that an increase in credit quality is more likely for corporate debtors with poor ratings, while for good ratings, a downgrade is more likely. The effect can be described as a contraction toward medium rating grades.
C34|Varying coefficient panel data model in the presence of endogenous selectivity and fixed effects|This paper considers a flexible panel data sample selection model in which (i) the outcome equation is permitted to take a semiparametric, varying coefficient form to capture potential parameter heterogeneity in the relationship of interest, (ii) both the outcome and (parametric) selection equations contain unobserved fixed effects and (iii) selection is generalized to a polychotomous case. We propose a two-stage estimator. Given consistent parameter estimates from the selection equation obtained in the first stage, we estimate the semiparametric outcome equation using data for the observed individuals whose likelihood of being selected into the sample stays approximately the same over time. The selection bias term is then “asymptotically” removed from the equation along with fixed effects using kernel-based weights. The proposed estimator is consistent and asymptotically normal. We showcase our estimator by applying it to study production technologies of US retail credit unions from 2002 to 2006.
C34|Price regimes in an energy island: Tacit collusion vs. cost and network explanations|In this paper, we explore the determinants of wholesale electricity prices in an energy island such as Sicily, by estimating regime switching models with fixed and time-varying transition probabilities on daily data in the 2012–2014 period. Explanatory variables used alternatively in the price equation and in the switching equation include power demand, the supply of intermittent renewables, the residual supply index, and a congestion indicator. Four competing hypotheses on the determinants of price regimes are tested (arbitrary market power, cost profile, tacit collusion, congestion) in order to understand why, despite the general trend of declining prices induced by renewables in southern Italy, Sicilian prices stood high. The pattern of estimated coefficients is consistent with a tacit collusion story.
C34|Are real options a missing piece in the diversification-value puzzle?|This paper examines the impact of corporate diversification on a firm's market value in terms of changes in its mix of value sources between growth options and assets-in-place. We argue that the traditionally assumed replicability of corporate diversification benefits by individual investors might not be as feasible when diversification implies acquiring new growth options as when it only involves assets-in-place investments. We further explain why a different effect of diversification on a firm's mix of value sources can occur, therefore leading to a mediating role of growth options between diversification and market value. Using a panel sample of U.S. firms from 1998 to 2010, we find that a firm's growth options portfolio helps explain the effect of diversification strategy on its market value.
C34|Dividend payout policies: Evidence from Latin America|This paper examines dividend payout policies for firms in six Latin American countries from 1995 to 2013. As predicted by the pecking order and trade-off models, the dividend payout is positively linked to profitability and negatively related to past indebtedness and investment opportunities. We also find that the target dividend payout ratio is positively related to governance indicators at the country level. In addition, the speed to which firms adjust their dividends to changes in earnings is lower in high governance countries in the region. Thus, firms smooth dividends more in countries with higher governance scores. We do not find evidence supporting the lifecycle theory nor illiquidity effects on dividends levels.
C34|Does gender matter for firms' access to credit? Evidence from international data|This paper investigates the existence of gender differences in firms’ access to finance. Based on firm-level data for 28 transitional European countries, we show how estimated gender gaps in credit demand and financial constraints significantly depend on the way in which female participation in ownership and management is measured. Furthermore, we find that differences in credit denial probability are not explained by the observed firm characteristics considered, but are due instead to unexplained factors, thus providing support to the hypothesis of gender-based discrimination in access to credit against women-led businesses.
C34|Asymmetric information, volatility components and the volume–volatility relationship for the CAC40 stocks|This paper investigates the relationship between trading volume components and various realized volatility measures for the CAC40 index constituents. A mixture-of-distribution model is used to decompose trading volume into informed and liquidity components. Realized volatility is broken down into continuous volatility and jumps. Our findings confirm the strong positive contemporaneous relationship between total trading volume and volatility when realized volatility and its continuous component are considered. A limited evidence of the effect of total trading volume on discontinuous volatility is found. The positive volume–volatility relationship is mainly driven by the informed component of trading volume. Conversely, liquidity volume is negatively related to realized volatility lending some support to the view that liquidity trading dampens the volatility of stock returns. A stronger negative relationship between liquidity volume and volatility jump is uncovered.
C34|Dynamics of global business cycle interdependence|In this paper, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the time-varying interdependence among the economic cycles of the major world economies during the post-Great Moderation period. We document a significant increase in the global business cycle interdependence occurred in the early 2000s. Such increase is mainly attributed to the emerging market economies, since their business cycles became more synchronized with the rest of the world around that time. Moreover, we find that the increase in global interdependence is highly related to decreasing differences in sectoral composition among countries.
C34|Estimating the joint survival probabilities of married individuals|We estimate the joint survival probability of spouses using a large random sample drawn from a Dutch census. As benchmarks we use two bivariate Weibull models. We consider more flexible models, using a semi-nonparametric approach, by extending the independent Weibull distribution using squared polynomials. Also based on a nonparametric comparison, we find that extending the independent Weibull distribution by a squared third order polynomial shows the best performance. We illustrate our model by calculating remaining life expectancies and annuity values. We find that the husbands life expectancy at birth is generally increasing with his wifes age of death and the wifes life expectancy at birth is generally increasing with her husbands age of death. Ignoring the dependence between the remaining lifetimes of spouses may lead to an underestimation of the value of a joint annuity and an overestimation of the value of a single-life annuity, but less than suggested on the basis of the previous literature.
C34|Have minutes helped to predict fed funds rate changes?|This paper examines whether the release of minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has provided markets with systematic clues about its future policy rates. We explain the future fed funds rate changes using Ordered Probit models (sample 1996–2008). We find that timely FOMC meeting minutes have provided assurance to markets about the most likely path of future interest rates. Though, their release did not cause markets to fundamentally revise their expectations on future policy decisions. In line with Riboni and Ruge-Murcia (2014), the paper also finds that the internal skew derived from the Reserve Bank Presidents’ interest rate preferences of the FOMC contained systematic information about fed funds rate changes at forthcoming meetings.
C34|An application of the double hurdle model to petrol and diesel household expenditures in Ireland|The objective of this study is to examine the determinants of household petrol and diesel expenditures using a large micro data set of Irish households. This research is timely given the switch in purchases from petrol cars to diesel cars arising out of changes in how vehicle registration tax and motor tax rates are calculated. The study finds that households living in urban areas, households that spend money on public transport and households that do not possess a car will spend less on both petrol and diesel. In contrast, households in possession of higher number of cars, households with more occupants working and households with higher levels of household spending will spend more on petrol and diesel. The econometric methodology employed takes into account the fact that the dependent variable contains zero expenditures. Such an approach has never previously been applied to analyse Irish household transport use and provides interesting insights. In particular the effect that the explanatory variables have on participation in the market is quite different for petrol and diesel. For example, the model predicts a much larger increase in the probability that households will spend in the diesel market relative to the petrol market as income increases. The results have implications for the design of tax policy in the transport sector as the Irish economy recovers and average household income increases.
C34|Greenfield Foreign Direct Investment and Structural Reforms in Europe: what factors determine investments?|Greenfield FDI flows into EU countries account for a non-negligible share of total EU FDI. They create new capital assets and additional production capacity which are important elements to support the transition to a stronger European growth path. This project investigates determinants of Greenfield FDI flows into the EU countries using sectoral data on bilateral greenfield FDI flows and associated job creation for the 2003-2014 period. The dataset covers the 28 EU countries and also includes as country of origin the main non-EU investors. A gravity model explaining FDI from distance indicators and policy variables is built, while controlling for other important factors, employing Heckman two-step selection procedure. The results suggest that the business climate (from World Bank's Doing Business) and product market regulations (from OECD's PMR) are important determinants of greenfield investment in the EU. This project provides additional evidence on the importance of removing unnecessary regulatory barriers to investment and could help in the discussion on the Investment Plan for Europe.
C34|Wage Determination in Social Occupations: the Role of Individual Social Capital|"We make use of predicted social and civic activities (social capital) to account for selection into ""social"" occupations. Individual selection accounts for more than the total difference in wages observed between social and non-social occupations. The role that individual social capital plays in selecting into these occupations and the importance of selection in explaining wage differences across occupations is similar for both men and women. We make use of restricted 2000 Decennial Census and 2000 Social Capital Community Benchmark Survey. Individual social capital is instrumented by distance weighted surrounding census tract characteristics."
C34|Self‐employment among women: Do children matter more than we previously thought?|This paper presents an estimation approach that addresses the problems of sample selection and endogeneity of fertility decisions when estimating the effect of young children on women's self‐employment. Using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979, 1982–2006, we find that ignoring self‐selection and endogeneity leads to underestimating the effect of young children. Once both sources of biases are accounted for, the estimated effect of young children roughly triples when compared to uncorrected results. This finding is robust to several changes in the specification and to the use of a different dataset.
C34|Business Cycle, Asymmetries and non-linearity in Bolivia, 1950-2015. Ciclos económicos, asimetrías y no-linealidades en Bolivia, 1950-2015|This paper deals with the problem of measuring business cycles: short, medium or long-term, with both theoretical and empirical discussions on the regularity of fluctuations versus asymmetries in their measurement phases. For this, the employed approach is based on the combination of deviations on the level of trends (alternative filters) with the algorithm of Harding & Pagan (2002). At the same time, there are considered the effective rates of economic growth by Markovian chains in order to identify non-linear regimes of expansion and economic contraction. Finally, quantifications on the natural rate of growth for Bolivia are offered under a sustained expansion regime from 1950 to 2015. The results suggest that the way of measuring the business cycle denotes alternative inferences in average duration and due to asymmetries.
C34|The Influence of Personality Traits on Private Retirement Savings in Germany|This paper analyzes private retirement savings, the amount for German individuals and how these savings are influenced by personality traits. With the 2002 to 2009 cross section of the Socio-Economic Panel for Germany (SOEP), it is investigated how the Big-Five and the Locus of Control influence the decision to have private retirement savings, and the estimated amount of these savings. Results indicate a positive effect for Extraversion and a negative effect for Agreeableness on the probability to have such savings. Extraversion also positively effects the size of retirement related savings as does having an more internal Locus of Control. Similar to the probability to have retirement savings Agreeableness also reduces the expected amount of such savings. Personality traits only seem to influence the retirement savings if the individual has scores further away from the average of the specific trait. Additionally regressions are implemented that include the personality measures as dummies to allow for non-linear effects. Furthermore, other types of wealth accumulation such as house related savings are investigated to study how the effects might differ for different types of wealth accumulation.
C34|The Importance of Geographic Access for the Impact of Microfinance|The geographic distance between a household and financial institutions may constitute a significant obstacle to achieving the benefits of modern financial institutions. We measure the impact of improved distance-related access to microcredits in Uzbekistan. Residents living closer to microfinance institutions are propensity score matched to those further away using both household and village characteristics. Households located closer to microfinance institutions have larger businesses in terms of income, profits and employees than similar households located further away. Similarly, they spend more on most forms of consumption and have greater savings.
C34|The Analysis of Prison-Prisoner Data Using Cluster-Sample Econometrics: Prison Conditions and Prisoners' Assessments of the Future|The study investigates whether and how strong prison conditions contribute to the perceived propensity to recidivate after controlling for personal characteristics and criminal background. In order to combine different sources of information on personal characteristics of prison inmates and administrative prison data in an efficient way, we propose the use of matched prison-prisoner data and application of cluster-sample methods such as GEE (generalized estimating equations). Estimated average partial effects based on GEE and random-effects Probit modeling reveal that prison conditions show significant effects on the perceived likelihood of future reincarceration. Particularly, we find that inmates facing prison overcrowding show a reduced likelihood of recidivism.
C34|Community-Based Health Insurance and Out-of-Pocket Healthcare Spending in Africa: Evidence from Rwanda|In the absence of third party and prepayment systems such as health insurance and tax-based healthcare financing, households in many low-income countries are exposed to the financial risks of paying large medical bills from out-of-pocket. In recent years, community based health insurance schemes have become popular alternatives to fill such void in the healthcare financing systems. This paper investigates the impact of these schemes on out-of-pocket spending based on three rounds of nationally representative data from Rwanda. We estimate an Extended Two-Part Model to address endogeniety in insurance enrollment and censoring in healthcare expenditure data. We find that community based health insurance program has non-linear and mixed impacts on out-of-pocket expenditure. While the program significantly increases the probability of overall spending, it decreases the amount of per capita spending on healthcare. The program also significantly reduces spending on drug but increases outpatient spending with no detectable impact on inpatient services. Furthermore, we find notable heterogeneity in treatment effects in which households in the top income distribution realize the highest reduction in out-of-pocket spending.
C34|Impact of environmental regulation and the 2011 earthquake on the Japanese electricity industry|Abstract Environmental regulations may erode competition owing to additional costs of compliance. To investigate the impact of such regulations in the Japanese electricity market, we analyze the effects of the environmental quality threshold set for public sector procurement. Using data on electricity procurement auctions from 2005 to 2012, we employ an endogenous switching regression model. We show that the environmental quality threshold lowers the participation of new power suppliers in auctions but does not increase their winning bids as long as competition is maintained. In fact, compliance with the quality threshold has made new power suppliers competitive in green auctions. By contrast, electricity utilities have suffered increased compliance costs since the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011 owing to the shutdown of nuclear power plants and increased reliance on fossil fuels.
C34|Evolution of Bilateral Capital Flows to Developing Countries at Intensive and Extensive Margins| Motivated by the rise in capital flows to low‐income countries (LICs), we examine the nature of these flows and the factors affecting foreign investors' decision. Recognizing the presence of fixed investment costs, we analyze capital flows at both intensive and extensive margins. To fix ideas, we resort to the gravity literature for the estimating relationships which we embed into a two‐tier econometric framework with cross‐sectional dependence. Our main finding is that market entry costs are statistically and economically very detrimental to LICs. We also obtain the gravity‐type relationship for the destination income unconditionally but not after conditioning on relevant variables, as well as establish labor productivity as a robust attractor of capital inflows.
C34|Disability and Labor Force Participation: Evidence from Turkish Males|This paper attempts to examine the influence of disability status on labor force participation of males aged between 25 and 64. Our attention is only on males in order to avoid complications arising from gender differences in disability and labor force participation. The data is from Turkish Health Survey (THS) for the year 2012 prepared by Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT). We believe that revealing the differences in labor outcomes that can be attributed to disability status of individuals would be important to understand labor market dynamics of a developing and young populated country; Turkey. We define disability as an impairment of long term health conditions that lasts more than six months which restricts individual in daily activities and categorize individuals as non-disabled, disabled with no limitations, disabled with some limitations and disabled with severe limitations by controlling work related disabilities. In the first part of the study we provide descriptive analysis on the relationship between disability status and labor market states. We observe that higher share of disabled individuals with severe limitations are out of labor force in every age and low educated individuals experience more disabilities. In the second part, we first estimate probit equations in order to see the relationship between disability and labor force participation, then we implement propensity score matching (PSM) techniques in order to overcome selection bias. PSM results indicate that severe disability prevents males from entering into the labor force, whereas being non-disabled increases the probability of being in the labor force.
C34|Testing threshold cointegration in Wagner's Law: the role of military spending|This paper uses historical data since mid-19th century to test the validity of Wagner's Law for the Italian economy. Unlike the previous studies, we accommodate possible nonlinear asymmetric e.ects of total gov- erment spending and GDP toward their long-run equilibrium. Our results show the presence of a threshold cointegrating relationship between the two variables with signi.cantly di.erent error correction adjustments in normal and extreme regimes. Particularly, we .nd the validity of Wagner's Law from 1862 to 2009, only when we take into account strong nonlinear responses of government spending during the WWI and WWII period. Robustness checks clearly recognize nonlinear behaviour of government expenditure driven by military spending.
C34|Testing threshold cointegration in Wagner's Law: the role of military spending|This paper uses historical data since mid-19th century to test the validity of Wagner's Law for the Italian economy. Unlike the previous studies, we accommodate possible nonlinear asymmetric effects of total gov- erment spending and GDP toward their long-run equilibrium. Our results show the presence of a threshold cointegrating relationship between the two variables with significantly different error correction adjustments in normal and extreme regimes. Particularly, we find the validity of Wagner's Law from 1862 to 2009, only when we take into account strong nonlinear responses of government spending during the WWI and WWII period. Robustness checks clearly recognize nonlinear behaviour of government expenditure driven by military spending.
C34|Public-private wage duality during the Greek crisis|During the recent crisis, Greece experienced a severe contraction and rapid transformation in its labour relations and pay-setting system in both the private and public sectors. Although the quantity (employment) adjustments that followed have been well documented, the changes that were triggered in the wage structures of the two sectors remain largely unexplored. In this article we examine these changes using Greek Labour Force Survey micro-data. We find a differential adjustment across sectors in terms of magnitude, timing, and structure. Despite general perceptions, adjustment in public sector wages has been slow and limited, with pre-crisis premia persisting throughout the period. Instead, the private sector recorded substantial adjustment, changing noticeably its valuation of worker and job characteristics and emerging from the crisis with a structure of returns that rewards more intensively marketable skills. This may be an important feature in the prospective recovery of the Greek economy.
C34|Heterogeneous credit union production technologies with endogenous switching and correlated effects| Credit unions differ in the types of financial services they offer to their members. This article explicitly models this observed heterogeneity using a generalized model of endogenous ordered switching. Our approach captures the endogenous choice that credit unions make when adding new products to their financial services mix. The model that we consider also allows for the dependence between unobserved effects and regressors in both the selection and outcome equations and can accommodate the presence of predetermined covariates in the model. We use this model to estimate returns to scale for U.S. retail credit unions from 1996 to 2011. We document strong evidence of persistent technological heterogeneity among credit unions offering different financial service mixes, which, if ignored, can produce quite misleading results. Employing our model, we find that credit unions of all types exhibit substantial economies of scale.
C34|بررسی اثرگذاری واردات کالاهای مصرفی، واسطه‌ای و سرمایه‌ای در روند انتقال نوسانات قیمت نفت خام به بخش صنعت و معدن در ایران<BR>[Effects of the Import of Consumption, Intermediate and Capital Goods on Transmission of Crude Oil Price Volatility to the Industry and Mining Sector in Iran]|In this research, the DCC model is estimated to calculate dynamic correlation series between crude oil price and growth of Industry and Mine sector during 1367:1-1392:4. Then, Macroeconomic variables which can explain the dynamic correlation are analyzed as variables of contagion. So, the import, as an effective and affected variable from crude oil price, is separated to real import of consumption, capital and intermediate goods. We apply an MSIXH (2)-ARX (0,0) model to investigate the effects of explaining variables. Our results show that imports of intermediate goods have a positive effect and imports of consumption goods have a negative effect on correlation series. These results suggest that in order to increase Industry and Mine sector growth, increase in import of intermediate goods, reduction in government consumption expenditure and implementing policies to stabilize the general price level and government consumption expenditure against changes in oil prices are necessary.
C34|Recession Propagation In Small Regional Economies: Spatial Spillovers And Endogenous Clustering|This paper develops a statistical model for measuring spatial interactions when estimating macroeconomic regimes and regime shifts. The model is applied to study the contagion and propagation of recessions in small regional economies in the United States from 1990 to 2015. The empirical analysis identifies two geographical concentrations (or clusters) where small regional economies were affected by recessions in similar ways. These clusters are interpreted as groups of regions that are potentially at-risk to collective economic distress, which is useful for national and regional policy makers. The first identified cluster is characterized by regional economies with important roles in the financial sector, while the second cluster is characterized by the oil and gas extraction sector. The empirical findings uncover an important propagation dynamic that would be overlooked if one were to apply the model without the spatial extension developed in this paper. Specifically, the evidence shows significant spatial spillovers between small regional economies, meaning that shocks to regions are expected to be higher, when shocks to neighboring regions are high on average. The magnitude of this effect is amplified for the period spanning and following the Great Recession.
C34|El consumo de bebidas alcohólicas en México: modelo de probabilidad anidado|The objetive of this study is to investigate the influence of economic and social factors on alcoholic consumption in Mexico with a Sample Selecction Model. Data comes from the National Addictions Surveyes 2008 (ENA), wich proviedes information under consumption of differents alcoholic beverages. Our resultd suggest that the socio-economic variables play important roles in alcohol comsuption. The probability of drinking increases in men with low levels of income, no social security, living in urban areas and work in the industrial sector. Therefore, public policy to moderate the consumption of such goods should identify the population groups most at risk of developing an addictive consumption.
C34|The Markov-switching Granger Causality of Asia-Pacific Exchange Rates|This paper examines the Granger causality relationships of the Asia-Pacific exchange rates. We employ Markov-switching vector autoregressive model to capture the dynamic linkages between them. Empirical examination processes use the nominal and real exchange rates of Chinese Yuan, Japanese yen, New Taiwan dollar and South Korean Won. The results of Markov-switching Granger causalities differ remarkably from the conventional linear model and provide more accurate measurement. We find the Markov-switching Granger causalities between exchange rates, and they vary with respect to the sample lag period. The mutual relationships between Asia-Pacific exchange rates are profound and lasting. This is suggested that we should use the nonlinear model to recheck the Granger causalities of exchange rates, and capture the fluctuations of Asia-Pacific exchange rates.
C34|The evolution of job stability and wages after the implementation of the Hartz reforms<BR>[Die Entwicklung von Beschäftigungsstabilität und Löhnen seit Einführung der Hartz-Reformen]|Abstract We address the concerns about rising inequality in the German labour market after the implementation of the Hartz reforms between 2003 and 2005. We focus on the quality of new jobs started between 1998 and 2010 in West Germany in terms of job stability and level of earnings. Using social security data drawn from the Integrated Employment Biographies, we analyse the distributions of job durations and wages and model their determinants at the worker level. Our results show a high degree of job stability during and after the reform years, decreasing wage levels and increasing wage dispersion.
C34|On the heterogeneity of dowry motives|Dowries have been modeled as pre-mortem bequests to daughters or as groom-prices paid to in-laws. These two classes of models yield mutually exclusive predictions, but empirical tests of these predictions have been mixed. We draw from historical evidence that suggests a bifurcated marriage market, in which some households use dowries as a bequest and others use dowries as a price. The competing theories of dowry allow us to structure an exogenous switching regression that places households in the price or bequest regime. The empirical strategy allows for multiple checks on the validity of regime assignment. Using retrospective marriage data from rural Bangladesh, we find evidence of heterogeneity in dowry motives; that bequest dowries have declined in prevalence and amount over time; and that bequest households are better off compared to price households on a variety of welfare measures. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
C34|On the heterogeneity of dowry motives|Abstract Dowries have been modeled as pre-mortem bequests to daughters or as groom-prices paid to in-laws. These two classes of models yield mutually exclusive predictions, but empirical tests of these predictions have been mixed. We draw from historical evidence that suggests a bifurcated marriage market, in which some households use dowries as a bequest and others use dowries as a price. The competing theories of dowry allow us to structure an exogenous switching regression that places households in the price or bequest regime. The empirical strategy allows for multiple checks on the validity of regime assignment. Using retrospective marriage data from rural Bangladesh, we find evidence of heterogeneity in dowry motives; that bequest dowries have declined in prevalence and amount over time; and that bequest households are better off compared to price households on a variety of welfare measures.
C34|Inference for Shared-Frailty Survival Models with Left-Truncated Data| Shared-frailty survival models specify that systematic unobserved determinants of duration outcomes are identical within groups of individuals. We consider random-effects likelihood-based statistical inference if the duration data are subject to left-truncation. Such inference with left-truncated data can be performed in previous versions of the Stata software package for parametric and semi-parametric shared frailty models. We show that with left-truncated data, the commands ignore the weeding-out process before the left-truncation points, affecting the distribution of unobserved determinants among group members in the data, namely among the group members who survive until their truncation points. We critically examine studies in the statistical literature on this issue as well as published empirical studies that use the commands. Simulations illustrate the size of the (asymptotic) bias and its dependence on the degree of truncation.
C34|The Nonlinear Analysis of External Dynamics on Economic Growth: The Case of Turkey|Purpose - This paper attempts to analyse the empirical link between economic growth and the external shocks in a small open developing economy, Turkey, focusing on the nonlinearity between the dynamics for the 1992-2011 period. Design/methodology/approach - This paper examines the effects of trade and financial openness and oil price, the most important trading partners' GDP growth as well as for external dynamics of economic growth. To this end, this paper employs a Structural VAR (SVAR) and a nonlinear Markov-Switching VAR model. We examine the nonlinearity to let the effects of the external dynamics vary with the level of economic growth. Findings - The results suggest the external dynamics considered in this paper - namely trade and financial openness, oil prices and growth rate of Germany - initially explain 29% of economic growth in Turkey, according to the linear estimation method. In the long run, this percentage climbs to 51%. The nonlinear analysis shows that the magnitude of the effect of the external dynamics in recession periods is almost twice as high as in expansion. Research limitations/Implications - This paper provides first attempt of the nonlinear analysis of the growth - external dynamics for Turkey, future research effort is required to substantiate our findings. Originality/value – The originality of this paper lies in the finding that the effects of external dynamics on economic growth differs according to the growth stage as the economy is in the expansion period or recession period.
C34|Estimation of Spatial Sample Selection Models : A Partial Maximum Likelihood Approach|To analyze data obtained by non-random sampling in the presence of cross-sectional dependence, estimation of a sample selection model with a spatial lag of a latent dependent variable or a spatial error in both the selection and outcome equations is considered. Since there is no estimation framework for the spatial lag model and the existing estimators for the spatial error model are either computationally demanding or have poor small sample properties, we suggest to estimate these models by the partial maximum likelihood estimator, following Wang et al. (2013)'s framework for a spatial error probit model. We show that the estimator is consistent and asymptotically normally distributed. To facilitate easy and precise estimation of the variance matrix without requiring the spatial stationarity of errors, we propose the parametric bootstrap method. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the advantages of the estimators.
C34|The Effect Of Foreign Direct Investment On Economic Growth: The Institutional Threshold|This paper examines whether the effect of foreign direct investment on economic growth is dependent upon the institutional level for five regions (SSA, MENA, Europe, Asia and America). Using GMM system covering the period from 1984-2013, our results highlight the role of institutional develop-ment in moderating the ambiguous impacts of FDI on GDP growth. Under the threshold regression, technique developed by Caner and Hansen (2004) we find that the index of institutions matter for all groups except for the America group. The fact of taking the components of institutions reveal that above the threshold of government stability and the respect of law and order FDI enhances GDP growth.
C34|Money and Votes. Incumbents in Mayoral Elections in Chile|Being an incumbent is an important advantage in an election. This issue has been discussed in numerous studies and has been formalized into the so called permanent campaign hypothesis. This means that the incumbents, during all the duration of their tenure, should be running a more or less intensive campaign. The tenure of the office, eventually disputed in the election, allows an elected officer to use some resources and opportunities that are no available for the other candidates. This study empirically explores this hypothesis for the mayoral election of 2012 in Chile, using a database covering all the Chilean municipalities. A central point is the money spent in the campaign by the incumbents in the mayoral election. We empirically study these issues with the help of a regression model for the campaign expenditures and the vote obtained by the incumbents. The estimation of this model is not trivial because we have two equations determining simultaneously the expenditures and the vote. Additionally, we had to consider that both variables are bounded and that we have a latent variable: the expected vote for 2012. We solved these problems using maximum likelihood truncated estimations and instrumental variables. Our results suggest that incumbent candidates plan their campaign expenditures based mostly in their expected vote. We also found empirical evidence suggesting that winners behave differently than losers.
C34|Agricultural Cost Sharing and Conservation Practices for Nutrient Reduction in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed| Most evaluations of the impact of cost sharing policies designed to reduce non-point source pollution on water quality fail to incorporate behavioral responses, which are important because of the voluntary nature of these programs. In this article, a two-stage simultaneous equation approach is applied to data from a farmer survey to correct for voluntary self-selection into cost sharing programs, and account for substitution effects among conservation practices. The estimates obtained from the econometric model are linked with the Chesapeake Bay Program watershed model to estimate the change in abatement levels and marginal abatement costs for nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment after considering non-additional adoption due to nonrandom enrollment, as well as potential indirect effects on other conservation practices. We find that policy scenarios which do not account for non-additional adoption significantly overestimate the abatement achieved by environmental incentive payments. Accounting for nonrandom enrollment increases the average marginal cost of abatement by between 37 and 85 percent across the state of Maryland. However, estimated indirect effects of cost sharing suggest the presence of “crowding in” of other practices, leading to greater abatement and lower costs, particularly for phosphorus and sediment.
C34|Impact of Improved Maize Variety Adoption on Household Food Security in Ethiopia: An Endogenous Switching Regression Approach| This paper analyzes the adoption and impacts of improved maize varieties (IMVs) on food security in Ethiopia. Survey data collected in 2011 from 2455 sample households in 39 districts was used in the analysis. Endogenous switching regression model supported by binary and generalized propensity score matching methods was used to empirically assess the impact of IMV adoption on per-capita food consumption expenditure and perceived household food security status. Results show that education of household head, farm size, social network, and better agro-ecologic potential for maize production are the major determinants of household decisions to adopt IMVs. In addition, the average per-capita food consumption is high for adopters and the impact of IMV adoption on per-capita food consumption is slightly higher for non-adopters had they adopted IMVs. Thus, policies and development strategies encouraging further adoption of IMVs could enhance food security of smallholder farmers in maize-based systems.
C34|Business Training Allocation and Credit Scoring: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|The microcredit market, where inexperienced micro-borrowers meet experienced microfinance institutions (MFIs), is subject to reversed asymmetric information. Thus, MFIs' choices can shape borrowers' beliefs and their behavior. We analyze how this mechanism may influence microfinance institution decisions to allocate business training. By means of a theoretical model, we show that superior information can lead the MFI not to train (or to train less) riskier borrowers. We then investigate whether this mechanism is empirically relevant, using data from a French MFI. Confirming our theoretical reasoning, we find a non-monotonic relationship between the MFI's decision to train and the risk that micro-borrowers represent.
C34|Growth Effect of FDI in Developing Economies: the Role of Institutional Quality|This paper investigates the effect of FDI on economic growth conditional on the institutional quality of host countries. We first develop several theoretical arguments to show that institutional heterogeneity may be an explanation for the mixed results of previous empirical studies. Second, using a Panel Smooth Regression model on a large sample of developing countries, we show that FDI has a positive effect on growth only beyond a certain threshold of institutional quality. In order to benefit from FDI-led growth, institutional reforms should thus precede FDI attraction policies. Additionally, some reforms seem to promote faster marginal effects of FDI, while institutional complementarities may lead to an incremental effect on growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C34|Judicial Independence, Judges’ Incentives and Efficiency|Although often assumed by economic theory, the idea of an efficient judicial system often sounds like an oxymoron. In this work, we suggest an innovative approach to investigating the determinants of court performance. Our focus is on determining the ideal institutional environment for fostering the appropriate set of incentives for judges to operate efficiently. In this setting, we find evidence that greater independence enjoyed by the judiciary from politics induces more competition among judges to obtain professional upgrades. Such an environment will incentivize ambitious individuals to be more efficient, thus positively affecting the aggregate performance of the judiciary.
C34|Does Anti-Diversification Pay? A One-Sided Matching Model of Microcredit|In many economic situations, market participation requires that agents form groups subject to exogenous rules. Consider a microfinance institution that decides on rules for diversifying borrower groups in terms of their exposure to income shocks. Such rules affect group repayment by influencing both who matches with whom (direct effect) and who participates in the market (participation). I develop the key trade-off for conflicting predictions of extant theoretical models and estimate both effects separately. Group formation creates an endogeneity problem, but a matching model exploits the exogenous variation from counterfactual groups. I find that while diversification has no participation effect it has a significant positive direct effect.
C34|Socioeconomic Inequality of Access to Healthcare: Does Patients' Choice Explain the Gradient? Evidence from the English NHS|Equity of access is a key policy objective in publicly-funded healthcare systems. Using data on patients undergoing non-emergency heart revascularization procedures in the English National Health Service, we find evidence of significant differences in waiting times within public hospitals between patients with different socioeconomic status (up to 35% difference between the most and least deprived population quintiles). We employ selection models to test whether such differences are explained by patients exercising choice over hospital or type of treatment. Selection bias due to choice has a limited effect on the gradient suggesting the presence of substantial inequities within the public system.
C34|Trajectoire des jeunes sur le marché du travail, quartier d’origine et diplôme : une modélisation dynamique|We use the survey Generation 98 to study the tra jectories of youth between ?ve states of the labour market: permanent employment contracts, temporary employment contracts, subsidized employments, unemployment, non-participation. These youths are leaving education system in 1998. We use a dynamic multinomial logit model with random e?ects in order to study labour market transitions of young workers. Initial conditions are treated using the method proposed by Heckman (1981). Initial conditions consist in the neighborhood of origin at the time they leave the education system, the level of the diploma and the initial position on the market. Censoring on the location at the time they leave education is formally taken into account in modeling. The model we use allows to disentangle true from spurious state dependence. We assess the impact of neighborhood of origin on youth labour market histories. We evaluate the impact of subsidized employment on labour market transitions on a recent period
C34|Has the publication of minutes helped markets to predict the monetary policy decisions of the Bank of England's MPC?|This paper examines whether the minutes of the Bank of England JEL Classification: C34, D78, E52, E58
C34|The relationship between an electricity supply ceiling and economic growth: An application of disequilibrium modeling to Taiwan|Using a disequilibrium model, we investigate the relationship between the supply constraint of electricity generation capacity and electricity demand in Taiwan. We find that electricity consumption faced supply constraints in Taiwan between 1959 and 1972, but that generation capacity grew rapidly after 1973, such that economic growth came to be the major determinant of electricity consumption. Our experience in fitting this disequilibrium model suggests that simple causality tests are not a proper means to understand the relationship between electricity consumption and economic growth. Our results also suggest, at least for developing countries, that an electricity supply constraint sometimes plays an important role when investigating the relationship between energy consumption and economic growth.
C34|An empirical analysis of forest transition and land-use change in developing countries|Deforestation is a major environmental issue in developing countries, and agricultural land expansion is its main cause. The objective of this paper is twofold:(1) to identify the macroeconomic determinants of ending deforestation; and (2) to explain cumulative deforestation and other land uses. To do this, we first study the probability of a turning point for deforestation (i.e., the switch from decreasing to expanding forest areas), based on the Forest Transition hypothesis. Second, we adapt a land-use model to explain the trade-off between forest and agriculture during development. To take the link between both phenomena into account, we estimate a dynamic panel seemingly unrelated regression (SUR) model along with a switching regression model, applied to a dataset of 57 developing countries observed over four time periods. The estimation results reveal that economic development and institutions play a significant role in long-term deforestation. Our results also suggest that after the first development stage, agriculture and forest are not always competing land uses. These results provide new insights into public policies such as REDD+.
C34|Dynamic models of R & D, innovation and productivity: Panel data evidence for Dutch and French manufacturing|This paper introduces dynamics in the R&D-to-innovation and innovation-to-productivity relationships, which have mostly been estimated on cross-sectional data. It considers four nonlinear dynamic simultaneous equations models that include individual effects and idiosyncratic errors correlated across equations and that differ in the way innovation enters the conditional mean of labor productivity: through an observed binary indicator, an observed intensity variable or through the continuous latent variables that correspond to the observed occurrence or intensity. It estimates these models by full information maximum likelihood using two unbalanced panels of Dutch and French manufacturing firms from three waves of the Community Innovation Survey. The results provide evidence of robust unidirectional causality from innovation to productivity and of stronger persistence in productivity than in innovation.
C34|The effects of renewables in space and time: A regime switching model of the Italian power price|Renewable energy production can exercise a downward pressure on electricity prices by partly crowding out conventional units characterized by higher marginal costs (merit order effect). Yet, congestion induced by renewables would partly offset the merit order effect in the congested zone, unless renewables reduce the need for imports and allow the emergence of prosumers. These congestion effects of renewables are hereby jointly tested with the merit order effect by means of an endogenous regime-switching model wherein a regime corresponds to the observable status (congested/non-congested) of the grid. The model is taken to data from the Italian power exchange, observed in 2012 and 2013, with a focus on the line connecting Sicily with the South zone, a frequent bottleneck in the Italian transmission grid. The results confirm the merit order effect previously detected in the literature and highlight a negative congestion effect, i.e. renewables relieve congestion from Sicily, a systematic importer, but not from the Italian peninsula (the exporting region). This effect is mainly driven by the wind power in-feed.
C34|Do stock prices reflect their fundamentals? New evidence in the aftermath of the financial crisis|We re-examine the dynamic relations between stock prices and macroeconomic fundamentals for six major industrialized countries in the wake of the recent financial crisis. Our analysis is based on a structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model, which relies on a long-run restriction to identify fundamental and non-fundamental shocks to stock prices. This paper is the first in this line of literature to formally test the identifying restriction. We do so by means of a Markov switching-SVAR (MS-SVAR) model in heteroskedasticity. We generally find that it is supported by the data. Our structural analysis shows that after the 2008 financial crisis, stock prices tend to fall in line with their fundamentals for all six countries investigated. In general, we observe a self-correction of stock prices towards their fundamental values.
C34|How well do individuals predict the selling prices of their homes?|The accuracy of property values estimated by homeowners is an open empirical question that requires an evaluation of the reported values using a market assessment. Using information on selling prices from the Health and Retirement Study and the American Housing Survey, and after accounting for possible measurement error in reporting and selection regarding those who we observe selling, we find evidence that homeowners overestimate the value of their properties by around 8% with an estimated range between 3.4% and 12.7% (95% CI).
C34|The role of the exchange rate regime in the process of real and nominal convergence|The Balassa–Samuelson (B–S) hypothesis suggests that, in catching-up countries, inflation will be comparatively higher, as prices of non-traded goods “catch up” with the growth of productivity in the tradable goods sector; as a result, these countries will experience real appreciation. However, a general result of the literature is that the B–S effect can only explain part of the excess inflation observed in European catching-up countries. One feature of these studies is their neglect of the role of the exchange rate regime in affecting price convergence. In this paper, instead, we argue that the choice of the exchange rate regime may affect nominal convergence. To show this, we first model the regime choice and, in a second stage, estimate a B–S type of regression for each regime. Our results show that, for countries that pegged to or adopted the euro, the effect of an increase in dual productivity growth (the difference in productivity growth between the traded and non-traded sectors) on the dual inflation differential is twice as large as that in “flexible” countries. We conclude that, in catching-up countries, too early adoption of the euro may foster excess inflation, beyond what would be implied by B–S convergence only.
C34|Information transmission between stock markets in Hong Kong, Europe and the US: New evidence on time- and state-dependence|This article performs a long-term investigation of information transmission between stock markets in Hong Kong, Europe and the US. The particular focus is on the time- and state-dependence of return spillovers and autocorrelations as well as the related potential deviations from informational efficiency. We use high-frequency data for the Hang Seng, the Euro Stoxx 50 and the S&P 500 Index from 2000 to 2011 and conduct Granger causality inference based upon non-overlapping intraday returns. Results from structural break tests suggest that the process of information transmission is structurally stable over time. Moving window regressions, however, reveal short-lived temporary deviations from informational efficiency in the form of weak, but significant spillovers and return autocorrelations. Most pronounced are temporary negative spillovers from the US to Hong Kong as well as temporary positive spillovers from Europe to the US. Threshold model estimations finally indicate that spillovers to the European and the US markets are only significant in the state of high realized volatility. Spillovers to Hong Kong, however, tend to be significant in the state of low realized volatility.
C34|Have minutes helped markets to predict the MPC's monetary policy decisions?|This paper examines whether the minutes of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) have provided markets with additional information about the future course of monetary policy. The paper conducts an econometric approach based on an Ordered Probit model explaining future policy rate changes (sample 1998 to 2014), and the Vuong test for model selection, which helps to identify changes in the market assessment around the release of MPC minutes. Our results suggest that the Bank of England's published minutes of the MPC's deliberations have indeed helped markets in forming their expectations on future monetary policy decisions.
C34|An analysis of the determinants of financial distress in Italy: A competing risks approach|This paper investigates the influence and the effect of micro-economic indicators and firm-specific factors on different states of financial distress. In particular, a competing risks model is estimated taking into account the differences among variables leading firms to exit the market through bankruptcy, liquidation and inactivity. The determinants of financial distress for any exit route are identified on the basis of the influence on the hazard ratios of the significant variables selected for each state. Furthermore, the predictive performance of the competing-risks model over the single-risk framework is evaluated, with respect to different time windows, by means of some accuracy measures. The results reached on a sample of Italian firms provide support for the hypothesis that the factors influencing firms' way out strongly depend on the exit routes and highlighting the need to distinguish among them by means of a multiple-state approach.
C34|Does Poverty Trap Rural Malagasy Households?|This paper contributes to the understanding of the persistently high poverty rates in rural Madagascar. It tests the existence of poverty traps thanks to a Markovian poverty transition model where past poverty is allowed to have either a slope or an intercept effect on the current poverty risk. An original and large household panel data survey covering the period 1996–2006 is used. Results clearly indicate that poverty is creating a vicious circle leading to a poverty trap. These results encourage the implementation of short-run poverty reduction policies including safety nets, cash transfers, cash for work, and short term credits.
C34|Measuring the Value of Rural Landscape in Support of Preservation Policies|The study focuses on the ancient olive tree landscape in Apulia, Italy, a regional symbol of historical, cultural and economic importance. Because of the recent crisis caused by rising farm costs, farmers are replacing ancient olive trees with more remunerative crops. After verifying the economic unsustainability of both a regional law (2006) that forbids the eradication of ancient olive trees and a EU subsidy, we assess the value of the benefits furnished by the rural landscape through the contingent valuation method. The results reveal a significant value of landscape benefits, suggesting taxation strategies for an effective preservation policy.
C34|Binary response panel data models with sample selection and self‐selection|We consider estimating binary response models on an unbalanced panel, where the outcome of the dependent variable may be missing due to nonrandom selection, or there is self‐selection into a treatment. In the present paper, we first consider estimation of sample selection models and treatment effects using a fully parametric approach, where the error distribution is assumed to be normal in both primary and selection equations. Arbitrary time dependence in errors is permitted. Estimation of both coefficients and partial effects, as well as tests for selection bias, are discussed. Furthermore, we consider a semiparametric estimator of binary response panel data models with sample selection that is robust to a variety of error distributions. The estimator employs a control function approach to account for endogenous selection and permits consistent estimation of scaled coefficients and relative effects.
C34|Dating Business Cycle Turning Points for the French Economy: a MS-DFM approach|The official institutions (NBER, OECD, CEPR and others) provide business cycle chronology with a lag from 3 months up to several years. Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (MS-DFM) allows to produce the turning points more timely. The Kalman filter estimates of the model can be obtained in one step with limited number of series or in two steps on a much richer dataset. While the choice of correct series is a challenge for the one-step method, the problem of the two-step method is the potential misspecification. In this paper we apply one-step and two-step approaches to the French data and compare their performance. Both methods give qualitatively similar results and prove to reproduce the OECSD business cycle chronology on the 1993-2014 monthly sample well. We find that the two-step method is more precise in determining the beginnings and the ends of recessions. Also, both methods produce extra signals corresponding to downturns which were too short to belong to OECD chronology of recessions
C34|Business Training Allocation and Credit Scoring: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|The microcredit market, where inexperienced micro-borrowers meet experienced microfinance institutions (MFIs), is subject to reversed asymmetric information. Thus, MFIs' choices can shape borrowers' beliefs and their behavior. We analyze how this mechanism may influence microfinance institution decisions to allocate business training. By means of a theoretical model, we show that superior information can lead the MFI not to train (or to train less) riskier borrowers. We then investigate whether this mechanism is empirically relevant, using data from a French MFI. Confirming our theoretical reasoning, we find a non-monotonic relationship between the MFI's decision to train and the risk that micro-borrowers represent.
C34|Is There an Asymmetric Impact of Housing on Output?|Numerous papers have tried to understand housing’s role in the economy and have not reached an agreement. In this paper we turn to the asymmetric relationship between housing and the overall economic activity. We find that the relation between building permits and GDP is regime-dependent. Causality analysis suggests that the housing variable leads output only in the regime associated with periods when the housing and business cycles are experiencing contractions. Our findings not only echo the argument that housing leads the business cycles, but also show that it has time-varying effect on the overall economic activity.
C34|An Experimental Investigation of Auctions and Bargaining in Procurement|In reverse auctions, buyers often retain the right to bargain further concessions from the winners. The optimal form of such procurement is an English auction followed by an auctioneer's option to engage in ultimatum bargaining with the winners. We study behavior and performance in this procurement format using a laboratory experiment. Sellers closely follow the equilibrium strategy of exiting the auction at their costs and then accepting strictly profitable offers. Buyers generally exercise their option to bargain according to their equilibrium strategy, but their take-it-or-leave-it offers vary positively with auction prices when they should be invariant. We explain this deviation by modeling buyers' subjective posteriors regarding the winners' costs as distortions of the Bayesian posteriors, calculated using a formulation similar to a commonly used probability weighting function. We further test the robustness of the experimental results and the subjective posterior explanation with three additional experimental treatments.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2013.1880 . This paper was accepted by Teck-Hua Ho, behavioral economics .
C34|Does ICT Investment Spur or Hamper Offshoring? Empirical Evidence from Microdata|In this paper we provide empirical evidence on the effect of ICT investment on the propensity to offshore for a large sample of Italian manufacturing firms. Contrary to previous literature focusing on the service sector, after taking into account the endogeneity of ICT investment in the offshoring decision equation we find a negative and significant effect of ICT on the propensity to offshore some stages of the production process. Furthermore this effect turns out not to depend on the type of ICT investment and applies both to hardware and software/telecommunication expenditures. A potential explanation for our finding is that ICT investments in manufacturing increase the complementarity of production processes within the firm, thereby reducing the incentive to offshore. Our results seem therefore to suggest that negative exogenous shocks to ICT prices - possibly induced by targeted policy programs aimed at the diffusion of ICT technologies - do not favor offshoring of manufacturing activities.
C34|Determining the asymmetric effects of oil price changes on macroeconomic variables: a case study of Turkey|This paper aims to investigate the effects of unanticipated oil price changes on the Turkish economy using quarterly gross domestic product (GDP) and monthly consumer price index (CPI) and real exchange rate (RER) for the period 2002–2013 . While the bulk of previous studies have employed the standard methodology without true data generating process knowledge, in this study asymmetric Vector Autoregressive methodology proposed by Kilian and Vigfusson (Quant Econ 2(3): 419–453, 2011 ) is used to analyze the asymmetric impact of oil prices on macroeconomic aggregates. This method allows the researcher to investigate the asymmetric effects of innovations in oil prices on variables without knowing data generating process is linear or not. Empirical findings that, the oil prices changes have asymmetric effects on CPI and RER at one standard deviation shocks in different periods unlike GDP. These asymmetric effects are also statistically significant at 10 % significance level. Specifically, when oil price increases, CPI and RER increases but GDP decreases in the long term. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C34|Maximum likelihood estimation of the stochastic frontier model with endogenous switching or sample selection|Heckman’s (Ann Econ Soc Meas 15:475–492, 1976 ; Econometrica 47(1):153–161, 1979 ) sample selection model has been employed in many applications of linear or nonlinear regression studies. It is well known that ignoring the sample selectivity may result in estimation bias of the estimator. Although the stochastic frontier (SF) model with sample selection has been investigated in Greene (J Product Anal 34:15–24, 2010 ), we intend to extend the model in several directions in this paper. First, we extend the distribution of the inefficiency from the half normal to truncated normal distribution. Second, we discuss the likelihood estimation method for the SF model with sample selection and also its most common incarnation, endogenous switching. Third, we suggest a simple framework to derive the closed form of the likelihood function using the closed skew-normal distribution. Fourth, we propose the estimator for the technical efficiency index due to Battese and Coelli (Empir Econ 20(2):325–332, 1995 ) based on the sample selection information. Finally, we also demonstrate the approach using the Taiwan hotel industry data. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C34|Az orvosok közötti kapcsolatok szerepe az új gyógyszerek elfogadásában<BR>[The impacts of three types of social interaction on the spread of new types of drug]|Tanulmányunkban azt vizsgáljuk, hogy az orvosok közötti kapcsolatok közül a földrajzi közelség szerinti, az egyetemi évfolyamtársi és a közös publikációkban realizálódó társszerzői kapcsolatoknak van-e statisztikailag kimutatható hatásuk az új készítmények terjedési folyamatára. A 2-es típusú cukorbetegség kezelésére alkalmas, 2008 áprilisa és 2010 áprilisa között bevezetett gyógyszerek terjedési folyamatát Cox-féle regressziós modellel vizsgáltuk. Szemben a korábbi szakirodalommal, azt találtuk, hogy a földrajzi közelség szerepe nem egyértelmű: szignifikanciája a készítmények körülbelül felénél nem zárható ki, míg másik felénél nincs kimutatható hatása, továbbá az évfolyamtársi, valamint a társszerzői kapcsolatnak sincs szignifikáns hatása. Az általunk vizsgált kapcsolati hálók ugyan relatíve könnyen megszerkeszthetők, de ez nem bizonyult elegendőnek a terjedési folyamat jobb megértéséhez. A költséges és időigényes kérdőíves adatgyűjtés és mélyinterjúzás elkerülhetetlennek tűnik a szakmai és személyes kapcsolatok terjedési folyamatban betöltött szerepének pontos megértéséhez.* Journal of Economics Literature (JEL) kód: C14, C34, I19, O3.
C34|The Sheriff of Nottingham Hypothesis: A Tribute to Theodore Eisenberg|We consider what we call the Sheriff of Nottingham hypothesis : that the government of Brazil, which at the same time is party to litigated cases and the enforcer of tax laws, constantly enacts norms that seek to strengthen its side. We test this hypothesis and observe that litigants adapt to new proportions of decisions favoring tax authorities, with more sophisticated litigants seizing profits beyond those of ordinary citizens. Our proposal is that this dynamic adaptation takes considerable time; therefore, it is possible to detect the effect of changes in the law, despite the selection effect explored by, among others, Theodore Eisenberg.
C34|Dating Business Cycle Turning Points for the French Economy: a MS-DFM approach|The official institutions (NBER, OECD, CEPR and others) provide business cycle chronology with a lag from 3 months up to several years. Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (MS-DFM) allows to produce the turning points more timely. The Kalman filter estimates of the model can be obtained in one step with limited number of series or in two steps on a much richer dataset. While the choice of correct series is a challenge for the one-step method, the problem of the two-step method is the potential misspecification. In this paper we apply one-step and two-step approaches to the French data and compare their performance. Both methods give qualitatively similar results and prove to reproduce the OECSD business cycle chronology on the 1993-2014 monthly sample well. We find that the two-step method is more precise in determining the beginnings and the ends of recessions. Also, both methods produce extra signals corresponding to downturns which were too short to belong to OECD chronology of recessions.
C34|Bullying among Adolescents: The Role of Cognitive and Non-Cognitive Skills|Bullying is a behavioral phenomenon that has received increasing attention in recent times. This paper uses a structural model with latent skills and longitudinal information from Korean youths to identify the determinants and effects of bullying. We find that, unlike cognitive skills, non-cognitive skills significantly reduce the chances of being bullied during high school. We use the model to estimate average treatment effects of being bullied at age 15 on several outcomes measured at age 18. We show that bullying is very costly. It increases the probability of smoking as well as the likelihood of feeling sick, depressed, stressed and unsatisfied with life. It also reduces college enrollment and increases the dislike of school. We document that differences in non-cognitive and cognitive skill endowments palliate or exacerbate these consequences. Finally, we explore whether investing in non-cognitive skills could reduce the occurrence of bullying. Our findings indicate that the investment in skill development is key in any policy intended to fight the behavior.
C34|The demand for health microinsurance services: assessment of the contribution effort using microeconomic data|This paper analyzes subscription and willingness to pay (WTP) effort decisions among microcredit clients for a health microinsurance service in Morocco. We use data from a survey conducted among 562 microcredit clients belonging to two instututions. To estimate clients WTPs’ efforts, we choose the contingent valuation method. We analyze the different steps of decision by using simple and generalized Tobit. The results highlight the effect of socio-economic and financial variables including clients’ participation in formal and informal insurance mechanisms. We explain that they think in terms of substitution in one case, and complementarity in the other. The effect of savings reveals that clients want to maximize the collective utility of their households.
C34|What factors affect households’ decision to allocate credit for livestock production? Evidence from Ethiopia|Access to credit is often viewed as a key to transform semi-subsistence smallholders into market oriented producers. However only few studies have examined factors that affect farmers’ decision to allocate credit on farm activities in general and livestock production in particular. A trivariate probit model with double selection is employed to identify factors that affect farmers’ decision to allocate credit on livestock production using data collected from smallholder farmers in Ethiopia. After controlling for two sample selection bias – taking credit in the production season and decision to allocate credit on farm activities – land ownership and access to a livestock centered extension service are found to have a significant (p
C34|How Do Different Oil Price Shocks Affect the Relationship Between Oil and Stock Markets?|This paper investigates the effect of different types of oil price shocks on the time varying correlation between oil and stock markets, and compares this effect in the oil importer and oil exporter countries for the period of 1996:1- 2014:2. To this end, the paper uses SVAR, cDCC and MS models which introduced by Kilian (2009), Aielli (2011) and Hamilton (1989), respectively. These models help us to apply nonlinear and dynamic linkages in estimating relationship between oil price shocks and the correlations between oil and stock markets. Our results show that correlation between oil and stock markets does not depend on oil price shocks origins and being oil importer or oil exporter countries. We also conclude that the relationship between oil price returns and stock index returns are time varying for selected countries. Considering the results, it is obvious that international investors could not hedge oil price shocks’ risks in their global portfolio by diversification and managing their portfolio of oil importer and oil exporter stock markets. Hence, it is suggested they use other substituted policies and investing strategies, like future contracts.
C34|Stock Market Efficiency in Developing Economies|This article analyses the degree of stock market efficiency in three emerging economiesâ€” India, China and Brazil. It tests to see if US stock returns have an influence on endogenous stock returns, even after controlling for domestic macroeconomic variables. A country-specific vector auto-regression model is used to test the short-run effects and the fully modified ordinary least square procedure has been used to find the long-run relationship, thus checking for degree of efficiency in these stock markets. The results indicate that, despite controlling for key domestic stock return determinants, US stock returns have a significant positive relationship with the stock returns of all three countries. JEL Classification: G15, C32, C34
C34|Does health insurance decrease health expenditure risk in developing countries? The case of China|This article studies the impact of health insurance on individual out-of-pocket health expenditures in China. Using China Health and Nutrition Survey data between 1991 and 2006, we apply two-part and sample selection models to address issues caused by censored data and selection on unobservables. We find that, although the probability of accessing health care increases with the availability of health insurance, the level of out-of-pocket health expenditure decreases. Our results from a selection model with instrumental variables suggest that having health insurance reduces the expected out-of-pocket health expenditure of an individual by 29.42% unconditionally. Meanwhile, conditional on being subjected to positive health expenditure, health insurance helps reduce out-of-pocket spending by 44.38%. This beneficial effect of health insurance weakens over time, which may be attributable to increases in the coinsurance rates of health insurances in China.
C34|Life Data Analysis for Rail System Fleet Vehicles|Planning, conducting and control of maintenance activities enable to the highest level of availability of transport vehicles in the fleet is one of the most important aspects of transportation. Maintenance is a set of activities that carry out to keep a system or equipment in operation. Maintenance activities are basically divided into two types as preventive maintenance and corrective maintenance. Life data analysis is of crucial importance in terms of determining the failure distribution. Failure distribution of machines and equipment has to be known for planning space parts, labour and tools. This can be determined by using failure data and suitable statistical method. In this study, failure distribution parameters of transport vehicles in the rail system fleet were determined by using real failure data. Applied method was shown for the equipment which is vitally important.
C34|Trade-off between financial sustainability and outreach of microfinance institutions|Microfinance institutions (MFIs) offer banking services to poor customers who have no access to the traditional financial sector. However, recent developments in the microfinance industry have increased focus on financial sustainability of MFIs therefore shifting focus from their social mission (outreach). Previous studies examine the factors affecting both financial sustainability and outreach of MFIs in separate models without taking into account the possible link between them. On this basis we propose a comprehensive model which includes both ‘outreach’ and ‘financial sustainability’ as endogenous variables and allows for possible link between them. Our results show that focusing on financial sustainability does not necessarily hurt the depth and breadth of outreach. Copyright Eurasia Business and Economics Society 2015
C34|Financial frictions and global spillovers|We investigate whether frictions in US financial markets amplify the international propagation of US financial shocks. The dynamics of the US economy is modeled jointly with global macroeconomic and financial variables using a threshold vector autoregression that allows us to capture regime-dependent dynamics conditional on the tightness of US credit market conditions, measured by the excess bond premium on US corporate bonds. The US economy switches from a regime of unconstrained access to credit to one characterized by tight credit whenever the bond risk premium exceeds a critical threshold. US financial shocks have an insignificant effect on the global economy when borrowers have unconstrained access to credit. On the contrary, US financial shocks give rise to a worldwide economic contraction in the tight credit regime. Moreover, US financial shocks are a relatively more important driver of US and global business cycles in times of tight credit.
C34|Accurate medium-term wind power forecasting in a censored classification framework|We provide a wind power forecasting methodology that exploits many of the actual data's statistical features, in particular both-sided censoring. While other tools ignore many of the important stylized facts or provide forecasts for short-term horizons only, our approach focuses on medium-term forecasts, which are especially necessary for practitioners in the forward electricity markets of many power trading places; for example, NASDAQ OMX Commodities (formerly Nord Pool OMX Commodities) in northern Europe. We show that our model produces turbine-specific forecasts that are significantly more accurate in comparison to established benchmark models and present an application that illustrates the financial impact of more accurate forecasts obtained using our methodology.
C34|The harmony of programs package: Quasi-experimental evidence on deworming and canteen interventions in rural Senegal|This paper uses a unique and large-scale quasi-experimental data to study the effect of deworming and school meals programs as a package on educational outcomes pupils test scores aggregate, French or math; enrollment, promotion or dropout rates in rural Senegal. We extend the endogenous selection model la Heckman to incorporate a double-index selection mechanism. We also generalize the Roy model accordingly. We develop estimation strategies based on the full information maximum likelihood and the two-step method. We derive a wide and rich collection of treatment effects ranging from exclusive to relative effects including sequential and substitution effects. The results show that the combination of deworming and school meals programs is more beneficial to pupils achievements than taking programs separately. The sequence of implementation does matter. The two programs are complementary in increasing scores and promotion rates. However, they are substitutes in reducing dropouts. The cost-effectiveness analysis shows the deworming program is by far cheaper than the meals intervention. Implementing meals program before deworming is more cost-effective than the reverse. Lastly, unlike the deworming, meals program and the package deworming and meals have a welfare-enhancing effect on households.
C34|The impact of innovation support programmes on SME innovation in traditional manufacturing industries: an evaluation for seven EU regions|This study investigates the impact of innovation support programmes on SME innovation in traditional manufacturing industries in seven EU regions. Recent literature identifying sources of potential government failure in innovation policy suggests that the effects of public support measures to increase private innovation may be disappointing. Our results are consistent with this hypothesis, yet also suggest a direction for policy reform to overcome government failure and, thereby, to increase the potential additionality of innovation support programmes. Innovation support programmes in the EU typically adopt a cream skimming selection strategy namely, programme managers systematically select firms on the basis of observable characteristics conducive to innovation. The econometric analysis of a new survey database reported in this paper suggests that cream skimming leads to firms being selected for programme participation that benefit less than would randomly selected firms. The policy corollary is that, subject to due diligence checking, allocation of innovation support by lottery should give rise to greater programme additionality than does the prevalent cream skimming approach. We conclude with some practical guidelines for allocation by lottery, which were developed for a recently launched innovation support programme for SMEs.
C34|Censored spatial wind power prediction with random effects|We investigate the importance of taking the spatial interaction of turbines inside a wind park into account. This article provides two tests that check for wake effects and thus, take spatial interdependence into account. Those effects are suspected to have a negative influence on wind power production. Thereafter, we introduce a new modeling approach that is based on the Generalized Wind Power Prediction Tool (GWPPT) and therefore respects both-sided censoring of the data. Furthermore, the new model takes a Spatial Lag Model (SLM) specification into account and allows for random effects in the panel data. Finally, we provide a short empirical study that compares the forecasting accuracy of our model to the established models WPPT, GWPPT, and the naïve persistence predictor. We show that our new model provides significantly better forecasts than the established models.
C34|A Model of Agricultural Land Use, Costs, and Water Quality in the Chesapeake Bay|No abstract is available for this item.
C34|Los cambios en los patrones de consumo de carnes en el mercado interno| El objetivo fue estudiar el consumo de diferentes cortes y tipos de carnes por los hogares uruguayos en la última década del siglo XX y primera del siglo XXI. Se utilizaron las dos últimas encuestas de gastos e ingresos de hogares aplicando un procedimiento bietápico a un sistema incompleto de demanda con ecuaciones censuradas. El estudio involucró trece productos cárnicos: seis de carne bovina, uno de ovina, uno de porcina, uno de aviar, uno de pescados y mariscos y tres productos cárnicos genéricos. Se computaron elasticidades ingreso y precio con un intervalo de confianza 90%. Los resultados verificaron una disminución en el consumo de todas las carnes, particularmente de la bovina, entre ambos períodos. No obstante, éstas continúan siendo un elemento preponderante en la dieta hogareña. La carne aviar mejoró sustancialmente su consumo relativo aunque los fiambres y embutidos consolidaron su preferencia. Entre las bovinas, se destacó la carne picada. El ingreso y tamaño de los hogares mostraron un efecto positivo sobre la probabilidad de consumo de casi todas las carnes, las que se comportaron siempre como bienes necesarios (η < 1) y normales (ε < 0). En general, todas se mostraron inelásticas frente al ingreso y reaccionaron en forma diferencial frente a cambios en su precio. The objective of this research was to study the consumption of different cuts and types of meat by Uruguayan households in the last decade of the XX century and the first decade of XXI century. It involved a two-step estimation of an incomplete system of censored demand equations using household data from the two last national household income and expenditure surveys. Thirteen meat products were included in the analysis: six beef products, four from other meats (sheep, pork, poultry, and fish), and three generic mixed-meat products. A complete set of shor tterm income, own-price and cross-price elasticities were computed and reported with 90% confidence interval. The comparison between the two periods verified a decrease in the consumption of all meats, particularly beef. However, they continue being a dominant factor in household diets. Poultry meat substantially improved its relative consumption although cold cut meats and sausages consolidated as the most preferred among all meat products. The consumption of ground beef excelled among bovine cuts. Income level and household size showed a positive effect on the probability of spending on almost any meat. All meat items were necessary goods (η < 1) exhibiting income-inelastic responses. All of them behaved also as normal goods (ε < 0) although showing different responses to price changes.
C34|The Intra-household Division of Labor: An Empirical Analysis of Spousal Influences on Individual Time Allocation| Using the German Time Use Surveys 1991/92 and 2001/02, this paper analyses the interactions between the time-use decisions of partners within one household. Thereby, an interdependent model of the partners' times allocated to paid and unpaid work that allows for simultaneity and endogeneity of the time allocation decisions of the spouses is applied. When including both weekdays and weekend days in the analysis, a complementary relationship between the partner's time allocations is found. When restricting the analysis to weekdays, however, men's time dedicated to paid and unpaid work is unaffected by their wives' time-use decisions.
C34|Construction of a Spatial Housing Price Index by Estimating an Almost Ideal Demand System| The aim of this paper is to build, for the first time, a spatial housing price index for the Chilean communities. The first step is to recover hedonic prices of three housing attributes by estimating a mixed index model using a generalised method of moments (GMM) procedure. Second, a censored almost ideal demand system is estimated to build expenditures for every community and to compare them among different spatial units, while maintaining a constant utility level. Using micro data from the 2009 CASEN survey, we show that there are important differences in the expenditure of a consumer in Santiago to access the same level of welfare in another community in the country and there are important differences in housing prices among Chilean communities
C34|Estimation of nonseparable models with censored dependent variables and endogenous regressors| In this article we develop a nonparametric estimator for the local average response of a censored dependent variable to endogenous regressors in a nonseparable model where the unobservable error term is not restricted to be scalar and where the nonseparable function need not be monotone in the unobservables. We formalize the identification argument put forward in Altonji, Ichimura, and Otsu (2012), construct a nonparametric estimator, characterize its asymptotic property, and conduct a Monte Carlo investigation to study its small sample properties. Identification is constructive and is achieved through a control function approach. We show that the estimator is consistent and asymptotically normally distributed. The Monte Carlo results are encouraging.
C34|Dependencia espacial de la delincuencia en Monterrey, México|Utilizando datos agregados por vecindario para 2010 en el Área Metropolitana de Monterrey (AMM), México, este trabajo investiga el efecto de las características del entorno en la delincuencia. Se corrobora la existencia de autocorrelación espacial en los datos, es decir, se encuentra que vecindarios con altos índices de delincuencia inciden positivamente en los índices de delincuencia de los vecindarios cercanos. Después de controlar por el sesgo causado por la autocorrelación espacial y la censura de los datos, se encuentra evidencia de que la probabilidad de ser víctima de un delito y la probabilidad de que alguien se convierta en delincuente está positivamente relacionada con el desempleo, el porcentaje de jóvenes varones y la existencia de centros comerciales en el vecindario.
C34|Are There Bubbles in Stock Prices?: Testing for Fundamental Shocks|This paper investigates whether there are bubbles in stock prices. We do this using a previously studied structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model claiming to distinguish fundamental and non-fundamental shocks to real stock prices. TheSVAR model relies on an identification restriction in order to correctly label the shocks. We test this restriction by means of a Markov switching-SVAR (MS-SVAR) model in heteroskedasticity. Using data from France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US we find that the restriction is rejected for Italy, supported at the 1% level for Japan and supported at least at the 5% level for the remaining countries. Several alternative specifications confirm the robustness of these findings. Using SVAR impulse responses and forecast error variance decompositions we further examine the structural shocks and confirm the shock labeling for Japan. Through historical decompositions we observe that stock prices tended to be undervalued throughout the 1970s and 1980s. This undervaluation corrects itself by the mid 1990s, after which stock prices tend to move in tandem with their fundamentals. We therefore find no evidence in favor of stock price bubbles in all the countries invested.
C34|To be a Mother, or not to be? Career and Wage Ladder in Italy and the UK|This paper examines the extent to which motherhood affects women's career accomplishments and wages in Italy and the UK. Using the EU-SILC 2009 data, a decomposition of the motherhood wage gap is implemented after accounting for double selection in labor market participation and motherhood. We find evidence of a negative correlation between labor market and fertility decisions. The results show that motherhood has no adverse effects on women's career path in Italy, and that job segregation explains most of the motherhood wage gap in the UK. Empirical findings suggest that the timing of motherhood and job continuity affect significantly the female wage profile.
C34|When a son is born: The impact of fertility patterns on family finance in rural China|This paper examines the impact of an observable “shock”, the birth of a son, on household financial activities in rural China. We propose theoretical channels that endogenously generate heterogeneity in the levels of financial activities on the basis of a child's gender, even if parents do not possess discriminatory tastes, which we refer to as the “invest via a son” hypothesis compared to the conventional “taste for a son” explanation. Using nationally representative household data collected in 300 rural Chinese villages and econometric models that account for censored financial activities as well as endogenous fertility choices such as sex selection, we present strong evidence that having a son increases the amount of gifts and remittances a household receives from others by over 20%; it also increases both the amounts that a family loans and gives to relatives and friends. Moreover, having a son is found to increase household investments in both agricultural activities and family businesses while no type of expenditure increase with the arrival of a son, clearly consistent with our “invest via a son” hypothesis. Taken together, these results suggest that social conventions play important roles in household financial decisions that extend beyond the traditional role of budget constraints and consumption shocks.
C34|Intellectual capital and productivity of Malaysian general insurers|This study investigates changes in productivity of general insurance firms in Malaysia for the period from 2008 to 2011. Moreover, this study examines the impact of intellectual capital on changes in productivity. In the first stage, this study applies the Malmquist productivity index (MPI) of data envelopment analysis (DEA) and the MPI with bootstrapping approach to evaluate changes in productivity. In the second stage, this study examines the impact of intellectual capital on changes in productivity through OLS and Tobit regressions. Our MPI findings indicate that all but one sample firms experienced growth in productivity over the sample period. Moreover, the use of the MPI with bootstrapping approach provides an effective analysis of MPI estimates. Our regression analysis reveals that VAIC™ and its individual components have significantly positive impacts on changes in productivity. We suggest that general insurers in Malaysia should invest in intellectual capital, including to improve their managerial skills, to gain sustainable growth in productivity. Our findings corroborate the initiative carried out by the Malaysian government, which continuously emphasize the importance of IC. The findings of this study may lead to a better understanding of the relative changes in total productivity of general insurance firms. By identifying changes in efficiency and changes in technology, better management decisions can be made to achieve greater productivity. Moreover, through the bootstrap estimation, we are able to determine whether estimated increases or decreases are statistically significant.
C34|Parity in professional sports when revenues are maximized|There are two major hypotheses regarding the talent distribution among the teams that would maximize the total revenues in a sports league; dominant teams versus parity. This paper examines the revenue structure of National Football League and proposes policy recommendations regarding talent distribution among the teams. By using a unique, rich data set on game day stadium attendance and TV ratings we are able to measure the total demand as a function of involved teams' talent levels. Reduced form regression results indicate that TV viewers are more interested in close games, on the other hand stadium attendees are more interested in home team's dominance, in other words stadium demand and TV demand work against each other. We therefore propose a policy that promotes slight parity among the teams where big market teams have a slight advantage over the others. Total revenues of the league are maximized under such policy.
C34|A generalized panel data switching regression model|This paper considers a generalized panel data model of polychotomous and/or sequential switching which can also accommodate the dependence between unobserved effects and covariates in the model. We showcase our model using an empirical illustration in which we estimate scope economies for the publicly owned electric utilities in the US during the period from 2001 to 2003.
C34|A flexible parametric approach for estimating switching regime models and treatment effect parameters|In this paper, we propose a flexible, parametric class of switching regime models allowing for both skewed and fat-tailed outcome and selection errors. Specifically, we model the joint distribution of each outcome error and the selection error via a newly constructed class of multivariate distributions which we call generalized normal mean–variance mixture distributions. We extend Heckman’s two-step estimation procedure for the Gaussian switching regime model to the new class of models. When the distributions of the outcome errors are asymmetric, we show that an additional correction term accounting for skewness in the outcome error distribution (besides the analogue of the well known inverse mill’s ratio) needs to be included in the second step regression. We use the two-step estimators of parameters in the model to construct simple estimators of average treatment effects and establish their asymptotic properties. Simulation results confirm the importance of accounting for skewness in the outcome errors in estimating both model parameters and the average treatment effect and the treatment effect for the treated.
C34|Weighted KS statistics for inference on conditional moment inequalities|This paper proposes set estimators and conservative confidence regions for the identified set in conditional moment inequality models using Kolmogorov–Smirnov statistics with a truncated inverse variance weighting with increasing truncation points. The new weighting differs from those proposed in the literature in two important ways. First, this paper shows that estimators based on KS statistics with the proposed weighting function converge to the identified set at a faster rate than existing procedures based on bounded weight functions in a broad class of models. This provides a theoretical justification for inverse variance weighting in this context, and contrasts with analogous results for conditional moment equalities in which optimal weighting only affects the asymptotic variance. The results on rates of convergence of set estimators are the first such results even for the existing procedures, and involve developing the first general framework for determining consistency and rates of convergence for set estimators and confidence regions in this context. Second, the new weighting changes the asymptotic behavior, including the rate of convergence, of the KS statistic itself, requiring a new asymptotic theory in choosing the critical value. A series of examples illustrate the broad applicability of the results.
C34|Spatial issues on a hedonic estimation of rents in Brussels|Using Belgian microdata, we assess the impact, on a hedonic regression, of the distortions arising from the choice of either a specific zoning system or the delineation of the study area. We also evaluate the biases that arise when spatial effects are not accounted for. Given that the dependent variable is interval-coded, controlling for spatial dependence in this context is challenging. We address this problem with two alternative strategies. Firstly, we use the Gibbs Sampling algorithm to estimate spatial econometric models which extends the interval regression model. A major drawback of this approach is that the implied estimation is proned to the endogeneity biases inherent to our hedonic regression model. To circumvent the endogeneity issues triggered by the first estimation strategy, we also use a two-stage estimation procedure with locational fixed effects. In all specifications, results are sensitive to the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem (MAUP) and to the choice of the delineation of the study area. Moreover, they confirm the existence of substantive spatial dependence. Conversely to the previous results with a negative elasticity for the percentage of the area covered by agriculture and a positive elasticity for the potential accessibility to jobs, the second approach implies opposite effects for those two variables. This indicates that dwellings close to agricultural areas and with a lower accessibility to the main employment centers are highly demanded and that endogeneity biases are not negligible.
C34|Trends in and determinants of technical efficiency of software companies in India|This paper attempts to discuss the trends in and determinants of technical efficiency of software companies in India during 1999–2008 by applying input-oriented DEA model. Based upon the PROWESS Database of CMIE, the efficiencies were estimated for the old and new companies and also for Indian, multinational and group companies. The estimations were made for a sample of 72 software companies, under VRS assumption, as dataset manifested large magnitude of differences owing to the presence of big and small companies in the sample. The sales revenue is taken as output variable, and employment, expenditure on computers and electronics equipments, operating expenditure, power, fuel, and water charges as the input variables. The results and analyses demonstrate that the mean overall technical efficiency of the software industry in India during 1999–2008 was low suggesting that software firms, on an average, were wasting 35% of their inputs. It was found that the number of companies operating on most productive scale size has declined during the period under reference. The results also suggest that Indian-owned companies were more efficient than the foreign-owned and group-owned companies. Contrary to the expectations, exports were not found to have exercised significant impact on the efficiency of Indian software industry.
C34|Matching perception with the reality—Performance of Islamic equity investments|The systematic failure of the global equity markets during the recent financial crisis made investors re-evaluate their portfolio constituents. It is argued that equities that comply with the Islamic investment principles perform better than conventional equities during the declining phase of capital markets. The better performance of Islamic investments can be attributed to the Shari'ah based screening criteria that specifically forbids investment in shares of those companies that are excessively leveraged and/or engaged in lending activities. This study investigates the extent to which this claim is valid by comparing the performance of global and regional Islamic equity indices (IEIs) with conventional equity indices during the past decade. The equity indices for such analysis are preferred since it does not account for transaction costs or management skills. A logistic smooth transition autoregressive (LSTAR) model is used to investigate whether the ‘down market’ performance of IEIs differs from conventional indices. The LSTAR is superior to conventional ordinary least squares models since this allows for a smooth transition from the ‘down market’ to the ‘up market’ rather than an abrupt change. The empirical results indicate that IEIs, in general, perform better than conventional indices during the period 2000 to 2012. We do not find any abnormal returns associated with Islamic equity indices on a global basis, however, there is evidence of positive abnormal returns in the case of regional indices from Europe and Asia. Overall, IEIs exhibit lower systematic risk as compared with their benchmark suggesting that any excess performance from Islamic investments stems from the systematic risk that each investment assumes with respect to their benchmark during the declining phase of capital markets. The findings of this study are of interest to both academics and the general investing public since it provides evidence that IEIs are comparatively less risky than their conventional counterpart and thus provide hedging opportunities during the downfall of capital markets.
C34|Pattern Of Financial Savings In A Romanian Bank – A Statistical Analysis|This study aims to expose the profile of the pattern of saving for the financial consumers of a Romanian bank. The methodology of analysis is based on a logistic regression, using the relationship between variables which expose relevant characteristics of persons who save money. The analysis was conducted in R software, which represents a powerful tool for statistical modelling.
C34|Identifying the Stance of Monetary Policy at the Zero Lower Bound: A Markov-switching Estimation Exploiting Monetary-Fiscal Policy Interdependence|In this paper, I propose an econometric technique to estimate a Markov-switching Taylor rule subject to the zero lower bound of interest rates. I show that incorporating a Tobit-like specification allows to obtain consistent estimators. More importantly, I show that linking the switching of the Taylor rule coefficients to the switching of the coefficients of an auxiliary uncensored Markov-switching regression improves the identification of an otherwise unidentifiable prevalent monetary regime. To illustrate the proposed estimation technique, I use U.S. quarterly data spanning 1960:1-2013:4. The chosen auxiliary Markov-switching regression is a fiscal policy rule where federal revenues react to debt and the output gap. Results show that there is evidence of policy co-movements with debt-stabilizing fiscal policy more likely accompanying active monetary policy, and vice versa.
C34|Should defaults be forgotten? Evidence from variation in removal of negative consumer credit information|Practically all industrialized economies restrict the length of time that credit bureaus can retain borrowers’ negative credit information. There is, however, a large variation in the permitted retention times across countries. By exploiting a quasi-experimental variation in this retention time, we investigate what happens when negative information is deleted earlier from credit files. We find that the loss of information led banks to tighten their lending standards significantly as the expected retention time was diminished from on average three-and-a-half to three years exactly. Simultaneously, we find that borrowers who experience this shorter retention time default more frequently. Since borrowers nevertheless obtain more net access to credit and total defaults do not increase overall, we cannot rule out that this reduction in retention time is optimal.
C34|Self-selection and direct estimation of across-regime correlation parameter| A direct maximum likelihood (ML) procedure to estimate the ‘generally unidentified’ across-regime correlation parameter in a two-regime endogenous switching model is here provided. The results of a Monte Carlo experiment confirm consistency of our direct ML procedure, and its relative efficiency over widely applied models and methods. As an empirical application, we estimate a two-regime simultaneous equation model of domestic work of Italian married women in which the two regimes are given by their working status (employed or unemployed).
C34|Institutional Determinants of Japanese Outward FDI in the Manufacturing Industry|This paper explores the relationship between six indicators of governance and outward foreign direct investment (FDI) in the Japanese manufacturing industry. We estimate a gravity model of FDI for 30 host countries covering the period 2005-2011, employing Heckman's two-step sample selection correction in order to tackle the issue of zero-value observations. The results indicate that Japanese overseas investments are driven by host market size, yen real exchange rate, macroeconomic stability, resource endowments and policy variables. In particular, we find that confidence societal rules, control of corruption, government effectiveness, political stability and private sector policies are important factors driving FDI.
C34|Dependence Measures in Bivariate Gamma Frailty Models|"Bivariate duration data frequently arise in economics, biostatistics and other areas. In ""bivariate frailty models"", dependence between the frailties (i.e., unobserved determinants) induces dependence between the durations. Using notions of quadrant dependence, we study restrictions that this imposes on the implied dependence of the durations, if the frailty terms act multiplicatively on the corresponding hazard rates. Marginal frailty distributions are often taken to be gamma distributions. For such cases we calculate general bounds for two association measures, Pearson's correlation coefficient and Kendall's tau. The results are employed to compare the flexibility of specific families of bivariate gamma frailty distributions."
C34|Corporate efficiency, credit status and investment| This paper considers the relationship between financial frictions and investment. In an effort to clarify the role of cash flow in examining the impact of capital market imperfections, endogenous switching regression models are estimated for a panel of 1122 UK firms listed on the London Stock Exchange over the period of 1981–2009. Not only is the financial regime which the firm faces endogenous, we also allow the regime to change over time via modeling efficiency using stochastic frontier analysis. The results reveal that a firm's constrained credit status changes with the improvement of its efficiency. Furthermore, the analysis reveals that financially constrained firm's investment is comparatively more sensitive to its cash flow. Moreover, this sensitivity is statistically significant and is negatively related with corporate efficiency.
C34|Modelling appellate courts’ responses in motor injury disputes|Motor third-liability insurance is compulsory in the European Union. We examine the behaviour of Spanish appellate courts in the context of motor liability insurance and pay particular attention to four characterising features. Specifically, we investigate (1) how the appellate court interprets the rules for updating the financial compensation when the courts’ ruling is made in a different year to that in which the motor accident occurred; (2) the response of the appellate court when its legal medical evaluation differs from the court’s decision; (3) whether the appellate court modifies the criteria when the insurance company was not charged with interest for delaying payment in the first instance; (4) whether the fault allocated by trial courts is revised by the appellate court. We apply a multi-categorical selection mechanism to deal with samples that are potentially non-random. This allows us to separately consider the characteristics of victim’s and the insurer’s decisions to appeal. The results indicate that disputing agents have significantly different appeal functions, where insurers show a more effective and consistent behaviour than victims. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|Forecasting market turbulence using regime-switching models|We propose an early warning system to timely forecast turbulence in the US stock market. In a first step, a Markov-switching model with two regimes (a calm market and a turbulent market) is developed. Based on the time series of the monthly returns of the S&P 500 price index, the corresponding filtered probabilities are successively estimated. In a second step, the turbulent phase of the model is further specified to distinguish between bullish and bearish trends. For comparison only, a Markov-switching model with three states (a calm market, a turbulent bullish market, and a turbulent bearish market) is examined as well. In a third step, logistic regression models are employed to forecast the filtered probabilities provided by the Markov-switching models. A major advantage of the presented modeling framework is the timely identification of the factors driving the different phases of the capital market. In a fourth step, the early warning system is applied to an asset management case study. The results show that explicit consideration of the models’ signals yields better portfolio performance and lower portfolio risk compared to standard buy-and-hold and constant proportion portfolio insurance strategies. Copyright Swiss Society for Financial Market Research 2014
C34|Estimating farmers’ productive and marketing inefficiency: an application to vegetable producers in Benin|This paper estimates the technical and marketing inefficiency of a sample of urban vegetable producers in Benin. Marketing inefficiency is defined as the failure of farmers to achieve better marketing output and is reflected in lower output price indices. The study proposes a Russell-type measure of inefficiency using a directional distance function that accounts simultaneously for the expansion of outputs and price indices and the contraction of variable inputs. A truncated bootstrap regression is used in the second stage to consistently analyze factors that underlie differences in inefficiency. The first-stage results suggest that vegetable producers are more inefficient with respect to marketing than production. The second-stage results indicate that technical inefficiency is affected by the production environment and private extension services. Marketing inefficiency is affected by the type of marketing arrangements. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|Participation and commitment in third-party research funding: evidence from Italian Universities|Over the last few years, the emergence of universities’ third mission has significantly affected objectives, sources of funding and financing methods, as well as the management, of universities. Although the university–industry relationships have been widely investigated, several interesting theoretical and empirical issues still remain open in the literature. In this paper we construct an original data set, combining financial information with structural and organizational data on Italian University departments, with a twofold aim. First, to describe the importance and the extent of third-party funding in the Italian system of research as well as the pattern of evolution over the last few years. Second, to investigate the factors that influence both the probability and the intensity of the commitment of departments in third-party activities by building a multi-level framework combining factors at individual, departmental, university and territorial levels. The results obtained suggest a number of policy implications for universities and policy makers. On one hand, universities should explicitly recognize the role of dedicated internal organizations and provide training for professional staff capable of acting as value-added intermediaries. On the other hand, if policy makers wish to improve the relationships between universities and external actors, disciplinary differences across departments as well as regional inequalities in growth levels should be carefully considered, giving up a one-size-fits-all approach. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|Contagion and Global Financial Crises: Lessons from Nine Crisis Episodes|Episodes of extraordinary turbulence in global financial markets are examined during nine crises ranging from the Asian crisis in 1997–98 to the recent European debt crisis of 2010–13. After dating each crisis using a regime switching model, the analysis focuses on changes in the dependence structures of equity markets through correlation, coskewness and covolatility to address a range of hypotheses regarding contagion transmission. The results show that the great recession is a true global financial crisis. Finance linkages are more likely to result in crisis transmission than trade and emerging market crises transmit unexpectedly, particularly to developed markets. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|Survey data and Bayesian analysis: a cost-efficient way to estimate customer equity|We present a Bayesian framework for estimating the customer lifetime value (CLV) and the customer equity (CE) based on the purchasing behavior deducible from the market surveys on customer purchasing behavior. The proposed framework systematically addresses the challenges faced when the future value of customers is estimated based on survey data. The scarcity of the survey data and the sampling variance are countered by utilizing the prior information and quantifying the uncertainty of the CE and CLV estimates by posterior distributions. Furthermore, information on the purchase behavior of the customers of competitors available in the survey data is integrated to the framework. The introduced approach is directly applicable in the domains where a customer relationship can be thought to be monogamous. As an example on the use of the framework, we analyze a consumer survey on mobile phones carried out in Finland in February 2013. The survey data contains consumer given information on the current and previous brand of the phone and the times of the last two purchases. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|The aftermath of the subprime crisis: a clustering analysis of world banking sector|The banking sector has been on the spotlight in both academic and policy circles since the outburst of the subprime bubble. The crisis has its roots in the US, but there were spillover effects around the world. We study the behavior of the banking sector of 40 countries during the period 2007–2010, using a new clustering methodology. Our methodology combines regime switching models in the modeling of longitudinal variations with cluster analysis that identifies groups of countries with similar profiles. Our results show that although there were periods of intense contagion, the impact was uneven among sample countries. The crisis had episodic effects on some countries, while others had severe devaluations after the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. Finally, a small group of banking systems has plunged into a long severe crisis. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
C34|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis| This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
C34|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
C34|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
C34|Adverse selection, moral hazard and the demand for Medigap insurance|In this paper we study the adverse selection and moral hazard effects of Medicare supplemental insurance (Medigap). While both have been studied separately, this is the first paper to analyze them in a unified econometric framework. We find that adverse selection into Medigap is weak, but the moral hazard effect is substantial. On average, Medigap coverage increases health care spending by 24%, with especially large effects for relatively healthy individuals. These results have important policy implications. For instance, they imply that conventional remedies for inefficiencies created by adverse selection (e.g., mandatory enrollment) may lead to substantial health care cost increases.
C34|Microfinance Environment in Uzbekistan: Analysis of Supply and Demand|The paper describes the microfinance environment in Uzbekistan, with an emphasis on two types of non-bank microfinance institutions – Credit Unions and Microcredit Organizations. The specific nature of these institutions provides new evidence of the commercially oriented microcredit model and SME lending, which is an emerging trend in mainstream microfinance. The paper offers two important contributions. On the supply side of microcredits, we analyse the determinants of initial placement of these MFIs in districts of Uzbekistan. We find that MFIs follow general economic principles when choosing the location for establishment. On the demand side, we analyse the actual margins of excess demand for microcredits by considering only the pool of eligible applicants. We find that the total probability of microcredit approval is on average only 0.5, which implies that the actual margins of untapped market could be just half of that projected when the narrow definition of eligible applicants is taken into account.
C34|Econometric analysis of social interactions in the production decisions of private forest owners|This article analyses private forest owners' timber supply, taking individual and regional determinants into account, and investigates whether the drivers of forest owners' behaviour differ within and between these different levels, due to peer effects. From a unique database of French private forest owners from a survey carried out in 1999, harvest decision and harvesting intensity are simultaneously estimated by a multilevel selection model. It allows us to identify social interactions: endogenous, contextual and correlated effects. Results show that forest owners with the same characteristics may behave differently, depending on the dynamism of the timber sector and the forest environment.
C34|Are All U.S. Credit Unions Alike? A Generalized Model of Heterogeneous Technologies with Endogenous Switching and Correlated Effects|Credit unions differ in the types of financial services they offer to their members. This paper explicitly models this observed heterogeneity using a generalized model of endogenous ordered switching. Our approach captures the endogenous choice that credit unions make when adding new products to their financial services mix. Failure to do so is likely to yield biased and inconsistent estimates. The model that we develop also allows for the dependence between unobserved effects and regressors in both the selection and outcome equations and can accommodate the presence of predetermined covariates in the model. We use this model to estimate returns to scale for U.S. retail credit unions from 1996 to 2011. We document strong evidence of persistent technological heterogeneity among credit unions offering different financial service mixes, which, if ignored, can produce quite misleading results. Employing our generalized model, we find that credit unions of all types exhibit substantial economies of scale.
C34|Estimation and model selection for left-truncated and right-censored lifetime data with application to electric power transformers analysis|In lifetime analysis of electric transformers, the maximum likelihood estimation has been proposed with the EM algorithm. However, it is not clear whether the EM algorithm offers a better solution compared to the simpler Newton-Raphson algorithm. In this paper, the first objective is a systematic comparison of the EM algorithm with the Newton-Raphson algorithm in terms of convergence performance. The second objective is to examine the performance of Akaike's information criterion (AIC) for selecting a suitable distribution among candidate models via simulations. These methods are illustrated through the electric power transformer dataset.
C34|Corrections to: Multivariate normal distribution approaches for dependently truncated data|We provide corrections for Emura and Konno (2010). We also numerically verify the corrected formulae. Appendix gives a real data used for numerical analysis.
C34|Gene selection for survival data under dependent censoring: a copula-based approach|Dependent censoring arises in biomedical studies when the survival outcome of interest is censored by competing risks. In survival data with microarray gene expressions, gene selection based on the univariate Cox regression analyses has been used extensively in medical research, which however, is only valid under the independent censoring assumption. In this paper, we first consider a copula-based framework to investigate the bias caused by dependent censoring on gene selection. Then, we utilize the copula-based dependence model to develop an alternative gene selection procedure. Simulations show that the proposed procedure adjusts for the effect of dependent censoring and thus outperforms the existing method when dependent censoring is indeed present. The non-small-cell lung cancer data is analyzed to demonstrate the usefulness of our proposal. We implemented the proposed method in an R “compound.Cox” package.
C34|Testing and explaining economic resilience with an application to Italian regions|This paper studies regional economic resilience by exploiting the properties of the nonlinear smooth-transition autoregressive model. A testing procedure to distinguish between engineering and ecological resilience is presented, and a measurement of economic resilience is provided. Regional differences in economic resilience are explained by the presence of spatial interactions and by adopting a set of determinants like economic diversity, export performance, financial constraints, and human and social capital. An empirical investigation is conducted for analysing regional employment evolution in Italy from 1992 to 2012. Some concluding suggestions propose possible future areas of research.
C34|Ekonomické hodnocení hluku ze silniční dopravy: studie podmíněného hodnocení<BR>[The Economic Valuation of Road Traffic Noise: The Contingent Valuation Study]|Our study investigates the benefits that the Czech inhabitants could gain from the reduction of road traffic noise. We applied contingent valuation study in order to estimate willingness-to-pay (WTP) for the reduction of traffic noise by 10 dB (from 70 dB up 60 dB). Using data from 2010 Czech representative survey (n=2,104), we estimated mean WTP by nonparametric method which was based on the Kaplan-Meier estimate. Further, we explained the variability of WTP using Double-Hurdle model. In the first step, the Probit model explained the choice of individuals that are willing to participate on the program decreasing the road noise. In the second step, the log-normal regression model explained the variability of WTP on the socio-economic characteristics of individuals and characteristics of noise in the area where people live.
C34|El impacto de las remesas sobre tres diferentes indicadores de pobreza en Guatemala|Este articulo utiliza una encuesta representativa a nivel nacional para estudiar el impacto de las remesas internacionales sobre la probabilidad de ser pobre, la severidad de la pobreza y la desigualdad entre pobres en Guatemala. Tres resultados emergen. Primero, controlando por seleccion y endogeneidad, los hogares que reciben remesas internacionales reducen su probabilidad de ser pobres. Segundo, controlando por endogeneidad y el truncamiento de datos, las remesas internacionales reducen la severidad de la pobreza. Tercero, controlando por endogeneidad y el truncamiento de datos, las remesas internacionales aumentan marginalmente la desigualdad entre los pobres.
C34|A Causal Interpretation of Extensive and Intensive Margin Effects in Generalized Tobit Models| This note proposes a new decomposition of average treatment effects on nonnegative outcomes. It represents the total effect as a population-weighted sum of the effects for two groups: those induced to participate by the treatment and those participating regardless of it. The usual decomposition into extensive and intensive margins used in the literature is generally incompatible with such a causal interpretation. The difference between decompositions can be substantial and yield diametrically opposed results. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
C34|Abandoning Coffee under the Threat of Violence and the Presence of Illicit Crops. Evidence from Colombia|This paper explores the importance of the risk of violence on the decision making of rural households, using a unique panel data set for Colombian coffee-growers. We identify two channels. First, we examine the direct impact of conflict on agricultural production through the change in the percentage of the farm allocated to coffee. Second, we explore how conflict generates incentives to substitute from legal agricultural production to illegal crops. Following Dercon and Christiaensen (2011), we develop a dynamic consumption model where economic risk and the risk of violence are explicitly included. Theoretical results are tested using a parametric and semi-parametric approach. We find a significant negative effect of the risk of violence and the presence of illegal crops on the decision to continue coffee production and on the percentage of the farm allocated to coffee. Results are robust after controlling for endogeneity bias and after relaxing the normality assumption.
C34|The Wage Premium of Foreign Education: New Evidence from Australia|We study whether Australian employers recognise immigrants' education acquired abroad, and if so how. Using data from the Longitudinal Surveys of Immigrants in Australia, we apply interval regression to model migrant hourly earnings. We find substantially higher returns from human capital obtained in Australia and other OECD countries compared with non-OECD countries. These results suggest that the transfer of human capital acquired abroad is mediated by the country in which it was acquired, as found for Israel (Friedberg (2000) and the US (Bratsberg and Ragan (2002)). The results also suggest that immigrants from non-OECD countries are the ones who can gain the most from obtaining further education in Australia, and that targeted rather than generic policies in this area could reduce the extent of the education-occupation mismatch amongst immigrants.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C34|Retirement Choices in Italy: What an Option Value Model Tells Us|Using Italian data this study estimates the option value model in order to quantify the effect of financial incentives on retirement choices. As far as we know, this is the first empirical study which estimates the conditional multiple-years (CMY) model put forward by Stock and Wise (1990). This implies that we have accounted for dynamic self-selection bias. For the subsample of females the CMY model yields plausible estimates of the preference parameters such as the marginal utility of leisure. This last parameter is typically underestimated if one does not take into account the self-selection problem. From our results it becomes clear that dynamic self-selection results in a considerable downward-bias in the estimate of the marginal utility of leisure. We also performed a simulation study to gauge the effects of a dramatic pension reform. It turns out that the underestimation of the marginal utility of leisure translates into a sizable overprediction of the impact of the reform. For males we also obtain plausible estimates. The results for males should be interpreted with caution because we are not able to fully correct for dynamic self-selection bias.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
