C38|Defining, measuring and ranking energy vulnerability|Vulnerability is reaching an increasing attention from both academia, international community and industry, being detected as a pillar of the development agenda. If the formal definition of overall vulnerability and resilience is still flawed in the economic literature, the measurement and mainstreaming of outlying characteristics and sound policies for energy vulnerability results almost uncovered, often overlapping with other energy issues. Energy vulnerability also results poorly enforced by regulatory, governmental, and legislative systems. After reviewing and furnishing a univocal ambient merging the multiple interpretations on such concepts, this work: i) defines energy vulnerability; ii) builds a composite indicator to measure energy vulnerability; and iii) analyzes and ranks OECD and non-OECD countries in terms of energy vulnerability. The regulatory framework, SDGs and the development agenda are examined, selected indicators from the WB’s WDI are analyzed. The indicator is weighted by a multivariate analysis and its robustness is checked through different techniques.
C38|Improving Forecast Accuracy of Financial Vulnerability: PLS Factor Model Approach|We present a factor augmented forecasting model for assessing the financial vulnerability in Korea. Dynamic factor models often extract latent common factors from a large panel of time series data via the method of the principal components (PC). Instead, we employ the partial least squares (PLS) method that estimates target specific common factors, utilizing covariances between predictors and the target variable. Applying PLS to 198 monthly frequency macroeconomic time series variables and the Bank of Korea's Financial Stress Index (KFSTI), our PLS factor augmented forecasting models consistently outperformed the random walk benchmark model in out-of-sample prediction exercises in all forecast horizons we considered. Our models also outperformed the autoregressive benchmark model in short-term forecast horizons. We expect our models would provide useful early warning signs of the emergence of systemic risks in Korea's financial markets.
C38|Dynamic Factor Models in gretl. The DFM package|This package deals with the estimation of dynamic factor models (DFM); for the moment, three factor extraction techniques are available, but we plan to add more in future versions. Further additions will include parameter restrictions.
C38|Understanding the Consumer Confidence Index in Colombia: A structural FAVAR analysis|The consumer confidence index (CCI) is very relevant for economic analysis due to its timely publication and forecasting capacities. Although there is extensive literature on the link between CCI and macroeconomic aggregates, in particular with households' consumption, few papers have studied the fundamental factors that explain the CCI behaviour. Actually, no attempt has been made for the Colombian case. In this paper we aim to fill this gap. We estimate a Structural Factor-Augmented VAR (SFAVAR) model and perform a historical decomposition (HD) on the CCI series to obtain the underlying structural innovations that drove the CCI dynamics over the past few years. Our findings suggest that the CCI responded to changes in the underlying determinants and to non-fundamental shocks possibly related to uncertainty periods and noneconomic, socio-political or electoral events. Moreover, a counterfactual analysis shows that households' consumption forecasts improve when using the CCI series that are not affected by these non-fundamental shocks. **** ABSTRACT: El Índice de Confianza del Consumidor (ICC) es un instrumento relevante para el análisis económico, dada su oportuna publicación y sus capacidades de pronóstico. A pesar de que existe una gran cantidad de trabajos que estudian la relación entre el ICC y los agregados macroeconómicos, y en particular con el consumo privado, son pocos los estudios que han analizado los factores fundamentales que definen el comportamiento del ICC. De hecho, no hay ningún estudio al respecto para el caso colombiano. Con este documento tratamos de resolver este problema. Estimamos un modelo VAR estructural de factores (SFAVAR) y realizamos una descomposición histórica de choques del ICC para obtener los errores estructurales que determinaron la dinámica del ICC en años recientes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el comportamiento observado del ICC obedeció tanto a cambios en sus determinantes como a choques no fundamentales relacionados, posiblemente, con eventos coyunturales de naturaleza no-económica, socio-política y/o electoral. Adicionalmente, un ejercicio contrafactual permite ver que el pronóstico del consumo privado mejora cuando se utiliza una serie del ICC que no está afectada por los choques no explicados por sus fundamentales.
C38|The dynamics of households' stock market beliefs|We analyse a long panel of households’ stock market beliefs to gain insights into the nature of their expectations formation processes. We classify respondents into one of five groups based on their data and estimate group-wise models of expectations formation. Two of the groups are at opposite extremes in terms of optimism: Pessimists who expect substantially negative returns and financially sophisticated individuals whose expectations are close to the historical average. Two groups expect returns around zero and differ only in how they respond to information: Extrapolators who become more optimistic following positive information and mean-reverters for whom the opposite is the case. The final group is characterised by poor probability numeracy; its individuals are not willing or able to quantify their beliefs about future returns. None of the estimated belief formation processes passes a rational expectations test.
C38|The Dynamics of Households' Stock Market Beliefs|We analyse a long panel of householdsâ€™ stock market beliefs to gain insights into the nature of their expectations formation processes. We classify respondents into one of five groups based on their data and estimate group-wise models of expectations formation. Two of the groups are at opposite extremes in terms of optimism: Pessimists who expect substantially negative returns and financially sophisticated individuals whose expectations are close to the historical average. Two groups expect returns around zero and differ only in how they respond to information: Extrapolators who become more optimistic following positive information and mean-reverters for whom the opposite is the case. The final group is characterised by poor probability numeracy; its individuals are not willing or able to quantify their beliefs about future returns. None of the estimated belief formation processes passes a rational expectations test.
C38|Heterogeneity within the euro area: New insights into an old story|We assess cross-country heterogeneity within the eurozone and its evolution over time by measuring the distances between the equilibrium exchange rates’ paths of member countries. These equilibrium paths are derived from the minimization of currency misalignments, by matching real exchange rates with their economic fundamentals. Using cluster and factor analyses, we identify two distinct groups of countries in the run-up to the European Monetary Union (EMU), Greece being clearly an outlier at that time. Comparing the results with more recent periods, we find evidence of rising dissimilarities between these two sets of countries, as well as within the groups themselves. Overall, our findings illustrate the building-up of macroeconomic imbalances within the eurozone before the 2008 crisis and the fragmentation between its member countries that followed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C38|La estructura sectorial de Colombia: Un análisis insumo-producto|En los últimos años ha existido el consenso de que la economía colombiana es muy dependente del sector minero – energético, por lo cual se deben encontrar formas de transformar el aparato productivo. El análisis insumo-producto ayuda a identificar cuales pueden ser los sectores que pueden contribuir a una mayor diversificación de economía, además de la clasificación por clústeres, los cuales no han cambiado tanto en los últimos quince años.
C38|Generación de empleos y clústeres|En este trabajo se utiliza la metodología insumo – producto para analizar la creación del empleo desde la perspectiva sectorial, al utilizar los multiplicadores del empleo los multiplicadores del empleo y mostrar las relaciones del empleo entre e intra – clúster de la economía. Se encuentra que los clústeres más cercanos a la demanda final son los de agro – industria e industria y construcción. Si se realiza algún estímulo sobre la demanda de los productos finales de estos clústeres se va a generar una mayor absorción del trabajo, no solo dentro de cada clúster, sino en el sistema productivo en general. El efecto se refuerza si existen conexiones fuertes con clústeres proveedores netos de insumos, tales como el de servicios o el de industria minero – energética.
C38|From cash- to securities-driven euro area repo markets: the role of financial stress and safe asset scarcity|Focussing on repo specialness premia, using ISIN-specific transaction-by-transaction data of one-day maturity repos, we document a gradual shift from cash- to securities-driven transactions in euro area repo markets over the period 2010-2018. Compared to earlier studies focussing only on specific sub-periods or market segments we extend, illustrate, and validate evidence on financial frictions that are relevant in driving repo premia: controlling for a comprehensive range of bond-market specific characteristics, we show that repo premia have been systematically affected by fragmentation in the sovereign space, bank funding stress, and safe asset scarcity. These channels exhibit very strong country-specific differences, as also reflected by large discrepancies in country-specific interest rates on General Collateral. To ensure robustness of our empirical findings, we apply panel econometric and data mining approaches in a complementary and mutually informative way. JEL Classification: E52, E44, C33, C38
C38|Analyzing Credit Risk Transmission to the Non-Financial Sector in Europe: A Network Approach|A high-dimensional network of European CDS spreads is modeled to assess the transmission of credit risk to the non-financial corporate sector in Europe. We build on a network connectedness approach that uses variance decompositions in vector autoregressions (VARs) to characterize the dependence structure in the panel of CDS spreads. Our main findings suggest a sectoral clustering in the CDS network, where financial institutions are located in the center of the network and non-financial as well as sovereign CDS are grouped around the financial center. The network has a geographical component re flected in differences in the magnitude and direction of real-sector risk transmission across European countries. We identify an increase in the transmission of financial and sovereign credit risk to the non-financial sector during the global financial crisis and the European debt crisis. By contrast, we find that the transmission of risk within the non-financial sector remains largely unaffected by crisis events.
C38|A model-based clustering approach for analyzing energy-related financial literacy and its determinants|Recent research highlights the role of consumer’s energy-related financial literacy in adoption of energy efficient household appliances in order to reduce the energy-efficiency gap within the household sector. The computation of an indicator for such a literacy measure has followed a somewhat less refined approach though. This paper demonstrates the use of a model-based clustering strategy in order to differentiate the population based on the level of energy-related financial literacy. Using a Swiss data with 6, 722 respondents, we are able to identify three latent groups that represent low, mid and high levels of literacy. We use this new measure within an ordered logit setting with the goal of explaining the determinants of the level of energy-related financial literacy and compare empirical results using classical indicators and approaches. The empirical findings suggest a significant gender-gap among the Swiss population, i.e. females, even those with university education, are less likely to possess a high level of energy-related financial literacy. Individuals who display strong concern for free-riding on their own energy reduction behavior, are also found to have higher odds of belonging to the low literacy group. The results show that it is possible to identify latent classes that have a general and intuitive meaning and provides support to the model-based clustering approach as a sophisticated alternative. This could be a useful approach when empirical researchers are interested in (attribute-based) latent groups of consumers. The identification of latent classes also provides a possibility to target consumers belonging to these classes with specific policy measures in order to increase their level of literacy.
C38|On the Use of Spectral Value Decomposition for the Construction of Composite Indices|High dimensional composite index makes experts’ preferences in set-ting weights a hard task. In the literature, one of the approaches to derive weights from a data set is Principal Component or Factor Analysis that, although conceptually different, they are similar in results when FA is based on Spectral Value Decomposition and rotation is not performed. This works motivates theoretical reasons to derive the weights of the elementary indicators in a composite index when multiple components are retained in the analysis. By Monte Carlo simulation it offers, moreover, the best strategy to identify the number of components to retain.
C38|A Generalized Factor Model with Local Factors|I extend the theory on factor models by incorporating âlocalâ factors into the model. Local factors affect a decreasing fraction of the observed variables. This implies a continuum of eigenvalues of the covariance matrix, as is commonly observed in applications. I derive conditions under which local factors will be estimated consistently using the common Principal Component Estimator. I further propose a novel class of estimators for the number of factors. Unlike estimators that have been proposed in the past, my estimators use information in the eigenvectors as well as in the eigenvalues. Monte Carlo evidence suggests significant finite sample gains over existing estimators. Empirically I find evidence of local factors in a large panel of US macroeconomic indicators.
C38|Dynamic specification tests for dynamic factor models|We derive computationally simple expressions for score tests of misspecification in parametric dynamic factor models using frequency domain techniques. We interpret those diagnostics as time domain moment tests which assess whether certain autocovariances of the smoothed latent variables match their theoretical values under the null of correct model specification. We also reinterpret reduced‐form residual tests as checking specific restrictions on structural parameters. Our Gaussian tests are robust to nonnormal, independent innovations. Monte Carlo exercises confirm the finite‐sample reliability and power of our proposals. Finally, we illustrate their empirical usefulness in an application that constructs a US coincident indicator.
C38|Dynamic Factor Models|Dynamic factor models are parsimonious representations of relationships among time series variables. With the surge in data availability, they have proven to be indispensable in macroeconomic forecasting. This chapter surveys the evolution of these models from their pre-big-data origins to the large-scale models of recent years. We review the associated estimation theory, forecasting approaches, and several extensions of the basic framework.
C38|Heterogeneity within the euro area: New insights into an old story|We assess cross-country heterogeneity within the eurozone and its evolution over time by measuring the distances between the equilibrium exchange rates’ paths of member countries. These equilibrium paths are derived from the minimization of currency misalignments, by matching real exchange rates with their economic fundamentals. Using cluster and factor analyses, we identify two distinct groups of countries in the run-up to the European Monetary Union (EMU), Greece being clearly an outlier at that time. Comparing the results with more recent periods, we find evidence of rising dissimilarities between these two sets of countries, as well as within the groups themselves. Overall, our findings illustrate the building-up of macroeconomic imbalances within the eurozone before the 2008 crisis and the fragmentation between its member countries that followed.
C38|Forest owner objectives typologies: instruments for each owner type or instruments for most owner types?|The extensive literature on non-industrial private forest owner typologies often assumes that different forest owner types will respond to different policy instruments according to shared forest ownership objectives. Forest owner typologies using principal component analysis and subsequent k-means clustering techniques are now prolific. The surprisingly little empirical work linking forest owner objectives typologies with forest owner opinions or experiences of different policy instruments, however, shows ambiguous support for recommended targeting efforts. This study uses standard tools of analysis to investigate the relationship between private forest owners’ ownership objectives and their opinions on forest conservation policy instruments. Results show some statistically significant, but in absolute terms weak relationships between ownership objectives and Sweden’s command and control green tree retention measures, participation in voluntary forest stewardship certification, acceptance of a hypothetical financial incentive, and overall interest in taking more environmentally beneficial forest management measures. These results suggest the benefits of targeting different kinds of instruments to different kinds of ownership objectives may be limited.
C38|Business Climate Indicator In Manufacturing, Medium- And High-Tech Industries In Russia|The paper presents the Business Climate Indicator (BCI) in the Russian manufacturing including the medium and high-tech (MHT) manufacturing industries. The authors explain the feasibility of a new alternative measure that summarizes common information of business tendency surveys cleared up of specific fluctuations in individual variables, and give arguments to prove its effectiveness. The resulting BCI reflects the quantitative changes in manufacturing growth more accurately and with a lead compared to the traditional confidence indicator. Identification of the BCI cyclic profile and its visualization through a tracer demonstrate all significant waves of manufacturers’ optimism and pessimism for the period from January 2005 to January 2019. To construct BCI-MHT, the units of observation and the input information are divided into three groups according to the technological level of industries. The dynamics of BCI-MHT is close to those of BCI; however, during the protracted recession in 2016-2018, the sentiments of manufacturers of medium- and high-tech products were less pessimistic compared with the sentiments of all manufacturers.
C38|Pitfalls of Two-Step Testing for Changes in the Error Variance and Coefficients of a Linear Regression Model|In empirical applications based on linear regression models, structural changes often occur in both the error variance and regression coefficients, possibly at different dates. A commonly applied method is to first test for changes in the coefficients (or in the error variance) and, conditional on the break dates found, test for changes in the variance (or in the coefficients). In this note, we provide evidence that such procedures have poor finite sample properties when the changes in the first step are not correctly accounted for. In doing so, we show that testing for changes in the coefficients (or in the variance) ignoring changes in the variance (or in the coefficients) induces size distortions and loss of power. Our results illustrate a need for a joint approach to test for structural changes in both the coefficients and the variance of the errors. We provide some evidence that the procedures suggested by Perron et al. (2019) provide tests with good size and power.
C38|Estimating long run e ects in models with cross-sectional dependence using xtdcce2|This paper describes how to estimate long run effects in a large heterogeneous panel data model with cross sectional dependence in Stata using the user written command xtdcce2. It builds on Chudik et al. (2016) and explains how to estimate models using the CS-DL and CS-ARDL estimator. In addition it includes a method how to estimate an error correction model.
C38|Transparency and Trust in Government: Evidence from a Survey Experiment|Does providing information improve citizens’ perception about government transparency? Does all information matter the same for shaping perceptions about the government? This paper addresses these questions in the context of an online randomized survey experiment conducted in Argentina. Results show that providing information to citizens matters for shaping perceptions about transparency, and the content of the information matters for affecting the evaluation people make about the government. Those who received a “positive” treatment (showing that the government was over-performing on its promises) increased their trust in the government more than those who received a “negative” treatment (showing that the government was underperforming). The evidence highlights that the channel between transparency and trust may be mediated by the performance of the government.
C38|Not Everyone Is Engaged: An Innovative Approach to Measure Engagement Levels on the Labor Market|Individuals' level of engagement on the labor market is hypothesized to be of critical importance for labor market outcomes. Based on a recent labor market survey in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), this paper develops an innovative index to measure individuals' labor market engagement across three dimensions: preferences, intensity, and barriers. The index can also to be used to cluster individuals with similar engagement levels to target labor market interventions more effectively and may be used to roughly measure the effectiveness of labor market interventions across time, as it can calculate the score for out-of-sample individuals. The index is computed individually and in aggregate for six labor market groups: employed, unemployed, and out-of-the-labor force, each separately for men and women. The methodology includes: (i) identifying labor subgroups and engagement dimensions, (ii) identifying relevant variables within each group and dimension, (iii) constructing an index for each group and dimension that captures the relative status of an individual against his/her reference group, and (iv) synthesizing the different engagement dimensions into a single indicator. Findings confirm the strong heterogeneity of labor market engagement in the KSA and the usefulness of differentiating interventions for job searchers depending on which cluster they belong to.
C38|Faces of joblessness in Australia: An anatomy of employment barriers using household data|Although Australia’s labour market escaped the dramatic negative impact of the global financial economic crisis seen in other OECD countries, a substantial share of working-age Australians either did were not working or worked only to a limited extent as the global recovery gathered pace between 2013 and 2014. The paper extends a method proposed by Fernandez et al. (2016) to measure and visualise employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data.The most common employment obstacles in Australia are limited work experience, low skills and poor health. A notable finding is that almost one third of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation. A statistical clustering approach points to seven distinct groups, each characterized by unique profiles of employment barriers that call for different configurations of activation and employment-support policies.
C38|Modeling of Economic and Financial Conditions for Nowcasting and Forecasting Recessions: A Unified Approach|This paper puts forward a unified framework for the joint estimation of the indexes that can broadly capture economic and financiall conditions together with their cyclical regimes of recession and expansion. We do this by utilizing a dynamic factor model together with Markov regime switching dynamics of model parameters that specifically exploit the temporal link between the cyclical behavior of economic and financial factors. This is achieved by constructing the cycle in the financial factor using the cycle in the economic factor together with phase shifts. The resulting framework allows the financial cycle to potentially lead/lag the business cycle in a systematic manner and exploits the information in economic and financial variables for estimation of both economic and financial conditions as well as their cyclical behavior in an efficient way. We examine the potential of the model using a mixed frequency and mixed time span ragged-edge dataset for Turkey. Comparison of our framework with more conventional polar cases imposing a single common cyclical dynamics as well as independent cyclical dynamics for economic and financial conditions reveal that the proposedspecification provides precise estimates of economic and financial conditions and it delivers quite accurate probabilities of recessions that match with stylized facts. We further conduct a recursive real-time exercise of nowcasting and forecasting business cycle turning points. The results show convincing evidence of superior predictive power of our specification by signaling oncoming recessions (expansions) as early as 3.5 (3.4) months ahead of the actual realization.
C38|Detecting multidimensional clustering across EU regions.Focus on R&I smart specialisation strategies and on socio-economic and demographic conditions|This paper applies multidimensional clustering of EU-28 regions to identify similar specialisation strategies and socioeconomic characteristics. It builds on an original dataset where the EU-28 regions are classified according to their socioeconomic and demographic features and to the strategic priorities outlined in their research and innovation smart specialisations strategy (RIS3). The socioeconomic and demographic classification associates each region to one categorical variable (with 19 modalities), while the classification of the RIS3 priorities clustering was performed separately on â€œdescriptionsâ€ (21 Boolean categories) and â€œcodesâ€ (11 Boolean Categories) of regionsâ€™ RIS3. Three techniques of clustering have been applied: Infomap multilayer algorithm, Correspondence Analysis plus Cluster Analysis and cross tabulation. The most effective clustering, in terms of both the characteristics of the data and the emerging results, is that obtained on the results of the Correspondence Analysis. By contrast, due to the very dense network induced by the data characteristics, the Infomap algorithm does not produce significant results. Finally, cross tabulation is the most detailed tool to identify groups of regions with similar characteristics. In particular, in the paper we present an application of cross tabulation to focus on the regions investing in sustainable development priorities. Policy implications of methods implemented in this paper are discussed as a contribution to the current debate on post-2020 European Cohesion Policy, which aims at orienting public policies toward the reduction of regional disparities and the enhancement of complementarities and synergies within macroregions.
C38|Inter-municipal cooperation as a solution for public services delivery? The case of Unioni di Comuni in Emilia-Romagna Region|Inter municipal cooperation (IMC) represents a solution adopted all around the world in order to jointly provide services considering the complexity of contemporary socio-economic contexts. However, empirical evidence on IMC solutions is still week. The purpose of this paper is to analyse associations of municipalities (Unioni di Comuni, UC), the prevalent kind of IMC established in Italy, as a possible solution for sustainable public services delivery. Our research questions refer to the main features of Unioni di Comuni as an IMC for public services delivery in Emilia-Romagna Region (Italy), to the explanation of those characteristics, and to the evaluation of UCs and their features in terms of autonomy, resilience and sustainability. In order to meet our objectives, we accomplished a cluster analysis, considering administrative and socio-economic data; in addition, we examined specific characteristics within each cluster to proceed with a comparison between clusters in terms of revenues from transfers from other governments layers, own revenues, current expenses and financial autonomy index in the last years. Our results suggest a general tendency: to provide services through UC in E-R; and to enhance their development in terms of public service special-ization. But at the same time, UCs generally decreased their own financial autonomy, relying on transfers from other public institutions. In line with Resource-Dependence Theory (RDT), our empirical analysis finds different clusters of UCs which act as new centres for public service delivery in Emilia-Romagna Region in order to reduce uncertainty over resources through the creation of new inter-institutional balances. However, the statement that strong UCs com-pensate weak starting territorial features of municipalities is not self-evident.
C38|RIS3 in macro-regional strategies: tools to design and monitor integrated territorial development paths|Building on the broad and diverse picture of strategic interventions on regions' re-search and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (RIS3) and on macro-regional strategies, this paper outlines a comparative framework to analyse regions' RIS3 priorities (to outline the intended development path that regions aim at) and socioeconomic condi-tions (to describe the structural features, as they emerge from Eurostat data). The paper integrates results developed in two companion papers, by Pavone et al. (2018) and by Pagliacci et al. (2018), thus providing a multidimensional perspective on similarity across regions. Identifying which are the similarities is essential in a comparative analysis that aims to measure and monitor the impact of integrated investments on the development of the territory across sectors. Implications of the methodology proposed in the paper are discussed with suggestions for policy makers.
C38|R&I smart specialisation strategies: classification of EU regions’ priorities. Results from automatic text analysis|Building on automatic text analysis, this paper proposes an original categorization of Research and Innovation Smart Specialisation Strategy (RIS3) priorities and provides a common language (with detailed dictionaries) to classify priorities and then to associate EU regions to multiclass categories of priorities. This result is a powerful tool to interpret the current state of diversification across regions, with its potential of complementarities and synergies that might support territorial integrated development paths. It would also support regions in their future strategic programmes on RIS3. A case study on the Alpine macro-region shows innovation development paths to outline macroregion strategic planning
C38|Towards an Unstable Hook: The Evolution of Stock Market Integration Since 1913|We examine equity market integration for 17 countries from 1913-2018. We use network analysis to measure the evolution of global stock market integration as well as stock market integration between and across countries. The empirical results suggest that long-run stock market integration looks like an unstable hook. Equity market integration first peaked in 1913 during the first era of globalization (1870-1913) when unfettered markets ruled the day. Integration declined over the next 60 years as countries experienced the Great Depression and shunned international capital markets. The end of the Bretton Woods system in the early 1970s ushered in the second period of globalization. Our empirical analysis suggests that stock market integration in the recent period of globalization has surpassed the first era of globalization in the last 10 years and currently has the highest level of equity market integration and network instability in world history.
C38|Linking Aid to the Sustainable Development Goals – a machine learning approach|Official Development Assistance amounted USD 146.6 billions in 2017 but do we know how much of this aid contributed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? And to what SDG in particular? This paper present a new methodology using machine learning designed to link project-based flows to the Sustainable Development Goals. It provide first estimates of DAC and non-DAC donors’ aid contribution for the goal and show that similar analysis can be done at the recipient level and for other type of textual database such as private sector reports; opening wide array for policy analysis.The methodology presented in this working paper uses semantic analysis of the text description of each project present in the Creditor Reporting System (CRS).
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Australia: An Anatomy of Employment Barriers Using Household Data|Australia's economy and labour market have escaped a dramatic downturn following the global financial economic crisis. Yet, a substantial share of working-age Australians either were not working or worked only to a limited extent as the global recovery gathered pace between 2013 and 2014. 18% were without employment during an entire year; a further 6% had weak labour-market attachment, e.g. working only a fraction of the year. This paper extends a method proposed by Fernandez et al. (2016) to measure and visualise employment barriers of individuals with weak labour-market attachment using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. A novelty in this paper is a statistical procedure for calibrating the definition of barriers in a way that maximises their explanatory power in predicting employment outcomes. A statistical clustering algorithm then identify groups with similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment in Australia. We identify seven distinct groups, each calling for a specific flavour of activation and employment-support policies. The most common employment obstacles are limited work experience, low skills and poor health. Financial disincentives, care responsibilities and scarce job opportunities are less widespread overall but were important barriers for some groups. Almost one third of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Classifying de facto exchange rate regimes of financially open and closed economies: A statistical approach|This paper offers a new de facto exchange rate regime classification that draws on the strengths of three popular classifications. Its two hallmarks are the careful treatment of a nexus between exchange rate regime and financial openness and the use of formal statistical tools (the trimmed k-means and k-nearest neighbour methods). It is demonstrated that our strategy minimises the impact of differences between market-determined and official exchange rates on the ‘fix’ and ‘float’ categories. Moreover, it is more suited to assess empirical relevance of the Mundellian trilemma and ‘irreconcilable duo’ hypotheses. Using comparative analysis we find that the degree of agreement between classifications is moderate: the null of no association is strongly rejected, but its strength ranges from low to moderate. Moreover, it is shown that our classification is the most strongly associated with each of the other classifications and as such can be considered (closest to) a centre of a space of alternative classifications. Finally, we demonstrate that unlike other classifications, ours lends more support to the Mundellian trilemma than to the ‘irreconcilable duo’ hypothesis. Overall, our classification cannot be considered a variant of any other de facto classification. It is a genuinely new classification.
C38|Tree Networks to Assess Financial Contagion|We proposes a two-layered tree network model that decomposes financial contagion into a global component, composed of inter-country contagion effects, and a local component, made up of inter-institutional contagion channels. The model is effectively applied to a database containing time series of daily CDS spreads of major European financial institutions (banks and insurance companies), and reveals the importance monitoring both channels to assess financial contagion. The empirical application revealed evidence of a high inter-country and inter-institutional vulnerability at the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008 and during the sovereign crisis in 2011. The result further identifies Belgium and France as central to the inter-country contagion in the Euro area during the financial crisis, while Italy dominated during the sovereign crisis. The French corporates Groupama, Credit Industriel and Caisse d'Epargne were central in the inter-institutional contagion in both crises.
C38|Factorial Network Models To Improve P2P Credit Risk Management|This paper investigates how to improve statistical-based credit scoring of SMEs involved in P2P lending. The methodology discussed in the paper is a factor network-based segmentation for credit score modeling. The approach first constructs a network of SMEs where links emerge from comovement of latent factors, which allows us to segment the heterogeneous population into clusters. We then build a credit score model for each cluster via lasso logistic regression. We compare our approach with the conventional logistic model by analyzing the credit score of over 15000 SMEs engaged in P2P lending services across Europe. The result reveals that credit risk modeling using our network-based segmentation achieves higher predictive performance than the conventional model.
C38|Counter sanctions and well-being population of Russia: econometric analyses|This article examines the impact of counter-sanctions on the welfare of Russia’s population. We build a multiple-choice model and calculate the probability of being in a particular group of well-being based on the price (cost) of consumed counter-sanctions goods. The next step is the construction of a structural demand-supply system for estimating similar domestic good’s production elasticities. By knowing elasticity estimates we determine the price response to particular import closure. According to our estimates Russia's counter-sanctions led to an increase in poverty by 2.64 %.
C38|How Skills and Parental Valuation of Education Influence Human Capital Acquisition and Early Labor Market Return to Human Capital in Canada|Using the Youth in Transition Survey, we estimate a Roy model with a three-dimensional latent factor structure to consider how parental valuation of education, cognitive skills, and noncognitive skills influence endogenous schooling decisions and subsequent labor market outcomes. We find that the effect of cognitive skills on adult incomes arises by increasing the likelihood of obtaining further education. Furthermore, we find that both noncognitive skills and parental valuation for education play a larger role in determining income at age 25 than cognitive skills. Last, our analysis uncovers striking differences between men and women in several of the estimated relationships.
C38|How Skills and Parental Valuation of Education Influence Human Capital Acquisition and Early Labor Market Return to Human Capital in Canada|Using the Youth in Transition Survey we estimate a Roy model with a three dimensional latent factor structure to consider how parental valuation of education, cognitive skills and non-cognitive skills influence endogenous schooling decisions and subsequent labour market outcomes in Canada. We find the effect of cognitive skills on adult incomes arises by increasing the likelihood of obtaining further education. Further, we find that both non-cognitive skills and parental valuation for education play a larger role in determining income at age 25 than cognitive skills. Last, our analysis uncovers striking differences between men and women in several of the estimated relationships. Specifically, simulations of the estimated model illustrate that i) among the low skilled, women have much higher college graduation rates, ii) the age 25 earnings gradient by either skill measure is much flatter for women, and iii) parental valuation of education plays a larger role in influencing young women than men.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C38|On Factor Models with Random Missing: EM Estimation, Inference, and Cross Validation|We consider the estimation and inference in approximate factor models with random missing values. We show that with the low rank structure of the common component, we can estimate the factors and factor loadings consistently with the missing values replaced by zeros. We establish the asymptotic distributions of the resulting estimators and those based on the EM algorithm. We also propose a cross validation-based method to determine the number of factors in factor models with or without missing values and justify its consistency. Simulations demonstrate that our cross validation method is robust to fat tails in the error distribution and significantly outperforms some existing popular methods in terms of correct percentage in determining the number of factors. An application to the factor-augmented regression models shows that a proper treatment of the missing values can improve the out-of-sample forecast of some macroeconomic variables.
C38|Ideology in times of crisis A principal component analysis of votes in the European Parliament, 2004-2019|This paper aims to identify the main dividing lines that determine the voting behaviour of Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) and their evolution throughout the crisis. Introducing a new database that collects and classifies the full population of plenary votes from 2004 to 2019, this work uses principal component analysis to identify the latent patterns on which MEPs ally and divide. Focussing on economic votes, it finds that, while pre-crisis votes were mainly determined by differences across the left-vs-right spectrum and, only secondly, by differences in support for European integration, the crisis inverted this trend, making support for Europe the most relevant dividing line in the European Parliament. In support of this evidence, the paper introduces a new vote-scraping technique to investigate the ideological nature of these dimensions. Vote scraping reveals that the left-right cleavage is mainly ideological but with limited impact on budgetary resources, whereas the European dimension mostly reflects a conflict over the budget, with higher legislative impact and seemingly low ideological content.
C38|Deep Haar Scattering Networks in Unidimensional Pattern Recognition Problems|The aim of this paper is to discuss the use of Haar scattering networks, which is a very simple architecture that naturally supports a large number of stacked layers, yet with very few parameters, in a relatively broad set of pattern recognition problems, including regression and classification tasks. This architecture, basically, consists of stacking convolutional filters, that can be thought as a generalization of Haar wavelets, followed by nonlinear operators which aim to extract symmetries and invariances that are later fed in a classification/regression algorithm. We show that good results can be obtained with the proposed method for both kind of tasks. We outperformed the best available algorithms in 4 out of 18 important data classification problems, and obtained a more robust performance than ARIMA and ETS time series methods in regression problems for data with invariances and symmetries, with desirable features, such as possibility to evaluate parameter stability and easy structural assessment.
C38|Do information contagion and business model similarities explain bank credit risk commonalities?|This paper revisits the credit spread puzzle in bank CDS spreads from the perspective of information contagion. The puzzle, first detected in corporate bonds, consists of two stylized facts: Structural determinants of credit risk not only have low explanatory power but also fail to capture common factors in the residuals (Collin-Dufresne et al., 2001). For the case of banks, we hypothesize that the puzzle exists because of omitted network effects. We therefore extend the structural models to account for information spillovers based on bank business model similarities. To capture this channel, we propose and construct a new intuitive measure for portfolio overlap using the complete asset holdings of the largest banks in the Eurozone. Incorporating the network information into the structural model for bank credit spreads increases explanatory power and removes a systemic common factor as well as a North-South common factor from the residuals. Furthermore, neglecting the network likely overstates the importance of structural determinants.
C38|Monitoring and Forecasting Cyclical Dynamics in Bank Credits: Evidence from Turkish Banking Sector|Credit growth rate deviating from its long-run trend or equilibrium value holds importance for policymakers given the implications on economic activity and macro-financial interactions. In the first part of this study, the main aim is to construct indicators for determining the episodes of moderate-to-excessive credit slowdown and expansion by utilizing time-series filtering methods such as Hodrick-Prescott filter, Butterworth filter, Christiano-Fitzgerald filter and Hamilton filter over the time period 2007-2019. In addition to filtering choices, four different credit ratios (which are credit-to-GDP ratio, real credit growth, logarithm of real credit, credit impulse ratio) are included in the methodology to ensure the robustness. This framework enables one to generate monitoring tools for not only total loans, but also for financial intermediation activities with different loan breakdowns regarding type, sector and currency denomination. Moreover, industry-based dynamics of commercial loans are examined by using micro-level Credit Registry data set. In the following part, the credit cycle implied by macroeconomic dynamics are investigated by using factor-augmented predictive regression models. In this context, factors representing the global economic developments, banking sector outlook, local financial conditions and economic growth tendencies are created from large data set of 107 time series by utilizing principal component analysis. Analysis conducted for January 2009-April 2019 interval seems to be in line with exogenous shocks affecting the credit market in the corresponding period. To gain more knowledge about the predictive power of factor-augmented regression models, out-of-sample forecasting exercises are performed. It is found that global forces and economic activity provide substantial improvement in terms of predictive power over simple autoregressive benchmark models given low level of relative forecast errors.
C38|Bayesian nonparametric clustering as a community detection problem|It is well known that a wide class of bayesian nonparametric priors lead to the representation of the distribution of the observable variables as a mixture density with an infinite number of components, and that such a representation induces a clustering structure in the observations. However, cluster identification is not straightforward a posteriori and some post-processing is usually required. In order to circumvent label switching, pairwise posterior similarity has been introduced, and it has been used in order to either apply classical clustering algorithms or estimate the underlying partition by minimising a suitable loss function. This paper proposes to map observations on a weighted undirected graph, where each node represents a sample item and edge weights are given by the posterior pairwise similarities. It will be shown how, after building a particular random walk on such a graph, it is possible to apply a community detection algorithm, known as map equation method, by optimising the description length of the partition. A relevant feature of this method is that it allows for both the quantification of the posterior uncertainty of the classification and the selection of variables to be used for classification purposes.
C38|A flexible state-space model with lagged states and lagged dependent variables: Simulation smoothing|We provide a simulation smoother to a exible state-space model with lagged states and lagged dependent variables. Qian (2014) has introduced this state-space model and proposes a fast Kalman filter with time-varying state dimension in the presence of missing observations in the data. In this paper, we derive the corresponding Kalman smoother moments and propose an efficient simulation smoother, which relies on mean corrections for unconditional vectors. When applied to a factor model, the proposed simulation smoother for the states is efficient compared to other state-space models without lagged states and/or lagged dependent variables in terms of computing time.
C38|Financial cycles across G7 economies: A view from wavelet analysis|We analyse the cross-country dimension of financial cycles by studying cyclical co-movements in credit, house prices, equity prices and interest rates across the G7 economies. We use wavelet-based statistics to assess at which frequencies cyclical fluctuations and their crosscountry co-movements are important and how these change over time. We show cycles in interest rates and equity prices to be at least as synchronised as cycles in real GDP while cycles in credit and house prices are less synchronised. As a result, cross-country common cycles in equity prices and long-term interest rates account for a larger share of the volatility of these variables at the country level than common cycles in credit aggregates and house prices. A cluster analysis shows a high degree of similarity in the spectral characteristics of cycles in interest rates and equity prices across all countries but less similarities for cycles in credit and house price. For credit and house price cycles country-specific developments turn out to be more important than the common cross-country cycles.
C38|Monetary Policy Autonomy and International Monetary Spillovers|While Federal Reserve continues to normalize its monetary policy on the back of a strengthening U.S. economy, the possibility of mimicking U.S. policy actions and so the debate of monetary autonomy has been particularly heated in the most of developing countries, even in advanced economies. We analyse the role played by country-specific characteristics in domestic monetary policy autonomy to set short-term interest rates in the face of spillovers from of U.S. monetary policy as global external shocks. First, we extricate the non-systematic (non-autonomous) component of domestic interest rates which is related to business cycle synchronisation across countries. Then we employ an interacted panel VAR model, which allows impulse response functions to vary by country characteristics for a broad sample of countries. We find strong empirical evidence for the role of exchange rate flexibility, capital account openness in line with trilemma, but also a significant role for other country characteristics, such as dollarisation in the financial system, the presence of a global bank, use of macroprudential policies, and the credibility of fiscal and monetary policy.
C38|International Spillovers of U.S. Monetary Policy|We estimate a structural dynamic factor model on large panel quarterly data to analyse the spillovers of U.S. monetary policy to the advanced economies and emerging and frontier market economies. The estimated model suggests that monetary contraction in U.S. leads to a significant decrease in real GDP with typical inverted hump-shape almost for all countries. It reduces permanently aggregate price level, increases interest rate and leads appreciation of U.S. dollar. However, contagion of U.S. monetary policy to the individual countries shows heterogeneity. For instance, its impact is larger in developing countries. We also find that global financial crisis has amplified the impact of U.S monetary policy on the rest of world in particular on developing countries. Lastly, the empirical results suggest that the cross-country heterogeneity in responses may be consequence of difference in country-specific characteristics such as exchange rate regimes, currency of price settings of firms, central bank independence and geographical distance from Unites States.
C38|Global financial cycles since 1880|The authors analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, they analyze the dynamics of co-movement and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. They find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon. For equity prices, however, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. Regarding GDP, the authors also find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
C38|Global financial cycles since 1880|We analyze cyclical co-movement in credit, house prices, equity prices, and long-term interest rates across 17 advanced economies. Using a time-varying multi-level dynamic factor model and more than 130 years of data, we analyze the dynamics of co-movement at different levels of aggregation and compare recent developments to earlier episodes such as the early era of financial globalization from 1880 to 1913 and the Great Depression. We find that joint global dynamics across various financial quantities and prices as well as variable-specific global co-movements are important to explain fluctuations in the data. From a historical perspective, global co-movement in financial variables is not a new phenomenon, but its importance has increased for some variables since the 1980s. For equity prices, global cycles play currently a historically unprecedented role, explaining more than half of the fluctuations in the data. Global cycles in credit and housing have become much more pronounced and longer, but their importance in explaining dynamics has only increased for some economies including the US, the UK and Nordic European countries. We also include GDP in the analysis and find an increasing role for a global business cycle.
C38|Anomaly detection in streaming nonstationary temporal data|This article proposes a framework that provides early detection of anomalous series within a large collection of non-stationary streaming time series data. We define an anomaly as an observation that is very unlikely given the recent distribution of a given system. The proposed framework first forecasts a boundary for the system's typical behavior using extreme value theory. Then a sliding window is used to test for anomalous series within a newly arrived collection of series. The model uses time series features as inputs, and a density-based comparison to detect any significant changes in the distribution of the features. Using various synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate the wide applicability and usefulness of our proposed framework. We show that the proposed algorithm can work well in the presence of noisy non-stationarity data within multiple classes of time series. This framework is implemented in the open source R package oddstream. R code and data are available in the supplementary materials.
C38|Estimating Latent Asset-Pricing Factors|We develop an estimator for latent factors in a large-dimensional panel of financial data that can explain expected excess returns. Statistical factor analysis based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) has problems identifying factors with a small variance that are important for asset pricing. We generalize PCA with a penalty term accounting for the pricing error in expected returns. Our estimator searches for factors that can explain both the expected return and covariance structure. We derive the statistical properties of the new estimator and show that our estimator can find asset-pricing factors, which cannot be detected with PCA, even if a large amount of data is available. Applying the approach to portfolio data we find factors with Sharpe-ratios more than twice as large as those based on conventional PCA and with significantly smaller pricing errors.
C38|Factors that Fit the Time Series and Cross-Section of Stock Returns|We propose a new method for estimating latent asset pricing factors that fit the time-series and cross-section of expected returns. Our estimator generalizes Principal Component Analysis (PCA) by including a penalty on the pricing error in expected returns. We show that our estimator strongly dominates PCA and finds weak factors with high Sharpe-ratios that PCA cannot detect. Studying a large number of characteristic sorted portfolios we find that five latent factors with economic meaning explain well the cross-section and time-series of returns. We show that out-of-sample the maximum Sharpe-ratio of our five factors is more than twice as large as with PCA with significantly smaller pricing errors. Our factors are based on only a subset of the stock characteristics implying that a significant amount of characteristic information is redundant.
C38|An Open and Data-driven Taxonomy of Skills Extracted from Online Job Adverts|In this work we offer an open and data-driven skills taxonomy, which is independent of ESCO and O*NET, two popular available taxonomies that are expert-derived. Since the taxonomy is created in an algorithmic way without expert elicitation, it can be quickly updated to reflect changes in labour demand and provide timely insights to support labour market decision-making. Our proposed taxonomy also captures links between skills, aggregated job titles, and the salaries mentioned in the millions of UK job adverts used in this analysis. To generate the taxonomy, we employ machine learning methods, such as word embeddings, network community detection algorithms and consensus clustering. We model skills as a graph with individual skills as vertices and their co-occurrences in job adverts as edges. The strength of the relationships between the skills is measured using both the frequency of actual co-occurrences of skills in the same advert as well as their shared context, based on a trained word embeddings model. Once skills are represented as a network, we hierarchically group them into clusters. To ensure the stability of the resulting clusters, we introduce bootstrapping and consensus clustering stages into the methodology. While we share initial results and describe the skill clusters, the main purpose of this paper is to outline the methodology for building the taxonomy.
C38|Changes in Economic and Financial Synchronisation: A Global Factor Analysis|We estimate dynamic factor models for two sub-samples between 1995 and 2017 for up to 42 advanced and emerging-market economies to investigate changes in the contribution of global and regional factors to fluctuations in real GDP per capita growth, inflation, 10-year government bond yields and equity prices. The combined average contribution of global and regional factors in explaining fluctuations of GDP growth and inflation increased between 1995-2006 and 2007-17. In contrast, for financial variables, the role of country-specific factors strengthened between these two periods. The general findings are robust to alternative specifications of the lag structure, data frequency and the country composition of the largest region. Country-specific factors explain a higher share of variation of financial variables in emerging-market economies compared with advanced economies. For all variables, there is large cross-country heterogeneity regarding the level of contributions of specific factors and their evolution over time.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Lithuania: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Lithuania either do not work or only to a limited extent. By 2013, several years after the start of the labour-market recovery, 21% were still without employment during the entire year, and a further 11% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how these empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Lithuania were health limitations, limited work experience, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A notable finding is that just over one third of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Estonia: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Estonia either did not work or only to a limited extent. By 2013, several years after the start of the labour-market recovery, 18% were still without employment during the entire year, and a further 13% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how the empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Estonia were low skill levels, health limitations and limited work experience. Financial disincentives, care responsibilities and scarce job opportunities were less widespread overall, although important barriers for some groups. A notable finding is that almost one third of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Spain: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Spain either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the employment rate bottomed out in 2013, 30% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 15% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how these empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Spain were a lack of work experience, low education and skill levels, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives, health limitations and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A striking finding is that 45% of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Italy: A People-Centred Perspective on Employment Barriers and Policies|"In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Italy either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the employment rate bottomed out in 2013, 32% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 7% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (""latent"") groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates the use of these empirical results to inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Italy were limited work experience, low education and skill levels, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives, health limitations and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A striking finding is that more than half of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation."
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Ireland: A People-Centred Perspective on Employment Barriers and Policies|"In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Ireland either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the labour-market recovery gathered pace during 2013, 32% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 14% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (""latent"") groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how the empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Ireland were limited work experience, low skill levels, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives, health problems and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A notable finding is that just under 40% of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation."
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Portugal: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|.In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Portugal either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the employment rate bottomed out in 2013, 29% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 10% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how these empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Portugal were low education/skills, a lack of recent work experience, scarce job opportunities and health problems. Financial disincentives and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, although important barriers for some groups. A striking finding is that 45% of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|A Multi-dimensional Measure of Environmental Behavior: Exploring the Predictive Power of Connectedness to Nature, Ecological Worldview and Environmental Concern|Abstract In this study we examine the multi-dimensional structure of environmental behavior and its potential domains. Factor analysis reveals six behavioral domains: civic actions, policy support, recycling, transportation choices, behaviors in a household setting and consumerism. We use the Connectedness to Nature and Inclusion of Nature in Self scales to measure connection with nature, the New Environmental Paradigm to measure ecological worldviews, and Environmental Motives Scale to assess people’s environmental concern. We further explore the predictive power of connectedness to nature, ecological worldview, and environmental concern for explaining the diverse behavioral domains. Connectedness to nature and ecological worldview were more predictive of civic actions, recycling, household behaviors, and consumerism than were environmental concerns. In the case of policy support and transportation choices, environmental concerns explained more variance than the other constructs.
C38|Quantile co-movement in financial markets: A panel quantile model with unobserved heterogeneity|This paper introduces a new procedure for analyzing the quantile co-movement of a large number of financial time series based on a large-scale panel data model with factor structures. The proposed method attempts to capture the unobservable heterogeneity of each of the financial time series based on sensitivity to explanatory variables and to the unobservable factor structure. In our model, the dimension of the common factor structure varies across quantiles, and the factor structure is allowed to be correlated with the explanatory variables. The proposed method allows for both cross-sectional and serial dependence, and heteroskedasticity, which are common in financial markets. We propose new estimation procedures for both frequentist and Bayesian frameworks. Consistency and asymptotic normality of the proposed estimator are established. We also propose a new model selection criterion for determining the number of common factors together with theoretical support. We apply the method to analyze the returns for over 6,000 international stocks from over 60 countries during the subprime crisis, European sovereign debt crisis, and subsequent period. The empirical analysis indicates that the common factor structure varies across quantiles. We find that the common factors for the quantiles and the common factors for the mean are different.
C38|Factor analysis with a single common factor|In this paper we present a simple approach to factor analysis to estimate the true correlations between observable variables and a single common factor. We first provide the exact formula for the correlations under the orthogonality conditions, and then we show how to consistently estimate them using a random sample and a proper instrumental variable.
C38|Latent factor models for credit scoring in P2P systems|Peer-to-Peer (P2P) FinTech platforms allow cost reduction and service improvement in credit lending. However, these improvements may come at the price of a worse credit risk measurement, and this can hamper lenders and endanger the stability of a financial system. We approach the problem of credit risk for Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems by presenting a latent factor-based classification technique to divide the population into major network communities in order to estimate a more efficient logistic model. Given a number of attributes that capture firm performances in a financial system, we adopt a latent position model which allow us to distinguish between communities of connected and not-connected firms based on the spatial position of the latent factors. We show through empirical illustration that incorporating the latent factor-based classification of firms is particularly suitable as it improves the predictive performance of P2P scoring models.
C38|Measuring Systemic Risk on Indonesia’s Banking System|Inter-connectedness is one important aspect of measuring the degree of systemic risk arising in the banking system. In this paper, this aspect together with the degree of commonality and volatility are measured using Principal Component Analysis (PCA), dynamic Granger causality tests and a Markov regime switching model. These measures can be used as leading indicators to detect pressures in the financial system, in particular, the banking system. There is evidence that the inter-connectedness level together with a degree of commonality and volatility among banks escalate substantially during the financial distress. It implies that less systemically important banks could become more important in the financial system during abnormal times. Therefore, the list of systemically important banks regulated in the Law on Prevention and Mitigation of Financial System Crisis (UU PPKSK) should be updated more frequently during the period of financial distress.
C38|Identifying US business cycle regimes using dynamic factors and neural network models|We use dynamic factors and neural network models to identify current and past states (instead of future) of the US business cycle. In the first step, we reduce noise in data by using a moving average filter. Then, dynamic factors are extracted from a large-scale data set consisted of more than 100 variables. In the last step, these dynamic factors are fed into the neural network model for predicting business cycle regimes. We show that our proposed method follows US business cycle regimes quite accurately in sample and out of sample without taking account of the historical data availability. Our results also indicate that noise reduction is an important step for business cycle prediction. Furthermore using pseudo real time and vintage data, we show that our neural network model identifies turning points quite accurately and very quickly in real time.
C38|Macroeconomic Uncertainty and the Comovement in Buying versus Renting in the United States|This paper characterizes the sources of the comovement in the U.S metropolitan buy-rent growth rate. The analysis is based on quarterly buy-rent indices from 1982:Q1 to 2016:Q4. To this end, we used the dynamic factor model to decompose the index into national and local factors. The national component contributed more to the variation in the buy-rent indices relative to the local component with variance decomposition values of 72% and 27% respectively albeit this varied across the cities. We further examined the sensitivity of the national buy-rent factor to macroeconomic uncertainty. Our full sample results show that uncertainty has a significant negative effect on the buy-rent behavior thus favouring buying a home as a wealth accumulation channel relative to renting a similar home. The results from the recursive estimation further confirmed a dominant negative relationship with fewer periods of positive relationship. The implications of these findings are drawn.
C38|Multidimensional Skills and the Returns to Schooling: Evidence from an Interactive Fixed Effects Approach and a Linked Survey-Administrative Dataset|This paper presents new evidence on the returns to schooling based on an interactive fixed effects framework that allows for multiple unobserved skills with associated prices that are potentially time varying. Skills and prices are both allowed to be correlated with schooling. The modeling approach can also accommodate individual-level heterogeneity in the returns to schooling. The framework thus constitutes a substantive generalization of most existing approaches that assume ability is unidimensional and/or returns are homogeneous. Our empirical analysis employs a unique panel dataset on earnings and education over the period 1978-2011 based on respondents from the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) linked with tax and benefit data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Social Security Administration (SSA). Our preferred specification yields a point estimate of the average marginal returns to schooling of about 2.7 percent relative to ordinary least squares and two stage least squares estimates which lie in the range 10.7-44.4 percent. A decomposition of the aggregate least squares bias shows that the omitted ability component is for a larger fraction of the bias relative to the heterogeneity component. Finally, our heterogeneity analysis suggests larger returns for individuals born in more recent years,the presence of sheepskin effects, and considerable within-group heterogeneity.
C38|Volatility persistence and asymmetry under the microscope: the role of information demand for gold and oil|This study explores the relationship between Google search activity and the conditional volatility of oil and gold spot market returns. By aggregating the volume of queries related to the two commodity markets in the spirit of Da et al. (), we construct a weekly Searching Volume Index (SVI) for each market as proxy of households and investors information demand. We employ a rolling EGARCH framework to reveal how the significance of information demand has evolved through time. We find that higher information demand increases conditional volatility in gold and oil spot market returns. Information flows from Google SVI's reduce the proportion of the significant volatility asymmetry produced by negative shocks in both commodity markets. The latter is more profound in the gold market.
C38|Identification of common factors in panel data growth model|Cross sectional dependence may lead to inconsistent and inefficient estimators and as such misleading inferences when standard panel data techniques such as fixed/random effects are employed. Pesaran (2006) suggests incorporating cross sectional averages in panel data models as approximates of unobserved common factor(s) to deal with cross sectional dependence. In the context of a standard panel growth model we investigate whether these unobserved common factors can be identified and we find that institutional variables and life expectancy are able to adequately identify them.
C38|Constructing the Asia-Pacific Regional Cooperation and Integration Index: A Panel Approach|This paper proposes a panel approach in the construction of the Asia-Pacific Regional Cooperation and Integration Index (ARCII) to strengthen the indexâ€™s ability to track the progress of economic integration in the region over time. Panel-based procedures are employed in imputing missing values, normalizing raw data, and deriving dimensional and subdimensional weights via principal components analysis. Findings suggest the pace of integration in Asia was broadly steady over the 11-year sample period (2006â€“2016). However, modest gains have been made as a majority of economies in the sample have moved up in their levels of regional integration from 2006 to 2016. Of the six dimensions featured in the ARCII, trade and investment and movement of people are the main drivers of regional integration, while the money and finance dimension was the weakest link. Based on global normalization, Asia comes second to the European Union (EU) in progress on regional integration, but in recent years a few Asian economies have broken through to the top tier dominated by the EU economies.
C38|Does Regional Integration Matter for Inclusive Growth? Evidence from the Multidimensional Regional Integration Index|This paper employs a multidimensional approach to gauge the degree of regional integration and analyze impact on growth, inequality, and poverty. It constructs a multidimensional regional integration index (MDRII) series that embodies six key facets of regional integration: (i) trade and investment, (ii) money and finance, (iii) regional value chains, (iv) infrastructure and connectivity, (v) movement of people, and (vi) institutional and social integration. The MDRII confirms that regional integration is most advanced in the European Union which scores high in all six dimensions; Asia comes second with the largest contribution from infrastructure and connectivity. Empirical analysis suggests significant and positive development impact of regional integration even when trade and financial openness is controlled. The regional value chain, movement of people, and institutional and social integration dimensions have been significant drivers of economic growth. Infrastructure and connectivity improve income distribution. Overall integration alongside the dimensions of trade and investment, money and finance, and institutional and social integration appear to significantly and robustly reduce poverty.
C38|Driven by Change: Commercial Drivers’ Acceptance and Perceived Efficiency of Using Light-Duty Electric Vehicles in Germany|In this paper, we examine to what extent commercial drivers accept the substitution of conventional cars with light-duty e-vehicles (LDEVs) by conducting a cross-sectional survey at Deutsche Post, a major German postal delivery service provider. Specifically, we explore drivers’ acceptance from two perspectives. First, we investigate whether drivers are more satisfied with the LDEVs than with the conventional vehicles. Second, we question whether the EVs increase drivers’ perceived efficiency. Combining these two perspectives, we show that the greater the drivers’ overall satisfaction with LDEVs, the higher is the drivers’ perceived efficiency. We prove this by means of latent measures, such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, using adaptations of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model and Rogers’ Diffusion of Innovation Theory to form our Unified Technology Acceptance Model. Findings suggest that, on average, drivers are slightly more satisfied with their assigned LDEVs than with the available conventional cars. If drivers were able to choose their preferred vehicles, the majority of them would favor LDEVs. We detect statistically significant patterns of latent measures affecting perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of LDEVs. While this paper focuses on German delivery service employees, the methodology presented here could easily be applied to any enterprise in the growing logistics sector electrifying its car fleet. Hence, our contributions are valuable for transportation research, and more specifically, to all potential commercial EV drivers, e.g., our insights might be relevant for approximately 500,400 drivers employed in the German logistics sector alone.
C38|How Important are Global Factors for Understanding the Dynamics of International Capital Flows?|We propose a dynamic factor model with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility to analyze the relationship between global factors and country-specific capital flow dynamics. Studying a global sample of 43 countries from 1994 until 2015, we show that global co-movement of macroeconomic, financial and capital flow variables can explain a major share of country-specific capital flow volatility and that the impact of these variables has become even more important since the 2008–2009 global financial crisis. Our results indicate that country-specific changes in capital flows are strongly affected by fluctuations in global financial cycles and - to some extent - by global real business cycles. There is some evidence that countries with higher foreign exchange reserves, flexible exchange rates, lower public indebtedness or more developed domestic stock markets may better shield themselves from the global financial cycle.
C38|The heterogeneous effects of the minimum wage on employment across states|This paper studies the relationship between the minimum wage and the employment rate in the US using the framework of a panel structure model. The approach allows the minimum wage, along with some other controls, to have heterogeneous effects on employment across states which are classified into a group structure. The effects on employment are the same within each group but differ across different groups. The number of groups and the group membership of each state are both unknown a priori. The approach employs the C-Lasso technique, a recently developed classification method that consistently estimates group structure and leads to oracle-efficient estimation of the coefficients. Empirical application of C-Lasso to a US restaurant industry panel over the period 1990–2006 leads to the identification of four separate groups at the state level. The findings reveal substantial heterogeneity in the impact of the minimum wage on employment across groups, with both positive and negative effects and geographical patterns manifesting in the data. The results provide some new perspectives on the prolonged debate on the impact of minimum wage on employment.
C38|Assessing the development status of local administrative units with the use of a modified quantifiable SWOT method|The purpose of this paper is to assess the development status of local administrative units (LAUs) with the use of a modified quantifiable SWOT analysis based on Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS). The proposed method was used for assessing the socio-economic development status of municipalities located in the Pozna? district (Poland) in 2016. Based on research, four main types of development status were identified: the aggressive, competitive, conservative and defensive type. Also, the level of exogenous and endogenous socio-economic development was assessed. The study was based on statistical data from the Central Statistical Office in Poland. The method presented in this paper is of a universal nature and may be used as well for SWOT analyses of other spatial and economic units.
C38|Forecasting the production side of GDP|No abstract is available for this item.
C38|Estimation Risk and Shrinkage in Vast-Dimensional Fundamental Factor Models|We investigate covariance matrix estimation in vast-dimensional spaces of 1,500 up to 2,000 stocks using fundamental factor models (FFMs). FFMs are the typical benchmark in the asset management industry and depart from the usual statistical factor models and the factor models with observed factors used in the statistical and finance literature. Little is known about estimation risk in FFMs in high dimensions. We investigate whether recent linear and non-linear shrinkage methods help to reduce the estimation risk in the asset return covariance matrix. Our findings indicate that modest improvements are possible using high-dimensional shrinkage techniques. The gains, however, are not realized using standard plug-in shrinkage parameters from the literature, but require sample dependent tuning.
C38|Do information contagion and business model similarities explain bank credit risk commonalities?|This paper revisits the credit spread puzzle in bank CDS spreads from the perspective of information contagion. The puzzle, rst detected in corporate bonds, consists of two stylized facts: Structural determinants of credit risk not only have low explanatory power but also fail to capture a systematic common factor in the residuals (Collin-Dufresne et al., 2001). For the case of banks, we hypothesize that the puzzle exists because of omitted network effects. We therefore extend the structural models to account for information spillovers based on bank business model similarities. To capture this channel, we propose and construct a new intuitive measure for portfolio overlap using the complete asset holdings of the largest banks in the Eurozone. Incorporating the network information into the structural model for bank credit spreads increases explanatory power and explains the systemic common factor in the residuals.
C38|Contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions|The energy transition towards low-carbon energies is today a dominant paradigm of public policies related to energy. This article aims to propose an inventory of the energy transition in France and more precisely to evaluate the performances of regions in terms of diversification of the energy mix. Multidimensional data analysis methods have been implemented. A typology of French regions relating to the regional development of the renewable energies (RE) in France in 2015 is proposed; it highlights the emergence of five typical profiles of RE development sharply contrasted according to RE sectors and regions. The various statistical models realized underlines the importance of economic factors (economic performance and sector specialization), demographic specificities and geographical characteristics to explain contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions. By contrast, environmental and political factors do not discriminate between the five types of RE development.
C38|Following in their footsteps: an analysis of the impact of successive migration on rural household welfare in Ghana|Abstract We explore patterns of successive migration within rural households in Ghana and the impact that these successive migrants have on household welfare outcomes. Specifically, we use a household panel survey collected in 2013 and 2015. We exploit the panel nature of the data and a weighting method to overcome sources of bias. Welfare is measured with an index of housing quality. We find that successive migrants face lower migration costs, and few of them remit. We find no effect of sending a new migrant on the housing quality index. We conclude that the different nature of migration of successive migrants implies neither an economic gain for the household nor a loss. The reason is that the successive migration becomes less costly for migrants from households with prior migration experience, but at the same time, these migrants remit less or not at all compared to earlier waves of migrants.
C38|Measuring Governance: Why do errors matter?|The World Governance Indicators (WGI) are well-known proxies for institutions and widely used in many studies across different disciplines. Each of the six WGI are constructed by aggregating several baseline indicators using the Multiple Indicators Multiple Cause (MIMC) method. This method assumes that the errors associated to the baseline indicators are independent. Here, we extend the MIMC method by allowing cluster dependence among those errors. The differences between the original and re-estimates of the WGI are statistically significant. We compare the results of three highly cited papers to illustrate that the new indices can alter their conclusions.
C38|The Roots of Inequality: Estimating Inequality of Opportunity from Regression Trees|We propose a set of new methods to estimate inequality of opportunity based on conditional inference regression trees. In particular, we illustrate how these methods represent a substantial improvement over existing empirical approaches to measure inequality of opportunity. First, they minimize the risk of arbitrary and ad-hoc model selection. Second, they provide a standardized way of trading off upward and downward biases in inequality of opportunity estimations. Finally, regression trees can be graphically represented; their structure is immediate to read and easy to understand. This will make the measurement of inequality of opportunity more easily comprehensible to a large audience. These advantages are illustrated by an empirical application based on the 2011 wave of the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions.
C38|Financial cycles in euro area economies: a cross-country perspective|We study the cross-country dimension of financial cycles for six euro area countries using three different methodologies: principal component analysis, synchronicity and similarity measures and wavelet analysis. We find that equity prices and interest rates display synchronization across countries similar to or exceeding that of real GDP. In contrast, our estimates show much lower cross-country synchronization of credit variables and house prices – bank lending to non-financial firms being an exception with relatively large cross-country co-movements. These results are robust across the different estimation methodologies. Concerning time-variation we find evidence for a decline in the extent of co-movements in house prices over time while co-movements in the term spread have increased with the introduction of the European monetary union.
C38|A note on the predictive power of survey data in nowcasting euro area GDP|This paper investigates the trade-off between timeliness and quality in nowcasting practices. This trade-off arises when the frequency of the variable to be nowcast, such as GDP, is quarterly, while that of the underlying panel data is monthly; and the latter contains both survey and macroeconomic data. These two categories of data have different properties regarding timeliness and quality: the survey data are timely available (but might possess less predictive power), while the macroeconomic data possess more predictive power (but are not timely available because of their publication lags). In our empirical analysis, we use a modified dynamic factor model which takes three refinements for the standard dynamic factor model of Stock and Watson (2002) into account, namely mixed frequency, pre-selections and co-integration among the economic variables. Our main finding from a historical nowcasting simulation based on euro area GDP is that the predictive power of the survey data depends on the economic circumstances, namely, that survey data are more useful in tranquil times, and less so in times of turmoil.
C38|Voter behavior and government performance: Empirical application in Ghana|Electoral competition is a democratic mechanism to guarantee high governmental performance. In reality, however, it often leads to policy failure due to Government Capture and Government Accountability. An understanding of both phenomena has to be based on voter theory and nowadays the probabilistic voter model is the workhorse model applied in voter studies. In this paper we first proceeded to derive a theoretical model to estimate voter behavior including three voting motives: non-policy oriented, policy oriented and retrospective oriented. Then, we derived government performance indicators to estimate Capture and Accountability based on marginal effects and relative importance of the three components. Subsequently, we tested our theory estimating a probabilistic voter model for Ghana using own election survey data. In particular, we calculated different mixed logit model specifications and, to allow heterogeneity, we followed the latent class approach. Using the results of the estimations, we were able to calculate marginal effects and relative importance of each voting motive and we found that the non-policy component is the most important whereas the retrospective component is the less relevant. Finally, the government performance indicators were estimated and they suggest that, although the political weights are unequally distributed in Ghana, the government is partially accountable towards the voter and elections provide an effective mechanism to promote democracy.
C38|Global vs. group-specific business cycles: The importance of defining the groups|The literature on international business cycles has employed dynamic factor models to disentangle global from group-specific and national factors in countries' macroeconomic aggregates. Therefore, the countries have simply been classified ex ante as belonging to the same region or the same level of development. This paper estimates a DFM for a sample of 106 countries and three variables (output, consumption, investment) over the period 1960 to 2014, in which the countries are classified according to the outcome of a cluster analysis. By comparing the results with those obtained by the previous grouping approaches, we show substantial deviations in the importance of global and group-specific factors. Remarkably, when the groups are defined properly, the 'global business cycle' accounts for only a very small fraction of macroeconomic fluctuations, most evidently in the industrialized world. The group-specific factors, on the other hand, play a much greater role for national business cycles than previously thought - also in the pre-globalization period.
C38|Implementing an Approximate Dynamic Factor Model to Nowcast GDP Using Sensitivity Analysis|Abstract Dynamic factor models based on Kalman Filter techniques are frequently used to nowcast GDP. This study deals with the selection of indicators for this practice. We propose a two-tiered mechanism which is shown in a case study to produce more accurate nowcasts than a benchmark stochastic process and a standard model including extreme bounds fragile indicators. Our pseudo-ex-ante forecast nearly measures up to the genuine ex-ante forecast of the European Commission.
C38|Forecasting Net Charge-Off Rates of Banks: A PLS Approach|This chapter relies on a factor-based forecasting model for net charge-off rates of banks in a data-rich environment. More specifically, we employ a partial least squares (PLS) method to extract target-specific factors and find that it outperforms the principal component approach in-sample by construction. Further, we apply PLS to out-of-sample forecasting exercises for aggregate bank net charge-off rates on various loans as well as for similar individual bank rates using over 250 quarterly macroeconomic data from 1987Q1 to 2016Q4. Our empirical results demonstrate superior performance of PLS over benchmark models, including both a stationary autoregressive type model and a nonstationary random walk model. Our approach can help banks identify important variables that contribute to bank losses so that they are better able to contain losses to manageable levels.
C38|Urbanization and Food Security: Empirical Evidence from Households in Urban Southwest Nigeria| Abstract Rapid urban growth changes the composition as well as diversification of the food consumed among urban households. Achieving food security in the midst of rapid urbanization require understanding how urban and food consumption intertwined. Thus this paper uses combined measure of food security to determine urban household food security status as influenced by extent of urbanization in Nigeria. Results show that urban effect generated through urbanicity index using principal component analysis revealed that most households were in low urban category. On the average, most urban household had diverse diet. However, combining per capita expenditure and dietary diversity index as measure of household food security revealed different level of food security status. Multinomial logit regression results reveals that gender of household head, employment status, educational status, household income, occupational status and urbanicity index significantly determine the probability of urban household being food secured at different levels of food security status. Relevant policy interventions that aim at securing sustainable food security were identified. Keywords: Food security, Dietary diversity, Food expenditure, Urbanicity index, Urban Nigeria JEL classification code: D12, R22, C25, C38, Acknowledgement :
C38|Can media and text analytics provide insights into labour market conditions in China?|The official Chinese labour market indicators have been seen as problematic, given their small cyclical movement and their only-partial capture of the labour force. In our paper, we build a monthly Chinese labour market conditions index (LMCI) using text analytics applied to mainland Chinese-language newspapers over the period from 2003 to 2017. We use a supervised machine learning approach by training a support vector machine classification model. The information content and the forecast ability of our LMCI are tested against official labour market activity measures in wage and credit growth estimations. Surprisingly, one of our findings is that the much-maligned official labour market indicators do contain information. However, their information content is not robust and, in many cases, our LMCI can provide forecasts that are significantly superior. Moreover, regional disaggregation of the LMCI illustrates that labour conditions in the export-oriented coastal region are sensitive to export growth, while those in inland regions are not. This suggests that text analytics can, indeed, be used to extract useful labour market information from Chinese newspaper articles.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C38|Can media and text analytics provide insights into labour market conditions in China?|The official Chinese labour market indicators have been seen as problematic given their small cyclical movement and their only partial capture of the labour force. In our paper, we build a monthly Chinese labour market conditions index (LMCI) using text analytics applied to Mainland Chinese-language newspapers over the period from 2003 to 2017. We use a supervised machine learning approach by training a support vector machine classification model. The information content and the forecast ability of our LMCI are tested against official labour market activity measures in wage and credit growth estimations. Surprisingly, one of our findings is that the much-maligned official labour market indicators do contain information. However, their information content is not robust and, in many cases, our LMCI can provide forecasts that are significantly superior. Moreover, regional disaggregation of the LMCI illustrates that labour conditions in the export-oriented coastal region are sensitive to export growth, while those in inland regions are not. This suggests that text analytics can, indeed, be used to extract useful labour market information from Chinese newspaper articles.
C38|Applying the Wage-Common to Canadian Provinces|As at the national level, available sources of hourly wage data for Canadian provinces sometimes send conflicting signals about wage growth. This note has two objectives. First, we develop a common measure of provincial wages (the provincial wage-common) to better capture the underlying wage pressures, reflecting the overall trend across all data sources. Second, we focus on recent wage developments in Quebec, Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia and the relationship between wage growth in these provinces and some macroeconomic drivers. We conclude that a provincial wage-common provides, for the most part, superior estimates than each of the data sources taken individually because of their timeliness, lower volatility and good relationships with fundamentals. A key finding of our analysis is that the wage-common measures of provinces with a strong energy sector, such as Alberta, are more closely correlated with the national measure and are also more sensitive to oil price shocks than the wage-common measures of the other provinces.
C38|Wages: Measurement and Key Drivers|Available sources of hourly wage data in Canada sometimes send conflicting signals about wage growth. This note thus has two objectives: first, we develop a wage measure—the wage-common—to better capture the (underlying) wage pressures reflecting the common trend across the available data sources. Second, we re-examine the relationship between wage growth and macro drivers (labour market slack and labour productivity). We conclude that the wage-common is a superior estimate relative to individual sources because of its timeliness, its lower volatility and its good relationships with fundamentals. Our analysis indicates that labour market slack is the main factor still weighing on the wage-common growth in 2017Q3. Lastly, we investigate globalization (measured by wage growth in other advanced economies) as another potential factor behind the absence of wage pressures in Canada and find no evidence beyond what is already explained by the macro drivers.
C38|Nowcasting Mexican GDP using Factor Models and Bridge Equations|This paper evaluates five Nowcasting models that forecast Mexico's quarterly GDP: a Dynamic Factor Model (MFD), two Bridge Equation Models (BE) and two Principal Components Models (PCA). The results indicate that the average of the BE forecasts is statistically better than the rest of the models under consideration, according to the Diebold-Mariano (1995) accuracy test. In addition, using real-time information, the BE average is found to be more accurate than the median of the forecasts provided by the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and the median of the experts who answer Banco de México's Survey of Professional Forecasters.
C38|The role of regional and sectoral factors in Russian inflation developments|Abstract This paper examines the relative roles of region-specific and commodity-specific developments in the consumer price setting in Russia. For this purpose, we estimate a dynamic hierarchical factor model using inflation rates across regions and sectors. We found little evidence of association between region-specific factors and inflation developments, although there are several regions (mostly located in the Far East and North Caucasus) where the idiosyncratic component may contribute substantially. Conversely, the role of cross-commodity relative price changes in inflation developments in Russia is substantial.
C38|Not all cities are alike : House price heterogeneity and the design of macro-prudential policies in China|This paper investigates the implementation of regionally differentiated macro-prudential policies in China. To assess the relative intensity of the city-level macro-prudential policies over time, we construct a time-varying city-level macro-prudential policy intensity indicator for 70 Chinese cities from 2010-2017. The empirical evidence shows China’s macro-prudential toolbox has gradually evolved toward city-level policies tailored to granular local conditions to mitigate risks.
C38|In search of fluctuations : Another look at China’s incredibly stable GDP growth|China’s official real GDP growth has held surprisingly stable in recent years. As national GDP figures influence both policy analysis and political decisions, the GDP growth rate of the massive Chinese economy has also great international implications. Taking the nominal GDP growth and price index data as given and experimenting with alternative deflators, this paper attempts to track missing fluctuations in real GDP growth in recent years. Based on the constructed growth series, real GDP growth decreased during 2015–2016 and picked up in 2017. Growth has been again decelerating this year. Furthermore, the constructed growth rate seems to be well below the recent official figures.
C38|Individual Social Capital and Migration|This paper determines how individual, relative to community, social capital affects individual migration decisions. We make use of nonpublic data from the Social Capital Community Benchmark Survey to predict multidimensional social capital for observations in the Current Population Survey. We find evidence that individuals are much less likely to have moved to a community with average social capital levels lower than their own and that higher levels of community social capital act as positive pull-factor amenities. The importance of that amenity differs across urban/rural locations. We also confirm that higher individual social capital is a negative predictor of migration.
C38|An Economic Analysis of Privacy Protection and Statistical Accuracy as Social Choices|Statistical agencies face a dual mandate to publish accurate statistics while protecting respondent privacy. Increasing privacy protection requires decreased accuracy. Recognizing this as a resource allocation problem, we propose an economic solution: operate where the marginal cost of increasing privacy equals the marginal benefit. Our model of production, from computer science, assumes data are published using an efficient differentially private algorithm. Optimal choice weighs the demand for accurate statistics against the demand for privacy. Examples from U.S. statistical programs show how our framework can guide decision-making. Further progress requires a better understanding of willingness-to-pay for privacy and statistical accuracy.
C38|Central Bank Policies and Financial Markets: Lessons from the Euro Crisis|The European Central Bank (ECB) took many measures to combat the eurozone’s rolling financial crisis. For providing desperately scarce dollars to eurozone banks, the ECB relied on the U.S. Federal Reserve. Using a novel econometric framework, we identify financial markets’ response to the ECB’s liquidity injections and its more pro-active monetary stimulus between October 2009 and September 2012, the most intense phase of the eurozone crisis. Dollar liquidity clearly reduced stress in bond markets and improved economic sentiment, as reflected in higher equity prices. In contrast, passive euro liquidity provision and even active measures (policy rate reductions and bond market interventions) delivered modest results. Although government bond spreads did typically decline, markets remained worried that spreads could rise quickly; moreover, broad economic sentiment remained unchanged. Only the Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT) “bazooka” had a substantial beneficial effect. Overall, the results point to the ECB’s limits in helping improve financial market’s sentiment.
C38|Estimation of Factor Structured Covariance Mixed Logit Models|Mixed logit models with normally distributed random coefficients are typically estimated under the extreme assumptions that either the random coefficients are completely independent or fully correlated. A factor structured covariance provides a middle ground between these two assumptions. However, because these models are more difficult to estimate, they are not frequently used to model preference heterogeneity. This paper develops a simple expectation maximization algorithm for estimating mixed logit models when preferences are generated from a factor structured covariance. The algorithm is easy to implement for both exploratory and confirmatory factor models. The estimator is applied to stated-preference survey data from residential energy customers (Train, 2007). Comparing the fit across five different models, which differed in their assumptions on the covariance of preferences, the results show that all three factor specifications produced a better fit of the data than the fully correlated model measured by BIC and two out of three performed better in terms of AIC.
C38|Quantile Factor Models|Quantile FactorModels (QFM) represent a new class of factor models for high-dimensional panel data. Unlike Approximate Factor Models (AFM), where only mean-shifting factors can be extracted, QFM also allow to recover unobserved factors shifting other relevant parts of the distributions of observed variables. A quantile regression approach, labeled Quantile Factor Analysis (QFA), is proposed to consistently estimate all the quantile-dependent factors and loadings. Their asymptotic distribution is then derived using a kernel-smoothed version of the QFA estimators. Two consistent model selection criteria, based on information criteria and rank minimization, are developed to determine the number of factors at each quantile. Moreover, in contrast to the conditions required for the use of Principal Components Analysis in AFM, QFA estimation remains valid even when the idiosyncratic errors have heavy-tailed distributions. Three empirical applications (regarding climate, financial and macroeconomic panel data) provide evidence that extra factors shifting quantiles other than the means could be relevant in practice.
C38|Estimating Latent Asset-Pricing Factors|We develop an estimator for latent factors in a large-dimensional panel of financial data that can explain expected excess returns. Statistical factor analysis based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) has problems identifying factors with a small variance that are important for asset pricing. We generalize PCA with a penalty term accounting for the pricing error in expected returns. Our estimator searches for factors that can explain both the expected return and covariance structure. We derive the statistical properties of the new estimator and show that our estimator can find asset-pricing factors, which cannot be detected with PCA, even if a large amount of data is available. Applying the approach to portfolio data we find factors with Sharpe-ratios more than twice as large as those based on conventional PCA and with significantly smaller pricing errors.
C38|Spillovers in space and time: where spatial econometrics and Global VAR models meet|We bring together the spatial and global vector autoregressive (GVAR) classes of econometric models by providing a detailed methodological review of where they meet in terms of structure, interpretation, and estimation methods. We discuss the structure of cross-section connectivity (weight) matrices used by these models and its implications for estimation. Primarily motivated by the continuously expanding literature on spillovers, we define a broad and measurable concept of spillovers. We formalize it analytically through the indirect effects used in the spatial literature and impulse responses used in the GVAR literature. Finally, we propose a practical step-by-step approach for applied researchers who need to account for the existence and strength of cross-sectional dependence in the data. This approach aims to support the selection of the appropriate modeling and estimation method and of choices that represent empirical spillovers in a clear and interpretable form. JEL Classification: C33, C38, C51
C38|Constructing the Asia-Pacific Regional Cooperation and Integration Index: A Panel Approach|In this paper, we propose a panel approach in the construction of the Asia-Pacific Regional Cooperation and Integration Index (ARCII) to strengthen the index’s ability to track the progress of economic integration in the region over time. Panel-based procedures are employed in imputing missing values, normalizing raw data, and deriving dimensional and subdimensional weights via principal components analysis. Findings suggest the pace of integration in Asia was broadly steady over the 11-year sample period (2006–2016). However, modest gains have been made as a majority of economies in the sample have moved up in their levels of regional integration from 2006 to 2016. Of the six dimensions featured in the ARCII, trade and investment and movement of people are the main drivers of regional integration, while the money and finance dimension was the weakest link. Based on global normalization, Asia comes second to the European Union (EU) in progress on regional integration, but in recent years a few Asian economies have broken through to the top tier dominated by the EU economies.
C38|Does Regional Integration Matter for Inclusive Growth? Evidence from the Multidimensional Regional Integration Index|This paper employs a multidimensional approach to gauge the degree of regional integration and analyze impact on growth, inequality, and poverty. It constructs a multidimensional regional integration index (MDRII) series that embodies six key facets of regional integration: (i) trade and investment, (ii) money and finance, (iii) regional value chains, (iv) infrastructure and connectivity, (v) movement of people, and (vi) institutional and social integration. The MDRII confirms that regional integration is most advanced in the European Union which scores high in all six dimensions; Asia comes second with the largest contribution from infrastructure and connectivity. Empirical analysis suggests significant and positive development impact of regional integration even when trade and financial openness is controlled. The regional value chain, movement of people, and institutional and social integration dimensions have been significant drivers of economic growth. Infrastructure and connectivity improve income distribution. Overall integration alongside the dimensions of trade and investment, money and finance, and institutional and social integration appear to significantly and robustly reduce poverty.
C38|Structural Analysis of Influences on Workplace Productivity Loss|This study investigates systematically and simultaneously a wide range of influences on workplace productivity loss. Workplace productivity has been widely discussed in literature for many years, yet most of the existing studies focus on a narrow pathway of effects; this can potentially result in overestimating the examined influences due to capturing unobserved effects of omitted variables. In this study we examine various productivity determinants (workers' characteristics, lifestyle, commuting, health and wellbeing, and job and workplace environment) in a single combined model, after investigating their interrelations, to re-assess some of the previous findings and provide new insights into the subject. This is made possible through utilising a unique and extensive dataset of nearly 30,000 employees in the UK collected in 2017 and developing a comprehensive Structural Equation Model (SEM). Our results generally confirm the previous findings but also highlight the necessity to consider a broad range of factors as some of the initially strong influences (e.g. of work engagement) become statistically insignificant once additional variables are introduced into the model. Overall, personal characteristics, particularly physical and mental health, as well as job characteristics such as stress at work explain most of the variance in productivity loss, while lifestyle or working patterns are less important.
C38|Individual Social Capital and Migration|This paper determines how individual, relative to community social capital affects individual migration decisions. We make use of non-public data from the Social Capital Community Benchmark Survey to predict multi-dimensional social capital for observations in the Current Population Survey. We find evidence that individuals are much less likely to have moved to a community with average social capital levels lower than their own and that higher levels of community social capital act as positive pull-factor amenities. The importance of that amenity differs across urban/rural locations. We also confirm that higher individual social capital is a negative predictor of migration.
C38|In-migration and Dilution of Community Social Capital|Consistent with predictions from the literature, we find that higher levels of in-migration dilute multiple dimensions of a community's level of social capital. The analysis employs a 2SLS methodology to account for potential endogeneity of migration.
C38|Quasi Maximum Likelihood Analysis of High Dimensional Constrained Factor Models|Factor models have been widely used in practice. However, an undesirable feature of a high dimensional factor model is that the model has too many parameters. An effective way to address this issue, proposed in a seminal work by Tsai and Tsay (2010), is to decompose the loadings matrix by a high-dimensional known matrix multiplying with a low-dimensional unknown matrix, which Tsai and Tsay (2010) name the constrained factor models. This paper investigates the estimation and inferential theory of constrained factor models under large-N and large-T setup, where N denotes the number of cross sectional units and T the time periods. We propose using the quasi maximum likelihood method to estimate the model and investigate the asymptotic properties of the quasi maximum likelihood estimators, including consistency, rates of convergence and limiting distributions. A new statistic is proposed for testing the null hypothesis of constrained factor models against the alternative of standard factor models. Partially constrained factor models are also investigated. Monte carlo simulations confirm our theoretical results and show that the quasi maximum likelihood estimators and the proposed new statistic perform well in finite samples. We also consider the extension to an approximate constrained factor model where the idiosyncratic errors are allowed to be weakly dependent processes.
C38|International Stock Comovements with Endogenous Clusters|We use an endogenous cluster factor model to examine international stock return comovements of country-industry portfolios. Our model allows country-industry portfolio comovements to be driven by a global and a cluster component, with the cluster membership endogenously determined. Results indicate that country-industry portfolios tend to cluster mainly within geographical areas that can include one or more countries. The cluster component was the main driver of country-industry portfolio returns for most of the sample, except from mid-2000 to mid-2010s when the global component had a more prominent role. At the end of the sample, a large cluster among European countries emerges.
C38|Working Paper 08-18 - Comprendre le non-recours aux mesures de réductions de cotisations patronales : une approche méthodologique mixte<BR>[Working Paper 08-18 - De non-take-up van werkgeversbijdrage-verminderingen begrijpen: een gemengde methodologische benadering]|This study seeks to identify the reasons for non-take-up by employers. It uses a mixed methods research: we have first explored the issue through in-depth interviews with key stakeholders, then carried out a quantitative survey among employers and finally sought to enhance the survey results through interviews and focus groups. The interpretation of this phased approach has provided elements for making recommendations to reduce non-take-up.
C38|The influence of capital structure on financial performance of microfinance institutions|This paper aims to investigate the influence of capital structure on the financial performance of microfinance institutions (MFIs) using a sample of 89 institutions from 35 countries using the data provided by the MIX Market platform for the year 2015.In order to do that, the paper focus on two main objectives: the first one is to evaluate the financial performance of microfinance institutions using a synthetic measure-composite index based on principal component analysis using several financial indicators and the second one is to assess the impact of capital structure on the MFIsfinancial performance composite index using regression techniques, taking into account three proxies for capital structure(capital to asset ratio, debt to equity ratio, deposits to total assets) and controlling for a variety of MFI-specific variables.Theempirical results pointed out two important factors for the financial performance of MFIs: profit margin and yield on gross loan portfolio. Based on the results of the composite index, Mexico, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Nepal, Romania, Moldova, Egypt, Armenia and Bolivia are considered to be poles of microfinance performance. In Romania, the best performances were recorded by Express Finance, while at the opposite side there are OMRO and Pro-Credit, which performed poorly.Analysing the influence of capital structure on the financial performance of MFIs, a significant and positive impact have been highlighted by the capital to asset ratio, while for the other two proxies any influence has been refuted. Therefore, a higher ratio of capital to total assets is positively associated with a higher MFIs financial performance.
C38|Identification of the Linear Factor Model|This paper provides several new results on identification of the linear factor model. The model allows for correlated latent factors and dependence among the idiosyncratic errors. I also illustrate identification under a dedicated measurement structure and other reduced rank restrictions. I use these results to study identification in a model with both observed covariates and latent factors. The analysis emphasizes the different roles played by restrictions on the error covariance matrix, restrictions on the factor loadings and the factor covariance matrix, and restrictions on the coefficients on covariates. The identification results are simple, intuitive, and directly applicable to many settings.
C38|Uncertainty and the macroeconomy: evidence from an uncertainty composite indicator| This article proposes a uncertainty composite indicator (UCI) based on three distinct sources of uncertainty (namely financial, political, and macroeconomic) for the US economy on the period 1985–2015. For that, we use a dynamic factor model, summarizing efficiently six individual uncertainty proxies, namely two macroeconomic and financial uncertainty factors based on the unpredictability, a measure of (micro)economic uncertainty, the implied volatility index, the corporate bond spreads, and an index of economic policy uncertainty. We then compare the effects of uncertainty on economic activity when the UCI is used instead of individual uncertainty proxies in structural VAR models. The interest of our UCI is to synthesize theses effects within one measure of uncertainty. Overall, the UCI was able to account for the most important dynamics of uncertainty which play an important role in business cycles.
C38|Entrepreneurship, economic development, and institutional environment: evidence from OECD countries|Abstract The purpose of this article is to establish a typology of entrepreneurship for OECD countries over the 1999–2012 period. Our aim is to draw a distinction between managerial and entrepreneurial economies, to identify groups of countries with similar economic and entrepreneurial activity variables, and to determine the economic and institutional drivers of entrepreneurial activities in each group. We show that the level of development, sectoral specialization, and institutional variables related to entrepreneurship, functioning of the labor market, and openness of the country are decisive to understand differences in entrepreneurship activity across countries. Results show that the pre-crisis period, from 1999 to 2008, is a period of growth favorable to entrepreneurship. The financial crisis involved a break in entrepreneurial dynamism, with agricultural economies withstanding the financial crisis better. The 2010–2012 period of recovery is a period of a sharp slowdown in entrepreneurial activity, during which the countries that are less dependent on the financial sector proved to be the most resilient in terms of entrepreneurial activity. Nevertheless, it is the advanced knowledge economies with developed financial markets, fewer institutional regulatory constraints, and greater scope for qualitative entrepreneurship that show lower unemployment rates. These findings have important implications for the implementation of public policy in order to promote entrepreneurial activity and reduce unemployment.
C38|Impacts of decentralised power generation on distribution networks: a statistical typology of European countries|The development of decentralised sources of power produced out of renewable energies has been triggering far-reaching consequences for DSOs over the past decade. Our paper benchmarks across more than 20 European countries the impact of the development of renewables on the physical characteristics of power distribution networks and on their investments. It builds quantitative indicators about the dynamics of installed capacity of and generation from renewable sources of electricity, electric independence, quality of electric distribution, the amount of smart grids investments, DSOs capital expenditures, the length of the distribution networks, overall costs of power networks paid by private agents, and electric losses, all in relation with the development of decentralised generation. The heterogeneity of these indicators across Europe appears to be wide notably because of physical constraints, historic legacies or policy and regulatory choices. A cluster analysis allows for deriving 5 groups of countries that display statistically homogenous characteristics. Our results may provide decision makers and regulators with a tool helping them to concentrate on the main issues specific to their countries as compared to the European median, and to look for possible solutions in the experience of other clusters which are shown to perform better for some indicators.
C38|The geographical efficiency of education and research: The ranking of U.S. universities|This paper proposes to study the American efficiency of educational diffusion and research productivity following two distinctions: urban vs. rural areas and public vs. private universities. Following this geographical consideration, knowledge diffusion seems to be homogeneous over the American territory, whereas research productivity is more heterogeneous: American research efficiency decreased of 7% points, due to some rural university localizations. Universities in urban areas favor educational quality through high student selection criteria, contrary to those located in more rural areas. Third, public universities present higher educational efficiency, in favoring educational quality over research productivity: the lesser research efficiency of public institutions comes from difficulties in the management of several campuses, by comparison with the private institutions which are all single-campus.
C38|Directional Predictability of Daily Stock Returns|The level of daily stock returns is generally regarded as unpredictable. Instead of the level, we focus on the signs of these returns and generate forecasts using various statistical classification techniques, such as logistic regression, generalized additive models, or neural networks. The analysis is carried out using a data set consisting of all stocks that were part of the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1996. After selecting the relevant explanatory variables in the subsample from 1996 to 2003, forecast evaluations are conducted in an out-of-sample environment for the period from 2004 to 2017. Since the model selection and the forecasting period are strictly separated, the procedure mimics the situation a forecaster would face in real time. It is found that the sign of daily returns is predictable to an extent that is statistically significant. Moreover, trading strategies based on these forecasts generate positive alpha, even after accounting for transaction costs. This underlines the economic significance of the predictability and implies that there are periods during which markets are not fully efficient.
C38|Conﬁdence Set for Group Membership|We develop new procedures to quantify the statistical uncertainty from sorting units in panel data into groups using data-driven clustering algorithms. In our setting, each unit belongs to one of a ﬁnite number of latent groups and its regression curve is determined by which group it belongs to. Our main contribution is a new joint conﬁdence set for group membership. Each element of the joint conﬁdence set is a vector of possible group assignments for all units. The vector of true group memberships is contained in the conﬁdence set with a pre-speciﬁed probability. The conﬁdence set inverts a test for group membership. This test exploits a characterization of the true group memberships by a system of moment inequalities. Our procedure solves a high-dimensional one-sided testing problem and tests group membership simultaneously for all units. We also propose a procedure for identifying units for which group membership is obviously determined. These units can be ignored when computing critical values. We justify the joint conﬁdence set under N, T → ∞ asymptotics where we allow T to be much smaller than N. Our arguments rely on the theory of self-normalized sums and high-dimensional central limit theorems. We contribute new theoretical results for testing problems with a large number of moment inequalities, including an anti-concentration inequality for the quasi-likelihood ratio (QLR) statistic. Monte Carlo results indicate that our conﬁdence set has adequate coverage and is informative. We illustrate the practical relevance of our conﬁdence set in two applications.
C38|Asymptotically Optimal Regression Trees|Regression trees are evaluated with respect to mean square error (MSE), mean integrated square error (MISE), and integrated squared error (ISE), as the size of the training sample goes to infinity. The asymptotically MSE- and MISE minimizing (locally adaptive) regression trees are characterized. Under an optimal tree, MSE is O(n^{-2/3}). The estimator is shown to be asymptotically normally distributed. An estimator for ISE is also proposed, which may be used as a complement to cross-validation in the pruning of trees.
C38|A Multidimensional Classification For The Information Technology Market|This paper expands the existing informational and analytical opportunities of application of the results of business tendency surveys which solve the problem of the loss of valuable statistical information in its traditional aggregation into simple and composite indicators. Based on methods of multidimensional classification, an algorithm of statistical analysis significantly raises the analytical opportunities for the more wide measurement of trajectories of development and short-term fluctuations of branch of the information technology (IT) is developed and discussed. This allows the construction of behavioral models of business tendency data which improve the understanding of the business cycle in more detail. Furthermore the empirical results confirm the possibility of receiving various information which increases the analytical potential of business tendency surveys
C38|Financial cycles in euro area economies: A cross-country perspective|We study the cross-country dimension of financial cycles for six euro area countries using three different methodologies: principal component analysis, synchronicity and similarity measures and wavelet analysis. We find that equity prices and interest rates display synchronization across countries similar to or exceeding that of real GDP. In contrast, our estimates show much lower cross-country synchronization of credit variables and house prices - bank lending to nonfinancial firms being an exception with relatively large cross-country co-movements. These results are robust across the different estimation methodologies. Concerning time-variation we find evidence for a decline in the extent of co-movements in house prices over time while comovements in the term spread have increased with the introduction of the European monetary union.
C38|The common component of the CPI - A trendy measure of Icelandic underlying inflation|This paper presents a new measure of underlying inflation in Iceland: the common component of the CPI. It is obtained from a factor model that is estimated using monthly data on individual subcomponents of the CPI. The results indicate that the common component is most responsive to imported inflation. Over the entire estimation period, the common component explained, on average, half of the total variation of individual subindices. Following the easing and stabilisation of inflation and inflation expectations in recent years, the majority of the variance of individual subindices is explained by sector-specific shocks over a shorter estimation period. The performance of this measure was also checked along several dimensions. It appears robust to the estimation period used, and both the level of aggregation and the impact of revisions due to real-time extraction of the common component were negligible. The common component could serve as a useful complement to existing measures of underlying inflation already monitored by the Central Bank of Iceland.
C38|Smart City Indicators: Can They Improve Governance in Croatian Large Cities?|The focus of this research is to implement the smart city methodology and develop smart city indicators for twenty-five large Croatian cities in order to develop a reference model for monitoring the success of Croatian large cities. Starting from the fact that only two Croatian cities have prepared a smart management strategy and that only thirty cities have developed smart projects in various sectors, the purpose of this research is to show the development of smart city indicators for the large cities through six dimensions of the smart city model: smart economy, smart people, smart governance, smart mobility, smart environment and smart living. The smart city indicators are based on publicly accessible data and easily available sources. In addition, web scraping techniques were used to obtain data that are not available from public sources. After data collection, all variables were standardized, allowing the comparison of indicators of different measuring units. Twenty-nine indicators were identified and used to compare the twenty-five large Croatian cities and evaluate their comparative advantages. The main results of the research include an assessment of the smart urban development index and ranking of cities according to the degree of urban development. The smart city indicator is above average in only eleven large cities. Measures for promoting smart development have been proposed to city policy-makers. The research results have implications for increasing rationality in the use of local public resources.
C38|Inequality in socioemotional skills: a cross-cohort comparison|We examine changes in inequality in socio-emotional skills very early in life in two British cohorts born 30 years apart. We construct socio-emotional scales comparable across cohorts for both boys and girls, using two validated instruments for the measurement of child behaviour. We identify two dimensions of socio-emotional skills for each cohort: ‘internalising’ and ‘externalising’, related to the ability of children to focus their concentration and to engage in interpersonal activities, respectively. Using recent methodological advances in factor analysis, we establish comparability in the inequality of these early skills across cohorts, but not in their average level. We document for the first time that inequality in these early skills has increased across cohorts, especially for boys and at the bottom of the distribution. We also document changes in conditional skills gaps across cohorts. We find an increase in the socio- emotional skills gap in the younger cohort for children born to mothers with higher socio-economic status (education and employment), and to mothers who smoked during pregnancy. The increase in inequality in early socio-emotional skills is particularly pronounced for boys. On the other hand, we find a decline in the skills gradient for children without a father figure in the household. Lastly, we document that socio-emotional skills measured at a much earlier age than in most of the existing literature are significant predictors of outcomes both in adolescence and adulthood, in particular health and health behaviours. Our results show the importance of formally testing comparability of measurements to study skills differences across groups, and in general point to the role of inequalities in the early years for the accumulation of health and human capital across the life course.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Ireland: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Ireland either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the labour-market recovery gathered pace during 2013, 32% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 14% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates how the empirical results can inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Ireland were limited work experience, low skill levels, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives, health problems and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A notable finding is that just under 40% of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Education, Intelligence and Diseases in Old Age|Several studies have found a positive association between education and health. Confounding factors that a ect both education choices and health, such as (ob- served) parental background and (unobserved) intelligence, may play an important role in shaping this association. In this paper we estimate the impact of education on diseases in old age, accounting for this endogeneity. Our estimates are based on administrative data on men born in 1944–1947, who were examined for military service in the Netherlands between 1961–1965, linked to national death and medication use records. We assume medication use identifies diseases. We estimate a structural model, consisting of (i) an ordered probit model for the educational attainment, (ii) a Gompertz mortality model for survival up to old age, (iii) a probit model for medication use in old age and, (iv) a measurement system using IQ tests to identify latent intelligence. Educational choices, surviving up to old age and medication use all depend on observed individual factors and on latent intelligence. Based on the estimation results, we derive the impact of education on diseases in old age. Our empirical results reveal a strong effect of education on physical diseases, but low or no effect of education on depression and anxiety.
C38|Heterogeneous Layoff Effects of the US Short-Time Compensation Program|The Short-Time Compensation (STC) program enables US firms to reduce work hours via pro-rated Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits, rather than relying on layoffs as a cost-cutting tool. Despite the program's potential to preclude skill loss and rehiring/ retraining costs, firms' participation rates are still very low in response to economic downturns. Using firm-level UI administrative data, we show why by illustrating which type firms benefit from the program and which do not. Semiparametric estimation indicates STC reduces layoff rates for cyclically sensitive firms by about 15%, but has no effect for more cyclically stable firms.
C38|Faces of Joblessness in Italy: A People-centred perspective on employment barriers and policies|In the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, large shares of working-age individuals in Italy either did not work or only to a limited extent. As the employment rate bottomed out in 2013, 32% were without employment during the entire year, and a further 7% had weak labour-market attachment, working only a fraction of the year, or on restricted working hours. This paper applies a novel method for measuring and visualising employment barriers of individuals with no or weak labour-market attachment, using household micro-data. It first develops indicators to quantify employment obstacles under three broad headings: (i) work-related capabilities, (ii) incentives, and (iii) employment opportunities. It then uses these indicators in conjunction with a statistical clustering approach to identify unobserved (“latent”) groups of individuals facing similar combinations of barriers. The resulting typology of labour-market difficulties provides insights on the most pressing policy priorities in supporting different groups into employment. A detailed policy discussion illustrates the use of these empirical results to inform people-centred assessments of existing labour-market integration measures and of key challenges across different policy areas and institutions. The most common employment obstacles in Italy were limited work experience, low education and skill levels, and scarce job opportunities. Although financial disincentives, health limitations and care responsibilities were less widespread overall, they remained important barriers for some groups. A striking finding is that more than half of jobless or low-intensity workers face three or more simultaneous barriers, highlighting the limits of narrow policy approaches that focus on subsets of these employment obstacles in isolation.
C38|Sparse Approximate Factor Estimation for High-Dimensional Covariance Matrices|We propose a novel estimation approach for the covariance matrix based on the l1-regularized approximate factor model. Our sparse approximate factor (SAF) covariance estimator allows for the existence of weak factors and hence relaxes the pervasiveness assumption generally adopted for the standard approximate factor model. We prove consistency of the covariance matrix estimator under the Frobenius norm as well as the consistency of the factor loadings and the factors. Our Monte Carlo simulations reveal that the SAF covariance estimator has superior properties in finite samples for low and high dimensions and different designs of the covariance matrix. Moreover, in an out-of-sample portfolio forecasting application the estimator uniformly outperforms alternative portfolio strategies based on alternative covariance estimation approaches and modeling strategies including the 1/N-strategy.
C38|Measuring Real-Financial Connectedness in the U.S. Economy|We analyze connectedness between the real and financial sectors of the U.S. economy. Using the weekly ADS index of the Philadelphia FED (the widely used business conditions indicator) to represent the real side, we find that during times of financial distress and/or business cycle turning points the direction of connectedness runs from the real sector to financial markets. The ADS index is derived from a model containing a measure of term structure along with real variables, therefore, it might not be the best representative of the real activity to be used in the connectedness analysis. As an alternative, we derive a real activity index (RAI) from a dynamic factor model of the real sector variables only. The behavior of RAI over time is quite similar to that of the ADS index. When we include RAI to represent the real side of the economy in the connectedness analysis, the direction of net connectedness reverses: financial markets generate positive net connectedness to the real side of the economy.
C38|Nowcasting real GDP growth with business tendency surveys data: A cross country analysis|We use nowcasting methodology to forecast the dynamics of the real GDP growth in real time based on the business tendency surveys data. Nowcasting is important because key macroeconomic variables on the current state of the economy are available only with a certain lag. This is particularly true for those variables that are collected on a quarterly basis. To conduct out‐of‐sample forecast evaluation we use business tendency surveys data for 22 European countries. Based on the different dataset and using outof‐sample recursive regression scheme we conclude that nowcasting model outperforms several alternative short‐term forecasting statistical models, even when the volatility of the real GDP growth is increasing both in time and across different countries. Based on the Diebold‐Mariano test statistics, we conclude that nowcasting strongly outperforms BVAR and BFAVAR models, but comparison with AR, FAAR and FAVAR does not produce sufficient evidence to prefer one over another.
C38|Farm heterogeneity and agricultural policy impacts on size dynamics: evidence from France|This article investigates the impact of agricultural policies on structural change in farming. Since not all farmers may behave alike, a non-stationary mixed-Markov chain modeling (M-MCM) approach is applied to capture unobserved heterogeneity in the transition process of farms. A multinomial logit specification is used for transition probabilities and the parameters are estimated by the maximum likelihood method and the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm. An empirical application to an unbalanced panel dataset from 2000 to 2013 shows that French farming mainly consists of a mixture of two farm types characterized by specific transition processes. The main finding is that the impact of farm subsidies from both pillars of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) highly depends on the farm type. A comparison between the non-stationary M-MCM and a homogeneous non-stationary MCM shows that the latter model leads to either overestimation or underestimation of the impact of agricultural policy on change in farm size. This suggests that more attention should be paid to both observed and unobserved farm heterogeneity in assessing the impact of agricultural policy on structural change in farming.
C38|A mixture growth model for migrants' remittances: An application to the German Socio-Economic Panel|We propose a bivariate mixture growth model with concomitant variables to study the time profiles of international remittances sent by first-generation migrants in Germany from 1996 to 2012. The latent class approach allows us to identify homogeneous sub-groups of migrants associated with different trajectories for their remitting behavior, which can be interpreted in the light of the theoretical economic background. In addition, the latent class model combined with the concomitant variable approach allows us to uncover whether the assignment of migrants to a specific sub-group can be ascribed to their observable characteristics, namely their return intention, as conjectured by the theoretical models.
C38|Regional effectiveness of innovation – leaders and followers of the EU NUTS 0 and NUTS 2 regions|Innovation constitutes an important factor for growth in all EU countries. Regions of the EU play a principle role in shaping new innovation trajectories and in bringing out the hidden potential for national growth. However, it is not only the level of innovation that diversifies regions, but also the innovative potential and the level of its realization. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to assess the realization of innovative potential, defined as effectiveness, in EU NUTS 0 and, if possible, NUTS 2 regions. To accomplish this goal a relative effectiveness method in used. The DEA (Data Envelopment Analysis) makes it possible to analyse the relative technical effectiveness based on regional inputs and outputs, without incorporating the legal and technological specifications of innovations, thus treating it like a production process. The inputs of the process are employment in technology and knowledge-intensive sectors and R&D expenditure, while the outputs include the number of patents and GDP. All variables are standardized by the size of the economically active population. DEA results divide regions in to two groups – effective, being the leaders; and ineffective, or followers. The DEA approach was combined and extended by ESDA (Exploratory Spatial Data Analysis) in order to pinpoint spatial patterns of innovation efficiency across NUTS 2 regions. Defining the best practices and implementing the learning-from-the-best policy is important in the process of regional development and specialization
C38|“What really matters is the economic performance: Positioning tourist destinations by means of perceptual maps|The present study aims to cluster the world's main tourist destinations according to the growth of the economic performance of the tourist activity and of the tourist and economic development experienced during the last decade. With this objective, we combine the information from a set of tourist and economic indicators for the main 45 tourist destinations over the period between 2000 and 2010. Destinations are ranked with respect to their average growth rate over the sample period. By assigning a numerical value to each country corresponding to its position, all the information is summarised into two components (“economic performance of tourist activity” and “tourist and economic development”) via multivariate techniques for dimensionality reduction: multidimensional scaling (MDS) and categorical principal components analysis (CATPCA). By means of perceptual maps, we find that destinations can be clustered into four different groups. The first one, dominated by Western and Northern Europe markets, contains some of the top destinations (France, Spain and the United States). A second one, with a predominance of Mediterranean destinations (Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Israel), obtains high scores in both dimensions. In the third one, we find Cambodia and China, alongside Egypt and Turkey. Finally, a fourth group dominated by Eastern Europe destinations (Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia) with low scores in both dimensions.
C38|CDS Rate Construction Methods by Machine Learning Techniques|Regulators require financial institutions to estimate counterparty default risks from liquid CDS quotes for the valuation and risk management of OTC derivatives. However, the vast majority of counterparties do not have liquid CDS quotes and need proxy CDS rates. Existing methods cannot account for counterparty-specific default risks; we propose to construct proxy CDS rates by associating to illiquid counterparty liquid CDS Proxy based on Machine Learning Techniques. After testing 156 classifiers from 8 most popular classifier families, we found that some classifiers achieve highly satisfactory accuracy rates. Furthermore, we have rank-ordered the performances and investigated performance variations amongst and within the 8 classifier families. This paper is, to the best of our knowledge, the first systematic study of CDS Proxy construction by Machine Learning techniques, and the first systematic classifier comparison study based entirely on financial market data. Its findings both confirm and contrast existing classifier performance literature. Given the typically highly correlated nature of financial data, we investigated the impact of correlation on classifier performance. The techniques used in this paper should be of interest for financial institutions seeking a CDS Proxy method, and can serve for proxy construction for other financial variables. Some directions for future research are indicated.
C38|Uniform Inference for Characteristic Effects of Large Continuous-Time Linear Models|"We consider continuous-time models with a large panel of moment conditions, where the structural parameter depends on a set of characteristics, whose effects are of interest. The leading example is the linear factor model in financial economics where factor betas depend on observed characteristics such as firm specific instruments and macroeconomic variables, and their effects pick up long-run time-varying beta fluctuations. We specify the factor betas as the sum of characteristic effects and an orthogonal idiosyncratic parameter that captures high-frequency movements. It is often the case that researchers do not know whether or not the latter exists, or its strengths, and thus the inference about the characteristic effects should be valid uniformly over a broad class of data generating processes for idiosyncratic parameters. We construct our estimation and inference in a two-step continuous-time GMM framework. It is found that the limiting distribution of the estimated characteristic effects has a discontinuity when the variance of the idiosyncratic parameter is near the boundary (zero), which makes the usual ""plug-in"" method using the estimated asymptotic variance only valid pointwise and may produce either over- or under- coveraging probabilities. We show that the uniformity can be achieved by cross-sectional bootstrap. Our procedure allows both known and estimated factors, and also features a bias correction for the effect of estimating unknown factors."
C38|Applications For Businesses That Uses Relational Databases:|The paper presents a database production model designed as a warehouse star that contain dimensions like deposits, raw materials, stocks, products, producer, locations, time and a fact table with foreign keys and measures. This model optimize the activity of a business based on a production activity in the way that it can store large amount of data in a historical way that can be the base for future scenarios with key values changed by the decision maker. The decision maker analyses a large spectrum of reports and choose what indicators to observe and what measures to display and so it’s easy to decide based on large amount of data and trends. Database applications for business improve the efficiency in managing large quantity of data in the sense for storage, updates, queries, interaction with the users and also getting answers through reports. The schema specific to a database is very flexible and permits adding or removing columns and also adding and removing entities. This feature is very useful when the relational database schema is transformed in a data warehouse shaped as a star with dimensions and a fact table. This model permits advanced queries and the usage of rollup and drill down objects specific to the business intelligence tools that offer quick responses to the complex answers. To a production business the choice of a database application designed and implemented as data warehouse star model, bennefits from all the advantage of storage and also a superior and complex tool for building queries.
C38|Tracking chinese vulnerability in real time using Big Data|We develop an indicator to track vulnerability sentiment in China. In order to ensure robustness and depth, we use a combination of traditional macroeconomic and financial time series with textual analysis using Big Data techniques.The index is composed by the following dimensions: state owned enterprises; shadow banking; housing market bubble and exchange rate market.
C38|A dynamic factor model for nowcasting Canadian GDP growth|Abstract This paper estimates a dynamic factor model (DFM) for nowcasting Canadian gross domestic product. The model is estimated with a mix of soft and hard indicators, and it features a high share of international data. The model is then used to generate nowcasts, predictions of the recent past and current state of the economy. In a pseudo-real-time setting, we show that the DFM outperforms univariate benchmarks, as well as other commonly used nowcasting models, such as MIDAS and bridge regressions.
C38|A composite index of inflation tendencies in the euro area|Assessing underlying inflation developments is crucial for a correct calibration of the monetary policy stance. To monitor the adjustment in the path of euro area inflation towards the ECB’s definition of price stability, we select a number of indicators of price dynamics in the area. We then construct a composite index summarizing the information contained in those indicators by estimating several univariate probability models. The index, which provides a synthetic measure of inflationary pressures net of the most volatile components, can be interpreted as gauging the probability of inflation returning to 1.9 per cent or over within a given time horizon. Our findings, which are based on the information available in July 2017, signal that, despite the improvement in price dynamics since the beginning of the year, the adjustment of inflation rates towards levels below, but close to, 2 per cent over the medium term is still limited and far from being sustained.
C38|Banks in Colombia: how homogeneous are they?|In complex systems, homogeneity (i.e. lack of diversity) has been documented as a source of fragility. Likewise, financial sector’s homogeneity has been documented as a contributing factor for systemic risk. We assess homogeneity in the Colombian case by measuring how similar banks are regarding the structure of their overall financial statements, and their lending, investment, and funding portfolios. Distances among banks and an agglomerative clustering method yield the hierarchical structure of the banking system, which exhibits how banks are related to each other based on their financial structure. The Colombian banking sector displays homogeneous features, especially among the largest banks. Results enable to study to what extent the banking sector is homogeneous, and to identify banking firms that have a (n) (un) common financial structure. Yet, as we neither examine Colombian banking system complexity nor banks’ soundness nor higher dimensions of diversity, conclusive inferences about systemic risk and financial stability are pending.
C38|Detecting Granular Time Series in Large Panels|Large economic and financial panels often contain time series that influence the entire cross-section. We name such series granular. In this paper we introduce a panel data model that allows to formalize the notion of granular time series. We then propose a methodology, which is inspired by the network literature in statistics and econometrics, to detect the set of granulars when such set is unknown. The influence of the i-th series in the panel is measured by the norm of the i-th column of the inverse covariance matrix. We show that a detection procedure based on the column norms allows to consistently select granular series when the cross-section and time series dimensions are large. Importantly, the methodology allows to consistently detect granulars also when the series in the panel are influenced by common factors. A simulation study shows that the proposed procedures perform satisfactorily in finite samples. Our empirical studies demonstrate, among other findings, the granular influence of the automobile sector in US industrial production.
C38|Machine learning at central banks|We introduce machine learning in the context of central banking and policy analyses. Our aim is to give an overview broad enough to allow the reader to place machine learning within the wider range of statistical modelling and computational analyses, and provide an idea of its scope and limitations. We review the underlying technical sources and the nascent literature applying machine learning to economic and policy problems. We present popular modelling approaches, such as artificial neural networks, tree-based models, support vector machines, recommender systems and different clustering techniques. Important concepts like the bias-variance trade-off, optimal model complexity, regularisation and cross-validation are discussed to enrich the econometrics toolbox in their own right. We present three case studies relevant to central bank policy, financial regulation and economic modelling more widely. First, we model the detection of alerts on the balance sheets of financial institutions in the context of banking supervision. Second, we perform a projection exercise for UK CPI inflation on a medium-term horizon of two years. Here, we introduce a simple training-testing framework for time series analyses. Third, we investigate the funding patterns of technology start-ups with the aim to detect potentially disruptive innovators in financial technology. Machine learning models generally outperform traditional modelling approaches in prediction tasks, while open research questions remain with regard to their causal inference properties.
C38|Advanced economies and emerging markets: Dissecting the drivers of business cycle synchronization|What are the divers of business cycle synchronization within and between advanced and emerging economies at the sector level? This question is addressed by analysing international co-movements of value added growth in a multi-sector dynamic factor model. The model contains a world factor, region factors, sector factors, country factors, and idiosyncratic components. The model is estimated using Bayesian methods for 9 disaggregated sectors in 5 developed economies (G5) and 19 emerging economies for the 1972–2009 period. The results suggest that, while there exists a common ‘regional business cycle’ in the G5, fluctuations in sectoral value added growth are dominated by country-specific factors in the emerging markets. Despite that, the international factor (the sum of world and sector factors) is more important than the region factor, suggesting that the emerging markets are more synchronized with the G5. A simple regression shows that (i) the world factor would be more important the larger the share of agriculture in output; (ii) in more open economies the sector factor is more important in explaining sectoral value added growth fluctuations; (iii) the region factors is more important the richer and the less volatile the economy. Finally, a comparison of the variance of sectoral value added growth accounted for by each factor from the pre- to the post-globalization period shows convergence of the business cycles within the G5 and EM, respectively. The changes in the contribution of the world, sector and region factor are due to changes in the importance of those factors within sectors. However, for the emerging markets, the fall in the importance of the country factors is dominated by changes in the structural composition of the economies. Therefore, the evolution of the structural composition in the emerging markets could be an important driver for more synchronized business cycles at the regional and international level.
C38|Improving Forecast Accuracy of Financial Vulnerability: Partial Least Squares Factor Model Approach|We present a factor augmented forecasting model for assessing the financial vulnerability in Korea. Dynamic factor models often extract latent common factors from a large panel of time series data via the method of the principal components (PC). Instead, we employ the partial least squares (PLS) method that estimates target specific common factors, utilizing covariances between predictors and the target variable. Applying PLS to 198 monthly frequency macroeconomic time series variables and the Bank of Korea's Financial Stress Index (KFSTI), our PLS factor augmented forecasting models consistently outperformed the random walk benchmark model in out-of-sample prediction exercises in all forecast horizons we considered. Our models also outperformed the autoregressive benchmark model in short-term forecast horizons. We expect our models would provide useful early warning signs of the emergence of systemic risks in Korea's financial markets.
C38|Violencia entre pares: matoneo como factor asociado al desempeño académico|El matoneo es un comportamiento que ha recibido un alto interés y que se ha convertido en un problema de política actual. Este articulo utiliza modelos jerárquicos lineales para examinar la asociación entre el matoneo y el desempeño académico en matemáticas y lectura de jóvenes de alrededor de 15 años, empleando los datos de la prueba estandarizada PISA 2012 para Colombia. Nuestros hallazgos sugieren una disminución en promedio de 28 puntos (0.4 desviaciones estándar) cuando la frecuencia de matoneo es alta para ambos campos cognitivos y de alrededor de 20 puntos (0.3 desviaciones estándar) cuando la presencia del fenómeno es media respecto a una institución en la que no se percibe intimidación escolar. Al controlar por características de clima escolar se evidencia una asociación positiva con el desempeño escolar tanto en matemáticas como en lectura, que adicionalmente mitiga la relación negativa entre el matoneo y el logro académico. Asimismo, nuestros resultados sugieren que el tipo de colegio (público o privado), la autonomía de la escuela y la calidad de los recursos de la misma, están asociados de forma significativa con el desempeño del estudiante en las áreas del conocimiento evaluadas en la prueba. ABSTRACT Bullying has become an important concern on the political agenda of many countries around the world. This article uses a hierarchical model approach to examine the relationship between academic achievement and bullying using data from OECD’s PISA 2012 exam. We find a decrease in the average score in Mathematics and lecturing of approximately 28 points (0.4 standard deviation) when the frequency of bullying is high and a decrease of about 20 points (0.3 standard deviation) when there is a mid-level frequency. According to our results, there is a positive relationship between school climate variables and academic achievement that mitigates the negative relationship between bullying and academic achievement. Our findings also suggest that the type of school (private or public), the levels of school autonomy and the educational resources available at school are significantly related to the academic achievement of students in Mathematics and lecture.
C38|Is Industrial Production Still the Dominant Factor for the US Economy?|We propose a new class of approximate factor models which enable us to study the full spectrum of quarterly IP sector data combined with annual non-IP sectors of the economy. We derive the large sample properties of the estimators for the new class of factor models involving mixed frequency data. Despite the growth of service sectors, we find that a single common factor explaining 90% of the variability in IP output growth index also explains 60% of total GDP output growth fluctuations. A single low frequency factor unrelated to manufacturing explains 14% of GDP growth. The picture with a structural factor model featuring technological innovations is quite different. IP sectors technology shocks do not play a dominant role.
C38|Shrinking the Cross Section|We construct a robust stochastic discount factor (SDF) that summarizes the joint explanatory power of a large number of cross-sectional stock return predictors. Our method achieves robust out-of-sample performance in this high-dimensional setting by imposing an economically motivated prior on SDF coefficients that shrinks the contributions of low-variance principal components of the candidate factors. While empirical asset pricing research has focused on SDFs with a small number of characteristics-based factors—e.g., the four- or five-factor models discussed in the recent literature—we find that such a characteristics-sparse SDF cannot adequately summarize the cross-section of expected stock returns. However, a relatively small number of principal components of the universe of potential characteristics-based factors can approximate the SDF quite well.
C38|Efficiency of Slovenian General Public Libraries: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach|In the article, we study financing and efficiency of Slovenian GeneralPublicLibraries. We employ a rich dataset of CEZAR â€“Centre for Development of Libraries for the years 2008-2014 for 58 libraries and use data envelopment analysis, cluster analysis and regression methods to study the efficiency of libraries over the years. Our main results show that the problems for the libraries in this period did not lie in the lowered efficiency but more likely in other system requirements. Wealso provide a grouping of libraries following clusteranalysis with spatial constraints and show thecluster membership had significant effects on theperformance of the libraries.
C38|Prevalence of Diseases and Health Care Utilization ofthe Self-Employed Artists and TheirEmpirical Determinants: Evidence From a Slovenian Survey|Empirical studies on precarious work are still at their beginnings, even more so when the health of precarious workers is under concern. Commonly, precarious workers are assumed to have the inferior health to the employees and even to the population in general, although some recent studiesfound counter evidence to this claim. In particular, studies on the labor market of artists have so far almost completely neglected the question of the health of the artists,and this study tries to fill in this large and important void. In the study, we employ a survey of Slovenian self-employed artists, undertaken in 2015, to study the determinants of the prevalence of diseases and health utilization of self-employed artists in Slovenia using econometric modelling and network analysis. We study and find the determinants, influencing the prevalence of each type of the most common disease among the self-employed artists, determine the most common groupings/multiple diseases among this population, and, finally, study the determinants of health care utilization of self-employed artists and model the heterogeneity in the observed sample. Aninteresting result lies in determining two differentgroups according to their health care utilization and providingtheir interpretation which fits into the existing literature on artist labor markets.
C38|Model economic phenomena with CART and Random Forest algorithms|"The aim of this paper is to highlight the advantages of algorithmic methods for economic research with quantitative orientation. We describe four typical problems involved in econometric modeling, namely the choice of explanatory variables, a functional form, a probability distribution and the inclusion of interactions in a model. We detail how those problems can be solved by using ""CART"" and ""Random Forest"" algorithms in a context of massive increasing data availability. We base our analysis on two examples, the identification of growth drivers and the prediction of growth cycles. More generally, we also discuss the application fields of these methods that come from a machine-learning framework by underlining their potential for economic applications."
C38|Consistent and robust delimitation of price zones under uncertainty with an application to Central Western Europe|New and alternative delimitations of price zones for Central Western Europe (CWE) might constitute a mid-term solution to cope with the increasing congestion in the electricity transmission grids. The significantly growing infeed from renewable energy sources puts more and more pressure on the grid and emphasizes the need for improved congestion management. Thus, a new delimitation of price zones is frequently considered in current discussions and research. The present paper applies a novel hierarchical cluster algorithm that clusters locational marginal prices and weights nodes depending on their demand- and supply situation to identify possible new price zone configurations. The algorithm is applied in a scenario analysis of six scenarios reflecting main drivers that influence the future development of European Electricity markets in line with the trilemma of energy policy targets. Robustness of the new configuration is an important criterion for price zone configurations according to the European Guideline on Capacity Allocation and Congestion Management (CACM). Therefore, a robust price zone configuration is computed taking into account all the six individual scenarios. Results show that shape, size and price variations of price zones on the one hand strongly depend on the individual scenario. On the other hand, the identified robust configuration is shown to outperform other configurations, particularly also the current price zone configuration in CWE.
C38|Exchange Rate Pass-Through in the Euro Area|In this paper we analyse the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) in the euro area as a whole and for four euro area members - Germany, France, Italy and Spain. For that purpose we use Bayesian VARs with identification based on a combination of zero and sign restrictions. Our results emphasize that pass-through in the euro area is not constant over time - it may depend on a composition of economic shocks governing the exchange rate. Regarding the relative importance of individual shocks, it seems that pass-through is the strongest when the exchange rate movement is triggered by (relative) monetary policy shocks and the exchange rate shocks. Our shock-dependent measure of ERPT points to a large but volatile pass-through to import prices and overall very small pass-through to consumer inflation in the euro area.
C38|On time-varying factor models: Estimation and testing|Conventional factor models assume that factor loadings are fixed over a long horizon of time, which appears overly restrictive and unrealistic in applications. In this paper, we introduce a time-varying factor model where factor loadings are allowed to change smoothly over time. We propose a local version of the principal component method to estimate the latent factors and time-varying factor loadings simultaneously. We establish the limiting distributions and uniform convergence of the estimated factors and factor loadings in the standard large N and large T framework. We also propose a BIC-type information criterion to determine the number of factors, which can be used in models with either time-varying or time-invariant factor models. Based on the comparison between the estimates of the common components under the null hypothesis of no structural changes and those under the alternative, we propose a consistent test for structural changes in factor loadings. We establish the null distribution, the asymptotic local power property, and the consistency of our test. Simulations are conducted to evaluate both our nonparametric estimates and test statistic. We also apply our test to investigate Stock and Watson’s (2009) U.S. macroeconomic data set and find strong evidence of structural changes in the factor loadings.
C38|A unisex stochastic mortality model to comply with EU Gender Directive|EU Gender Directive ruled out discrimination against gender in charging premium for insurance products. This prohibition prevents the use of the standard actuarial fairness principle to price life insurance products. According to current actuarial practice, unisex premiums are calculated with a simple weighting rule of the gender-specific life tables. This procedure is likely to violate portfolio fairness principles. Up to our knowledge, in the actuarial literature there is no unisex mortality model that respects the unisex fairness principle. This paper is the first attempt to fill this gap. First, we recall the notion of unisex fairness principle and the corresponding unisex fair premium. Then, we provide a unisex stochastic mortality model for the mortality intensity that is underlying the pricing of a life portfolio of females and males belonging to the same cohort. Finally, we calibrate the unisex mortality model using the unisex fairness principle. We find that the weighting coefficient between the males’ and females’ own mortalities depends mainly on the quote of portfolio relative to each gender, on the age, and on the type of insurance products. The knowledge of a proper unisex mortality model could help life insurance companies to better understanding the nature of the risk of a mixed portfolio.
C38|Forecasting the Brazilian yield curve using forward-looking variables|This paper proposes a forecasting model that combines a factor augmented VAR (FAVAR) methodology with the Nelson and Siegel (NS) parametrization of the yield curve in order to predict the Brazilian term structure of interest rates. Importantly, we extract the principal components for the FAVAR from a large data set containing a range of forward-looking macroeconomic and financial variables. Our forecasting model improves on the predictive accuracy of extant models in the literature significantly, particularly at short-term horizons. For instance, the mean absolute forecast errors are 15–40% lower than those of the random walk benchmark on predictions at the three-month horizon. The out-of-sample analysis shows that the inclusion of forward-looking indicators is the key to improving the predictive ability of the model.
C38|Energy paths in the European Union: A model-based clustering approach|This paper examines typical “energy paths”, i.e. the intertemporal development of the energy mixes of the member states of the European Union over 1971–2010. We apply model-based clustering to detect major energy profiles and their compositional dynamics. The seven identified clusters show typical combinations of energy carriers dominating the primary energy consumption of a country. We find that countries tend to take a path towards higher quality energy mixes over time, however path inertia and dependencies arise from both infrastructure and resource endowments. Higher energy quality profiles are usually associated with higher national income and energy use per capita, providing some evidence of the existence of a national-level energy ladder. We also find convergence in energy intensity over time, and a relationship between a country's own resources and import dependency.
C38|Prices of Biofuels and Related Commodities: An Example of Combined Economics and Graph Theory Approach|The article investigates the connections between the prices of biofuels and many traded commodities and other relevant assets in Europe, USA and Brazil. The analysis uses a comprehensive dataset covering price data for 32 relevant traded titles over the period 2003-2015. Main contribution of this article is a combination of minimum spanning tree and hierarchical tree approaches with expert economic understanding of biofuels market leading to identification of price connections in a complex trading system. Our analysis of mutual price connections discovers the major defining features of world leading biofuels markest over the last decade. We provide characteristics of main bioethanol and biodiesel markets with respect to technical and local features of the production and consumption of particular biofuels.
C38|Interest Rates Modeling and Forecasting: Do Macroeconomic Factors Matter?|Recent studies documented a sufficient forecasting performance of shadow-rate models in the low yields environment. Moreover, it has been shown that including the macro-variables into the shadow-rate models further improves the results. We build on these findings and evaluate for the U.S. Treasury yields, whether the lower bound proximity was truly the only issue to reflect in the interest rate modeling since the Great Recession. Surprisingly, we discover that the relative importance of yield curve factors has changed as well. More specifically, instead of macroeconomic factors, financial market sentiment factors became dominant since the recent financial turmoil. Based on such finding, we show, that extending the macro-finance interest rate models by financial market sentiment proxies further improves the forecasting performance.
C38|Do Cryptocurrencies and Traditional Asset Classes Influence Each Other?|Large stream of literature studies interconnectedness among various assets that are relevant in current global markets. Transmission of shocks between cryptocurrencies and traditional asset classes is, however, not understood at all, but should not be ignored due to increasing influence of cryptocurrencies in recent years. In this paper, we study how shocks between the most liquid representatives of the traditional asset classes including commodities, foreign exchange, stocks, financials, and cryptocurrencies are being transmitted. Generally, we document very low level of connectedness between the main cryptocurrency and other studied assets. The only exception is gold which receives substantial amount of shocks from cryptocurrency market. Our findings are important since we show that cryptocurrencies play role in global markets, and the results could also be useful in portfolio diversification schemes. Moreover, we find significant positive asymmetry in spillovers between the studied assets, which is in contradiction to previous studies conducted on assets from a single asset class.
C38|Simultaneous Spatial Panel Data Models with Common Shocks|I consider a simultaneous spatial panel data model, jointly modeling three effects: simultaneous effects, spatial effects and common shock effects. This joint modeling and consideration of cross-sectional heteroskedasticity result in a large number of incidental parameters. I propose two estimation approaches, a quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) method and an iterative generalized principal components (IGPC) method. I develop full inferential theories for the estimation approaches and study the trade-off between the model specifications and their respective asymptotic properties. I further investigate the finite sample performance of both methods using Monte Carlo simulations. I find that both methods perform well and that the simulation results corroborate the inferential theories. Some extensions of the model are considered. Finally, I apply the model to analyze the relationship between trade and GDP using a panel data over time and across countries.
C38|Macroeconomic Uncertainty Through the Lens of Professional Forecasters|We analyze the evolution of macroeconomic uncertainty in the United States, based on the forecast errors of consensus survey forecasts of different economic indicators. Comprehensive information contained in the survey forecasts enables us to capture a real-time subjective measure of uncertainty in a simple framework. We jointly model and estimate macroeconomic (common) and indicator-specific uncertainties of four indicators, using a factor stochastic volatility model. Our macroeconomic uncertainty has three major spikes, aligned with the 1973–75, 1980, and 2007–09 recessions, while other recessions were characterized by increases in indicator-specific uncertainties. We also demonstrate for the first time in the literature that the selection of data vintages substantially affects the relative size of jumps in estimated uncertainty series. Finally, our macroeconomic uncertainty has a persistent negative impact on real economic activity, rather than producing “wait-and-see” dynamics.
C38|Common Factors, Trends, and Cycles in Large Datasets|This paper considers a non-stationary dynamic factor model for large datasets to disentangle long-run from short-run co-movements. We first propose a new Quasi Maximum Likelihood estimator of the model based on the Kalman Smoother and the Expectation Maximisation algorithm. The asymptotic properties of the estimator are discussed. Then, we show how to separate trends and cycles in the factors by mean of eigenanalysis of the estimated non-stationary factors. Finally, we employ our methodology on a panel of US quarterly macroeconomic indicators to estimate aggregate real output, or Gross Domestic Output, and the output gap.
C38|Dynamical Interaction Between Financial and Business Cycles|We adopt the Dynamical Influence model from computer science and transform it to study the interaction between business and financial cycles. For this purpose, we merge it with Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (MS-DFM) which is frequently used in economic cycle analysis. The model suggested in this paper, the Dynamical Influence Markov-Switching Dynamic Factor Model (DI-MS-FM), allows to reveal the pattern of interaction between business and financial cycles in addition to their individual characteristics. More specifically, this model allows to describe quantitatively the existing regimes of interaction in a given economy and to identify their timing, as well as to evaluate the effect of the government policy on the duration of each of the regimes. We are also able to determine the direction of causality between the two cycles for each of the regimes. The model estimated on the US data demonstrates reasonable results, identifying the periods of higher interaction between the cycles in the beginning of 1980s and during the Great Recession, while in-between the cycles evolve almost independently. The output of the model can be useful for policymakers since it provides a timely estimate of the current interaction regime, which allows to adjust the timing and the composition of the policy mix.
C38|Beyond average energy consumption in the French residential housing market: A household classification approach|In a new environment marked by the growing importance of Green House Gas emissions, fuel poverty, and energy efficiency in the different national agendas, the comprehension of energy demand factors appears to be crucial for the effectiveness of energy policies. We consider the latter could be improved by targeting specific household groups rather than looking to follow a single energy consumption level target. This article explores the scope of having a disaggregated energy consumption market to design policies aimed at curbing residential energy consumption or lowering its carbon intensity. Using a clustering method based on the CHAID (Chi Square Automatic Interaction Detection) methodology, we find that the different levels of energy consumption in the French residential sector are related to socio-economic, dwelling and regional characteristics. Then, we build a typology of energy-consuming households where targeted groups (fuel poor, high income and high consuming households) are clearly and separately identified through a simple and transparent set of characteristics. This classification represents an efficient tool for energy efficiency programs and energy poverty policies, but also for potential investors, which could provide specific and tailor made financial tools for the different consumer groups. Furthermore, our approach helps designing some energy efficiency score that could reduce the rebound effect uncertainty for each identified household group.
C38|Entrepreneurial environment at regional level: the case of Polish path towards sustainable socio-economic development|Globalization process creates fovurable conditions for dynamic development of economic centers both at national and regional level. Yet, it may be an obstacle for growth for peripheral countries and regions. In the European Union one can confirm convergence process at national level. However, in Central European countries the convergence of national economies does not support sustainable growth at regional level and regional convergence process. This situation often leads to the problem of draining up of scarce resources from peripheral regions, which negatively affects their entrepreneurship potential and sustainable socio-economic development. In the longer run this unbalanced spatial growth can become a significant obstacle for welfare improvements. In this context, the purpose of the article is to analyze the quality of entrepreneurial environment in Poland at regional level within the context of sustainability framework. The research was done for NUTS 2 regions in the years 2010-2014. The quality of entrepreneurial environment is considered here as a multiple-criteria phenomenon that should be treated as a latent variable. Thus, in the research Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) analysis was applied. Values of the latent variable were assessed based on confirmatory factor analysis, which provided information on the socio-economic development of Polish regions, which determinates the entrepreneurial conditions. In order to group the regions to homogenous subsets natural breaks method was used. The conducted research confirms the process of improvement of entrepreneurial conditions in most of the NUTS 2 regions in Poland. From the perspective of regional convergence process, on the one hand, one can point some positive factors such as noticeable improvements in some underdeveloped regions. However, the dominance of the central region and significant disparities between the NUTS 2 are still relatively stable and extensive. From the methodological perspective the article shows the applicability of SEM methodology to national and regional analysis with application of data from national statistics.
C38|Ein stochastisches Prognosemodell internationaler Migration in Deutschland|Internationale Migration ist eines der gesellschaftlich am kontroversesten diskutierten Themen. Kritiker einer offenen Migrationspolitik sehen hohe Immigrationszahlen als großes Risiko für die Sicherheit und warnen vor möglichen Verdrängungseffekten am Arbeitsmarkt, während die Befürworter u.a. argumentieren, dass internationale Migration aus demografischer Sicht eine große Chance sei, die Folgen des Demografischen Wandels durch eine Erhöhung und Verjüngung der Bevölkerung auszubremsen und vor allem das Arbeitskräfteangebot in vom Fachkräftemangel bereits betroffenen Wirtschaftsbereichen zu erhöhen. Aus diesen Gründen ist es umso wichtiger, eine sachliche Diskussion auf Basis empirischer Ergebnisse zu führen. Eine quantitative Diskussionsgrundlage bildet in diesem Zusammenhang eine Prognose der zukünftigen Migrationsströme für Planungen in der Politik und dem Unternehmenskontext, was bisher nur unzureichend durchgeführt wird. Hierfür stellen wir einen Modellansatz für die Prognose der internationalen Nettomigration zwischen Deutschland und dem Ausland, differenziert nach Geschlecht, Alter und Nationalitätsgruppen, vor. Der Beitrag liefert stochastische Prognosen der zukünftigen Nettomigrationen auf Basis eines Hauptkomponenten-Zeitreihenmodells. Bei diesem Verfahren bilden Prognoseintervalle die Unsicherheit über die zukünftige Entwicklung ab.
C38|Age- and Sex-Specific Fertility in Germany until the Year 2040 - The Impact of International Migration|Good forecasts for future fertility developments are of high importance in political planning, especially regarding measures in social insurance. Fertility is the main driver of demographic change, since small fertility rates lead to a shrinking population and together with decreasing mortality rates to an aging of the population structure. Which means an increasing stock of elder people, who have to be financed by less people in the working ages. Parametric time series models based on a quasi-three principal component model are fitted to the age- and sex-specific fertility rates (ASSFR). Age-specific migration, represented by a migration index derived from a previous principal component analysis (PCA), is used as a predictor variable to take into account its impact on fertility. Simulations of Wiener processes are used for estimating the future distributions of each ASSFR as well as the Total Fertility Rate (TFR). The forecast shows, ceteris paribus, a further increase in the TFR, with increases in the ASSFR for older women and decreasing ones for younger females. A test based on squared residuals shows that the model gives better forecast accuracy than the most commonly used methods in Germany. The modeling approach performs better than common projection and forecast methods in Germany while integrating the often discussed link between migration and fertility into a forecasting model. Next to the detailed and stochastic quantification of age-specific fertility it includes the gender of newborns, which allows for easy implementation into regular population updating through a stochastic cohort-component model.
C38|Unemployment and personality: Are conscientiousness and agreeableness related to employability?|This paper shows that unemployment and (some) personality traits are related. Individuals with low scores in the Big Five dimensions conscientiousness and agreeableness have a higher probability of being unemployed, longer unemployment durations, and experience more status changes between employment and unemployment. Results suggest that personality is an important determinant of womenâ€™s risk of unemployment, but for men personality is more a matter of job keeping.
C38|Discretizing Unobserved Heterogeneity|We develop two-step and iterative panel data estimators based on a discretization of unobserved heterogeneity. We view discrete estimators as approximations, and study their properties in environments where population heterogeneity is individual-specific and un- restricted, letting the number of types grow with the sample size. Bias reduction methods can improve the performance of discrete estimators. We also show that discrete estimation may strictly dominate fixed-effects approaches when unobservables are high-dimensional, provided their underlying dimension is low. We study two applications: a structural dy- namic discrete choice model of migration, and a model of wage determination with worker and firm heterogeneity. These applications to settings with continuous heterogeneity sug- gest computational and statistical advantages of the discrete methods that we advocate.
C38|Dynamic semi-parametric factor model for functional expectiles|Abstract High-frequency data can provide us with a quantity of information for forecasting and help to calculate and prevent the future risk based on extremes. This tail behaviour is very often driven by exogenous components and may be modelled conditionally on other variables. However, many of these phenomena are observed over time, exhibiting non-trivial dynamics and dependencies. We propose a functional dynamic factor model to study the dynamics of expectile curves. The complexity of the model and the number of dependent variables are reduced by lasso penalization. The functional factors serve as a low-dimensional representation of the conditional tail event, while the time-variation is captured by factor loadings. We illustrate the model with an application to climatology, where daily data over years on temperature, rainfalls or strength of wind are available.
C38|Forecasting labour supply and population: an integrated stochastic model|"""This paper presents a stochastic integrated model to forecast the German population and labour supply until 2060. Within a cohort-component approach, the population forecast applies principal components to birth, mortality, emigration and immigration rates. The labour force participation rates are estimated by means of an econometric time series approach. All time series are forecast by bootstrapping. This allows fully integrated simulations and the possibility to illustrate the uncertainties in the form of confidence intervals. Our new forecast confirms the results from former studies. We conclude that even rising birth rates and high levels of immigration cannot break the basic demographic trend in the long run."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
C38|Dissecting the financial cycle with dynamic factor models| The analysis of the financial cycle and its interaction with the macroeconomy has become a central issue for the design of macroprudential policy since the 2007–08 financial crisis. This paper proposes the construction of financial cycle measures for the US based on a large data set of macroeconomic and financial variables. More specifically, we estimate three synthetic financial cycle components that account for the majority of the variation in the data set using a dynamic factor model. We investigate whether these financial cycle components have significant predictive power for economic activity, inflation and short-term interest rates by means of Granger causality tests in a factor-augmented VAR set-up. Further, we analyze whether the synthetic financial cycle components have significant forecasting power for the prediction of economic recessions using dynamic probit models. Our main findings indicate that all financial cycle measures improve the quality of recession forecasts significantly. In particular, the factor related to financial market participants’ uncertainty and risk aversion—related to Rey’s (2013) global financial cycle—seems to serve as an appropriate early warning indicator for policymakers.
C38|U.S. monetary-fiscal regime changes in the presence of endogenous feedback in policy rules|We investigate U.S. monetary and fiscal policy regime interactions in a model, where regimes are determined by latent autoregressive policy factors with endogenous feedback. Policy regimes interact strongly: Shocks that switch one policy from active to passive tend to induce the other policy to switch from passive to active, consistently with existence of a unique equilibrium, though both policies are active and government debt grows rapidly in some periods. We observe relatively strong interactions between monetary and fiscal policy regimes after the recent financial crisis. Finally, latent policy regime factors exhibit patterns of correlation with macroeconomic time series, suggesting that policy regime change is endogenous.
C38|“What really matters is the economic performance: Positioning tourist destinations by means of perceptual maps”|The present study aims to cluster the world's main tourist destinations according to the growth of the economic performance of the tourist activity and of the tourist and economic development experienced during the last decade. With this objective, we combine the information from a set of tourist and economic indicators for the main 45 tourist destinations over the period between 2000 and 2010. Destinations are ranked with respect to their average growth rate over the sample period. By assigning a numerical value to each country corresponding to its position, all the information is summarised into two components (“economic performance of tourist activity” and “tourist and economic development”) via multivariate techniques for dimensionality reduction: multidimensional scaling (MDS) and categorical principal components analysis (CATPCA). By means of perceptual maps, we find that destinations can be clustered into four different groups. The first one, dominated by Western and Northern Europe markets, contains some of the top destinations (France, Spain and the United States). A second one, with a predominance of Mediterranean destinations (Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Israel), obtains high scores in both dimensions. In the third one, we find Cambodia and China, alongside Egypt and Turkey. Finally, a fourth group dominated by Eastern Europe destinations (Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia) with low scores in both dimensions.
C38|What Types are There?|Abstract Preferences differ in the population, and this heterogeneity may not be adequately described by observed characteristics and additive error terms. As a first contribution, this study shows that preference heterogeneity can be represented graphically by means of violations of the Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference (WARP), and that computing the minimum number of partitions necessary to break all WARP violations in the sample is equivalent to computing the chromatic number of this graph. Second, the study builds the bridge between revealed preference theory and cluster analysis to assign individuals to these partitions (i.e. preference types). The practical methods are applied to Dutch labour supply data, to recover reservation wages of individuals who belong to particular preference types.
C38|Contingent Employment and Labour Market Pathways: Bridge or Trap?|The debate over whether contingent (and typically more precarious) employment acts as a bridge to permanent employment, or as a trap, has tended to focus on transitions rather than longer-run pathways. This approach cannot accurately identify indirect pathways from contingent to permanent employment, and nor can it identify 'trap' pathways involving short spells in other states. It also fails to distinguish between those experiencing contingent employment as a 'blip' and those with longer spells. This article employs a different approach involving sequence analysis. Exploiting longitudinal data for Australian, evidence for the co-existence of pathways that correspond to 'bridge' and 'trap' characterisations of contingent employment is found. Further, in the case of casual employment these two types of labour market pathways are roughly equally prevalent, although for some groups – in particular women, those with low educational attainment, and those with a disability – 'traps' are more likely than 'bridges'.
C38|A solution for multicollinearity in stochastic frontier production function models|This paper considers the problem of collinearity among inputs in a stochastic frontier production model, an issue that has received little attention in the econometric literature. To address this problem, a principal-component-based solution is proposed, which allows carrying out a joint interpretation of technical efficiency and the technology parameters of the model. Applications of the method to simulated and real data show its usability and effective performance
C38|Exchange rate pass-through in the euro area|In this paper we analyse the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) in the euro area as a whole and for four euro area members - Germany, France, Italy and Spain. For that purpose we use Bayesian VARs with identi?cation based on a combination of zero and sign restrictions. Our results emphasize that pass-through in the euro area is not constant over time - it may depend on a composition of economic shocks governing the exchange rate. Regarding the relative importance of individual shocks, it seems that pass-through is the strongest when the exchange rate movement is triggered by (relative) monetary policy shocks and the exchange rate shocks. Our shock-dependent measure of ERPT points to a large but volatile pass-through to import prices and overall very small pass-through to consumer in?ation in the euro area. JEL Classification: E31, F3, F41
C38|Dimensions Of Macroeconomic Uncertainty: A Common Factor Analysis|In the current literature uncertainty about the future course of the economy is identified as a possible driver of business cycle fluctuations. In fact, uncertainty surrounds the movements of all economic variables which gives rise to a monitoring problem. We identify the different dimensions of uncertainty in the macroeconomy. To this end, we construct a large dataset covering all forms of economic uncertainty and unravel the fundamental factors that account for the common dynamics therein. These common factors are interpreted as macroeconomic uncertainty. Our results show that the first factor captures business cycle uncertainty while the second factor is identified as oil and commodity price uncertainty. Finally, we demonstrate that a distinction between both types of macroeconomic uncertainty is essential since they have rather different implications for economic activity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C38|On the Impact of the European Union in Citizens’ Perception of Quality of Life|In the 2000s many important events have affected the EU political and economic stage: the adoption of the Euro currency, the enlargement occurred in three waves, the big economic crisis in 2008 and the Brexit referendum in 2016, just to cite a few. It is common opinion that these shocks have contributed to deeply change the average citizens’ attitude towards the EU and have had a strong impact on citizens’ quality of life. The present work aims at analysing the relationship between the EU and EU citizens’ perceived quality of life. This analysis is carried out in two-steps via firstly a nonlinear principal component analysis to extract underlying components of perceived quality of life related to the EU, and secondly using multilevel modelling to take into account country effects influencing the overall quality of life. Specific attention is given to national differences and the connection with the general citizens’ perception of quality of life.
C38|Evaluación de la imagen organizacional universitaria en una institución de educación superior|La imagen organizacional es importante para muchas instituciones de educación superior por encontrarse en un entorno ampliamente competitivo que demanda servicios educativos de calidad. El propósito de esta investigación fue evaluar la imagen organizacional universitaria en una institución de educación superior. Para este propósito se realizó una investigación de acuerdo con las siguieron etapas: adaptación de la escala de imagen organizacional a población mexicana; integración de escala en formato de diferencial semántico; aplicación de la escala a una muestra de 226 profesores y 541 estudiantes de la Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Hidalgo; determinación de las propiedades psicométricas de la escala (validez de constructo y confiabilidad); estadísticas descriptivas de la imagen organizacional y análisis comparativo de la imagen organizacional por escuela. Los resultados indican que la escala de imagen organizacional adaptada a población mexicana tiene propiedades psicométricas adecuadas para evaluar este constructo. Además, se identificaron diferencias significativas de la imagen de la organización en cada instituto de la IES evaluada.
C38|Evaluation of the organizational image of a university in a higher education institution|Organizational image is an important issue for many institutions of higher education by being immersed in a competitive environment that requires higher quality of educational services. The objective of this research is to evaluate the organizational image of an institution of higher education. For this purpose, an investigation was conducted. The stages of this research were: translation-retranslation of the original scale of organizational image; integration of scale items using a semantic differential response scale type; piloting of the scale with a sample of 226 teachers and 541 students of Autonomous University of Hidalgo State; determination of the psychometric properties of the scale (construct validity and reliability, and correlations between the factors of scale), descriptive statistics of the scale and comparative analysis. The results indicate that the organizational image scale adapted to Mexican population has adequate psychometric properties to assess this construct. In addition, we identified significant differences of the organizational image in each institute of the IES evaluated.
C38|Forecasting with FAVAR: macroeconomic versus financial factors|We assess the predictive power of macroeconomic and financial latent factors on the key variables for the US economy before and after the recent Great Recession. We implement a forecasting horserace among Factor Augmented VAR (FAVAR), Classical, and Bayesian VAR models. FAVAR models outperform others. Focusing only on macroeconomic or on nancial latent factors,we nd how the nancial variables have not a driver role in forecasting the US economy including the Great Recession.
C38|Bagged artificial neural networks in forecasting inflation: An extensive comparison with current modelling frameworks|Accurate inflation forecasts lie at the heart of effective monetary policy. By utilizing a thick modelling approach, this paper investigates the out-of-sample quality of the short-term Polish headline inflation forecasts generated by a combination of thousands of bagged single hidden-layer feed-forward artificial neural networks in the period of systematically falling and persistently low inflation. Results indicate that the forecasts from this model outperform a battery of popular approaches, especially at longer horizons. During the excessive disinflation it has more accurately accounted for the slowly evolving local mean of inflation and remained only mildly biased. Moreover, combining several linear and nonlinear approaches with diverse underlying model assumptions delivers further statistically significant gains in the predictive accuracy and statistically outperforms a panel of examined benchmarks at multiple horizons. The robustness analysis shows that resigning from data preprocessing and bootstrap aggregating severely compromises the forecasting ability of the model.
C38|How far does monetary policy reach? Evidence from factor-augmented vector autoregressions for Poland|This study applies factor-augmented vector autoregressions to identify the effects of monetary policy shocks in a small, open, emerging market economy. It uses data on 132 variables for Poland, ‘compressing’ them to either structural (having an economic interpretation) or economically uninterpretable factors, also known as diffusion indices. The tightening of monetary policy is found to have broad, contractionary effects. Among other things, production, building permits, retail trade, employment, job offers, prices, wages, loans and stock prices decrease, unemployment and non-performing loans increase. However, a rise in the interest rate does not appear to be associated with an appreciation of the exchange rate. But this result is not robust among studies using vector autoregressions, which calls for a different strategy to identify the causal effect. As one of extensions, the effects of changes in global and foreign factors are investigated. Domestic prices are found to respond to global prices of commodities and foreign prices. Domestic production and interest rates – to their foreign counterparts.
C38|Inference on Risk Premia in the Presence of Omitted Factors|We propose a three-pass method to estimate the risk premia of observable factors in a linear asset pricing model, which is valid even when the observed factors are just a subset of the true factors that drive asset prices or they are measured with error. We show that the risk premium of a factor can be identified in a linear factor model regardless of the rotation of the other control factors as long as they together span the space of true factors. Motivated by this rotation invariance result, our approach uses principal components to recover the factor space and combines the estimated principal components with each observed factor to obtain a consistent estimate of its risk premium. Our methodology also accounts for potential measurement error in the observed factors and detects when such factors are spurious or even useless. The methodology exploits the blessings of dimensionality, and we therefore apply it to a large panel of equity portfolios to estimate risk premia for several workhorse linear models. The estimates are robust to the choice of test portfolios within equities as well as across many asset classes.
C38|Shrinking the Cross Section|We construct a robust stochastic discount factor (SDF) that summarizes the joint explanatory power of a large number of cross-sectional stock return predictors. Our method achieves robust out-of-sample performance in this high-dimensional setting by imposing an economically motivated prior on SDF coefficients that shrinks the contributions of low-variance principal components of the candidate factors. While empirical asset pricing research has focused on SDFs with a small number of characteristics-based factors-e.g., the four- or five-factor models discussed in the recent literature-we find that such a characteristics-sparse SDF cannot adequately summarize the cross-section of expected stock returns. However, a relatively small number of principal components of the universe of potential characteristics-based factors can approximate the SDF quite well.
C38|Cities and Spatial Interactions in West Africa|Over the past 60 years, urbanisation and cities have fundamentally transformed the social, economic and political geography of West Africa. The number of people living in cities increased from 5 million in 1950 to 133 million in 2010. During the same period, the number of towns and cities with more than 10 000 inhabitants grew from 159 to close to 2 000. A large majority of these agglomerations are secondary cities and small towns that act as hubs and catalysts for local and regional production and supply chains, as well as for the transfer of goods, people and information, linking the local and regional economies to the global economy. The intensity of the spatial interactions of cities has strongly increased with population growth, urbanisation and higher urban density. This paper, part of ongoing work within the Sahel and West Africa Club Secretariat to integrate urbanisation and city growth into analyses of major trends in the region, lays the foundation for the development of a systematic method to capture and describe these spatial interactions. It does so by examining four variables: city size, market potential, urbanisation level and local dominance. These variables, in turn, help to define seven different city groups that can be used to classify West African agglomerations. The initial results of this work reveal the diversity and distinctive behaviours of cities in the region, providing a new perspective on urbanisation dynamics and the influence of spatial variables on urban growth rates, the emergence of new agglomerations and the clustering of cities.
C38|Human Development and Quality of Institutions in Highly Developed Countries|The article concentrates on the problem of influence of quality of institutional system in the context of utilizing the potential of knowledge-based economy on the human development in highly developed countries. In order to measure the quality of institutional system the proposed synthetic measure with multivariate analysis - TOPSIS method based on the data available from Fraser Institute was obtained. As diagnostic variables of quality of institutions 29 variables qualified to four aspects of quality of national institutional systems were used: a) formal regulations influencing entrepreneurship; b) effectiveness of juridical system in keeping low level of transaction costs and supporting effectiveness of market mechanism; c) competitive pressure and effectiveness of labour markets; d) financial markets institutions as a stimulator of development of enterprises with high growth potential. Human Development Index proposed within United Nations Development Programme was used for measuring the quality of life. The estimation of relation between institutions and human development was made with econometric dynamic panel model. The estimation was made for 24 European Union countries for the years 2004-2010. The econometric analysis shows the positive influence of quality of institutions on human development in the context of knowledge-based economy in highly developed countries.
C38|Digital Economy in Czech Republik, Slovakia and Hungary. Measurement with Topsis based on Entropy Measure for Objective Weighting|Effective digital economy is currently considered as a factor that can increase chances for avoiding middle income trap in Central European economies. Taking into account regional perspective building conditions for developing digital economy can support the process of closing development gap and utilizing the potential of convergence in the case of underdeveloped or peripheral regions. As a result, supporting the digital economy is currently considered as an important policy objective both form national and regional perspective. Thus, the objective of the article is to compare the development level of the digital economy in Czech Republic, Slovak and Hungary. The research was conducted for the year 2015. In the research the digital economy is defined as a multiple-criteria phenomenon, which is described with diagnostic variables proposed by Eurostat for measurement of the digital economy at regional level (NUTS 1). In the article TOPSIS method was implemented. In the case of every multiple-criteria analysis tasks a basic dilemma relates to the problem of applying weights for variables used in the research, which should be appropriate for their importance in forming the measured phenomenon. To solve that problem two approaches were applied here. First, the TOSPIS method with equal weights for all the variables was used. In the second approach the TOPSIS method was extended with Shannon entropy and objective weights concept. The obtained results confirm some disparities between the regions in the analyzed part of Central Europe and the importance of habits and human capital in the process of utilizing potential of the digital economy.
C38|Multidimensional Comparative Analysis of the Competitiveness of the European Union Countries’ Economies|The basic question we ask is, whether it is possible to talk in today’s globalizing world about the uniform of the competitiveness of the economies. Posing such questions is particularly important in the case of such political and economic structures such as the European Union. The strategic developmental objectives of the EU include the aspiration to harmonious development of all of its members but it is very difficult task. The competitiveness of the economies is now one of the most frequently discussed topics. It is very difficult to precisely define the notion of competitiveness unambiguously, particularly in terms of international competitiveness of economies. The competitiveness of economies can be discussed both in the context of : a) international competitive capacity, b) international current competitiveness or c) international competitive standing of national economy. In this work, due to the context of the conducted research (international comparisons of the EU countries’ economies) the competitiveness of international economies will be considered in terms of international competitive capacity with regard to investment attractiveness of a country. In addition to the problems associated with defining this concept they are also important dilemmas associated with the measurement of the competitiveness. In the performed comparative analyses of European economies the research results presented within reports of „Global Competitiveness Index” will be used. The aim of the work is multidimensional comparative analysis of the competitiveness of the European Union countries’ economies. In the work to study the spatial differentiation of the EU countries’ economies in the context of their competitiveness, the taxonomic measure of development based on median vector Weber has been used. As a result the classification and the typological groups of the EU countries obtained by means of the taxonomic measure of development calculated on the basis of the characteristics of their competitiveness arises.
C38|The Use of Multivariate Techniques for Youth Unemployment Analysis in Poland|The labour market situation is considered to be the most widely discussed part of economic development. However, it should be noted that the unemployment situation of young people (aged 15 -24 years) in Poland in general terms seems to be problematic. Overall, the unemployment rate among young people in Poland is significantly higher than the overall unemployment rate in the EU. Moreover, the situation varies greatly across the regions. Using multivariate techniques as a theoretical framework, the main goal of the paper is to identify groups of Polish regions that share similar patterns regarding unemployment among young people. The initial calculation is based on the concept of the taxonomic measure developed by Hellwig. The final method used to create clusters of objects (across 16 voivodeships of Poland) is cluster analysis. A segmentation of the voivodeships is observed for the years 2005 and 2014, based on selected indicators to determine the labour market situation. Through the exploration of the advantages of multivariate methods, the nature of youth unemployment is revealed in more precise detail. Indeed, dendrogram analysis divided the voivodeships into five groups, which are characterized by similar features associated with the labour market. It was found that the groups which emerged in 2005 have a different composition of regions than in 2014; this difference seems to be connected to the economic crisis.
C38|Economic development of Polish voivodeships in the years 2010-2014. Application of taxonomic measure of development with entropy weights|Implementing policy and forming socioeconomic conditions that support sustainable and equable growth of regions is currently an important objective both at European and national level. Regional development policy is supported by significant resources from European Union funds. As a result, a constant monitoring of the development process at regional level with application of quantitative methods is an important scientific and practical task. Thus, the aim of the article is to assess the level of economic development in Poland at the voivodeships level (NUTS 2). Economic development is considered here as a multiple-criteria phenomenon. In the case of multiple-criteria analysis a common dilemma is attributed to the problem of applying appropriate weights for variables used in the research. Therefore, in order to provide a rating of voivodeships a taxonomic measure of development with entropy weights was applied here. The research was conducted for the years 2010-2014. It was based on the data provided by Central Statistical Office of Poland. The results of the analysis confirm that in spite of a progress obtained by all voivodeships significant disparities between them are still present.
