C39|On the preferences of CoCo bond buyers and sellers: a logistic regression analysis|This paper estimates the preference scores of CoCo bond buyers and sellers by running logistic regressions taking into account both bond and issuing bank’s characteristics, and also considers the role of country−specific CoCo bond market competitiveness. Buyers are found to be characterised by stronger preference responses to CoCo bond coupons and credit ratings, while sellers are more sensitive to CoCo bond issue size and financial characteristics including return on common equity, price−to−book ratio and total regulatory capital to risk−weighted asset ratio. Further, sizeable responses to CoCo bond and issuing bank’s characteristics are found in most European countries, Brazil, Mexico and China, the strongest responses being estimated in the case of the UK and China.
C39|Uluslararası Ticarette Satın Alma Gücü Paritesinin Geçerliliği Sorunu: Türkiye için Zaman Serisi Analizi<BR>[The Validity Problem of Purchasing Power Parity in International Trade: A Time Series Analysis for Turkey]|Hypothesis of purchasing power parity basically depends on the presumption of unique price in international trade. The price of a good is the same all over the world when it is converted to a common currency. In other words, one unit of national currency has the same purchasing power everywhere in the world. The other form of purchasing power parity (PPP) does not depend on the assumption of unique price, instead it is based on the argument that exchange rates changes by the amount of differences in inflations of the involved countries. In this article, the validities of these two forms of PPP for Turkey have been evaluated by imposing time series applications on the quarterly data for the period of 1986Q1-2017Q4. For the sake of 2001 economic crisis, the sample period has been divided into two subperiods; 1986Q1-2001Q3 and 2001Q4-2017Q4. The unit root and cointegration tests have been applied to both of the subperiods. The statistical evidence supporting the absolute form of PPP could not have been gained. On the other hand, for both of the subperiods, the validity of relative version of PPP has been approved by the application results.
C39|Predictors Of Public Attitude Towards Genetically Modified Mother?S Milk|In the 21st century, many women played a dual role as working women and mothers. Breast feeding has been a problem for many working mother due to lack of privacy and adequate time in the working place. Genetically modified (GM) mother?s milk could provide an alternative to human breast milk and formula milk for babies, but GM food has often been criticised. The purpose of this study is to identify the relevant factors influencing public attitude to mother?s milk produced in genetically modified (GM) cows and to analyze the relationships among all the factors using structural equation model. A survey was carried out on 434 respondents from various stakeholder groups in the Klang Valley region of Malaysia. Results of the survey have confirmed that public attitudes towards complex issues such as GM mother?s milk should be seen as a multi-faceted process. The most important direct predictors for the encouragement of GM mother?s milk are the specific application-linked variables: perceived risks, perceived benefits and familiarity of GM mother?s milk as well as two general attitude variables: general promise of modern biotechnology and societal value. Encouragement of GM mother?s milk also involves the interplay between other factors such as threatening natural order of things, the need for labelling, the need for patenting and confidence on regulation. The research findings serve as a useful database for understanding the social construct of public acceptance of GM foods in developing country.
C39|Heterogeneous Effects of Credit Constraints on SMEs' Employment: Evidence from the Great Recession|This paper takes advantage of access to detailed matched bank-firm data to investigate whether and how employment decisions of SMEs have been affected by credit constraints in the wake of the Great Recession. Variability in banks' financial health following the 2008 crisis is used as an exogenous determinant of firms' access to credit. Findings, relative to the Belgian economy, clearly highlight that credit matters. They show that SMEs borrowing money from pre-crisis financially less healthy banks were significantly more likely to be affected by a credit constraint and, in turn, to adjust their labour input downwards than pre-crisis clients of more healthy banks. These results are robust across types of loan applications that were denied credit, i.e. applications to finance working capital, debt or new investments. Yet, estimates also show that credit constraints have been essentially detrimental for employment among SMEs experiencing a negative demand shock or facing strong product market competition. In terms of human resources management, credit constraints are not only found to foster employment adjustment at the extensive margin but also to increase the use of temporary layoff allowances for economic reasons. This outcome supports the hypothesis that short-time compensation programmes contribute to save jobs during recessions.
C39|A structural approach to identify financial transmission in distinguished scenarios of crises|This paper investigates the propagation of instability through key asset markets of the US financial system - equity, real estate, banking and treasury - between 1/3/2000 and 12/26/2014. For this purpose, we develop an identification method to uncover characteristic financial market interrelations under distinguished scenarios of crises. It refers to the logic behind narrative sign restrictions and allows to extract time varying contemporaneous effects and volatility transmission from conventional reduced form volatility models with dynamic correlations. We find the market value of banking institutions to be highly sensitive to news originating in other markets, with those originating in the real estate market being most important. Under stress, in turn, the banking sector tends to dominate financial market (co)variation, where it exhibits a marked feedback relation with both the real estate and the equity market.
C39|Achieving Business Excellence by Optimizing Corporate Forensic Readiness|In order to improve their business excellence, all organizations, despite their size (small, medium or large one) should manage their risk of fraud. Fraud, in today’s world, is often committed by using computers and can only be revealed by digital forensic investigator. Not even small or medium-sized companies are secure from fraud. In the light of recent financial scandals that literary demolished not just economies of specific countries but entire world economy, we propose in this paper an optimal model of corporative computer incident digital forensic investigation (CCIDFI) by using adopted mathematic model of the greed MCDM – multi-criteria decision-making method and the Expert Choice software tool for multi-criteria optimization of the CCIDFI readiness. Proposed model can, first of all, help managers of small and medium-sized companies to justify their decisions to employ digital forensic investigators and include them in their information security teams in order to choose the optimal CCIDFI model and improve forensic readiness in the computer incident management process that will result with minimization of potential losses of company in the future and improve its business quality.
C39|Shadow Economies around the World: New Results for 158 Countries over 1991-2015|This paper is a first attempt to estimate the size and development of the shadow economy of 158 countries over the period 1991 up to 2015. Using the Multiple Indicators, Multiple Causes (MIMIC) method we apply for the first time (i) the light intensity approach instead of GDP avoiding the problem that quite often GDP is used as a cause and indicator variable, (ii) the Predictive Mean Matching (PMM) method, and (iii) a variety of robustness tests. Results suggest that the average size of the shadow economy of these 158 countries over 1991-2015 is 32.5% of official GDP, which was 34.82% in 1991 and decreased to 30.66% in 2015. The lowest size of the shadow economy East Asian countries with 16.77% averaged over the period 1991- 2015, then follows OECD countries with 18.7% and the highest value have Latin American and sub-Saharan African countries with values above 35%.
C39|Partial identification of functionals of the joint distribution of “potential outcomes”|In this paper, we present a systematic study of partial identification of two general classes of functionals of the joint distribution of two “potential outcomes” when a bivariate sample from the joint distribution is not available to the econometrician. Assuming the identification of the conditional marginal distributions of potential outcomes and the distribution of the covariate vector, we show that the identified sets for functionals in both classes are intervals and provide conditions under which the identified sets point identify the true value of the functionals. In addition, we establish sufficient and necessary conditions for the covariate information to be informative in the sense of shrinking the identified sets. We focus on the application of our general results to evaluating distributional treatment effects of a binary treatment in two commonly used frameworks in the literature for evaluating average treatment effects: the selection on observables framework and a latent threshold-crossing model. We characterize the role of the propensity score in the selection-on-observables framework and the role of endogenous selection in the latent threshold-crossing model. Examples of policy parameters that our results apply include the correlation coefficient between the potential outcomes, many inequality measures of the distribution of treatment effects, and median of the distribution of the individual treatment effect.
C39|Opening the black box of impact – Ideal-type impact pathways in a public agricultural research organization|This paper develops a renewed research impact assessment approach that goes beyond the traditional computation of internal rates of returns but allows collective learning, understanding and guiding systems transformation. Our approach (ASIRPA) builds on the broader research impact assessment literature which discusses impact-generating mechanisms in nonlinear dynamic processes. The main originality of ASIRPA is that it is based on a theory of innovation inspired by Actor Network Theory and a standardized ex-post case study methodology. Standardized case studies allow systematic codification of the variables for each case study, and the building of four ideal-type impact pathways. Each of these ideal-types is characterized by specific translation mechanisms, critical points, research and adoption networks, research outputs, and impacts. Our analytical framework and empirical analysis provide new insights into the contribution of an agricultural Public Research Organization to impact generation, and the role of users and networks in impact pathways.
C39|Virtual relationships: Short- and long-run evidence from BitCoin and altcoin markets|This paper empirically examines interdependencies between BitCoin and altcoin markets in the short- and long-run. We apply time-series analytical mechanisms to daily data of 17 virtual currencies (BitCoin + 16 alternative virtual currencies) and two altcoin price indices for the period 2013–2016. Our empirical findings confirm that indeed BitCoin and altcoin markets are interdependent. The BitCoin-altcoin price relationship is significantly stronger in the short-run than in the long-run. We cannot fully confirm the hypothesis that the BitCoin price relationship is stronger with those altcoins that are more similar in their price formation mechanism to BitCoin. In the long-run, macro-financial indicators determine the altcoin price formation to a slightly greater degree than BitCoin does. The virtual currency supply is exogenous and therefore plays only a limited role in the price formation.
C39|Shadow Economies around the World: New Results for 158 Countries over 1991-2015|Using the MIMIC method, this paper is a first attempt to estimate the size of the shadow economy of 158 countries over the period 1991 up to 2015. In addition to performing a variety of robustness tests, this paper explicitly addresses endogeneity concerns to the use of GDP as cause and indicator, by using the light intensity approach as an indicator variable as proxy for the size of the economy. Results suggest that the average size of the shadow economy of these 158 countries over 1991-2015 is 32.5% of official GDP, which was 34.82% in 1991 and decreased to 30.66% in 2015.
C39|The Commitment Role of Equity Financing|Existing theories of a firm’s optimal capital structure seem to fail in explaining why many healthy and profitable firms rely heavily on equity financing, even though benefits associated with debt (like tax shields) appear to be high and the bankruptcy risk low. This holds in particular for firms that show a strong commitment towards their workforce and are popular among employees. We demonstrate that such financing behavior may be driven by implicit arrangements made between a firm and its managers/employees. Equity financing generally strengthens a firm’s credibility to honor implicit promises. Debt, on the other hand, has an adverse effect on the enforceability of these arrangements because too much debt increases the firm’s reneging temptation, as some of the negative consequences of breaking implicit promises can be shifted to creditors. Our analysis provides an explanation for why some firms only use little debt financing. Predictions made by our theory are in line with a number of empirical results, which seem to stay in contrast to existing theories on capital structure. Our findings also carry new implications for how policies (e.g., tax policy) affect firm behavior.
C39|A new method of measuring stock market manipulation through structural equation modeling (SEM)|This paper proposes a new model of measuring a latent variable, stock market manipulation. The model bears close resemblance with the literature on economic well-being. It interprets the manipulation of a stock as a latent variable, in the form of a multiple indicators and multiple causes (MIMIC) model. This approach exploits systematic relations between various indicators of manipulation and between manipulation and multiple causes, which allows it to identify the determinants of manipulation and an index of manipulation simultaneously. The main reason of stock market manipulation comes from the fact that information availability is not universally equal. The manipulation is thus critically linked to the creation, arrival and dissemination of information or rumors/mis-information. Thus, the immediate impact of manipulation is on the time profile of returns, or excess returns, from an asset and the excess volatility of returns in excess of the volatility explained by the fundamentals. In this basic setup, the model used these two variables as the indicators of stock market manipulation. The main intuition of the MIMIC approach is that some variables, or statistics, related to peace are indicators of manipulation, while others signify effects or outputs of causal factors, or inputs, of manipulation. In other words, distinction can be made between causes of manipulation and indicators of manipulation. The causal factors used in this model are classified into five different domains namely pure economic factors as determinants of manipulation, labor market conditions, international factors, quality of governance factors and systematic risk factors.
C39|Application of Demand Analysis Framework to Understand the Price and Volume Movements of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)| Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), allow for the study of the demand for investment in a commodity or an industry surrounding a commodity. They are comparable to mutual funds where they separate ownership among shares and are a combination of several assets. ETFs are marketable securities traded on stock exchanges and are available in following industries: commodities, consumer, financial, health, natural resources, real estate, technology, and utilities. Objective of this paper is to assess the usefulness of using an ETF’s volume as a proxy for demand and the price as the independent variable to determine if demand relationships exist between the two measures. Daily price and volume data for 21 oil and natural gas ETFs was collected from Bloomberg for five years (March 2010 - December 2014). The energy ETFs were categorized into oil, natural gas and general energy. A system of demand equations was developed for aforementioned energy ETFs using seemingly unrelated regression method. Preliminary results show that, own-price elasticity of demand for oil and natural gas is -0.69 and -0.27. Also, we find that natural gas and oil are substitutes, which is generally observed in energy markets. Consequently, the use of ETFs as proxies for their industries shows promise.
C39|Recent Advances in the Measurement Error Literature|This article reviews recent significant progress made in developing estimation and inference methods for nonlinear models in the presence of mismeasured data that may or may not conform to the classical assumption of independent zero-mean errors. The aim is to cover a broad range of methods having differing levels of complexity and strength of the required assumptions. Simple approaches that form the elementary building blocks of more advanced approaches are discussed first. Then, special attention is devoted to methods that rely on readily available auxiliary variables (e.g., repeated measurements, indicators, or instrumental variables). Results relaxing most of the commonly invoked simplifying assumptions are presented (linear measurement structure, independent errors, zero-mean errors, availability of auxiliary information). This article also provides an overview of important connections with related fields, such as latent variable models, nonlinear panel data, factor models, and set identification, and applications of the methods to other fields traditionally unrelated to measurement error models.
C39|Organizational Culture, Strategy Implementation and Commercial Bank Performance in Zimbabwe|The study investigates the impact of organizational culture and strategy implementation on commercial bank performance in Zimbabwe. Using a four factor, six dimensional organizational culture index and an eight dimensional strategy implementation index to statistically measure culture and strategy implementation impact, the study employs ordinary least regression method to quantify and econometrically model the impact of the two variables on commercial bank performance. Data collection was achieved through questionnaire administration. The results of the study show that culture and strategy implementation have a statistically significant and positive impact on commercial bank performance. For banks which are regarded as performing (both average and high), organizational culture has strong positive effect on their performance while for smaller and poor performing banks, the effect of organizational culture was nearly neutral. Strategy implementation was also found to have strong positive effect in high performing banks and between neutral to negative effect in non-performing banks. The study concludes that the dynamic environment under which banks operate makes the impact of intangible resources differ across institutions. Based on the results of this study, it is recommended that leadership of commercial banks need to invest in creating a defining culture in banks and effective strategy implementation techniques. Utilizing such attributes remains a major determinant of commercial bank performance in Zimbabwe
C39|Factors shaping Americans’ objective well-being: A systems science approach with network analysis|Despite the introduction of multiple factors, multidimensional approaches cannot represent the complexity of the objective determinants of well-being (ODW). This paper proposes an alternative OWD model that adds a systemic approach, by using Bayesian networks algorithms to discover a directed two level network of variables nested in subnetworks of determinants. The network was inferred by using subsamples of the 2013 version of the American Community Survey. Network analysis methods applied to the model provided new insights concerning single ODW relevance and the roles that are useful to focus selective welfare interventions; they also offered a big picture that is fundamental to reason about the unpremeditated universal character of the selective US welfare policies.
C39|Bayesian Unit Root Test for Panel Data|Present paper studies the panel data auto regressive (PAR) time series model for testing the unit root hypothesis. The posterior odds ratio (POR) is derived under appropriate prior assumptions and then empirical analysis is carried out for testing the unit root hypothesis of Net Asset Value of National Pension schemes (NPS) for different fund managers. The unit root hypothesis for the model with linear time trend and linear time trend with augmentation term is carried out. The estimated autoregressive coefficient is far away from one in case of linear time trend only so, testing is not executed but in consideration of augmentation term, it is close to one. Therefore, we performed the unit root hypothesis testing using the derived POR. In all cases unit root hypothesis is rejected therefore all NPS series are concluded trend stationary.
C39|Spatial indices for measuring three-dimensional patterns in a voxel-based space|Abstract Spatial indices are used to quantitatively describe the spatial arrangements of the features within a study region. However, most of the indices used are two-dimensional in their representation of the surface characteristics, and this is insufficient to quantify the three-dimensional properties of an area or geospatial features. With the increased availability of 3D data from laser scanning and other collection methods, a voxel-based representation of space is an important methodology that allows for an intuitive visualization of geospatial features and their analysis with 3D GIS techniques. The objective of this study is to conceptualize, develop, and implement indices that can characterize three-dimensional space and can be used to analyze the structure of spatial features in a landscape. The indices for three-dimensional space that are implemented are, namely, surface area volume, fractal dimension, lacunarity, and Moran’s I which are all useful in the quantification of spatial organization found in ecological landscapes. In addition to providing the quantitative descriptors, the results indicate that a voxel-based representation provides a straightforward means of characterizing the form and composition of the spatial features using 3D indices.
C39|Trust and Product/Sellers Reviews as Factors Influencing Online Product Comparison Sites Usage by Young Consumers|Paper describes young consumers’ behaviour connected with online product comparison sites usage as an example of online decision shopping aids. Authors’ main goal is to check whether or not such factors as: previous experience in such sites usage, personal innovativeness in domain of information technology – PIIT, and particularly cognitive trust (in several subdimensions), as well as affective trust toward online product comparison site, influence purchase intention via mentioned sites (acting as intermediaries in online sales channel), and anticipated satisfaction from choice made by consumer. Also indirect influence of users’ opinions about product and sellers on mentioned constructs has been researched. Study on effective sample of 456 young consumers with data collected through CAWI questionnaire confirmed reliability and validity of measurement scales. Path model estimated via PLS-SEM confirmed most hypotheses settled, particularly confirming strong positive relationships between cognitive trust (mostly in competence) on affective trust, and later on purchase intention and choice satisfaction. Product and sellers reviews were partially mediating some of those relationships.
C39|Likelihood Estimation of the Systemic Poison-Induced Morbidity in an Adult North Eastern Romanian Population|Purpose - Acute exposure to a systemic poison represents an important segment of medical emergencies. We aimed to estimate the likelihood of systemic poison-induced morbidity in a population admitted in a tertiary referral center from North East Romania, based on the determinant factors. Methodology - This was a prospective observational cohort study on adult poisoned patients. Demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics were recorded in all patients. We analyzed three groups of patients, based on the associated morbidity during hospitalization. We identified significant differences between groups and predictors with significant effects on morbidity using multiple multinomial logistic regressions. ROC analysis proved that a combination of tests could improve diagnostic accuracy of poison-related morbidity. Main findings - Of the 180 patients included, aged 44.7 ± 17.2 years, 51.1% males, 49.4% had no poison-related morbidity, 28.9% developed a mild morbidity, and 21.7% had a severe morbidity, followed by death in 16 patients (8.9%). Multiple complications and deaths were recorded in patients aged 53.4 ± 17.6 years (p .001), with a lower Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score upon admission and a significantly higher heart rate (101 ± 32 beats/min, p .011). Routine laboratory tests were significantly higher in patients with a recorded morbidity. Multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that a GCS
C39|Multivariate Method Of Simulated Quantiles|In this paper the Method of Simulated Quantiles (MSQ) of Dominicy and Veredas (2013) is extended to a multivariate framework by introducing the Multivariate Method of Simulated Quantiles (MMSQ). In order to build the MMSQ procedure we rely on the definition of projectional quantile which allows us to estimate in the optimal way all the parameters involved in the multivariate setting. We provide asymptotic results underlying the MMSQ estimator. As a further improvement we introduce a penalty function in the procedure in order to account for sparsity by using the Smoothly Clipped Absolute Deviation function. Oracle properties are showed for the penalized MMSQ estimators while simulation results are considered to highlight the power of the inferential procedure.
C39|Mediation in log-linear model|The analysis of the causality is important in many fields of research. I propose a causal theory to obtain the causal effects in a causal loglinear model. It calculates them using the odds ratio and the concepts proposed by Pearl's causal theory where it is possible. My analysis can be divided into 2 parts. In the first part the effects are calculated distinguishing between a simple mediation model with 1 mediator (model without the multiplicative interaction effect between exogenous variable and mediator) and a mediation model with 1 mediator and the multiplicative interaction effect between exogenous variable and mediator. In both models it is possible also to analyze the cell effect, which is a new interaction effect. Then in a causal loglinear model there are three interaction effects: multiplicative interaction effect, additive interaction effect and cell effect. In the second part the effects are calculated distinguishing between a mediation model with 2 parallel uncorrelated mediators and a mediation model with 2 parallel correlated mediators. In parallel mediation model with correlated influencing variables, Pearl?s theory cannot be used (Pearl, 2014) and and no alternative theory has been proposed. For this reason I propose a new causal concept with relatively formulas to calculate the causal effects in a mediation model with 2 parallel correlated mediators. These types of models are many important in marketing field: for example in customer satisfaction it is important to analyze a model where quality influences the positive and negative emotions and these 3 variables influence the future behavior. Then I show some applications of my causal theory to understand marketing problems.
C39|Mediation in causal log-linear models|The analysis of the causality is important in many fields of research. To obtain the causal effects in a causal log-linear model I propose a theory, using the odds ratio and the concepts proposed by Pearl, whenever possible. I start calculating the effects in a simple mediation model where I analyze a new interaction effect, which I call cell. After I calculate the effects in a mediation model with two parallel mediators. If they are correlated, Pearl's theory cannot be used and no alternative theory has been proposed so far. To resolve this issue I present a new concept of causality. The mediation models are essential in the marketing, then to it, for a more complex analysis, I apply my causal theory.
C39|Implementing Rubin's alternative multiple-imputation method for statistical matching in Stata|This article introduces two new commands, smpc and smmatch, that implement the statistical matching procedure proposed by Rubin (1986, Journal of Business and Economic Statistics 4: 87–94). The purpose of statistical matching in Rubin’s procedure is to generate a single dataset from various datasets, where each dataset contains a specific variable of interest and all contain some variables in common. For two variables of interest that are not observed jointly for any unit, smpc generates the predicted values of each as a function of the other vari- able of interest and a set of control variables by assuming a partial correlation value (defined by the user) between the two variables of interest (other statistical matching procedures assume that they are conditionally independent given the control variables). The smmatch command, on the other hand, matches observations of different datasets according to their predicted values (using a minimum distance criterion) conditional on a set of control variables, and it imputes the observed value of the match for the missing. Copyright 2016 by StataCorp LP.
C39|The determinants of non-life insurance consumption: A VECM analysis in Central and South-Eastern Europe|This study examines the determinant of non-life insurance consumption in 14 countries of Central and South-Eastern Europe between 1995 and 2010 within a vector error correction model (VECM). We use non-life insurance penetration as a measure for non-life insurance consumption. Empirical results provide evidence that the number of dwellings and number of passenger cars positively and significantly influence non-life insurance consumption in the long run, while the existence of the rule of law and EU membership are significant in the short run.
C39|The Association Between Physician Supply And The Mix Of Generalist And Specialist Services Used|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12090-abs-0001""> Variations in physician supply, and the impact on a patient's use of physicians, remains a concern. This article asks how the supply of physicians is associated with both the number of visits and the dollar value of services received from general practitioners and specialists. Ontario respondents in the Canadian Community Health Survey 2000/2001 are linked to their Ontario Health Insurance Program claims for 3 years (1999–2002). A geographic weighting method is employed to account for physician supply in surrounding jurisdictions. The results are consistent with the conclusion patients substitute one physician type for another when physician supply is constrained. ( JEL I10 , I12 , C29 , C39 , C52)"
C39|An Approach About Monetary Policy Risk Balance In Colombia: A Multivariate Analysis Based On Time Series|Monetary policy has been important as a tool at maintaining dynamic stability on inflation rate, an increasing growth rate and several changes in financial variables. The trend in those macroeconomic variables could be accounted for a straightforward or roundabout change in monetary policy tools. Hence, in this paper, we will present a historical trend about macroeconomic variables which change with monetary policy effects and we will use multivariate time series analysis which could give us empiric evidence to explain the impact of monetary policy in these variables. First, there will be a brief introduction about the importance of the subject will be made. Second, it will take place the description of the variables and a brief state of art for each variable analyzing the current literature in the subject. Third, it will be carried out all the subjects regarding the construction of two econometric models, VAR model and M-GARCH model, anyone not interested in this part is encourage to skip that section and continue reading the next section. Finally, it will be shown the final remarks and the conclusion of this paper.
C39|Smooth coefficient estimation of a seemingly unrelated regression|This paper proposes estimation and inference for the semiparametric smooth coefficient seemingly unrelated regression model. We discuss the imposition of cross-equation restrictions which are required by economic theory as well as methods for data driven bandwidth selection. A test of correct functional form for the entire system of equations is also constructed. Asymptotic and finite sample results are given. We illustrate our estimator by applying it to a cost system for US commercial banks. Our results show that most of the banks are operating under increasing returns to scale, but that returns to scale decrease with bank size.
C39|High dimensional stochastic regression with latent factors, endogeneity and nonlinearity|We consider a multivariate time series model which represents a high dimensional vector process as a sum of three terms: a linear regression of some observed regressors, a linear combination of some latent and serially correlated factors, and a vector white noise. We investigate the inference without imposing stationary conditions on the target multivariate time series, the regressors and the underlying factors. Furthermore we deal with the the endogeneity that there exist correlations between the observed regressors and the unobserved factors. We also consider the model with nonlinear regression term which can be approximated by a linear regression function with a large number of regressors. The convergence rates for the estimators of regression coefficients, the number of factors, factor loading space and factors are established under the settings when the dimension of time series and the number of regressors may both tend to infinity together with the sample size. The proposed method is illustrated with both simulated and real data examples.
C39|Analysis of Air Pollution Impact Factors in China: A MIMIC Modeling Approach|In this study, we investigate the impact factors on air pollution in terms of CO2, SO2 and NOx emissions simultaneously in China and compare changes in air pollution across provinces from 1998 to 2011 using a Multiple Indicators and Multiple Causes Model (MIMIC) within a Structural Equation Model (SEM) framework. Our findings reveal that GDP per capita and total population have the largest impacts on air pollution, followed by energy intensity, foreign direct investment, population density, and industrialization. The results also reveal that the inverted U-shaped Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) hypothesis exists in China. Our findings also demonstrate that Shandong, Jiangxi and Liaoning are the top three provinces with the most deteriorated air quality while Xinjiang, Fujian and Ningxia are with the best. These results not only contribute to advancing the existing literature, but also merit particular attention from policy-makers in China.
C39|A typology of impact pathways generated by a public agricultural research organization|This paper builds a typology of impact pathways generated by an agricultural public research organization, namely INRA (National Institute for Agronomic Research). The typology is built by codifying 32 standardized case studies providing rich qualitative information about the impact pathway and a quantitative assessment of a vector of impacts. We identify five classes of typical impact pathways characterized by specific mechanisms related to the positioning and role of actors in various networks of translation. One Class is characterized by long-term partnerships, generating high impacts. INRA coordinates complex research projects and structures the diffusion process to facilitate market access. In a second Class INRA conducts long term risky collaborative projects thanks to accumulated knowledge and infrastructures. Impacts are high. Market for technologies cases are pooled in Class 3 and correspond to classical IP commercialization. Impacts are lower. Cases in Class 4 are technological options allowing new possible uses that encounter diffusion obstacles. Class 5 encompasses all cases with political impacts as main dimension.
C39|The Impact of the Chinese Exchange Policy on Foreign Trade with the European Union|The aim of this paper is to analyze the impact of the Chinese foreign exchange policy on foreign trade with the European Union. After describing the importance of the exchange rate in an open economy and some of the methodologies employed to calculate its equilibrium value, we examine whether the Chinese competitiveness is due to the existence of misalignment (undervaluation) of its exchange rate, or rather, to other sources of competitiveness. For this purpose, we use a Vector Error Correction (VEC) model to estimate a long-run exports equation. The empirical results indicate that over the past few years, Chinese exports have benefited from an ‘unfair’ competitive advantage resulting from the manipulation of its currency value.
C39|Anomie And Alienation In The Post-Communist Area: A Reapplication Of The Middleton Scale In Russia And Kazakhstan|Unlike commonly used, anomie and alienation not only have different theoretical backgrounds, but also different indicators and predictors. I examine the highly institutionalized alienation scale originally introduced by Middleton (1963), reapplied as a measurement of alienation (Seeman, 1991) and anomie (Huschka and Mau 2005, 2006) in a very relevant context for an anomic situation – the post-Communist countries Russia and Kazakhstan (round six of the World Values Surveys fielded the alienation question in just these two countries). Based on confirmatory factor analysis and multiple group comparisons, I find that the scale consists of two dimensions, which can be described as an anomie and alienation. The anomic dimension consists of indicators “normlessness” and “powerlessness,” whereas the alienative one is comprised by “social isolation”, “meaninglessness,” and “job dissatisfaction.” Though the structure proves to have full invariance in both countries, the predictors for anomie and alienation are different. For both countries, only income is an important predictor for anomie, and though to a lower degree, for alienation. In Kazakhstan, the level of urbanization also provides an impact on the level of anomie. Apart from income, in Russia alienation can be predicted by gender, and type of occupation (manual or intellectual), whereas in Kazakhstan it can be predicted by age
C39|Measurement Of Perceived Quality Spectator Sports Events: Proposed Methodology, Medicion De La Calidad Percibida De Los Espectadores En Los Eventos Deportivos: Propuesta Metodologica|This study develops a model to measure perceived service quality in sporting events. Even though there are models to measure perceived quality, none are designed specifically for sporting events. We use the Delphi method, Alpha Cronbach, Spearmanâ€“Brown prediction formula, and ANOVA to develop and test the model. The methodology was developed in three phases. In the first phase, a preliminary list of variables is elaborated by literature review, validated theoretical models and interviews with experts. In the second phase, the content of the instrument is validated using the Delphi method and descriptive statistics; and the third phase, the internal consistency reliability is calculated. As a result, an 18-item instrument is proposed to evaluate perceived quality of sporting events.
C39|The Effect of Remittances on Labour Supply in the Republic of Haiti| We examine the labour supply effect of remittances in the Republic of Haiti, the prime international remittances recipient country in the Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) region relative to its GDP. Unlike previous empirical literature we address three econometric issues that may bias the estimates. We account for endogeneity of the remittances with respect to labour supply, for the zero-inflated nature of our dependent variable, hours of work, and for the self-selection of the migrant sample. Our results are in line with previous literature, and point to a decline of labour supply in the presence of remittances. However, contrary to previous findings, the labour market response to remittances of female household heads is not as sensitive as male’s.
C39|Econometric Model of the Czech Life Insurance Market|The aim of the article is to introduce a complex econometric model of cash-flows for the Czech life insurance market. Namely, technical-actuarial links among insurance variables observed in annually published summary balance sheets of life insurers are described by means of an econometric system of linear simultaneous equations. The suggested model is statistically verified and thus it can provide useful economic interpretations. Further, adjusted residual bootstrapping is introduced in this context as a straightforward alternative which can solve possible problems with questionable asymptotic distribution properties of residuals. This technique can be applied e.g. for signifi cance testing purposes. Finally, an important practical illustration of scenario analysis is considered. Such an analysis might be really useful, e.g. for internal calculations of the Czech life insurers, financial planning or stress testing in the framework of Solvency II. Two general approaches are presented: deterministic and stochastic. The second one is capable of delivering various empirical probabilities concerning possible future developments.
C39|South American Cluster: A Practical Case Study|This paper studies Guadalajaraâ€™s cluster in its major aspects. It tries to pinpoint and identify the triggers that made this agglomeration a new Silicon Valley. One of the most outstanding features of this city is its vigorous export performance in the electronic industry that is why in our study, we focused on that specific industry. We found out that rules and regulations in this geographic area played a critical role when it comes to attracting foreign exportations and local investors especially in the electronic industry. Nevertheless, the study of the case of Guadalajara verifies that different clusters have their own explanations in regard to their emergence which is specific and unique to different circumstances and geographical locations. In fact results showed that Asian countries electronic cluster differs in terms of aspects from the one from Mexican city. Past researches based on Asian clusters only took into consideration the conception and the initial stage of the process. The description of other stages of growth and development in the Mexican city helped us distinguishing between anchor firms and seminal firms which help in understanding how clusters are created (general) based on the fact that seminal firms are not essentially supporting firms and supporting firms may not be described as seminal firms.
C39|Svar Model To Examine The Short And Long Term Monetary Policy In Indonesia|This research was conducted by the author to see the impact of monetary policy on the domestic macro-economic variables is important in Indonesia using a structural model of the short and long term, contained in a structural model of vectorAutoregressions (SVAR). The author uses the effects of macroeconomic policy is the key in this research, by applying the matrix model SVAR initiated by Bernanke & Mihov (1998) short term and Blancard & Quah (1989) long term. Research conducted using the 4 variables, consisting of two domestic variables, namely the interest rate of Bank Indonesia (SBI), the consumer price index (CPI) and two non-domestic variables, namely the interest rate the central bank United States(FFF), the rate of inflation in the United States (INF_USA). From the research that has been done can be inferred that the SVAR models used in this study can be used as a reference to the theoretical expectations in order to show that the rise in interest rates and the central bank of the United States could affect Indonesia's domestic variables.
C39|Statistical Analysis of Causality between Capital Structure and Firm Profitability: Evidence from Bosnia and Herzegovina|This research is designed to examine the relationship between the capital structure and profitability of non-financial firms in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the ten years period, from 2003-2012. The goal is to prove the existence of the relationship between the firm’s capital structure choice and its profitability. The analysis is extended by including the debt structure and differentiating between the types of debt such as the long-term and the short-term ones. Canonical correlation and multiple regression analysis are used. The results of the multivariate canonical correlation analysis provide support to a hypothesis that the capital structure and profitability have statistically significant relationships. Furthermore, the findings provide support that firms develop different patterns of profitability depending on the capital structure choice. We found that an increasing proportion of short-term debt and long-term debt in the overall liability of the firm reduces its profitability.
C39|Determinantes del crecimiento económico en Bolivia: un enfoque de demanda|La estimación de los determinantes del crecimiento económico es de interés tanto para los tomadores de decisiones como para los analistas. Para este cometido generalmente se estima una función de producción. Sin embargo, en países en desarrollo como Bolivia se enfrentan dificultades en la disponibilidad de información estadística sobre el acervo de capital y cifras sobre empleo. Por esta razón, en línea con la literatura internacional reciente, en este trabajo se optó por la estimación de una especificación econométrica ad hoc de demanda, mediante modelos de corrección de errores y vectores autorregresivos bayesianos (BVAR). El resultado del trabajo señala que la demanda interna es la fuente principal del crecimiento económico en Bolivia, entre cuyos componentes destaca el consumo privado, principalmente de alimentos.
C39|Impacts of Oil Foreign Direct Investment on Environment and Poverty Level in Niger Delta Oil Producing Region: A Structural Equation Modeling Approach|This study examines impacts of oil foreign direct investment on the environment and welfare of people of Niger delta oil producing communities, using structural equation models. Overall, it was found that oil foreign direct investment has consistent impact on the environment than the well- being of the community, which results in high levels of poverty. The implication is that there is environmental diseconomies and widespread of poverty in the area. Thus, there is need for fostering sustainable partnership between the oil foreign direct investors and the host communities by suitable consideration of the issues of mitigation of environmental problems that will reduce the poverty level of the people. The environmental and socioeconomic system should be developed to maintain an intensity of biodiversity that will give assurance to the buoyancy of the ecosystems on which human consumption and production depend.
C39|Simultaneity in the Multivariate Count Data Autoregressive Model|This short paper proposes a simultaneous equations model formulation for time series of count data. Some of the basic moment properties of the model are obtained. The inclusion of real valued exogenous variables is suggested to be through the parameters of the model. Some remarks on the application of the model to spatial data are made. Instrumental variable and generalized method of moments estimators of the structural form parameters are also discussed.
C39|Un modelo SVAR para la economía Boliviana|Bolivia es una economía pequeña, abierta, parcialmente dolarizada y con un esquema de tipo de cambio muy cercano a fijo. Bajo estas características la teoría económica keynesiana sustentaría que la política fiscal debería tener un efecto más importante, como instrumento de estabilización económica, en comparación con la política monetaria y que, al ser un país pequeño los choques externos debieran ser relevantes. En este trabajo se analiza cómo se propagan los shocks fiscales, monetarios y externos en la economía boliviana utilizando un modelo SVAR. Los resultados más relevantes indican que, efectivamente los shocks fiscales tienen mayor efecto sobre la actividad económica que los monetarios y, los choques externos, medidos como cambios en los precios de la energía, repercuten de manera importante sobre la inflación y en menor medida en el crecimiento
C39|Application of internal ratings-based methods on credit risk measurement|This paper presents the concepts and methods used for credit risk measurement. The main objective was to explain Internal Ratings-Based Methods. The applicatin and analysis was performed on financial information for supposed business case loan, as well as a simulated banking transaction database used to develop a credit scoring model. The reults obtained form a Structural Model and Reduced Form Model showed significant differences in credit risk measures with respect to requirements established by applicable law for regulated financial entities in Bolivia. The study revealed that the application of advanced models for measuring credit risk requires adequate estimates of business volatility and credit scoring models that allow deeply analyse of a credit transaction.
C39|Terms of trade and non-traditional exports: a microeconometric analysis|Since 2004 some economies in Latin America, including Bolivia, have experienced an improvement in their terms of trade. In this research we investigate the causal effect of this improvement on nontraditional exports. We focus on before and after the increase in terms of trade and analyze how this improvement affects export performance. To identify this causal effect we rely on dynaic analysis and we use four different microeconometric techniques: Difference in differences, Kernel propensity score matching, difference in differences combined with propensity score matching and synthetic control method. Each one of these improves estimation of the counterfactual outcome. Thus, this paper reviews theory of these impact evaluation methodologies and also analyzes the way in which the theory has developed toward a more systematic methodology to construct the counterfactual. Our estimation results show that nontraditional exports would have increased if these counties had not improvement in their terms of trade.
C39|Macro credit scoring as a proposal for quantifying credit risk|Credit scoring is a methodology used in finance to quantify the credit risk of individuals/firms. This article proposes the application of this technique as a tool to measure the aggregated risk of banks and the banking system. An application in the Bolivian commercial banking system is presented, in order to expose the proposed methodology, called Macro Credit Scoring. By applying this methodology, it is identified that the risk measure applied is greater than that needed in the Bolivian commercial banking system in the current situation. Finally, empirical evidence of the relationship between credit risk and economic variables (macro / micro) is presented.
C39|Unraveling the mystery of sleep duration dynamics – Sleep in the objective and subjective lives of employed men and women|This paper addresses the place of sleep duration - objectively and subjectively - in the lives of employed men and women in Canada, based on data in Statistics Canada's 2010 General Social Survey no. 24, with an emphasis on time use. It addresses the mystery of how public opinion reflects a view that night-time sleep has declined in duration during a decade when surveys show that it has increased. A further mystery is why women in particular feel sleep deprived when comparable surveys show greater durations for women over men. Analyses were carried out on 10,201 men and women between the ages of 25-64, to eliminate the special situations of youth and the elderly on free time and sleep in recent decades. Analyses of the 6,608 employed persons in this age range showed that employed women spend less mean time than employed men in paid employment, more time in domestic work, equal time with their partners in child care, and more time asleep than their partners. But their reference group is to non-employed women who sleep significantly longer, not to men's sleep durations, and multitasking plausibly accounts for stress generally imputed primarily to sleeplessness for this cohort. Data indicate that both the amount and content of multi-tasking impact directly on feelings of time crunch.
C39|A new family of nonexchangeable copulas for positive dependence|This note contributes to the development of the theory of stochastic dependence by employing the general concept of copula. In particular, it deals with the construction of a new family of non-exchangeable copulas characterizing the multivariate total positivity of order 2 (MTP2) dependence.
C39|"Expenditure Tracking Of Animal Production In The Software ""1c: Accounting 8.2"""|The article studies the issues related to automation of tracking production expenses and production cost of agricultural enterprises in Ukraine by using specialized software (computer program).
C39|An Analysis Of Non-Life Insurance Determinants For Selected Countries In Central And South Eastern Europe: A Co-Integration Approach|This study examines the determinant of non-life insurance consumption in 16 countries in Central and South-Eastern Europe (CSEE) during the period 1992-2011 with an Larsson et al. (2001) cointegration test and the dynamic ordinary least squares. These techniques will help us to understand which are the determinants of non-life insurance consumption in 16 countries in Central and South- Eastern Europe (CSEE), revealing the significant influence between endogenous variables. Empirical results provide the evidence that GDP per capita, and number of passenger cars per 1.000 people positively and significantly influence non-life insurance consumption in the long-run.
C39|‘Behold, A Virgin Is With Hiv!’ Misreporting Sexual Behavior Among Infected Adolescents| ABSTRACT In four Southern African countries where the HIV prevalence rate is among the highest in the world, 46.4% of a sample of female adolescents infected with HIV report having never engaged in sex. This would indicate either the dominance of non‐sexual modes of HIV transmission or rampant misreporting of sexual behavior in the sample. We propose a method to estimate the extent of misreporting and calculate that the true percentages of virgins among the sample of HIV‐infected adolescent women is 32.1%. After accounting for misreporting, the contribution of sexual modes of HIV transmission is projected as 50.4%, compared with an estimate of 35.5% if we assume no misreporting. Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
C39|Production costs of Soft Wheat in Italy| This paper investigates production costs of soft wheat by applying the FACEPA cost of production model to the Italian data (RICA) for 2005-2009. Estimates are obtained by carrying out a SUR, allowing for correlated errors between the set of equations and for imposing constraints to coefficients The main aim of this study is to provide a robust analysis of the cost, per hectare and per quintal, of soft wheat in order to analytically support a negotiation bargain on the contractual price for soft wheat within the industrial bread marketing chain. Since RICA, unlike EU FADN, reports some costs related to specific production processes (i.e. related to specific farm outputs), this study reports results of an alternative estimation strategy: the GECOM is carried out by taking into account only those costs that are not ascribed for the specific farm output, but are related to the whole production process. Estimates, per hectare and per quintal, related to such input costs are combined with those costs that are directly observed by farmers, so that we obtain a “hybrid” estimation. This method is carried out in order to confirm results obtained with the “complete” estimation. Outcomes of both methods are reported for Italy and for macro-regions. Costs related to machinery and buildings upkeep represent the most important costs, although a remarkable decline is observed from 2005 onwards. Expenditure in land rent and taxes on land and buildings shows a similar trend, but with smaller values. As a whole, there was a shift expenditure patterns: in 2005-2007 fixed costs prevailed, while in 2008-2009 variable costs became predominant. Anyway, estimates reveal that there are important differences, at geographical level, in production costs.
C39|Understanding entrepreneurial intentions of students in agriculture and related sciences|There is a growing body of literature arguing that an individual's intention to start an enterprise is a strong predictor of individual entrepreneurial action. The present research uses Ajzen’s (1991) theory of planned behavior (TPB) to investigate entrepreneurial intent of agricultural students. The TPB offers a parsimonious explanation of purposeful behavior and has been used with success in previous research studies to explain the entrepreneurial intent of business and engineering students. However, research studies that examine the application of the theory to students from agricultural universities are scarce. In the present research, we empirically examine the TPB using data from 65 students from the Agricultural University of Athens, Greece. Results, using path analysis, support previous studies that used TPB to predict entrepreneurial intentions, which suggest that students’ attitudes towards entrepreneurship are related to their intention (INT) to start a business. In addition perceived behavioral control (PBC) is a strong predictor of INT. As far the role of subjective norm (SN) is concerned, results of the present study suggest that it has a small negative, and statistically significant effect. Furthermore, in line with recent theoretical and empirical studies about the potential role of emotions in entrepreneurship, we investigated the role of anticipated emotional ambivalence in students’ entrepreneurial intent. Results suggest that anticipated emotional ambivalence from nascent entrepreneurship (that is, students’ future oriented emotions relating to the expectancy of feeling both positive and negative affect) relates negatively to perceived behavioral control.
C39|Determinantes de los flujos de inversión extranjera directa estadounidense a través de un modelo gravitacional con componente espacial: evidencia para algunos países latinoamericanos|El presente trabajo busca identificar los elementos que son determinantes para la atracción de inversión extranjera directa proveniente de los Estados Unidos, a través de un modelo gravitacional modificado que incluye un componente espacial a través del cual se busca capturar para algunos países de la región latinoamericana, las dinámicas de complementariedad o sustitución que pueden presentarse cuando se involucran elementos espaciales como el rezago espacial y la incidencia del mercado potencial circundante. La metodología utilizada sigue de cerca la propuesta por Blonigen, Davies, Waddell y Naughton. (2007).
C39|Determinantes de los flujos de inversión extranjera directa estadounidense a través de un modelo gravitacional con componente espacial: evidencia para algunos países latinoamericanos|El presente trabajo busca identificar los elementos que son determinantes para la atracción de inversión extranjera directa proveniente de los Estados Unidos, a través de un modelo gravitacional modificado que incluye un componente espacial a través del cual se busca capturar para algunos países de la región latinoamericana, las dinámicas de complementariedad o sustitución que pueden presentarse cuando se involucran elementos espaciales como el rezago espacial y la incidencia del mercado potencial circundante. La metodología utilizada sigue de cerca la propuesta por Blonigen, Davies, Waddell y Naughton. (2007).
C39|A General Method for Valuing Non-Market Goods Using Wellbeing Data: Three-Stage Wellbeing Valuation|Subjective wellbeing data is becoming increasingly popular in economics research. The wellbeing valuation approach uses wellbeing data instead of data gleaned from preferences to attach monetary values to non-market goods. This method could be an important alternative to preference-based valuation methods such as contingent valuation, but there are a number of significant technical deficiencies with the current methodology. It is argued that the current method derives biased estimates of the value of non-market goods. The paper presents Three-Stage Wellbeing Valuation, a new approach to valuation using subjective wellbeing data that solves for the main technical problems and as a result derives estimates of welfare change and value that are consistent with welfare economic theory. As an example, I derive robust values associated with unemployment using the new approach and compare these to biased values derived from the standard wellbeing valuation method. Values derived from Three-Stage Wellbeing Valuation can be used in cost-benefit analysis.
C39|Política monetaria y precio de activos: un análisis desde la tasa de interés para Colombia de 2003 a 2010|El objetivo principal de este trabajo es analizar la incidencia de la política monetaria colombiana en los precios de los activos de renta fija para el período 2003 al 2010 y comprobar que la vía que ésta sigue se asemeja a lo que plantea la teoría tradicional tomando como referencia la teoría de expectativas puras. Con el objeto de analizar las relaciones de corto y largo plazo entre los TES y la política monetaria se desarrolla un modelo econométrico de vector de corrección de errores (VEC) tomando como variable explicada el retorno de bonos con plazo a 6 meses, 1, 5 y 25 años y como variables explicativas la tasa interbancaria, la inflación y la tasa forward. Los principales resultados obtenidos indican que la política monetaria colombiana incide en los precios de estos activos principalmente a través de la tasa de política y de las expectativas de inflación y de tasa de interés.******The main purpose of this paper is to analyze the impact of the Colombian monetary policy on the price of fixed income securities for the 2003-2010 period. It also seeks to verify that the process of transmission is compatible with the arguments of the pure expectations theory. In order to analyze the relationship between the short and long term TES (the name for the financial securities issued by the Colombian government) and the monetary policy, we apply an econometric model of vector error correction (VEC) using as the dependent variable the return of bonds with maturity terms of either 6 months, and 1, 5 and 25 years; and as explanatory variables we propose the interbank rate, inflation rate and the forward rate. The main results indicate that the Colombian monetary policy affects the price of these assets primarily through its interest rate referential policy, as well as expected inflation and interest rates.
C39|Análisis de elasticidades en el mercado automotor colombiano (2009-2011) mediante un modelo logit anidado|El presente documento busca analizar el comportamiento de los hogares colombianos en la compra de vehículo nuevo para uso particular, y modelar el funcionamiento de la demanda de vehículos particulares en Colombia, entre 2009 y 2011. Esto a partir de la estimación de un modelo logit anidado que permite tomar como variables explicativas las características o atributos de los vehículos como determinantes de la decisión de compra de vehículo. Finalmente, se estiman las elasticidades con el fin de analizar el grado de sustituibilidad o contestabilidad del mercado automotor en Colombia.
C39|Una propuesta metodológica de discriminación de segundo grado: el caso de tarifas multiclase para el registro marcario en Colombia durante el año 2012<BR>[A methodological proposal for second-degree price discrimination: the case of multiclass fees for trademark registration in Colombia (2012)]|Este documento presenta una aproximación metodológica a la discriminación de segundo grado. El modelo formulado es aplicado al caso de registro marcario de tarifas multiclase a propósito de la adhesión de Colombia al Protocolo de Madrid en 2011. La metodología propuesta está construida con el ánimo de minimizar el efecto negativo en el recaudo total de una firma dispuesta a realizar el mecanismo de discriminación de segundo grado. Adicionalmente, se describe la implementación de la propuesta sugerida al registro marcario multiclase en Colombia por parte de la entidad administradora de propiedad industrial en Colombia. This paper presents a methodological approach to second grade discrimination. The model is applied to the case of multiclass trademark registration fee regarding Colombia's accession to the Madrid Protocol (2011). The proposed methodology is built with the aim of minimizing the negative impact on the firm's total collection ready to make the mechanism of second-degree discrimination. Also, are presented the most important points related to the implementation of the proposal suggested the multiclass trademark registration in Colombia.
C39|A general method for valuing non-market goods using wellbeing data: three-stage wellbeing valuation|Subjective wellbeing data is becoming increasingly popular in economics research. The wellbeing valuation approach uses wellbeing data instead of data gleaned from preferences to attach monetary values to non-market goods. This method could be an important alternative to preference-based valuation methods such as contingent valuation, but there are a number of significant technical deficiencies with the current methodology. It is argued that the current method derives biased estimates of the value of non-market goods. The paper presents Three-Stage Wellbeing Valuation, a new approach to valuation using subjective wellbeing data that solves for the main technical problems and as a result derives estimates of welfare change and value that are consistent with welfare economic theory. As an example, I derive robust values associated with unemployment using the new approach and compare these to biased values derived from the standard wellbeing valuation method. Values derived from Three-Stage Wellbeing Valuation can be used in cost-benefit analysis.
C39|Management Team Characteristics: Evidence From University Governance And School Performance|The paper examines cognition from the viewpoint of internal management teams of private universities against satisfaction with school performance, applying the SEM model. Empirical results show that the boardâ€™s operational effectiveness and attendance rate for internal important meetings held on campus have a significantly positive relationship with implementing effectiveness and satisfaction with school administrative performance. The satisfaction with school administrative performance and school performance satisfaction showed a significantly positive relationship. The attendance rate for important internal meetings held on campus, the implementing effectiveness, and school performance satisfaction showed a significantly negative relationship. However, the intermediary effect enhances school performance satisfaction to achieve a positive effect, indicating the cognitive level of satisfaction for school administrative performance impacts school performance satisfaction.
C39|Interactions between Economic Growth and Unemployment Condition in Asian Region|This study is aimed to examine the relationship between GDP growth and unemployment rate for developed and developing Asian countries over the period 1980-2010. This study has applied the Okunâ€™s law framework to estimate the co-integration dynamic and weak or strong Granger-causality for relationship between GDP growth and unemployment rate with ARDL approach. The results found that developed and developing Asian countries have achieved the negative sign for the long run coefficient as well as the short run coefficient between Unemployment rate and GDP growth. Hence, some developed and developing Asian countries still robust in the theory Okun but the coefficient values are higher than original Okunâ€™s law. Therefore, the new Okunâ€™s framework in the Asian macroeconomics performance is being existed in the developed and developing Asian countries.
C39|Boylamsal Verilerde Cok Duzeyli Analizler: Dil Gelisimine Ýliskin Bir Uygulama|There are various methods and scales used for determining the deviations of the baby growth. A scale has been applied to 40 babies in the 12, 24 and 36 month periods and language development has been explained by the period of breast feeding without any additional food, social-emotional development during these periods and fine motor development variables. As a sub-model the period of breast feeding without any additional food has been explained by the gender of the baby, the educational status of the mother during birth and the birth weight of the baby. Furthermore other sub-models, the social-emotional development of the baby has been interpreted by the educational status and the age of the mother during birth variables, fine motor development of the baby has been explained by the baby's gender, mother's educational status, baby's birth height and weight variables. Multilevel analysis has been applied to these data which have longitudinal structure.
C39|International Human Trafficking: Measuring Clandestinity by the Structural Equation Approach|Worldwide human trafficking is the third most often registered international criminal activity, ranked only after drug and weapon trafficking. This article focusses on three questions: 1) How can human trafficking be measured? 2) What are the causes and indicators of this criminal activity which exploits individuals? 3) Which countries observe a high (or low) level of human trafficking inflow? We apply the Multiple Indicators Multiple Causes structural equation model to measure human trafficking inflows in a way which includes all potential causes and indicators in one estimation model. The human trafficking measurement focusses on international human trafficking. We use freely available existing data and thus generate an objective measure of the extent of trafficking. Countries are ranked according to their potential to be a destination country based on various characteristics of the trafficking process.
C39|Visualizing multinational daily life via multidimensional scaling (MDS)|One of the notable innovations in social-science methodology developed during the 1960s was Multi- Dimensional Scaling (MDS). MDS made it possible for social scientists to discover, uncover or model the under- lying spatial structure of relations between various social collectives (like countries or communities), social objects (like music or artifacts) or social attitudes. One early application of MDS described the dimensional contours of Americans’ views of other countries in terms of “perceptual maps of the world”. More recently, it has been used to map country differences in the World Values Survey. Spurred by its initial successful applica- tions, MDS was extended to time-diary data collected in the pioneering 1965 Multinational Time-Budget Study, in which it again provided insightful portrayals of daily activity across the 15 national settings in that study. This present article updates and extends these results by applying MDS methods to the most recent diary collection in the Oxford University MTUS data archive – covering more than 20 (mainly European) countries. Once again, the result was plausible (but somewhat different) configurations again emerged from MDS visualizations. Moreover, these mappings were compatible with conclusions from the 1965 mapping and with earlier more conventional analyses.
C39|The Shadow Economy in Portugal: An Analysis Using the MIMIC Model|The purpose of this working paper is to identify the main factors that are at the origin of the Shadow Economy in Portugal, and to analyze its evolution over the period between 1977 and 2011. For the econometric analysis we used the Structural Model of Multiple Indicators and Multiple Causes - MIMIC, which was developed by Jöreskog, Karl G. and Arthur S. Goldberg (1975). The Structural Model of Multiple Indicators and Multiple Causes (MIMIC) is a special case of the models of structural equations (SEM – Structural Equation Models) allowing the specification of statistical relationships between causal variables (observed) and latent variables (non-observed), which in turn affect, in an indirect way, a set of observed indicators. The conclusion is that, among the selected causal variables in this working paper, the unemployment rate and the subsidies granted to enterprises are the ones that contribute the most to the evolution of the Shadow Economy. It is also concluded that the share of the Shadow Economy in Portugal, during the period under review, had a sharp decrease between 1997 and 2000, from about 52% to 13.4% of the GDP. Since 2001 the Shadow Economy has been rising again, accentuating its growth rate after 2007, and it reached a peak of 24.2% of the GDP in 2011.
C39|Análisis de elasticidades en el mercado automotor colombiano (2009 - 2011) mediante un modelo logit anidado<BR>[Analysis Of Elasticity In Colombian Automotive Market (2009 - 2011) Through A Nested Logit Model]|El presente documento busca analizar el comportamiento de los hogares colombianos en la compra de vehículo nuevo para uso particular, y modelar el funcionamiento de la demanda de vehículos particulares en Colombia, entre 2009 y 2011. Esto a partir de la estimación de un modelo logit anidado que permite tomar como variables explicativas las características o atributos de los vehículos como determinantes de la decisión de compra de vehículo. Finalmente, se estiman las elasticidades con el fin de analizar el grado de sustituibilidad o contestabilidad del mercado automotor en Colombia. This paper analyzes the behavior of Colombian households in purchasing a new vehicle for private use, and model the performance of the demand for private vehicles in Colombia, between 2009 and 2011. This paper estimates a Nested Logit model that takes the characteristics or attributes of vehicles as explicative variables as determinants of the vehicle purchase decision. Finally, the elasticities are estimated in order to analyze the substitutability or contestability automotive market in Colombia.
C39|Lifestyle factors, dietary quality and health: Econometric evidence from US micro data|The study applies household production theory to investigate how socioeconomic characteristics and behavioural choices affect health status of an individual (here related to cardiovascular diseases). Structural equation modelling (SEM) is used as an estimation approach, which allows to model health inputs as endogenous variables, to test the hypothesized linkages among them (e.g., between smoking and weight) and to investigate their contribution to a production of a particular health state. Moreover, direct effects of exogenous personal characteristics on health can be disentangled from their indirect impact via lifestyle choices. To improve its measurement properties, health status is modelled via SEM as a latent variable. The results indicate a multidimensionality of cardiovascular health, which is more adequately represented by a two-factor latent variable model rather than by a single-factor model. Moreover, the specified two health dimensions (hypertension and lipids) are (partly) differently explained by the model variables. While higher weight negatively and significantly impacts both health dimensions, a diet rich in F&V (Fruit & Vegetable) has stronger contribution to a lower hypertension risk. At the same time, higher educational level showed to be rather related to lower measurements of blood fat. A special focus in the model is given to the (in)direct impact of education and income. Both variables showed to be related to less frequent smoking and engaging in sedentary leisure time activities. However, their impact on diet was rather indirect through their positive contribution to nutrition knowledge.
C39|Non-metric PLS path modling: integration into the labour market of sapienza graduates|Non-Metric Partial Least Squares Path Modeling is a recent methodology based on the concept of Optimal Scaling applied to PLS Path Modeling algorithms. We adopted Non-Metric PLS Path Modeling to analyse a large administrative dataset containing nominal and ordinal variables using a specialized R package now available. We suggest a model in order to perform a preliminary quantitative study of the job success of Sapienza University of Rome graduates in terms of quality of work.
C39|Goodness-of-fit indices for partial least squares path modeling|This paper discusses a recent development in partial least squares (PLS) path modeling, namely goodness-of-fit indices. In order to illustrate the behavior of the goodness-of-fit index (GoF) and the relative goodness-of-fit index (GoF rel ), we estimate PLS path models with simulated data, and contrast their values with fit indices commonly used in covariance-based structural equation modeling. The simulation shows that the GoF and the GoF rel are not suitable for model validation. However, the GoF can be useful to assess how well a PLS path model can explain different sets of data. Copyright The Author(s) 2013
C39|A merging algorithm for Gaussian mixture components|In finite mixture model clustering, each component of the fitted mixture is usually associated with a cluster. In other words, each component of the mixture is interpreted as the probability distribution of the variables of interest conditionally on the membership to a given cluster. The Gaussian mixture model (GMM) is very popular in this context for its simplicity and flexibility. It may happen, however, that the components of the fitted model are not well separated. In such a circumstance, the number of clusters is often overestimated and a better clustering could be obtained by joining some subsets of the partition based on the fitted GMM. Some methods for the aggregation of mixture components have been recently proposed in the literature. In this work, we propose a hierarchical aggregation algorithm based on a generalisation of the definition of silhouette-width taking into account the Mahalanobis distances induced by the precison matrices of the components of the fitted GMM. The algorithm chooses the number of groups corresponding to the hierarchy level giving rise to the highest average-silhouette-width. Some simulation experiments and real data applications indicate that its performance is at least as good as the one of other existing methods.
C39|On the comparison of model-based clustering solutions|In this paper we propose a new similarity index, which can be used to compare model-based clustering solutions. We define also an adjusted-for-chance version, although we advise that, whenever feasible, bootstrap replications should be preferred to chance-corrected similarity indices. We describe the properties of the proposed index and of its chance-corrected version. Finally, we present some applications on simulated and real data.
C39|Play-hysteresis in supply as part of a market model|Consequences of path-dependent supply side on the market equilibrium are illustrated. Supply is only a subsystem of the entire market with its forcing variable (price) being endogenous from the perspective of the entire market. This results in feedbacks on the equilibrium of price and quantity if transient exogenous disturbances occur. Aggregate hysteresis is modelled by continuous dynamics showing similarities to 'mechanical play'. This contrast the standard firm level modelling of hysteresis resulting from discontinuous (activity/inactivity) switches. Play dynamics are captured in a simple linearized way, just by adding two parameters to a supply equation.
C39|The Square Root of a Matrix|This note derives an explicit formula for the numerical calculation of the square root of a matrix, when this function exists. An example is given as an illustration of the formula. The condition for the existence of the square root is also illustrated.
C39|Estimación y análisis de los gastos e ingresos económicos de la población flotante estudiantil universitaria de pregrado en la ciudad de Tunja, Colombia|Este artículo muestra la estimación de un modelo de demanda del gasto e ingreso económico que ejercen los estudiantes flotantes en la ciudad de Tunja. Está basado en una aplicación a la función de Engel propuesta por Working-Lesser, tomando datos de una encuesta hecha a una muestra de estudiantes flotantes universitarios de pregrado de la ciudad de Tunja, a quienes se les indaga por algunas variables socioeconómicas, entre ellas el gasto y el ingreso. La demanda más relevante de los estudiantes flotantes está dada por el gasto que ejercen en vivienda, observado a partir del valor de los coeficientes del sistema de ecuaciones planteado en el modelo.
C39|Staged investments in entrepreneurial financing|Venture capitalists deliver investments to entrepreneurs in stages. This paper shows staged financing is efficient. Staging lets investors abandon ventures with low early returns, and thus sorts good projects from bad. The primary implication from staging is that it is efficient to invest more in later rounds. The model yields a number of predictions on how the ratio of early to late round financing varies with uncertainty, the outside options of both parties, the value of the venture, the costs of investment, and project difficulty. We test these predictions against data on venture capital financings and find significant empirical support for the theory.
C39|On Liu estimators for the logit regression model|This paper introduces a shrinkage estimator for the logit model which is a generalization of the estimator proposed by Liu (1993) for the linear regression. This new estimation method is suggested since the mean squared error (MSE) of the commonly used maximum likelihood (ML) method becomes inflated when the explanatory variables of the regression model are highly correlated. Using MSE, the optimal value of the shrinkage parameter is derived and some methods of estimating it are proposed. It is shown by means of Monte Carlo simulations that the estimated MSE and mean absolute error (MAE) are lower for the proposed Liu estimator than those of the ML in the presence of multicollinearity. Finally the benefit of the Lie estimator is shown in an empirical application where different economic factors are used to explain the probability that municipalities have net increase of inhabitants.
C39|Sports participation and happiness: Evidence from US microdata|We investigate the relationship between participation in physical activity and self reported happiness in the United States. IV estimates based on data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System between 2005 and 2009 and County Business Patterns indicate that individuals living in a county with greater access to sports facilities are more likely to participate in physical activity and also report higher life satisfaction. Both men and women gain happiness from participation, and men appear to benefit more from participation than women.
C39|Sports Participation and Happiness: Evidence from US Micro Data|Including an array of distinguished contributors, this novel book fills a gap in the literature by addressing an important, yet under-researched, issue in the field of sports economics. It places great emphasis on the notion that sport is a significant component for improving the happiness, health and well-being of citizens, communities and society as a whole. In so doing, it addresses whether, in an environment of increasing pressure on public spending, governments should continue to subsidize sporting activities at the expense of other public resources.
C39|Segmented Life-cycle Labor Markets|The paper contrasts the pattern of returns to human capital in different economic sectors. As job mobility, especially across sectors, is limited, it is argued that coefficients of experience in earnings regressions may capture or be interpreted as the growth rate – net of depreciation – of earnings ability propitiated by schooling when years of education are also included in the right hand-side of the equation. As a consequence, under long-term contracts, labor market equilibrium is compatible with different “gross” rates of return to schooling, provided initial earnings levels allow for the same accumulated present value. That implies a special relation between the intercept and experience coefficient of earnings regressions performed for different sectors. Additionally, implications of (log-stable) nonstationary environments for rate of return inference from log-earnings regressions – appropriate for pooled (or panel) estimation and nominal earnings information - are also investigated. Then, the trend coefficient measures the (steady-state) nominal productivity growth; the experience coefficients approximate individuals’ earnings profiles growth rates net of the human capital depreciation rate; schooling’s, the nominal rate of return in the economy net of the nominal productivity growth rate. Tests of the hypothesises are provided, along with the inspection of the determinants – including financial ratios and productive organization indicators, calculated from aggregate balance sheet information - of the observed differences across industries. A study of the estimated variances of rate of return estimates was also conducted, as an attempt to capture features of financial risk in human capital investment.
C39|Studio di alcuni aspetti della domanda di arance bionde mediante la Cluster Analysis. Il Caso delle arance di Ribera dop e possibili strategie di mercato|"In a time of evolution of demand towards new features and new functions for food, both producers and consumers focus more and more on human health and on environmental protection. The citrus industry has not escaped these changes in demand, also because of the eu policies that have led to greater use of the processed product at the expense of fresh one. Sicily, which for these productions has higher quality standards than its competitors, aims to develop the sector, with investments in promotion, brand protection and quality certifications, with the introduction of the dop ""Arancia di Ribera"". In this context Sicilian producers of oranges are aware that it’s very important to pay attention to consumer protection and health, because this elements may be a key factor for competition. This paper aims to know the orange consumer interest for certain elements that make him feel confident about quality food. The use of Cluster Analysis give us an empirical confirmation of the various types of consumers based on their level of awareness for food qualities that provide human health, confidence and environmental protection."
C39|Analysis of Regional Aspects of Voting Behaviour: The Case of Polish Presidential Election|Transition of votes is observed when a voter who voted for a given candidate in the first round of election, votes for another candidate in the runoff round of election. There are two types of transitions. Transition is obvious when preferred candidate is a loser in the first round. In other case transition also may happen. Exact information about the scale of transitions is usually unavailable. There are many opinion pools, even exit pools, but exact transition’s data is not collected during election. Ecological regression techniques give an opportunity to obtain quantitative description of electoral behaviour from aggregated data. Aggregated data set is published after election. Ecological regression approach gives reliable results under homogeneity assumption. Homogeneity in this case is considered in term of electoral behaviour. Homogeneity assumption if applied for the whole country is usually not held. Regional decomposition of estimation process, used for the description of voters’ behaviour, extends application the ecological regression to large regions or even for the whole country. In this analysis, maximum likelihood approach and regional decomposition of voting results is used. The last presidential election 2010 in Poland is used as an empirical example. Presidential election in Poland consists of two rounds if none wins more than 50% of the votes, there is runoff round. The interval between rounds of election in Poland is two weeks.
C39|Variable Population Mopso Applied To Medical Visits|Multi-objective optimization techniques are the ideal support tools for the decision-making process. They provide a set of optimal solutions for each of the significant aspects of the problem, thus summarizing the alternatives to be considered. Having a limited number of alternatives makes it easier for decision makers to perform their tasks, since they can focus their efforts towards the analysis of the available options. In this paper, the main characteristics of multi-objective optimization are summarized, and a real experience is described regarding the optimization of mobile units assignment at a health care company in Argentina using a new method based on swarm intelligence called varMOPSO.
C39|"Analysis Of The Inconsistency Problem In The Model For Predicting ""Diseases"" Of Firms"|The development of economic-financial diagnostic models, using fuzzy logic tools, has resulted in important applications. It is possible to identify a matrix of economic-financial knowledge (Matrix R), which simulates the analyst's behaviour evaluating the health of a firm. The proposed models, from a set of symptoms and causes, use a methodology of equations resolution in fuzzy relations. In particular, we have applied their inverse problem. However, it is possible to identify some inconsistencies in the application of the resolution method, which could invalidate several elements of the matrix R. In this paper, we discuss these inconsistencies and propose a method to eliminate them. So we can find a matrix R where all its elements represent the true relationship between symptoms and causes.
C39|The role of human development on deforestation in Africa: a modelling-based approach| The rate of deforestation in Africa is of paramount concern not only to the future of Africa, but also to the world. This study uses country-level data to model changes in forest area over an 18 year period (1990-2007) in 35 African countries and investigates the role played by important development indicators of human development. The results reveal that the net loss of forests was 0.19% every year between 1990 and 2007. Human development, which involves life expectancy, education and income, is found to have a positive effect on forest growth and conservation, while logging trees for wood fuel is a significant cause of deforestation. Using generalised linear mixed models and generalised estimating equations, it was possible to calculate expected estimates of forest area for 2010, 2020 and 2030 under the assumption that nothing is done to change observed trends.
C39|European Union Economy System Dynamic Model Development|The formation of the European Union (EU) is the one of the biggest political – economic events of the last 50 years. The aim of this study is to develop EU economy functioning system dynamic model. Main research method is system dynamics. General scheme of EU economy system dynamic model is shown. Implementing the model in practice, new EU member economic integration model in EU is developed. Model is tested only for one EU country, Latvia. Results of the paper show failure of the mechanism of EU operations. The available mechanism contradicts EU principles; it doesn't promote the cohesion in European Union, but quite opposite - leads to solving problems of well-developed EU countries at the expense of developing countries. In the given conditions the example of Latvia shows that there is no possibility to overcome the system crisis. These circumstances specify necessity of changes in EU internal migratory policy, changes in principles of developing countries’ support in EU, and changes in distribution of EU means, taking into account internal migration.
C39|Copulas of a special form and their application to the analysis of the financial market|New classes of copulas of co-monotone and counter-monotone types are introduced. These classes are applied to the analysis of the dynamics of the Russian stock market.
C39|Structural Interdependence in the Energy Sector in Turkey: Input-Output Analysis|The increasing human needs recently and the dependence of the most of these needs on the energy make this sector more and more significant everyday. Should it known that how the other sectors are depended on the sub-sectors of the energy, it would be so easy to produce policy. Input-output analysis as a unit of economic activity researches the sectors and especially the exchanges of intermediate input between the sectors. So input-output analysis is a major instrument in terms of enabling to research the production and usage of the outputs of the productive sectors in economic scale, in sectoral level and quantatively. In the analysis made by using the input-output tables of Turkey Statistics Office for 2002 it was observed that energy sector has been a key sector recently. Also the relation of energy sector with the others was searched and the most input-output marketing sector of the energy sector was analyzed.
C39|The inﬂuence of spatial effects on wind power revenues under direct marketing rules|In many countries worldwide, investment in renewable technologies has been accelerated by the introduction of fixed feed-in tariffs for electricity from renewable energy sources (RES). While fixed tariffs accomplish this purpose, they lack incentives to align the RES production with price signals. Today, due to a growing proportion of renewable electricity, the intermittency of most RES increases the volatility of electricity prices and might even prevent market clearing. Therefore, support schemes for RES have to be modified. Recently, Germany launched a market premium model which gives wind power operators the monthly choice to either receive a fixed feed-in tariff or to risk a - subsided - access to the wholesale electricity market. This paper quantifies the revenues of wind turbines under this new model and, in particular, analyzes whether, when and where producers may profit. We find that the position of the wind turbine within the country significantly influences revenues. The results are of interest and importance for wind farm operators deciding whether electricity should be sold in the fixed tariff or in the wholesale market.
C39|High education efficiency wages in Colombia|This article will analyze the salaries of public universities in Colombia in an agency microeconomic model with moral hazard. Subsequently this article will examine the monetary incentives implicit in the decrees 1444 and 1279 that regulate the wages of professors from all public universities in Colombia. Lastly, a hierarchal lineal model will be applied to verify whether monetary incentives impact the academic development of students from the University of Atlantico. A synthesis of the results can be noted as follow: the legislation that regulates the wages of university professors in Colombia helps promote productivity. In addition, the hierarchal model has shown that monetary incentives, specialized libraries, economic status, and the academic trajectory of students have a positive effect in the exam of the State.
C39|Examining The University Students' Environmental Protection Commitments And Environment-Friendly Consumption Behaviors|This study probes into the environmental sensitivities, environmental protection commitments and environment-friendly consumption behaviors of university students taking into consideration students’ genders, their family’s’ place of domicile and particularly the parent’s education levels. . It was found that gender, place of domicile, and particularly parent’s education level were important factors in affecting students’ environmental sensitivity and behavior. It can be concluded that the study participants’ environmental sensitivity was high, with their environment-friendly consumption behaviors remaining at a level close to the average.
C39|A multilevel analysis of innovation in developing countries | Innovation is a multilevel phenomenon. Not only attributes of firms but also the framework conditions within which firms operate matter. Although this has been recognized in the literature for a long time, a quantitative test that explicitly considers this hypothesis has been lacking. Using a large sample of firms from many developing countries, we estimate a multilevel model of innovation which connects micro and macro levels of analysis in an integrated framework. National economic, technological and institutional framework conditions are shown to directly predict the likelihood of firms to innovate. Nevertheless, the results also draw attention to the limits of the existing models, methods and data. Copyright 2011 The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC. All rights reserved., Oxford University Press.
C39|On the links between unemployment rate, monetary creation and the value-added sharing|In this paper, we investigate the analytical links between the rate of unemployment, monetary creation and how individuals share the value added in an economy with three types of agents: capital owners, managers and employees. This relationship relies on the fact that the rate of unemployment depends on many macroeconomic characteristics such as: creation of money, external balance of goods and services and mark-up pricing. The latter being decomposed into the expected margin rate and the growth rate of the unitary wage cost that characterize the primary value-added sharing.
C39|International diversification with American Depository Receipts (ADRs)|The objective of the paper is to analyze whether U.S. investors can achieve diversification benefits from American Depository Receipts (ADRs) beyond what is achievable through investing directly in country indices. Our findings show substitutability between ADRs and country indices in developed region in the late 1990s, whereas the investors need to invest both ADRs and country indices in Latin America and only ADRs in Asian region in recent periods. However, large numbers of ADR issuing countries irrespective of regions show such substitutability between ADRs and country indices. The findings are both statistically and economically significant. We also find time variation in diversification benefits across countries.
C39|Segmented Life-cycle Labor Markets – Portuguese Evidence|The paper contrasts the pattern of returns to human capital in different economic sectors. As job mobility, especially across sectors, is limited, it is argued that coefficients of experience in earnings regressions may capture or be interpreted as the growth rate – net of depreciation – of earnings ability propitiated by schooling when years of education are also included in the right hand-side of the equation. As a consequence, under long-term contracts, labor market equilibrium is compatible with different “gross” rates of return to schooling, provided initial earnings levels allow for the same accumulated present value. That implies a special relation between the intercept and experience coefficient of earnings regressions performed for different sectors. Additionally, implications of (log-stable) nonstationary environments for rate of return inference from log-earnings regressions – appropriate for pooled (or panel) estimation and nominal earnings information - are also investigated. Then, the trend coefficient measures the (steady-state) nominal productivity growth; the experience coefficients approximate individuals’ earnings profiles growth rates net of the human capital depreciation rate; schooling’s, the nominal rate of return in the economy net of the nominal productivity growth rate. Tests of the hypothesises are provided, along with the inspection of the determinants – including financial ratios and productive organization indicators, calculated from aggregate balance sheet information - of the observed differences across industries. A study of the estimated variances of rate of return estimates was also conducted, as an attempt to capture features of financial risk in human capital investment.
C39|The substitutability of immigrants and native workers in France: use of a production function|This article examines the relationships of substitutability and complementarity between native workers and immigrants in France, depending on skill level, using a translog production function. We analyze the impact of immigrant workers on employment and wages of native workers by taking into account the interrelations between all factors. In general, there is a relationship of complementarity between immigrant workers and native workers, although high and intermediate-skilled migrant workers are respectively substitutable for intermediate and low-skilled native workers.
C39|Determinants of Individual Investor Behaviour: An Orthogonal Linear Transformation Approach|Expected utility theory views the individual investment decision as a tradeoff between immediate consumption and deferred consumption. But individuals do not always prefer according to the classical theory of economics. Recent studies on individual investor behavior have shown that they do not act in a rational manner, rather several factors influences their investment decisions in stock market. The present study considers this theory of irrationality of individual investors and investigates into their behaviour relating to investment decisions. We examine whether some psychological and contextual factors affect individual investor behaviour and if yes which factors influences most. Extrapolating from previous literature on economics, finance and psychology, we surveyed individual investors to find what and to what extent affects their investment behaviour. Our conceptual analysis, empirical findings and the perspective framework that we have developed in the present study, provide five major factors that can influence individual investor behaviour in Indian stock market. The findings can be useful in profiling individual investors and designing appropriate investment strategies according to their personal characteristics, thereby enabling them optimum return on their investments.
C39|Optimization models of rail transportation under the financial crisis|This paper proposes an analysis of the most used models to optimize the rail transportation. Are presented a series of optimization models of labor efficiency in this sector, but also elements that gives the information on the competitiveness of this mode of transport.
C39|Shock transmission among the European Stock markets - Conferinta CRESTERE ECONOMICA SI SUSTENABILITATE SOCIALA. PROVOCARI SI PERSPECTIVE EUROPENE>|The analysis of the comovements of stock market returns was approached with many modeling techniques ranging from the simple and GARCH style dynamic conditional correlation to multivariate GARCH and studies of the bivariate distribution. The quest for the analysis of the now standardized concept of international contagion made room for the employment of all these techniques. Our paper focuses on the analysis of the comovements in the volatilities of the returns of stock market indices from the most important developed and emerging European countries, using different forms of computation for different frequencies, starting from intra-day 5-minute returns to weekly returns (data used from Bloomberg). After a brief characterization of the distribution of returns and a reconfirmation of the stylized facts for the European emerging markets we focus on the clustering effect of volatilities, in the attempt to identify the moments when a new cluster is formed, i.e. when the volatilities change their size (from small to big or from big to small). The analysis of these events for the respective countries intends to reveal the mechanism of international information transmission. The paper also fits a jump-diffusion process, along the lines of Maheu and McCurdy (2007) adjusted for the series of volatilities, where the Poisson process characterizes the time until a change in the volatility cluster occurs.
C39|Modelarea sectorului administratiei publice in corelatie cu indicatorii cresterii economice - Conferinta CRESTERE ECONOMICA SI SUSTENABILITATE SOCIALA. PROVOCARI SI PERSPECTIVE EUROPENE>|Prognoza veniturilor şi cheltuielilor sectorului administraţiei publice ocupă un rol central în modelarea macroeconomică, deoarece resursele financiare bugetare stau la baza redistribuirii veniturilor în societate şi a finanţării programelor de dezvoltare economică. Politicile sociale sunt restricţionate de cheltuielile cu asistenţa socială care depind la rândul lor de contribuţiile sociale colectate la bugetele de asigurări. Pe de altă parte, contribuţiile sociale şi celelalte tipuri de impozite sunt determinate de politicile fiscale care au un impact direct şi asupra orientării creşterii economice. Pentru asigurarea unei dezvoltări economice sustenabile trebuie găsit compromisul între stimularea economiei prin politicile de relaxare fiscală şi asigurarea nivelului optim de venituri bugetare necesare pentru susţinerea programelor sociale. Cuantificarea impactului acestor politici se realizează prin scenariile oferite de modelele macroeconomice. În acest articol propunem o evaluare a blocului bugetar în cadrul modelelor macroeconomice elaborate pentru economia României.
C39|Uncovering and Treating Unobserved Heterogeneity with FIMIX-PLS: Which Model Selection Criterion Provides an Appropriate Number of Segments?|Since its first introduction in the Schmalenbach Business Review, Hahn et al.’s (2002) finite mixture partial least squares (FIMIX-PLS) approach to response-based segmentation in variance-based structural equation modeling has received much attention from the marketing and management disciplines. When applying FIMIX-PLS to uncover unobserved heterogeneity, the actual number of segments is usually unknown. As in any clustering procedure, retaining a suitable number of segments is crucial, since many managerial decisions are based on this result. In empirical research, applications of FIMIX-PLS rely on information and classification criteria to select an appropriate number of segments to retain from the data. However, the performance and robustness of these criteria in determining an adequate number of segments has not yet been investigated scientifically in the context of FIMIX-PLS. By conducting computational experiments, this study provides an evaluation of several model selection criteria’s performance and of different data characteristics’ influence on the robustness of the criteria. The results engender key recommendations and identify appropriate model selection criteria for FIMIX-PLS. The study’s findings enhance the applicability of FIMIX-PLS in both theory and practice.
C39|Die ifo Konjunkturuhr: Zirkulare Korrelation mit dem realen Bruttoinlandsprodukt|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Cost of production estimates for wheat, milk and pigs in selected EU member states|This study summarizes cost estimates based on the EU Farm Accountancy Data Network using the General Cost of Production Model, developed, applied and tested within the FACEPA project. Results are provided for wheat, pigs and milk for the main producer countries of the EU for the period 1999 to 2007. Estimated input-output coefficients are generally based on monetary figures, expressing cost shares referring to total output. Effects of scale, specialization and location can be derived by estimates based on respective sub-samples. Costs per unit are derived based on input-output coefficients and output values, providing costs per hectare or ton for wheat and per ton of milk. There is a considerable variation between Member States not only of production costs, but also of output, and output plus subsidies (due to the national implementations of full or partially decoupling schemes), especially for wheat and milk.
C39|Tourists Attitudes, Preferences And Opinions Regarding The Services Provided By Hotels Located In The Romanian Center Development Region| This paper belongs to the category of quantitative marketing researches, because its objective is the systematic description and analysis of multiple features and relationships specific to marketing in tourism. I relied on quantitative descriptive research to find out the characteristics of the target segments of the market, estimating the percentage within the population of participants with certain characteristics or behavior, defining opinions and perceptions about the features of the offered products or services, determining the degree of association between marketing variables and the dependence and interdependence among them, etc. The present research was based on the survey method that involved a comprehensive questionnaire (39 questions) and an established probability sampling, representative for the studied population.
C39|Une évaluation du rôle des déterminants du partage de la valeur ajoutée|[eng] In the second half of the period 1961-2000, the unemployment rate trended down in the United States and the United Kingdom, and trended up steadily in Germany, France, and Italy. Can we explain this divergence by assuming that the impact of wage demands on the value-added breakdown was more restrained in the U.S. and U.K. than in the three continental European economies ? To answer this question, we use the Shapley value function. It enables us to measure – for each of the five economies – the contributions of the growth rates of real wages and unit labor costs during the period 1981-2000 to the formation of (1) growth rates of margin ratios, (2) changes in margin ratios, and (3) changes in gross operating surpluses. With a single exception, those contributions – which are obviously negative – prove to be weaker in the U.S. and U.K. than in the three continental European economies. [fre] En tendance, durant la seconde partie de la période 1961/2000, le taux de chômage reflue aux États-Unis et au Royaume-Uni, il continue à croître en Allemagne , en France et en Italie. Est-il possible d’expliquer cette divergence d’évolution en supposant que les effets de la revendication salariale sur le partage de la valeur ajoutée ont été mieux maîtrisés dans les deux économies anglo-saxonnes que dans les trois économies continentales ? Pour répondre à cette question nous utilisons la fonction valeur de Shapley. Grâce à elle nous parvenons à évaluer, pour chacune des cinq économies, la contribution des valeurs qui ont été prises, au cours de la période 1981/2000, par les taux de croissance des salaires réels et les coûts salariaux unitaires à la formation des taux de croissance des taux de marge, à celle des variations des taux de marge et à celle des excédents bruts d’exploitation. Or, les valeurs de ces contributions, qui sont évidemment négatives, sont, sauf dans un cas, plus faibles dans les économies anglo-saxonnes que dans les économies continentales.
C39|Une évaluation du rôle des déterminants du partage de la valeur ajoutée| In the second half of the period 1961-2000, the unemployment rate trended down in the United States and the United Kingdom, and trended up steadily in Germany, France, and Italy. Can we explain this divergence by assuming that the impact of wage demands on the value-added breakdown was more restrained in the U.S. and U.K. than in the three continental European economies ? To answer this question, we use the Shapley value function. It enables us to measure – for each of the five economies –the contributions of the growth rates of real wages and unit labor costs during the period 1981-2000 to the formation of (1) growth rates of margin ratios, (2) changes in margin ratios, and (3) changes in gross operating surpluses. With a single exception, those contributions –which are obviously negative– prove to be weaker in the U.S. and U.K. than in the three continental European economies.
C39|The Ifo Business Cycle Clock: Circular Correlation with the Real GDP|The Ifo Business Climate is the most important indicator for the business cycle in Germany. In 1993 the connection between the two components of the business climate – business situation and business expectations – was graphically portrayed by Ifo in a 4-quadrant scheme: the Ifo Business Cycle Clock. Today similar monitoring systems are firmly established and are presented by Eurostat, the OECD and others. The German Federal Statistical Office presents the real GDP in a 4-quadrant scheme. In the following, important qualities of the Ifo Business Cycle Clock are shown. The importance of orthogonal functions for the circular correlation is examined.
C39|Calidad del empleo y segmentación laboral: un análisis para el mercado laboral colombiano 2001-2006|Este documento aborda el fenómeno de la calidad del empleo desde dos perspectivas: a) la teoría de los mercados de trabajo segmentados y b) las mediciones empíricas propuestas por la Organización Internacional del Trabajo (oit), junto con las de autores nacionales e internacionales. Para contrastar la hipótesis de mercados segmentados se utilizan dos métodos de estimación: el modelo switching regression y el modelo quantile regression. Los resultados muestran evidencia a favor de las principales proposiciones de la teoría de mercados de trabajo segmentados; en especial, se observa cómo las valoraciones de las características de los individuos cambian significativamente a través de la distribución de ingresos, particularmente la educación universitaria.El enfoque empírico de la calidad del empleo incluye un cálculo del índice de calidad del empleo (ice) para Colombia y un modelo de regresión con variable dependiente binaria que permite identificar los factores asociados a un empleo de calidad. Los resultados sugieren que la calidad del empleo tiene una estrecha relación con la educación universitaria, el tamaño de la firma, los empleos en el sector financiero y la localización en Medellín y Bogotá.
C39|La comunicazione: un valido strumento per la competitività delle aziende vinicole|In the last few years, wine market was characterized by fast changes because of significant changes in consumers’ eating habits and lifestyles that, consequently, impacted wine consumption and demand. In this scenario, wine producers that want to win competitors must definitely be market-oriented. For wine producers, to be competitive means to focus on strategic business decisions, to keep the brand in the market, to increase new consumer segments and to move towards a diversified production that points to research and innovation, looking constantly for quality. Communication is nowadays one of the main strengths of competitiveness and especially strategically-market-oriented wine producers, are aware of it. This paper has the objective to know how much Sicilian wine producers believe and invest, efforts and money, in communication strategies in order to understand how the Sicilian wine communicates to consumers. For the survey it was used a stratified with proportional allocation sampling. A proper questionnaire, with mostly closed answers and only few open answers (with unique interpretation), was submitted to a sample of Sicilian wine producers. Through the use of hierarchical Cluster Analysis it has been possible to know directions of Sicilian wine producers towards investment in communication and to obtain Sicilian wine producers’ homogeneous groups according to investment expenses and type communication tools. Moreover it was possible to identify the measures of similarities and dissimilarities of expense items for communication and find the ones preferred by producers.
C39|Trade liberalisation in T&C: an overview of the welfare effects| The objective of this paper is to examine the effects that trade liberalisation in Textiles and Clothing (T&C) had on the welfare of European producers of cotton-yarn. We employ multi-market theory and a single-market approach to examine the price-induced welfare effects in four major European T&C producing countries namely, Greece, Portugal, Spain and Turkey. Results show that the liberalisation of trade had a substantial negative impact on producers' welfare in all four countries. Welfare and sensitivity analysis suggests that, while cotton-yarn price-decreases and labour-cost increases are expected to further dampen producers' welfare, the adoption of new technologies can substantially assist the competitiveness of European products in the world markets.
C39|Modeling the informal economy in Mexico:a structural equation approach|This paper uses annual data for the period 1970-2006 in order to estimate and investigate the evolution of the Mexican informal economy. In order to do so, we model the informal economy as a latent variable and try to explain it through relationships between possible cause and indicator variables using structural equation modeling (SEM). The model uses tax burden, salary levels, inflation, unemployment and excessive regulation as potential incentives or deterrents for the informal economy. Our results indicate that the Mexican informal sector at the beginning of the 1970's accounted for 40 percent of GDP, and then it slightly decreased to stabilize around 30 percent of GDP from the late 1980's onwards. The results also confirm the importance of salaries and excessive regulation as causes of the informal economy in Mexico and the existence of a positive relationship between informality and GDP.
C39|Déséquilibres, système bancaire et chômage involontaire|Afin de lutter contre le chômage « ...qui, en dehors de courts intervalles d’emballement, est une conséquence, et à notre avis une conséquence inévitable, de l’individualisme tel qu’il apparaît dans le régime capitaliste moderne. » (Keynes J.M., 1968, p. 394-395), Keynes propose de réguler le fonctionnement de la composante marché des capitaux des systèmes financiers. Nous montrons que cette conclusion peut être étendue à la composante bancaire de ces systèmes. Notre argumentation repose sur un constat. Il n’est guère raisonnable de supposer que ‘l’équilibre mouvant’ étudié dans la Théorie générale puisse être conçu et atteint dans les économies capitalistes. Ce constat incite à envisager une analyse hors équilibre des déterminants du chômage involontaire. C’est la tentative que nous proposons qui nous conduit à étendre au fonctionnement des banques la proposition formulée par Keynes à propos des marchés des capitaux.
C39|Comparing Multidimensional Poverty with Qualitative Indicators of Well-Being|This paper examines multidimensional stochastic dominance when one of the indicators of well-being, such as household size or place of residence, is qualitative. It also uses a test for strict dominance based on the empirical likelihood ratio. Empirical applications are based on the DHS (Demography and Health Surveys) for several countries in Western Africa. The results show the existence of multidimensional dominance relationships between most of these countries.
C39|Causality between Prices and Wages: VECM Analysis for EU-27|The literature on causality as well as the empirical evidence clearly shows that there are two opposing groups of economists, who support different hypotheses with respect to the flow of causality in the price-wage causal relationship. The first group argues that causality runs from wages to prices, whereas the second argues that effect flows from prices to wages. Nonetheless, the literature review suggests that there is at least some consensus in that researcher’s conclusions may be contingent on the type of data employed, applied econometric model, or even that relationship may alter with economic cycles. This paper empirically examines the price-wage causal relationship in EU-27, by using the OLS and VECM analysis, and it also provides robust evidence in support of a bilateral causal relationship between prices and wages, both in long-run as well as in the shortrun. Prior to designing and estimating the econometric model we have performed stationarity tests for the employed price, wage and productivity variables. Additionally, we have also specified the model taking into account the lag order as well as the rank of co-integration for the co-integrated variables. Furthermore, we have also applied respective restrictions on the parameters of estimated VECM. The evidence resulting from model robustness checks indicates that results are statistically robust. Although far from closing the issue of causality between prices and wages, this paper at least provides some fresh evidence in the case of EU-27.
C39|Déséquilibres, système bancaire et chômage involontaire|Afin de lutter contre le chômage « ...qui, en dehors de courts intervalles d’emballement, est une conséquence, et à notre avis une conséquence inévitable, de l’individualisme tel qu’il apparaît dans le régime capitaliste moderne. » (Keynes J.M., 1968, p. 394-395), Keynes propose de réguler le fonctionnement de la composante marché des capitaux des systèmes financiers. Nous montrons que cette conclusion peut être étendue à la composante bancaire de ces systèmes. Notre argumentation repose sur un constat. Il n’est guère raisonnable de supposer que ‘l’équilibre mouvant’ étudié dans la Théorie générale puisse être conçu et atteint dans les économies capitalistes. Ce constat incite à envisager une analyse hors équilibre des déterminants du chômage involontaire. C’est la tentative que nous proposons qui nous conduit à étendre au fonctionnement des banques la proposition formulée par Keynes à propos des marchés des capitaux.
C39|Stochastic models of resonating markets|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Understanding multilevel interactions in economic development|National framework conditions mediate the effect of technological capabilities of firms on their productivity. Although this has been recognized in the literature for a long time, a quantitative test that explicitly considers this hypothesis has been lacking. Using a World Bank datasets of about 19,000 firms in 42 countries, most of which are developing, we estimate a multilevel production function with effects of firm's technological capabilities nested in the national framework conditions. Our results confirm that various facets of firm's technological capabilities and national economic, technological and institutional conditions influence total factor productivity of firms. Furthermore, we find that the effects of the national conditions and firm's technological capabilities are closely intertwined with each other. Adherence to international standards, formal training of workers and access to technology through foreign ownership make more difference for productivity of firms in less developed countries, while R&D capabilities on the contrary boost significantly more performance of firms in countries at the technological frontier. Different features of the national framework are shown to be responsible for this.
C39|Understanding multilevel interactions in economic development|National framework conditions mediate the effect of technological capabilities of firms on their productivity. Although this has been recognized in the literature for a long time, a quantitative test that explicitly considers this hypothesis has been lacking. Using a World Bank datasets of about 19,000 firms in 42 countries, most of which are developing, we estimate a multilevel production function with effects of firm’s technological capabilities nested in the national framework conditions. Our results confirm that various facets of firm’s technological capabilities and national economic, technological and institutional conditions influence total factor productivity of firms. Furthermore, we find that the effects of the national conditions and firm’s technological capabilities are closely intertwined with each other. Adherence to international standards, formal training of workers and access to technology through foreign ownership make more difference for productivity of firms in less developed countries, while R&D capabilities on the contrary boost significantly more performance of firms in countries at the technological frontier. Different features of the national framework are shown to be responsible for this.
C39|Private long term care insurance: Theoretical approach and results applied to the Spanish case| The passing of the Law 39/2006 has given to Spanish insurance companies the chance of offering products that cover the expenses associated to the risk of dependence. However, due to the lack of reliable statistic information about dependent population, it is extremely difficult to evaluate not only the frequency but also the cost. These two items make the pricing process with a big cloud of uncertainty. This paper proposes a methodology for premium calculation taking into account not only the availability of the data but also the current legal framework in Spain. Together to the theoretical approach, premium calculations for two possible versions are included. Finally, it is introduced a simulation model that pretends to evaluate the impact that a portfolio with these kind of contracts would have on the solvency of an insurance company.
C39|Testing The Modified-Combined Ppp And Uip Hypothesis In South Asian Economies|In this paper, the interrelations between PPP and UIP are modified and tested for South Asian economies using multivariate cointegration approach. The study uses monthly data and sample period varies cross-country according to floating exchange rate regime. The results obtained are highly supportive of this version of the combined PPP and UIP, which takes into account the non-traded and imperfect capital mobility phenomena. Consistent with the capital enhanced equilibrium exchange rates (CHEERs) approach, the determination of the nominal exchange rate is consistent with the UIP-PPP conditional equilibrium. The interaction between PPP and UIP has consequential implications for financial reforms, an exchange rate based stabilization program and exchange rate policy alike.
C39|Assessing the magnitude of the concentration parameter in a simultaneous equations model| This paper provides the practitioner with a method of ascertaining when the concentration parameter in a simultaneous equations model is small. We provide some exact distribution theory for a proposed statistic and show that the statistic possesses the minimal desirable characteristics of a test statistic when used to test that the concentration parameter is zero. The discussion is then extended to consider how to test for weak instruments using this statistic as a basis for inference. We also discuss the statistic's relationship to various other procedures that have appeared in the literature. Copyright The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2009
C39|Illegal trade in the Iranian economy: Evidence from a structural model|This study investigates the causes and consequences of import and export smuggling and estimates its relative size in Iran from 1970 to 2002. Multiple Indicators-Multiple Causes (MIMIC) modeling and trade misinvoicing are used to compute the latent variable of smuggling. The results indicate that the penalty rate for smuggling and the quality of economic and political institutions reduce smuggling, while tariffs and black market premia increase the incentives for illegal trade. More trade openness is associated with greater illegal trade in the case of Iran. On average, smuggling in Iran has been approximately 13% of total trade.
C39|La forma triangular de la matriz de Leontief|En este artículo presento algunos comentarios sobre la forma triangular del modelo de Leontief. Entre ellos, propongo una demostración alternativa de la equivalencia entre la existencia de una solución viable para el modelo y la condición de Hawkins y Simon (H-S). Además, expongo el peculiar significado económico de los coeficientes de la diagonal principal en la forma triangular de la matriz de Leontief, lo cual permite, entre otras cosas, apreciar la estrecha relación entre las condiciones económicas y las matemáticas en la solución del modelo. También identifico algunas proposiciones matemáticas equivalentes a (H-S) que poseen interés económico.
C39|Forme proprietarie ed efficienza produttiva nei servizi socio-assistenziali. Un’analisi non-parametrica|This paper considers a sample of 228 Italian organisations providing communal services with the aim of measuring their technical efficiency using the DEA (Date Envelopment Analysis) method and of testing the existence of efficiency differentials among nonprofit, forprofit and public organisations. The results show that no significant efficiency differentials exist across organisational forms. The innovative aspects of this paper include: 1) the allowance for the role of non-paid labour, that characterises particularly the nonprofit sector; 2) the inclusion among the inputs of indicators of both paid and non-paid work-hours (as opposed to number of workers) and among the outputs of service hours per user; 3) the differentiation, within the nonprofit sector, between social cooperatives, religious nonprofit organisations, and non-religious nonprofit organisations.
C39|How do institutions affect corruption and the shadow economy?|This paper analyzes a simple model that captures the relationship between institutional quality, the shadow economy and corruption. It shows that an improvement in institutional quality reduces the shadow economy and affects the corruption market. The exact relationship between corruption and institutional quality is, however, ambiguous and depends on the relative effectiveness of the institutional quality in the shadow and corruption markets. The predictions of the model are empirically tested - by means of Structural Equation Modelling that treats the shadow economy and the corruption market as latent variables - using data from OECD countries. The results show that an improvement in institutional quality reduces the shadow economy directly and corruption both directly and indirectly (through its effect on the shadow market).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C39|Trade Liberalization in T&C: An Overview of the Welfare Effects|This paper examines the effects of trade liberalization on cotton-yarn producer’s welfare in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Turkey. We perform a comparative analysis of the price-induced welfare effects using multi-market theory, a single-market approach and bootstrapping techniques. Results show that after the 1995 implementation of the plan for the gradual elimination of quotas (Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, ATC, 1995-2005) producers in all four countries suffered substantial welfare losses.
C39|Economia não registada em Portugal|This paper aims to contribute to a better understanding of the volume of the Non-Observed Economy (ENR) in Portugal, by estimating, based on MIMIC models (multiple indicators multiple causes), its path in the period 1977- 2008. Given, on the one hand, the infl uence of the tax burden, the burden of regulation and the evolution of the labour market and, on the other hand, its impact on monetary, labour-market and production indicators, it is estimated that the weight of ENR in the offi cial GDP in Portugal has evolved since the 19%, in 1977, up to 23%, in 2008. In particular, it is observed that after the fall in the period 1977-1982, the ENR showed an upward trend in the subsequent period, which has stabilized around 21%, since 1994. However, from the end of 2007, there is again an increasing pattern. Finally, results show that the growth of ENR in Portugal tends to positively affect the growth of the official economy.
C39|Interrelations between development factors and tourism factors. A quantitative point of view|The tourism development analysis is of maximum importance in the context of increasing the integration level of the Romania’s economy into of the European one. Various methods are used by specialists for evaluating and disseminating data on the evolution, in order to provide information to policy makers. The regional structure of Romania’s tourism is one of the basic elements for designing its economic prelaunch and development strategies, integration into the European economy and of course for establishing tourism policies. In the selection of the better way for the analysis an important place, has the multiple factor analysis that focused on disseminate the correlations between the specific tourism indicators and the indicators of economic growth. Consequences, the tourism policies could be seen as an instrument for providing the structure stability and as a way of harmonizing the European and national commercial interests through the use of promotion and protection measures. Regional structural are utilized like criteria for the utilization of multiple factor analysis or canonical analysis. We are proposing hereby such a unified method. Our proposed model defines of structure of the tourism regions, the stability degree and the intensity of the measures to be used for restructuring the tourism offer structure (existing and estimated). The case study was made on Romania’s tourism statistics. The modification of the tourism structure can be done only through several promotion and protection measures strong enough to facilitate the new trends.
C39|Satisfaction Drivers in Retail Banking: Comparison of Partial Least Squares and Covariance Based Methods|The primary goal of the study is to diagnose satisfaction and loyalty drivers in Polish retail banking sector. The problem is approached with Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) models, which were developed for national satisfaction studies in the United States and European countries. These are multiequation path models with latent variables. The data come from a survey on Poles' usage and attitude towards retail banks, conducted quarterly on a representative sample. The model used in the study is a compromise between author's synthesis of national CSI models and the data constraints. There are two approaches to the estimation of the CSI models: Partial Least Squares - used in national satisfaction studies and Covariance Based Methods (SEM, Lisrel). A discussion is held on which of those two methods is better and in what circumstances. In this study both methods are used. Comparison of their performance is the secondary goal of the study.
C39|Modelling the Financial Performance of the Building Sector Enterprises – The case of ROMANIA|In this paper I have designed an aggregate index of financial performance for the building sector enterprises from Galati - Romania. The creation and calculation of an index of financial performance is a personal contribution to the financial sector analysis of enterprises in our country. The development at national level of the financial performance assessment model presented in this paper may lead not only to establishing a system of classification for enterprises active in the building sector in accordance with their financial performance, but also to extending this system to other sectors of economy.
C39|The substitutability of labor between immigrants and natives in the Canadian labor market: circa 1995|This paper examines the substitutability or complementarity between Canadian-born and immigrant workers. These are examined by estimating a set of wage equations using a Generalized Leontief Production Function. The paper finds that, in general, there is no displacement of Canadian-born workers by immigrants. Recent immigrants affect the native-born positively, while older immigrants are neither substitute nor complement for natives. However, the effects differ across industries. Overall the evidence that immigrants harm the opportunities of native-born workers is scant.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C39|Â€Œwork Or Notto Workâ€ : Possible Determinants Of Female Non-Participation Decisions In The Urban Labor Force In Turkey|This study attempts to explorethe factors influencing womenâ€™s decision not to enter the labour force in urban Turkey. It adopts an approach which emphasises womenâ€™s socio-demografic characteristics and their family backrounds. The evidence comes from a Household Budget Survey for the year of 2003 conducted by the Turkish Statistical Institution. Factors underlying female labor force participation are discussed on the basis of two logistic regression models: one for the whole data set, the other for the subset of married women. The findings of the models indicate the importance of marital status, husbandsâ€™education, economical status and the number of children as determinants of non-participation. Odds of non-participation decreases for the unmarried status. It is much morelikely for single women to participate in the labour force. University and higher graduates are more willing to participate compared to less educated women. When the income situation of household improves women tend not to participate in the labor force. On the other hand, willingness to non-participate is positively affected by the number of children. The age groups of children do not keep married women from working outside the home. Therefore, it is not the age groups of children, but the number of children which affect the non- participation decision of married women.
C39|What We Don'T Know About The Monetary Transmission Mechanism And Why We Don'T Know It|We study identification in a class of linear rational expectations models. For any given exactly identified model, we provide an algorithm that generates a class of equivalent models that have the same reduced form. We use our algorithm to show that a model proposed by Benhabib and Farmer [1] is observationally equivalent to the standard new-Keynesian model when observed over a single policy regime. However, the two models have different implications for the design of an optimal policy rule.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C39|Multivariate reduced rank regression in non-Gaussian contexts, using copulas|A new procedure is proposed that performs reduced rank regression (RRR) in non-Gaussian contexts based on multivariate dispersion models. Reduced-rank multivariate dispersion models (RR-MDM) generalize RRR to a very large class of distributions, which include continuous distributions like the normal, Gamma, inverse Gaussian, and discrete distributions like the Poisson, the binomial and the negative binomial. A multivariate distribution is created with the help of the Gaussian copula and estimation is performed using maximum likelihood. It is shown how this method can be amended to deal with the case of discrete data. A Monte Carlo simulation shows that the new estimator is more efficient than the traditional Gaussian RRR. In the framework of MDM's a procedure analogous to canonical correlations is introduced, which takes into account the distribution of the data. Finally, the method is applied to the number of trades of five US department stores on the New York Stock Exchange during the year 1999 and determine the existence of a common factor which represents sector specific news. This analysis is helpful in microstructure analysis to identify leaders from the point of view of dissemination of sectorial information.
C39|Some Comments on the Question Whether Co-Occurrence Data Should Be Normalized|In a recent article in JASIST, L. Leydesdorff and L. Vaughan (2006) asserted that raw cocitation data should be analyzed directly, without first applying a normalization such as the Pearson correlation. In this communication, it is argued that there is nothing wrong with the widely adopted practice of normalizing cocitation data. One of the arguments put forward by Leydesdorff and Vaughan turns out to depend crucially on incorrect multidimensional scaling maps that are due to an error in the PROXSCAL program in SPSS.
C39|Analyse économétrique des coûts des services d'eau potable et qualité des prestations offertes aux usagers|Issues on service quality are crucial for water utility management and regulation. Omitting these aspects can lead to possible bias in estimating the efficiency of services. We integrate in a Translog cost function variables proxying this multi-dimensionality. Empirical results show that taking into account the level of quality of the delivered services has a significant impact on the measure of the efficiency computed from a stochastic frontier. Moreover we highlight that efficiency depends on ownership (public vs. private) and level of quality.
C39|Visualizing exploratory factor analysis models|Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) is an important tool in data analyses, particularly in social science. Usually four steps are carried out which contain a large number of options. One important option is the number of factors and the association of variables with a factor. Our tools aim to visualize various models with different numbers in parallel of factors and to analyze which consequences a specific option has.We apply our method to data collected at the School of Business and Economics for evaluation of lectures by students. These data were analyzed by Zhou (2004) and Reichelt (2007).
C39|Çevresel düzeyde sürdürülebilirlik performansının ölçülmesi: Parekende sektöründe bir uygulama|Firmalar arası çevreye duyarlı faaliyetlere yönelik girisimler, çevresel gerekliliklerin tedarik zincirleri boyutunda incelenmesini ve bu fi rmaların uyumlu çalısmalarının sürdürülebilir büyümeye olan etkisini ortaya koymayı gerektirmektedir. Bununla birlikte, farklı tedarik zincirleri üzerindeki üyelerin çevresel gelismelere neden olan ortak faaliyetlerinin arzu edilen basarıya ulasması, bu dogrultuda belli bir piyasa gücüne ve güdüye sahip lider firmaların sorumluluk üstlenmelerini zorunlu kılmaktadır. Perakendeci fi rmalar, deger zincirleri üzerinde oynamıs oldukları önemli roller ve çevreye duyarlı ürünlerin üretiminde tedarikçileri üzerinde yaratmıs oldukları etkiler sebebi ile sürdürülebilir kalkınmayı tetikleyici temel aktörler olabilirler. Geçtigimiz on yıl içerisinde, artan tüketici farkındalıgı, ticari birliklerin baskısı, yeni yasal düzenlemeler, bilgi teknolojilerinde meydana gelen degisiklikler ve medyanın konuya olan ilgisi gibi birçok etken, perakendecileri gerçeklestirdikleri faaliyetlerin neden oldugu çevresel etkileri dikkate almak zorunda bırakmıstır. AB sınırları içerisinde faaliyet göstermekte olan perakende birlikleri, perakendeciligin sürdürülebilirligi yönünde yeni stratejiler belirlemekte ve bu stratejilerin perakendecilik sektöründe yeni is yapma biçimlerinin gelistirilmesine neden olacagını vurgulamaktadırlar. Bu çalısmada, sürdürülebilirligin çevresel boyutu üzerinde durulacak ve perakende sektörüne yönelik bir çevresel sürdürülebilirlik karsılastırılması yapılacaktır. Bildiri izleyen bölümlerden olusacaktır: Birinci bölümde konuya iliskin literatür analizinin verilmesi amaçlanmıstır, ikinci bölümde çok kriterli karar verme yöntemlerine dayalı arastırma yönteminin ortaya konulmaktadır, üçüncü bölümde ise üç perakendeci fi rmanın önerilen yöntem kullanılarak çevresel sürdürülebilirlik performansı ölçülmekte, ve nihayet dördüncü bölümde sonuçlar tartısılmaktadır.
C39|Multidimensional Poverty Dominance: Statistical Inference and an Application to West Africa|This paper tests for robust multidimensional poverty comparisons across six countries of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). Two dimensions are considered, nutritional status and assets. The estimation of the asset index is based on two factorial analysis methods. The first method uses Multiple Correspondence Analysis; the second is based on the maximization of a likelihood function and on bayesian analysis. Using Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), pivotal bootstrap tests lead to statistically significant dominance relationships between 12 of the 15 possible pairs of the six WAEMU countries. Multidimensional poverty is also inferred to be more prevalent in rural than in urban areas. These results tend to support those derived from more restrictive unidimensional dominance tests.
C39|Prediction of Latent Variables in a Mixture of Structural Equation Models, with an Application to the Discrepancy Between Survey and Register Data|The authors study the prediction of latent variables in a finite mixture of linear structural equation models. The latent variables can be viewed as well-defined variables measured with error or as theoretical constructs that cannot be measured objectively, but for which proxies are observed. The finite mixture component may serve different purposes: it can denote an unobserved segmentation in subpopulations such as market segments, or it can be used as a nonparametric way to estimate an unknown distribution. In the first interpretation, it forms an additional discrete latent variable in an otherwise continuous latent variable model. Different criteria can be employed to derive “optimal” predictors of the latent variables, leading to a taxonomy of possible predictors. The authors derive the theoretical properties of these predictors. Special attention is given to a mixture that includes components with degenerate distributions. They then apply the theory to the optimal estimation of individual earnings when two independent observations are available: one from survey data and one from register data. The discrete components of the model represent observations with or without measurement error, and with either a correct match or a mismatch between the two data sources.
C39|Mükelleflerin Vergiye Karşı Tutum ve Davranışlarını Etkileyen Çeşitli Değişkenler Arasındaki İlişkinin Analizi|Taxpayer’s attitudes and behaviors play an important role in fulfillment of tax liabilities. This study examines the significant relations between taxpayer’s attitudes and behaviors and age, sexuality, education, audit frequency, and amnesty. Findings reveal important insights in addressing tax evasion. The research uses chi square analyses in exploring 1750 responses collected trough a questionnaire. The researchers have collected data through a survey containing 48 questions. A representative Turkish city, Eskişehir, and random sampling have been chosen for data collection. Findings have been reported in related tables and figures. The results have revealed the factors and the ways they influence the compliance of taxpayers in Turkey. The findings have also been used to recommend necessary changes in Turkish Tax Law.
C39|Generalized marginal homogeneity model and its relation to marginal equimoments for square contingency tables with ordered categories|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Labor Supply Response to International Migration and Remittances in the Republic|The Republic of Haiti is the prime international remittances recipient country in the Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) region relative to its gross domestic product (GDP). The downside of this observation may be that this country is also the first exporter of skilled workers in the world by population size. The present research uses a zero-altered negative binomial (with logit inflation) to model households’ international migration decision process, and endogenous regressors’ Amemiya Generalized Least Squares method (instrumental variable Tobit, IV-Tobit) to account for selectivity and endogeneity issues in assessing the impact of remittances on labor market outcomes. Results are in line with what has been found so far in this literature in terms of a decline of labor supply in the presence of remittances. However, the impact of international remittances does not seem to be important in determining recipient households’ labor participation behavior, particularly for women.
C39|Emotion and reason in everyday risk perception|Although research has documented the importance of emotion in risk perception, little is known about its prevalence in everyday life. Using the Experience Sampling Method, 94 part-time students were prompted at random – via cellular telephones – to report on mood state and three emotions and to assess risk on thirty occasions during their working hours. The emotions – valence, arousal, and dominance – were measured using self-assessment manikins (Bradley & Lang, 1994). Hierarchical linear models (HLM) revealed that mood state and emotions explained significant variance in risk perception. In addition, valence and arousal accounted for variance over and above “reason” (measured by severity and possibility of risks). Six risks were reassessed in a post-experimental session and found to be lower than their real-time counterparts. The study demonstrates the feasibility and value of collecting representative samples of data with simple technology. Evidence for the statistical consistency of the HLM estimates is provided in an Appendix.
C39|The shadow economy in Portugal: An analysis with the MIMIC approach|The paper estimates the Portuguese Shadow Economy (SE) from 1977 to 2004 and tests the statistical relationships between the SE and other economic variables. In order to carry out the econometric analysis, a multiple indicators multiple causes (MIMIC) model with means and intercepts is applied. The main causes of the Portuguese SE are analyzed and economic policies to reduce it are suggested. An appraisal on the reliability of estimates and an alternative benchmark strategy for the MIMIC approach are proposed.
C39|Capturing and Treating Unobserved Heterogeneity by Response Based Segmentation in PLS Path Modeling. A Comparison of Alternative Methods by Computational Experiments|Segmentation in PLS path modeling framework results is a critical issue in social sciences. The assumption that data is collected from a single homogeneous population is often unrealistic. Sequential clustering techniques on the manifest variables level are ineffective to account for heterogeneity in path model estimates. Three PLS path model related statistical approaches have been developed as solutions for this problem. The purpose of this paper is to present a study on sets of simulated data with different characteristics that allows a primary assessment of these methodologies.
C39|Nonparametric Approaches to Auctions|This chapter discusses structural econometric approaches to auctions. Remarkably, much of what can be learned from auction data can be learned without restrictions beyond those derived from the relevant economic model. This enables us to take a nonparametric perspective in discussing how the structure of auction models can be combined with observables to uncover (or test hypotheses about) primitives of interest in auction markets. We focus on first-price sealed-bid and ascending auctions, including extensions to Dutch auctions, Internet auctions, multi-unit auctions, and multi-object auctions. We consider a wide range of underlying structures of bidder demand and information, as well as a variety of types of data one may encounter in applications. We discuss identification and testable restrictions of these models and present a variety of estimation approaches.
C39|Intertemporal Substitution and Risk Aversion|We study structural models of stochastic discount factors and explore alternative methods of estimating such models using data on macroeconomic risk and asset returns. Particular attention is devoted to recursive utility models in which risk aversion can be modified without altering intertemporal substitution. We characterize the impact of changing the intertemporal substitution and risk aversion parameters on equilibrium short-run and long-run risk prices and on equilibrium wealth.
C39|A Practitioner's Approach to Estimating Intertemporal Relationships Using Longitudinal Data: Lessons from Applications in Wage Dynamics|This chapter presents a unified set of estimation methods for fitting a rich array of models describing dynamic relationships within a longitudinal data setting. The discussion surveys approaches for characterizing the micro dynamics of continuous dependent variables both over time and across individuals, focusing on two flexible sets of empirical specifications: dynamic simultaneous equations models incorporating error-components structures, and autoregressive quantile models. The chapter is motivated by the principle that, whenever possible, estimation methods should rely on routines available in familiar software packages to make them accessible to a wide range of practitioners. Conventional method-of-moments procedures offer a general apparatus for estimating parameters of panel-data specifications, though one must introduce a series of modifications to overcome challenges arising from: (1) use of unbalanced data structures, (2) weighting to account for stratified sampling inherent in survey longitudinal data, (3) incorporation of predetermined variables in estimation, and (4) computational complexities confronted when estimating large systems of equations with intricate intertemporal restrictions. To allow researchers to separate the estimation of longitudinal time-series specifications into manageable pieces, the discussion describes multi-step approaches that estimate subsets of parameters appearing in a single model component (such as the autoregressive or moving-average structure of the error process) without having to estimate all parameters of the entire model jointly. Such procedures offer a powerful set of diagnostic tools for narrowing model choices and for selecting among specifications that fit the underlying data. To illustrate all of the econometric methods outlined in this chapter, the analysis presents a set of empirical applications summarizing the dynamic properties of hourly wages for adult men using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics.
C39|Econometric Tools for Analyzing Market Outcomes|"This paper outlines recently developed techniques for estimating the primitives needed to empirically analyze equilibrium interactions and their implications in oligopolistic markets. It is divided into an introduction and three sections; a section on estimating demand functions, a section on estimating production functions, and a section on estimating ""dynamic"" parameters (parameters estimated through their implications on the choice of controls which determine the distribution of future profits). The introduction provides an overview of how these primitives are used in typical I.O. applications, and explains how the individual sections are structured. The topics of the three sections have all been addressed in prior literature. Consequently each section begins with a review of the problems I.O. researchers encountered in using the prior approaches. The sections then continue with a fairly detailed explanation of the recent techniques and their relationship to the problems with the prior approaches. Hopefully the detail is rich enough to enable the reader to actually program up a version of the techniques and use them to analyze data. We conclude each section with a brief discussion of some of the problems with the more recent techniques. Here the emphasis is on when those problems are likely to be particularly important, and on recent research designed to overcome them when they are."
C39|Structural Econometric Modeling: Rationales and Examples from Industrial Organization|This chapter explains the logic of structural econometric models and compares them to other types of econometric models. We provide a framework researchers can use to develop and evaluate structural econometric models. This framework pays particular attention to describing different sources of unobservables in structural models. We use our framework to evaluate several literatures in industrial organization economics, including the literatures dealing with market power, product differentiation, auctions, regulation and entry.
C39|Microeconometric Models of Investment and Employment|We survey recent microeconometric research on investment and employment that has used panel data on individual firms or plants. We focus on model specification and econometric estimation issues, but we also review some of the main empirical findings. We discuss advantages and limitations of microeconomic data in this context. We briefly review the neoclassical theory of the demand for capital and labour, on which most of the econometric models of investment and employment that we consider are based. We pay particular attention to dynamic factor demand models, based on the assumption that there are costs of adjustment, which have played a prominent role especially in the microeconometric literature on investment. With adjustment costs, current choices depend on expectations of future conditions. We discuss the challenges that this raises for econometric model specification, and some of the solutions that have been adopted. We also discuss estimation issues that arise for dynamic factor demand equations in the context of micro panel data for firms or plants. We then discuss a number of topics that have been the focus of recent microeconometric research on investment and employment. In particular, we review the literatures on investment and financing constraints, relative price effects on investment and employment, investment and uncertainty, investment in research and development (R&D), elasticities of substitution and complementarity between technology, capital and skilled and unskilled labour, and recent work on models with non-convex adjustment costs.
C39|The Measurement of Productivity for Nations|This chapter covers the theory and methods for productivity measurement for nations. Labor, multifactor and total factor productivity measures are defined and are related to each other and to gross domestic product (GDP) per capita. Their growth over time and relative counterparts are defined as well. Different conceptual meanings have been proposed for a total factor productivity growth (TFPG) index. These are easiest to understand for the case in which the index number problem is absent: a production process that involves one input and one output (a 1-1 process). It is easily seen that four common concepts of TFPG all lead to the same result in the 1-1 case. Moving on to a general N input, M output production scenario, we demonstrate that a Paasche, Laspeyres or Fisher index number formula provides a measure for all four of the concepts of TFPG introduced for the 1-1 case. This is an advantage of the Paasche-Laspeyres-Fisher family of formulas. When multiple inputs or outputs are involved, there is the problem of choosing among alternative functional forms. The axiomatic and economic approaches to index formula choice are reviewed. In addition, we briefly cover the Divisia index number approach and growth accounting, including the KLEMS (capital, labor, energy, materials and services) approach. The gross output measures of the KLEMS approach are contrasted with value added output measures such as GDP. Also, an alternative family of revenue function based productivity growth indexes proposed by Diewert, Kohli and Morrison (DKM) is outlined. The DKM approach facilitates the decomposition of productivity growth into economically meaningful components. This approach is useful, for example, for examining the effects of changes in the terms of trade on productivity growth.
C39|Linking the Theory with the Data: That is the Core Problem of International Economics|"The greatest problem for empirical analysis is how best to allow the context to affect the inferences. Econometric theory presupposes contextual ""restrictions"" that can be taken as given or assigned a probability distribution. These contextual inputs are rarely available. I illustrate this point with a review of the empirical work in international economics which has focused not on properties of estimators but instead how best to link the theory with the data. I argue that the two errors we should worry about are not rejecting a true null or accepting a false null but rather taking the theory too seriously and not taking the theory seriously enough."
C39|Models of Aggregate Economic Relationships that Account for Heterogeneity|This chapter covers recent solutions to aggregation problems in three application areas: consumer demand analysis, consumption growth and wealth, and labor participation and wages. Each area involves treatment of heterogeneity and nonlinearity at the individual level. Three types of heterogeneity are highlighted: heterogeneity in individual tastes, heterogeneity in income and wealth risks, and heterogeneity in market participation. Work in each area is illustrated using results from empirical data. The overall aim is to present specific models that connect individual behavior with aggregate statistics, as well as to discuss the principles for constructing such models.
C39|Labor Supply Models: Unobserved Heterogeneity, Nonparticipation and Dynamics|"This chapter is concerned with the identification and estimation of models of labor supply. The focus is on the key issues that arise from unobserved heterogeneity, nonparticipation and dynamics. We examine the simple ""static"" labor supply model with proportional taxes and highlight the problems surrounding nonparticipation and missing wages. The difference-in-differences approach to estimation and identification is developed within the context of the labor supply model. We also consider the impact of incorporating nonlinear taxation and welfare program participation. Family labor supply is looked at from both the unitary and collective perspectives. Finally we consider intertemporal models focusing on the difficulties that arise with participation and heterogeneity."
C39|Preface to the Handbook|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Preface to the Handbook|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Econometric Evaluation of Social Programs, Part I: Causal Models, Structural Models and Econometric Policy Evaluation|"This chapter relates the literature on the econometric evaluation of social programs to the literature in statistics on ""causal inference"". In it, we develop a general evaluation framework that addresses well-posed economic questions and analyzes agent choice rules and subjective evaluations of outcomes as well as the standard objective evaluations of outcomes. The framework recognizes uncertainty faced by agents and ex ante and ex post evaluations of programs. It also considers distributions of treatment effects. These features are absent from the statistical literature on causal inference. A prototypical model of agent choice and outcomes is used to illustrate the main ideas. We formally develop models for counterfactuals and causality that build on Cowles Commission econometrics. These models anticipate and extend the literature on causal inference in statistics. The distinction between fixing and conditioning that has recently entered the statistical literature was first developed by Cowles economists. Models of simultaneous causality were also developed by the Cowles group, as were notions of invariance to policy interventions. These basic notions are updated to nonlinear and nonparametric frameworks for policy evaluation more general than anything in the current statistical literature on ""causal inference"". A formal discussion of identification is presented and applied to clearly formulated choice models used to evaluate social programs."
C39|Econometric Evaluation of Social Programs, Part II: Using the Marginal Treatment Effect to Organize Alternative Econometric Estimators to Evaluate Social Programs, and to Forecast their Effects in New Environments|This chapter uses the marginal treatment effect (MTE) to unify and organize the econometric literature on the evaluation of social programs. The marginal treatment effect is a choice-theoretic parameter that can be interpreted as a willingness to pay parameter for persons at a margin of indifference between participating in an activity or not. All of the conventional treatment parameters as well as the more economically motivated treatment effects can be generated from a baseline marginal treatment effect. All of the estimation methods used in the applied evaluation literature, such as matching, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity methods, selection and control function methods, make assumptions about the marginal treatment effect which we exposit. Models for multiple outcomes are developed. Empirical examples of the leading methods are presented. Methods are presented for bounding treatment effects in partially identified models, when the marginal treatment effect is known only over a limited support. We show how to use the marginal treatment in econometric cost benefit analysis, in defining limits of policy experiments, in constructing the average marginal treatment effect, and in forecasting the effects of programs in new environments.
C39|Econometric Evaluation of Social Programs, Part III: Distributional Treatment Effects, Dynamic Treatment Effects, Dynamic Discrete Choice, and General Equilibrium Policy Evaluation|This chapter develops three topics. (1) Identification of the distributions of treatment effects and the distributions of agent subjective evaluations of treatment effects. Methods for identifying ex ante and ex post distributions are presented and empirical examples are given. (2) Identification of dynamic treatment effects. The relationship between the statistical literature on dynamic causal inference based on sequential-randomization and the dynamic discrete-choice literature is exposited. The value of well posed economic choice models for decision making under uncertainty in analyzing and interpreting dynamic intervention studies is developed. A survey of the dynamic discrete-choice literature is presented. (3) The key ideas and papers in the recent literature on general equilibrium evaluations of social programs are summarized.
C39|Nonparametric identification|When one wants to estimate a model without specifying the functions and distributions parametrically, or when one wants to analyze the identification of a model independently of any particular parametric specification, it is useful to perform a nonparametric analysis of identification. This chapter presents some of the recent results on the identification of nonparametric econometric models. It considers identification in models that are additive in unobservable random terms and in models that are nonadditive in unobservable random terms. Single equation models as well as models with a system of equations are studied. Among the latter, special attention is given to structural models whose reduced forms are triangular in the unobservable random terms, and to simultaneous equations, where the reduced forms are functions of all the unobservable variables in the system. The chapter first presents some general identification results for single-equation models that are additive in unobservable random terms, single-equation models that are nonadditive in unobservable random terms, single-equation models that possess and index structure, simultaneous equations nonadditive in unobservable random terms, and discrete choice models. Then, particular ways of achieving identification are considered. These include making use of conditional independence restrictions, marginal independence restrictions, shape restrictions on functions, shape restrictions on distributions, and restrictions in both functions and distributions. The objective is to provide insight into some of the recent techniques that have been developed recently, rather than on presenting a complete survey of the literature.
C39|Implementing Nonparametric and Semiparametric Estimators|"This chapter reviews recent advances in nonparametric and semiparametric estimation, with an emphasis on applicability to empirical research and on resolving issues that arise in implementation. It considers techniques for estimating densities, conditional mean functions, derivatives of functions and conditional quantiles in a flexible way that imposes minimal functional form assumptions. The chapter begins by illustrating how flexible modeling methods have been applied in empirical research, drawing on recent examples of applications from labor economics, consumer demand estimation and treatment effects models. Then, key concepts in semiparametric and nonparametric modeling are introduced that do not have counterparts in parametric modeling, such as the so-called curse of dimensionality, the notion of models with an infinite number of parameters, the criteria used to define optimal convergence rates, and ""dimension-free"" estimators. After defining these new concepts, a large literature on nonparametric estimation is reviewed and a unifying framework presented for thinking about how different approaches relate to one another. Local polynomial estimators are discussed in detail and their distribution theory is developed. The chapter then shows how nonparametric estimators form the building blocks for many semiparametric estimators, such as estimators for average derivatives, index models, partially linear models, and additively separable models. Semiparametric methods offer a middle ground between fully nonparametric and parametric approaches. Their main advantage is that they typically achieve faster rates of convergence than fully nonparametric approaches. In many cases, they converge at the parametric rate. The second part of the chapter considers in detail two issues that are central with regard to implementing flexible modeling methods: how to select the values of smoothing parameters in an optimal way and how to implement ""trimming"" procedures. It also reviews newly developed techniques for deriving the distribution theory of semiparametric estimators. The chapter concludes with an overview of approximation methods that speed up the computation of nonparametric estimates and make flexible estimation feasible even in very large size samples."
C39|The Econometrics of Data Combination|Economists who use survey or administrative data for inferences regarding a population may want to combine information obtained from two or more samples drawn from the population. This is the case if there is no single sample that contains all relevant variables. A special case occurs if longitudinal or panel data are needed but only repeated cross-sections are available. In this chapter we survey sample combination. If two (or more) samples from the same population are combined, there are variables that are unique to one of the samples and variables that are observed in each sample. What can be learned by combining such samples, depends on the nature of the samples, the assumptions that one is prepared to make, and the goal of the analysis. The most ambitious objective is the identification and estimation of the joint distribution, but often we settle for the estimation of economic models that involve these variables or a subset thereof. Sometimes the goal is to reduce biases due to mismeasured variables. We consider sample merger by matching on identifiers that may be imperfect in the case that the two samples have a substantial number of common units. For the case that the two samples are independent, we consider (conditional) bounds on the joint distribution. Exclusion restrictions will narrow these bounds. We also consider inference under the strong assumption of conditional independence.
C39|Large Sample Sieve Estimation of Semi-Nonparametric Models|Often researchers find parametric models restrictive and sensitive to deviations from the parametric specifications; semi-nonparametric models are more flexible and robust, but lead to other complications such as introducing infinite-dimensional parameter spaces that may not be compact and the optimization problem may no longer be well-posed. The method of sieves provides one way to tackle such difficulties by optimizing an empirical criterion over a sequence of approximating parameter spaces (i.e., sieves); the sieves are less complex but are dense in the original space and the resulting optimization problem becomes well-posed. With different choices of criteria and sieves, the method of sieves is very flexible in estimating complicated semi-nonparametric models with (or without) endogeneity and latent heterogeneity. It can easily incorporate prior information and constraints, often derived from economic theory, such as monotonicity, convexity, additivity, multiplicity, exclusion and nonnegativity. It can simultaneously estimate the parametric and nonparametric parts in semi-nonparametric models, typically with optimal convergence rates for both parts. This chapter describes estimation of semi-nonparametric econometric models via the method of sieves. We present some general results on the large sample properties of the sieve estimates, including consistency of the sieve extremum estimates, convergence rates of the sieve M-estimates, pointwise normality of series estimates of regression functions, root-n asymptotic normality and efficiency of sieve estimates of smooth functionals of infinite-dimensional parameters. Examples are used to illustrate the general results.
C39|Linear Inverse Problems in Structural Econometrics Estimation Based on Spectral Decomposition and Regularization|Inverse problems can be described as functional equations where the value of the function is known or easily estimable but the argument is unknown. Many problems in econometrics can be stated in the form of inverse problems where the argument itself is a function. For example, consider a nonlinear regression where the functional form is the object of interest. One can readily estimate the conditional expectation of the dependent variable given a vector of instruments. From this estimate, one would like to recover the unknown functional form. This chapter provides an introduction to the estimation of the solution to inverse problems. It focuses mainly on integral equations of the first kind. Solving these equations is particularly challenging as the solution does not necessarily exist, may not be unique, and is not continuous. As a result, a regularized (or smoothed) solution needs to be implemented. We review different regularization methods and study the properties of the estimator. Integral equations of the first kind appear, for example, in the generalized method of moments when the number of moment conditions is infinite, and in the nonparametric estimation of instrumental variable regressions. In the last section of this chapter, we investigate integral equations of the second kind, whose solutions may not be unique but are continuous. Such equations arise when additive models and measurement error models are estimated nonparametrically.
C39|Handbook of Econometrics|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Handbook of Econometrics|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Corruption around the world: Evidence from a structural model|The causes and consequences of corruption have attracted much attention in recent years by both academics and policy makers. Central in the discussion on the impact of corruption are perception-based indices. While informative, these indices are ordinal in nature and hence provide no indication of how much economic loss is attributed to corruption. Arguably, this shortcoming is rooted in the lack of a structural model. This is the issue addressed in this paper. By treating corruption as a latent variable that is directly related to its underlying causes, a cardinal index of corruption is derived for approximately 100 countries. This allows us to compute a measure of the losses due to corruption as a percentage of GDP per capita.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C39|Modellselektion in Finite Mixture PLS-Modellen|Der folgende Beitrag befasst sich mit dem Problem der Modellselektion im Finite Mixture Partial Least Squares (FIMIX-PLS)-Ansatz. Dieser Ansatz, welcher der Methodengruppe der Mischverteilungsmodelle zuzuordnen ist, ermöglicht eine simultane Schätzung der Modellparameter bei gleichzeitiger Ermittlung von Heterogenität in der Datenstruktur. Ein wesentliches Problem bei der Anwendung ist die Bestimmung der Anzahl der zugrunde liegenden Segmente, welche a priori unbekannt ist. Neben diversen statistischen Testverfahren wird zur Handhabung dieser Modellselektionsproblematik häufig auf so genannte Informationskriterien zurückgegriffen. Ziel des vorliegenden Beitrags ist es herauszuarbeiten, welches Informationskriterium für die Modellselektion in FIMIX-PLS besonders geeignet ist. Hierzu wurde eine Simulationsstudie initiiert, welche die Performanz gebräuchlicher Kriterien vor dem Hintergrund diverser Einflussfaktoren untersucht. Im Rahmen der Studie konnte mit dem Consistent Akaike’s Information Criterion (CAIC) ein Kriterium identifiziert werden, das die übrigen Kriterien in nahezu allen Faktorstufenkombinationen dominiert.
C39|Cycles of violence, and terrorist attacks index for the State of Oklahoma|I apply the Beveridge-Nelson business cycle decomposition method to the time series of per capita murder of Florida State (1933-2005). Separating out “permanent” from “cyclical” murder, I hypothesize that the cyclical part coincide with documented waves of organized crime, internal tensions, crime legislation, social, and political unrest, and with the periodic terrorist attacks to the U.S. The estimated cyclical component of murder shows that terrorist attacks against the U.S. have affected Oklahoma, creating estimated turning point dates marked by the most tragic terrorist attacks to the nation, and the State: the World Trade Center bombing in 1993, 9/11 2001, and the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing This paper belongs to the series of papers helping the U.S, and Homeland Security identify the closeness of terrorist attacks, and constructs the attacks index for Oklahoma. Other indices constructed include the Index for the U.S., New York State, New York City, Arizona, Massachusetts, California, Washington, Ohio, Philadelphia City, Arkansas, Missouri, Florida, and Michigan. These indices must be used as dependent variables in structural models for terrorist attacks and in models assessing the effects of terrorism over the U.S. economy.
C39|The Role of Social Capital in Economic Development|"This paper carries out an empirical assessment of the causal nexus connecting social capital's diverse aspects to the ""quality"" of economic development in Italy. The analysis accounts for three main social capital dimensions (i.e. bonding, bridging and linking social capital) and measures them through synthetic indicators built by means of principal component analyses performed on a dataset including multiple variables. The quality of development is measured through human development and indicators of the state of health of urban ecosystems, public services, social protection, gender equality, and labour markets. The causal relationship between social capital's and development's different dimensions is then assessed through structural equations models. The analysis in this paper provides a proof of Putnam's claims on the positive role of civil society organizations in development processes."
C39|The shadow economy in three Mediterranean countries: France, Spain and Greece. A MIMIC approach|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|The shadow economy in three Mediterranean countries: France, Spain and Greece. A MIMIC approach|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|What risks do people perceive in everyday life? A perspective gained from the experience sampling method (ESM)|The experiential sampling method (ESM) was used to collect data from 74 parttime students who described and assessed the risks involved in their current activities when interrupted at random moments by text messages. The major categories of perceived risk were short-term in nature and involved “loss of time or materials” related to work and “physical damage” (e.g., from transportation). Using techniques of multilevel analysis, we demonstrate effects of gender, emotional state, and types of risk on assessments of risk. Specifically, females do not differ from males in assessing the potential severity of risks but they see these as more likely to occur. Also, participants assessed risks to be lower when in more positive self-reported emotional states. We further demonstrate the potential of ESM by showing that risk assessments associated with current actions exceed those made retrospectively. We conclude by noting advantages and disadvantages of ESM for collecting data about risk perceptions.
C39|A method to generate structural impulse-responses for measuring the effects of shocks in structural macro models|We develop a technique for analyzing the response dynamics of economic variables to structural shocks in linear rational expectations models. Our work differs fromstandard SVARs since we allow expectations of future variables to enter structural equations. We show how to estimate the variance-covariance matrix of fundamental and non-fundamental shocks and we construct point estimates and confidence bounds for impulse response functions. Our technique can handle both determinate and indeterminate equilibria. We provide an application to U.S. monetary policy under pre and post Volcker monetary policy rules. JEL Classification: C39, C62, D51, E52, E58
C39|On the Mean Summability by Cesaro (C,a) and Abel-Poisson Methods of Trigonometric Fourier Series in the Weighted Lorentz Spaces|In the paper the classical results on the mean convergence and summability of trigonometric Fourier series are extended to the weighted Lorentz spaces. 2000 Mathematics Subject Classification: 46E30.
C39|The Classical Integral Operators in Weighted Lorentz Spaces with Variable Exponent|In this paper the Lorentz spaces with variable exponent are introduced. These Banach function spaces are defined on the base of variable Lebesgue spaces. Boundedness of classical integral operators are proved in variable Lorentz spaces.
C39|The Singular Operator and the Reisz Potential Operator in the Lebesgue Spaces with Variable Exponent on the Real Line|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|Mükelleflerin vergiye gönüllü uyumunu etkileyen faktörlerin analizi: Bir alan çalışması|Mükellefler vergi yükümlülüklerini tam olarak yerine getirdikleri takdirde devlet için en önemli gelir kaynağı olan vergi gelirlerinde maksimuma ulaşılmış olur. Mükelleflerin vergiye gönüllü uyumunu etkileyen çok çeşitli faktörler bulunmaktadır. Bunlar gelir düzeyi ve vergi oranı, sosyal ve demografik faktörler, cezalar, denetim, objektif ve sübjektif düzenlemeler, mali danışmanlar, ahlaki ve sosyal dinamikler, vergi sisteminin karmaşıklığı ve vergi affıdır. Bütün bu faktörler mükelleflerin vergilerini öderken ki davranışlarını etkilemektedir. Ancak bu etkilemenin derecesi negatif olduğu ölçüde devlet önemli vergi kaybına uğramaktadır. Bu nedenle vergi yönetiminin mükelleflerin davranışlarını etkileyen faktörleri analiz edip gerekli önlemleri alması son derece önemlidir. Bu çalışmada çoklu uyum analizi ve frekans yorumları yapılarak çeşitli değişkenler ve bunları gönüllü uyum üzerindeki etkileri test edilmiştir. Bunu için 48 sorudan oluşan bir anket düzenlenmiş ve alan olarak seçilen Eskişehir ilinde yapılan yüz yüze görüşmeler neticesinde toplam 1810 veriden 1750 tanesi kullanılarak tablolar oluşturulmuş ve sonuçta vergi yönetimine bir kısım önerilerde bulunulmuştur.
C39|Linking HRM and Small Business Performance: An Examination of the Impact of HRM Intensity on the Productivity and Financial Performance of Small Businesses|Attempts to explore empirically the link between HRM and firm performance are numerous. Yet, research on this link remains restricted to large companies. Little is known about the extent to which the existing results extend to small businesses. The purpose of the present study is to develop and test a conceptual framework linking HRM to financial performance that fits small businesses. The central question is whether the development of an intensive HRM is profitable for smaller organizations. For the development and optimization of the conceptual framework, we rely on human capital theory and bankruptcy prediction models. Using structural equation modeling, we study the mediating effect of voluntary turnover and productivity on the relationship between HRM intensity and one year lagged financial performance. The results show both productivity and profitability enhancing effects as well as a cost increasing impact of HRM intensity. Copyright Springer 2006
C39|Identification Problems in SDGE Models with an illustration to a small Macro model| We study identification in a class of linear rational expectations models. For any given exactly identified model, we provide an algorithm that generates a class of equivalent models that have the same reduced form. We use our algorithm to show that a model proposed by Jess Benhabib and Roger Farmer is observationally equivalent to the standard new-Keynesian model when observed over a single policy regime. However, the two models have different implications for the design of an optimal policy rule
C39|Urban growth effects on rural population, export and service employment: evidence from eastern France|No abstract is available for this item.
C39|A New Multivariate Product Growth Model|To examine cross-country diffusion of new products, marketing researchers have to rely on a multivariate product growth model. We put forward such a model, and show that it is a natural extension of the original Bass (1969) model. We contrast our model with currently in use multivariate models and we show that inference is much easier and interpretation is straightforward. In fact, parameter estimation can be done using standard commercially available software. We illustrate the benefits of our model relative to other models in simulation experiments. An application to a three-country CD sales series shows the merits of our model in practice.
C39|Estimates of a labour supply function using alternative measures of hours of work|Depending on data source, estimates of hours of work give widely different results both as to level and change. In this paper three alternative measures of hours worked are used to estimate a simple labour supply function to investigate if estimated wage rate and income effects are data dependent as well. The measures used include those from time-use surveys and those from regular surveys. The latter are based on the responses to a question about normal weekly hours of market work. The results suggest that estimates of the wage rate effects become much smaller when measures of normal hours are used compared to data collected for a well-defined time period close to the date of interview, such as time-use data. The income effects appear less sensitive to the choice of data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C39|Social capital, labour precariousness and the economic performance. An empirical assessment of the strength of weak ties in Italy|This paper carries out an assessment of the influence that different kinds of social ties exert on labour precariousness, on the state of health of urban environments and on the economic performance in Italy. Overall, the empirical evidence shows that weak ties connecting members of voluntary organizations positively affect the economic performance and the quality of urban ecosystems, differently from strong ties connecting family members and close friends, which, on the other side, are proved to reduce labour precariousness.
C39|Measuring the Effects of Real and Monetary Shocks in a Structural New-Keynesian Model| We develop a technique for analyzing the dynamics of shocks in structural linear rational expectations models. Our work differs from standard SVARs since we allow expectations of future variables to enter structural equations. We show how to estimate the variance-covariance matrix of fundamental and non-fundamental shocks and we construct point estimates and confidence bounds for impulse response functions. Our technique can handle both determinate and indeterminate equilibria. We provide an application to U.S. monetary policy under pre and post Volcker monetary policy rules
C39|Consistency Problems for Jump-diffusion Models| In this paper consistency problems for multi-factor jump-diffusion models, where the jump parts follow multivariate point processes are examined. First the gap between jump-diffusion models and generalized Heath-Jarrow-Morton (HJM) models is bridged. By applying the drift condition for a generalized arbitrage-free HJM model, the consistency condition for jump-diffusion models is derived. Then a cause is considered in which the forward rate curve has a separable structure, and a specific version of the general consistency condition is obtained. In particular, a necessary and sufficient condition for a jump-diffusion model to be affine is provided. Finally the Nelson-Siegel type of forward curve structures is discussed. It is demonstrated that under regularity condition, there exists no jump-diffusion model consistent with the Nelson-Siegel curves.
C39|The Effectiveness of Foreign Exchange Interventions for the Turkish Economy : A Post-Crisis Period Analysis|This study has two purposes. First, it attempts to improve the literature on foreign exchange interventions of the central banks for the emerging market economies, which have not been studied in details. The Turkish economy in the post-crisis period constitutes a good example in this context. Second, it proposes a new methodology, a time-varying parameter model, to analyze the effectiveness of the foreign exchange interventions. When the results from such an exercise are compared with the ones obtained from an event-study analysis, we find that the purchase-based interventions seem to be successful especially after the financial markets were stabilized. In that sense, we detect an asymmetry regarding the effectiveness of interventions. About the relationship between the interest rates and the exchange rates, we find that the uncovered interest rate parity condition operates in an unconventional way supporting the views put forth by the new emerging markets literature.
C39|The Economic Costs of Corruption: A Survey and New Evidence|This paper reviews the empirical literature on the economic costs of corruption. Corruption affects economic growth, the level of GDP per capita, investment activity, international trade and price stability negatively. Additionally, it biases the composition of government expenditures. The second part of the paper estimates the effect of corruption on economic growth and GDP per capita as well as on six possible transmission channels. The results of this analysis allows to calculate the total effect of corruption: An increase of corruption by about one index point reduces GDP growth by 0.13 percentage points and GDP per capita by 425 US$.
C39|Identificando Bolhas Especulativas Racionais no IBOVESPA (Pós-Plano Real), a partir de Regimes Markovianos de Conversão|The present article intend to verify the presence of speculative rational bubbles, starting from the identification of switching regime of the returns generation process in the brazilian market exchange, BOVESPA, for the Plano Real period (July of 1994 to March of 2004). In order to achieve this end, it was used of the model of markovian switching regime that allows to verify the nonlinear structure of the data and it is relation to the conditional mean and conditional variance. As result the dynamics of the data generation process, the returns can be described as function of two regimes (“bull markets” and “bear markets”). These cycles, however, they could be decomposed in other cycles, initial and final phases of the growth cycle (“bull”) and decrease (“bear”). This decomposition was shown more coherent with the concept of speculative bubble, in which there is a nonlinear relationship between the price and their foundations
C39|Is the Impact of Public Investment Neutral Across the Regional Income Distribution? Evidence from Mexico| This article investigates the contribution of public investment to the reduction of regional inequalities, with a specific application to Mexico. We examine the impact of public investment according to the position of each region in the conditional distribution of regional income by using quantile regression as an empirical technique. The results confirm the hypothesis that regional inequalities can indeed be attributed to the regional distribution of public investment;the observed pattern shows that public investment mainly helped to reduce regional inequalities among the richest regions.
C39|On the Indeterminacy of New-Keynesian Economics| We study identification in a class of three-equation monetary models. We argue that these models are typically not identified. For any given exactly identified model, we provide an algorithm that generates a class of equivalent models that have the same reduced form. We use our algorithm to provide four examples of the consequences of lack of identification. In our first two examples we show that it is not possible to tell whether the policy rule or the Phillips curve is forward or backward looking. In example 3 we establish an equivalence between a class of models proposed by Benhabib and Farmer and the standard new-Keynesian model. This result is disturbing since equilibria in the Benhabib-Farmer model are typically indeterminate for a class of policy rules that generate determinate outcomes in the new-Keynesian model. In example 4, we show that there is an equivalence between determinate and indeterminate models even if one knows the structural equations of the model
C39|On the indeterminacy of new-Keynesian economics|We study identiÞcation in a class of three-equation monetary models. We argue that these models are typically not identiÞed. For any given exactly identiÞed model, we provide an algorithm that generates a class of equivalent models that have the same reduced form. We use our algorithm to provide four examples of the consequences of lack of identiÞcation. In our Þrst two examples we show that it is not possible to tell whether the policy rule or the Phillips curve is forward or backward looking. In example 3 we establish an equivalence between a class of models proposed by Benhabib and Farmer [1] and the standard new-Keynesian model. This result is disturbing since equilibria in the Benhabib-Farmer model are typically indeterminate for a class of policy rules that generate determinate outcomes in the new-Keynesian model. In example 4, we show that there is an equivalence between determinate and indeterminate models even if one knows the structural equations of the model. JEL Classification: C39, C62, D51, E52, E58
C39|Factores que inciden sobre la posibilidad de una desaceleración económica y objetivos de política económica en Puerto Rico|The evolution of the economy of Puerto Rico has been characterized by a long period of economic instability, decelerating therefore the economic activity, in most of the studied years. For such reason, in this work, by means of the creation of binary choice models, the factors that affect the possibility of an economic deceleration, for the case of Puerto Rico were analyzed. According to the results, the coordination, creation, conduction and instrumentation of the establishment of an objective of economic policy and to obtain the greater possible transparency in the processes, in spite of the existing limitations, are fundamental for the well-being of the Island (Key Words: Quantitative Methods, Economic Policy, Economic Growth).
C39|On the Indeterminacy of Determinacy and Indeterminacy|A number of authors have attempted to test whether the US economy is in a determinate or an indeterminate equilibrium. We argue that to answer this question, one must impose a priori restrictions on lag length that cannot be tested. We provide examples of two economic models. Model 1 displays an indeterminate equilibrium, driven by sunspots. Model 2 displays a determinate equilibrium driven by fundamentals. Both models have the same likelihood function and are therefore observationally equivalent.
C39|Interactive property valuations|This paper develops a model of housing decisions which allows for social interactions within residential neighborhoods to impact homeowners' valuation of their own properties. The model is used to structure an empirical investigation with data from the American Housing Survey for 1985 and 1989. It explores in great detail a relatively neglected feature of the data, namely the availability of data of neighborhood clusters for standard metropolitan areas in the United States. This feature of the data allows us to model empirically the effects of social interactions at the immediate residential neighborhood level, with neighborhoods consisting of a dwelling unit and its ten nearest neighbors. Most previous work on neighborhoods has used contextual information associated with the census tract where a unit of observation belongs. It identifies the effect of endogenous social interactions and find that the impact of social interactions is much more important then the dynamic (autoregressive) structure of the model when both variables are present (but both are significant). The findings provide empirical support for the notion, common in the real estate world, of the importance of neighborhood characteristics in property valuations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
