C40|Random Forest Estimation of the Ordered Choice Model|In econometrics so-called ordered choice models are popular when interest is in the estimation of the probabilities of particular values of categorical outcome variables with an inherent ordering, conditional on covariates. In this paper we develop a new machine learning estimator based on the random forest algorithm for such models without imposing any distributional assumptions. The proposed Ordered Forest estimator provides a flexible estimation method of the conditional choice probabilities that can naturally deal with nonlinearities in the data, while taking the ordering information explicitly into account. In addition to common machine learning estimators, it enables the estimation of marginal effects as well as conducting inference thereof and thus providing the same output as classical econometric estimators based on ordered logit or probit models. An extensive simulation study examines the finite sample properties of the Ordered Forest and reveals its good predictive performance, particularly in settings with multicollinearity among the predictors and nonlinear functional forms. An empirical application further illustrates the estimation of the marginal effects and their standard errors and demonstrates the advantages of the flexible estimation compared to a parametric benchmark model.
C40|Changing Current Net Nutrition with Weight as a Measure of Net Nutritional Change with the Transition from Bound to Free Labor: A Difference-in-Decompositions Approach|A population’s weight conditioned on height reflects its current net nutrition and demonstrates health variation during economic development. This study builds on the use of weight as a measure for current net nutrition and uses a difference-in-decompositions technique to illustrate how black and white current net nutrition varied with the transition to free-labor. Adult black age-related weight gain was greater with the transition to free-labor yet was not as large as the adult white age related weight gain. Agricultural worker’s current net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations, and agricultural workers’ net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations but was worse-off with the transition to free labor. Nativity had the greatest effect with weight changes and the transition to free-labor. Within-group weight variation was greater than across-group variation.
C40|Intergenerational and Intragenerational Externalities of the Perry Preschool Project|This paper examines the impact of the iconic Perry Preschool Project on the children and siblings of the original participants. The children of treated participants have fewer school suspensions, higher levels of education and employment, and lower levels of participation in crime, compared with the children of untreated participants. Impacts are especially pronounced for the children of male participants. These treatment effects are associated with improved childhood home environments. The intergenerational effects arise despite the fact that families of treated subjects live in similar or worse neighborhoods than the control families. We also find substantial positive effects of the Perry program on the siblings of participants who did not directly participate in the program, especially for male siblings.
C40|The Perry Preschoolers at Late Midlife: A Study in Design-Specific Inference|This paper presents the first analysis of the life course outcomes through late midlife (around age 55) for the participants of the iconic Perry Preschool Project, an experimental high-quality preschool program for disadvantaged African-American children in the 1960s. We discuss the design of the experiment, compromises in and adjustments to the randomization protocol, and the extent of knowledge about departures from the initial random assignment. We account for these factors in developing conservative small-sample hypothesis tests that use approximate worst-case (least favorable) randomization null distributions. We examine how our new methods compare with standard inferential methods, which ignore essential features of the experimental setup. Widely used procedures produce misleading inferences about treatment effects. Our design-specific inferential approach can be applied to analyze a variety of compromised social and economic experiments, including those using re-randomization designs. Despite the conservative nature of our statistical tests, we find long-term treatment effects on crime, employment, health, cognitive and non-cognitive skills, and other outcomes of the Perry participants. Treatment effects are especially strong for males. Improvements in childhood home environments and parental attachment appear to be an important source of the long-term benefits of the program.
C40|Practical Significance, Meta-Analysis and the Credibility of Economics|Recently, there has been much discussion about replicability and credibility. By integrating the full research record, increasing statistical power, reducing bias and enhancing credibility, meta-analysis is widely regarded as 'best evidence'. Through Monte Carlo simulation, closely calibrated on the typical conditions found among 6,700 economics research papers, we find that large biases and high rates of false positives will often be found by conventional meta-analysis methods. Nonetheless, the routine application of meta-regression analysis and considerations of practical significance largely restore research credibility.
C40|The effectiveness of interventions to reduce informality in low- and middle income countries|"Labor markets in low- and middle income countries are characterized by high levels of informality. A multitude of interventions have therefore been implemented in many countries with the objective to increase the formalization of firms and workers, including information campaigns, simplification of registration procedures, reductions of payroll taxes and social security contributions, and interventions that enforce labor or business formalization. In this paper, we compile a database of 157 impact estimates from 32 academic studies that evaluate empirically one or more of these formalization interventions. The empirical analysis correlates the impact estimates of the primary studies - given as either (i) a measure of sign and statistical significance or (ii) the effect size - with explanatory factors such as the intervention type, the outcome variable, the scope of the intervention (program or policy), and other covariates. Several key findings emerge: first, the intervention type is not a strong determinant for the effectiveness of formalization interventions, though tax incentives and labor inspection are most likely to display significant positive effects. Second, the outcome ""worker registration"" shows significantly better results than other outcomes. Third, interventions at scale - i.e. formalization ""policies"" - are more effective on average than singular ""programs""."
C40|When to Ease Off the Brakes--and Hopefully Prevent Recessions|"Increases in the federal funds rate aimed at stabilizing the economy have inevitably been followed by recessions. Recently, peaks in the federal funds rate have occurred 6-16 months before the start of recessions; reductions in interest rates apparently occurred too late to prevent those recessions. Potential leading indicators include measures of labor productivity, labor utilization, and demand, all of which influence stock market conditions, the return to capital, and changes in the federal funds rate, among many others. We investigate the dynamics of the spread between the 10-year Treasury rate and the federal funds rate in order to better understand ""when to ease off the (federal funds) brakes."""""
C40|How Does Public Debt affect the Indian Macroeconomy? A Structural VAR Approach|This study investigates the macroeconomic effects of public debt in India using a Struc-tural Vector Autoregression (SVAR) framework for the period from 1980 to 2017. The objective of this study is to examine the impact of several types of public debt on economic growth, investment, interest rate and inflation in India. The results of the Impulse re-sponse functions show that public debt has an adverse impact on economic growth, a pos-itive impact on long-term interest rate and a mixed response (both negative and positive) on investment and inflation in India. It is also found that the domestic debt has a more adverse impact on the economy than external debt in India. The estimated variance de-composition analysis shows that much of the variations among selected macro variables are explained by public debt and growth in India. The study suggests that public debt, especially the domestic debt should be controlled and used in a more productive manner in order to have a favourable impact on the economy.
C40|An Early Warning System for banking crises: From regression-based analysis to machine learning techniques|Ten years after the outbreak of the 2007-2008 crisis, renewed attention is directed to money and credit fluctuations, financial crises and policy responses. By using an integrated dataset that includes 100 countries (advanced and emerging) spanning from 1970 to 2017, we propose an Early Warning System (EWS) to predict the build-up of systemic banking crises. The paper aims at (i) identifying the macroeconomic drivers of banking crises, (ii) going beyond the use of traditional discrete choice models by applying supervised machine learning (ML) and (iii) assessing the degree of countriesâ€™ exposure to systemic risks by means of predicted probabilities. Our results show that ML algorithms can have a better predictive performance than the logit models. All models deliver increasing predicted probabilities in the last years of the sample for the advanced countries, warning against the possible build-up of pre-crisis macroeconomic imbalances.
C40|Monotonic Estimation for the Survival Probability over a Risk-Rated Portfolio by Discrete-Time Hazard Rate Models|Monotonic estimation for the survival probability of a loan in a risk-rated portfolio is based on the observation arising, for example, from loan pricing that a loan with a lower credit risk rating is more likely to survive than a loan with a higher credit risk rating, given the same additional risk covariates. Two probit-type discrete-time hazard rate models that generate monotonic survival probabilities are proposed in this paper. The first model calculates the discrete-time hazard rate conditional on systematic risk factors. As for the Cox proportion hazard rate model, the model formulates the discrete-time hazard rate by including a baseline component. This baseline component can be estimated outside the model in the absence of model covariates using the long-run average discrete-time hazard rate. This results in a significant reduction in the number of parameters to be otherwise estimated inside the model. The second model is a general form model where loan level factors can be included. Parameter estimation algorithms are also proposed. The models and algorithms proposed in this paper can be used for loan pricing, stress testing, expected credit loss estimation, and modeling of the probability of default term structure.
C40|Shooting down the price: evidence from mafia homicides and housing market volatility|In this work, we assess the role of a specific type of organized crime in influencing choices on where living within the city territory, and consequently, volatility in house prices. More specifically, we test how organized crime killing may influence house pricing behaviors. Firstly, we show evidences about how organized crime is associated with higher inequality of housing prices for Italian cities in 2011. Then, by collecting and geo referencing data on the city of Naples for the period 2002-2016, we test for the direct influence of homicides on the relevant territory, as on the neighboring districts. Results show a negative and significant impact of killing on the house prices either for sales or for rents and a positive effect in neighboring district, driving increases in within-city inequality.
C40|Temporal Disaggregation of Business Dynamics: New Evidence for U.S. Economy|We provide new disaggregated data and stylized facts on firm dynamics of the U.S economy by using a state-space method to transform Census yearly data of entry and exit from 1977 to 2013 into quarterly frequency. Entry is lagging and symmetric, while exit is leading and asymmetric along the business cycle. We select the most significant determinants of these variables by matching Census data with a new database by Federal Reserve. These determinants differ considerably among entry and exit. Finally, standard macroeconometric models estimated on our disaggregated series support the recent theoretical literature, according to which the cleansing effect of recession is mainly due to exit asymmetry.
C40|Exposition, climax, denouement: Life-cycle evaluation of the recent financial crisis in the EU by linking the ESRB financial crisis database to the European Commission's Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure Scoreboard|The paper investigates the life-cycle of the 2008-2009 financial crisis by linking the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) Scoreboard of the European Commission to the crisis database of the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB). The novelty of the analysis is that early warning capacity of MIP indicators is empirically tested in case of various crisis events case by case (i) Currency/Balance-of-Payment/Capital flow events, (ii) Sovereign crisis events, (iii) Banking crisis events and (iv) Significant asset price corrections in EU Member States. Furthermore, we contribute to the literature by studying the predicting power of the MIP Scoreboard in the identification of the overheating in the economy in advance of crises (preventive arm of the MIP). We found that the predictive power of the MIP Scoreboard may be twice as high to capture sovereign and Currency/Balance-of-Payment/Capital flow type of crisis events than its power to capture a banking crisis or serious asset price corrections. We confirm the results of earlier empirical studies that some MIP indicators perform relatively well (current account and net international position) in all specifications. A simple composite indicator based on the threshold breaches of MIP Scoreboard Indicators, performed in most cases as good as the best individual indicator, and hence could be considered as an input to a simple, rule based and accountable decision making. JEL Classification: C40, G01, E44, E61, G28
C40|Random Forest Estimation of the Ordered Choice Model|In econometrics so-called ordered choice models are popular when interest is in the estimation of the probabilities of particular values of categorical outcome variables with an inherent ordering, conditional on covariates. In this paper we develop a new machine learning estimator based on the random forest algorithm for such models without imposing any distributional assumptions. The proposed Ordered Forest estimator provides a flexible estimation method of the conditional choice probabilities that can naturally deal with nonlinearities in the data, while taking the ordering information explicitly into account. In addition to common machine learning estimators, it enables the estimation of marginal effects as well as conducting inference thereof and thus providing the same output as classical econometric estimators based on ordered logit or probit models. An extensive simulation study examines the finite sample properties of the Ordered Forest and reveals its good predictive performance, particularly in settings with multicollinearity among the predictors and nonlinear functional forms. An empirical application further illustrates the estimation of the marginal effects and their standard errors and demonstrates the advantages of the flexible estimation compared to a parametric benchmark model.
C40|Quantile coherency networks of international stock markets|This paper uses the novel quantile coherency approach to examine the tail dependence network of 49 international stock markets in the frequency domain. We find that geographical proximity and state of market development are important factors in stock markets networks. Both the short- and long-run connectedness significantly increased after the global financial crisis and spillover is higher during bearish market states, highlighting the possibility of contagion effect mainly among developed markets. Frontier and emerging markets are relatively less connected. These findings have implications for international equity market diversification and risk management.
C40|Can media drive the electorate? The impact of media coverage on party affiliation and voting intentions|As the rise of populist and right-wing political movements is connected to extensive media coverage, the question arises whether media report more on political parties because of their success or if their success is caused by media reports. To tackle this question, we investigate how media coverage affects short- and long-term political preferences, namely party affiliation and voting intention. For our empirical analysis, we merge 14 years of human-coded data obtained from leading media in Germany with results of the comprehensive German Politbarometer survey from February 1998 through December 2012. To account for endogeneity, we employ instrumental variable estimations. In addition, we control for a multitude of (internal) personal characteristics, such as age, and gender, as well as for (external) macroeconomic variables, such as business climate, unemployment, and inflation. The results show that media coverage of a political party has a positive and significant effect on the shortterm voting intention for this party. When media outlets cover a political party more positively, the electorate has a greater tendency to vote for it. However, for long-term party affiliation, the effect vanishes. This is consistent with the economic theory. Long-term preferences are stable and, thus, contemporary events, such as media coverage, hardly affect supposedly stable preferences. However, in the long-term, party affiliation might also be affected.
C40|Geographical Scale, Industrial Diversity and Regional Economic Stability|The empirical relationship between economic diversity and economic stability varies when it is measured at different geographical scales. This paper evaluates the role of geographical scales in assessing this diversity-stability relationship among counties, states, Economic Areas (EAs), metropolitan counties and metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) in the contiguous U.S. When choosing geographical units to analyze regional economic structure, it is necessary that the geographical units be large enough in population and employment to quantify effectively the regional economic structure. In addition, this paper proposes that geographical units also should be functionally aggregated regions as they better represent spatial interactions than formal regions do, and they consider the possible temporal variations in the boundaries of regional economic structures.
C40|Do Korean Exports Have Different Patterns over Different Regimes?: New Evidence from STAR-VECM|In this work we examine whether the relationships of Korean exports to global GDP and to the exchange rate change depending on whether exports are in their expansionary or their contractionary regimes. To this empirical end we incorporate the two distinct dynamic features of regime change and co-integration into a multi-variable smooth transition autoregressive vector error correction model (STAR-VECM). Our estimation results reveal asymmetries in the short-run relationships of Korea¡¯s exports to global GDP and to the exchange rate, between the contractionary and the expansionary export regimes, although their long-run relationships remain stable. Specifically, the positive effect of real global GDP on Korea¡¯s real exports is inelastic during contractionary regimes but changes to become elastic in expansionary regimes. The effect of the real effective exchange rate on Korea¡¯s real exports is positive and inelastic under contractionary regimes, but becomes negative and elastic under expansionary regimes. Our results suggest that the asymmetric properties of the relationship of Korea¡¯s exports to global GDP and the exchange rates across the different regimes should be taken into account in order to better understand the behavior of Korea¡¯s exports.
C40|The 19th Centure Net Nutrition Transition from Free to Bound Labor: A Difference-in-Decompositions Approach|The body mass index (BMI) reflects current net nutrition and health during economic development. This study introduces a difference-in-decompositions approach to show that although 19th century African-American current net nutrition was comparable to working class whites, it was made worse-off with the transition to free-labor. BMI reflects net nutrition over the life-course, and like stature, slave children’s BMIs increased more than whites as they approached entry into the adult slave labor force. Agricultural worker’s net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations but was worse-off under free-labor and industrialization. Within-group BMI variation was greater than across-group variation, and white within-group variation associated with socioeconomic status was greater than African-Americans.
C40|The Endo-Exo Problem in High Frequency Financial Price Fluctuations and Rejecting Criticality|The endo-exo problem lies at the heart of statistical identification in many fields of science, and is often plagued by spurious strong-and-long memory due to improper treatment of trends, shocks and shifts in the data. A class of models that has shown to be useful in discerning exogenous and endogenous activity is the Hawkes process. This class of point processes has enjoyed great recent popularity and rapid development within the quantitative finance literature, with particular focus on the study of market microstructure and high frequency price fluctuations. We show that there are important lessons from older fields like time series and econometrics that should also be applied in financial point process modelling. In particular, we emphasize the importance of appropriately treating trends and shocks for the identification of the strength and length of memory in the system. We exploit the powerful Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm and objective statistical criteria (BIC) to select the flexibility of the deterministic background intensity. With these methods, we strongly reject the hypothesis that the considered financial markets are critical at univariate and bivariate microstructural levels.
C40|Discriminant Analysis with Spherical Data|Discriminant analysis for spherical data, or directional data in general, has not been extensively studied, and most papers focus on one distribution, the von Mises-Fisher.
C40|The Impact of Lowering the Payroll Tax on Informality in Colombia|In 2012, the Colombian Government reduced employer payroll contributions from 29.5 to 16.0 percent. Two years later, the informality rate had diminished by about 4.0 percentage points. This paper attempts to estimate how much of this reduction was due to the tax reform, isolating the impact of other macroeconomic variables. A natural approach to performing this task is to apply a difference-in-differences methodology using a household survey panel. Since the Colombian survey does not have a panel structure, we simulated one using a matching difference-in-differences methodology. According to the results, the tax reform is associated with a 4.8-percentage-point decrease in the informality of workers affected by the reform in the thirteen main metropolitan areas. This represents approximately half the reduction of the relevant informality rate during that period, affecting mostly salaried men and workers in general with low levels of education.
C40|The influence of capital structure on financial performance of microfinance institutions|This paper aims to investigate the influence of capital structure on the financial performance of microfinance institutions (MFIs) using a sample of 89 institutions from 35 countries using the data provided by the MIX Market platform for the year 2015.In order to do that, the paper focus on two main objectives: the first one is to evaluate the financial performance of microfinance institutions using a synthetic measure-composite index based on principal component analysis using several financial indicators and the second one is to assess the impact of capital structure on the MFIsfinancial performance composite index using regression techniques, taking into account three proxies for capital structure(capital to asset ratio, debt to equity ratio, deposits to total assets) and controlling for a variety of MFI-specific variables.Theempirical results pointed out two important factors for the financial performance of MFIs: profit margin and yield on gross loan portfolio. Based on the results of the composite index, Mexico, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Nepal, Romania, Moldova, Egypt, Armenia and Bolivia are considered to be poles of microfinance performance. In Romania, the best performances were recorded by Express Finance, while at the opposite side there are OMRO and Pro-Credit, which performed poorly.Analysing the influence of capital structure on the financial performance of MFIs, a significant and positive impact have been highlighted by the capital to asset ratio, while for the other two proxies any influence has been refuted. Therefore, a higher ratio of capital to total assets is positively associated with a higher MFIs financial performance.
C40|Probabilistic forecasts for the 2018 FIFA World Cup based on the bookmaker consensus model|"Football fans worldwide anticipate the 2018 FIFA World Cup that will take place in Russia from 14 June to 15 July 2018. 32 of the best teams from 5 confederations compete to determine the new World Champion. Using a consensus model based on quoted odds from 26 bookmakers and betting exchanges a probabilistic forecast for the outcome of the World Cup is obtained. The favorite is Brazil with a forecasted winning probability of 16.6%, closely followed by the defending World Champion and 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup winner Germany with a winning probability of 15.8%. Two other teams also have winning probabilities above 10%: Spain and France with 12.5% and 12.1%, respectively. The results from this bookmaker consensus model are coupled with simulations of the entire tournament to obtain implied abilities for each team. These allow to obtain pairwise probabilities for each possible game along with probabilities for each team to proceed to the various stages of the tournament. This shows that indeed the most likely final is a match of the top favorites Brazil and Germany (with a probability of 5.5%) where Brazil has the chance to compensate the dramatic semifinal in Belo Horizonte, four years ago. However, given that it comes to this final, the chances are almost even (50.6% for Brazil vs. 49.4% for Germany). The most likely semifinals are between the four top teams, i.e., with a probability of 9.4% Brazil and France meet in the first semifinal (with chances slightly in favor of Brazil in such a match, 53.5%) and with 9.2% Germany and Spain play the second semifinal (with chances slightly in favor of Germany with 53.1%). These probabilistic forecasts have been obtained by suitably averaging the quoted winning odds for all teams across bookmakers. More precisely, the odds are first adjusted for the bookmakers' profit margins (""overrounds""), averaged on the log-odds scale, and then transformed back to winning probabilities. Moreover, an ""inverse"" approach to simulating the tournament yields estimated team abilities (or strengths) from which probabilities for all possible pairwise matches can be derived. This technique (Leitner, Zeileis, and Hornik 2010a) correctly predicted the winner of 2010 FIFA World Cup (Leitner, Zeileis, and Hornik 2010b) and three out of four semifinalists at the 2014 FIFA World Cup (Zeileis, Leitner, and Hornik 2014). Interactive web graphics for this report are available at: https://eeecon.uibk.ac.at/~zeileis/news/fifa2018/"
C40|The Relationship between Fiscal and Current Account Imbalances in OECD Economies|This study re-examines the nexus between the fiscal balance and the current account balance for 18 OECD countries for the period 1995Q1 to 2018 Q1 using panel cointegration, and panel vector autoregressive (VAR) methods. Our results indicate that a strengthening in the fiscal balance by one percentage point of GDP leads to an improvement in the current account balance of about 0.1-0.3 percentage point of GDP. On the other hand, an increase in real government consumption generally leads to a deterioration in the current account balance. The impact of the real effective exchange rate is not statistically significant. The findings also confirm that there is a long-run relationship between the fiscal balance and the current account balance.
C40|The Effect of Early Life Health on Later Life Home Care Use: The Mediating Role of Household Composition|In this paper we estimate the effect of early life health on home care use later in life, and we analyse whether this effect is mediated through household composition. We use Dutch administrative data on men born in 1944-1947 who were examined for military service between 1961-1965 and we link them to national data on non-residential care in the period 2004-2013 and data on house- hold status information for the years 1999-2014. We account for confounding factors that influence both early life health and later life home care use. We also account for selective attrition. Our empirical findings show that general health problems in youth is an important health predictor for later life home care use. A large portion of this effect is an indirect effect running through changes in partnership status.
C40|Quality of Match for Statistical Matches Using the American Time Use Survey 2013, the Survey of Consumer Finances 2013, and the Annual Social and Economic Supplement 2014|This paper describes the quality of the statistical matching between the March 2014 supplement to the Current Population Survey (CPS) and the 2013 American Time Use Survey (ATUS) and Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF), which are used as the basis for the 2013 Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-Being (LIMEW) estimates for the United States. In the first part of the paper, the alignment of the datasets is examined. In the second, various aspects of the match quality are described. The results indicate that the matches are of high quality, with some indication of bias in specific cases.
C40|Computer Vision and Real Estate: Do Looks Matter and Do Incentives Determine Looks|How much does the appearance of a house, or its neighbors, impact its price? Do events that impact the incentives facing homeowners, like foreclosure, impact the maintenance and appearance of a home? Using computer vision techniques, we find that a one standard deviation improvement in the appearance of a home in Boston is associated with a .16 log point increase in the home’s value, or about $68,000 at the sample mean. The additional predictive power created by images is small relative to location and basic home variables, but external images do outperform variables collected by in-person home assessors. A home’s value increases by .4 log points, when its neighbor’s visually predicted value increases by one log point, and more visible neighbors have a larger price impact than less visible neighbors. Homes that went through foreclosure during the 2008-09 financial crisis experienced a .04 log point decline in their appearance-related value, relative to comparable homes, suggesting that foreclosures reduced the incentives to maintain the housing stock. We do not find more depreciation of appearance in rental properties, or more upgrading of appearance by owners before resale.
C40|Technological Spillover Effects of State Renewable Energy Policy: Evidence from Patent Counts|We examine the effect of in-state and out-of-state renewable energy policies on wind energy patenting. Using a semiparametric fixed-effects Tobit model, we regress patent counts on a series of policy variables within a state and a spatially weighted average for each of these policies implemented in other states. We develop a lower bound for the marginal effects and find important differences across policy types. For renewable portfolio standards, overall demand matters. Policies in other states increase innovation, but own-state policies do not. In contrast, for financial incentives such as tax incentives and subsidy policies, own-state policies induce innovation.
C40|Firms’ Dynamics and Business Cycle: New Disaggregated Data|We provide stylized facts on firms dynamics by disaggregating U.S. yearly data from 1977 to 2013. To this aim, we use a new unobserved component-based method, encompassing several classical regression-based techniques currently in use. The new time series of Entry and Exit of firms at establishment level are feasible proxies of Business Cycle. Exit is a leading and countercyclical indicator, while Entry is lagging and procyclical. The resulting SVAR analysis supports the recent theoretical findings of the literature on firms dynamics.
C40|Fiscal Policy, as the “Employer of Last Resort”: Impact of Direct fiscal transfer (MGNREGA) on Labour Force Participation Rates in India|We examine the impact of conditional fiscal transfers on public employment across gender in India taking the case of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The MGNREGS, as an “employer of last resort” fiscal policy, is a direct employment transfer, which guarantees to provide 100 days of paid work opportunities at a predetermined wage for public works in India through a self-selection criterion. Using unit record data of the latest 68th round of NSS Employment-Unemployment survey, we examined gender differential impacts of MGNREGS on labour force participation rates across States in India. The unit of analysis in our paper is not ‘household’, but is one step ahead to capture the intra-household level of participating behaviour in the economic activity. The results, based on the survey enumerating 2,80,763 individuals in rural areas, revealed that there is a striking heterogeneity in the gender impacts of job guarantee programme across States of India. The probit estimates showed that MGNREGS job card holder’s labour force participation rates were higher than the non-card holders and the result was more pronounced for women. The analysis of the time-use patterns and the unpaid care economy statistics of job guarantee card holders obtained from the unit records also shows that augmenting public investment in care economy infrastructure is significant for the job guarantee programme to function at its full potential in India.
C40|Bauran Pemasaran Dalam Prespektif Syariah (Analisis Teks Al Quran Surat Al- Quraisy)<BR>[Marketing mix in Sharia perspective (Al-Qurayshi Qur'anic text analysis)]|Abstract Planning a marketing strategy for the company's products provide a basis for taking effective measures for the future. Effective marketing programs must be able to integrate all elements of the marketing mix into a program of integrated marketing that is designed to achieve the company's marketing objectives by delivering value for consumers, in the study of marketing ever undertaken by the Quraysh who proclaim themselves to a confidence and pride as the merchants Mansour with trading strategies are great , here I will try to connect the marketing mix, better known by the term marketing Mix with the study of text analysis Quran Surah Al-Quraishi, the method used is the study of literature and expect to get the marketing concept of sharia to be accepted.
C40|Ergodicity conditions for a double mixed Poisson autoregression|We propose a double mixed Poisson autoregression in which the intensity, scaled by a unit mean independent and identically distributed (iid) mixing process, has different regime specifications according to the state of a finite unobserved iid chain. Under some contraction in mean conditions, we show that the proposed model is strictly stationary and ergodic with a finite mean. Applications to various count time series models are given.
C40|Thai Inflation Dynamics: A View from Micro CPI Data|This paper examines the patterns of price adjustment at the micro level in order to further our understanding of price rigidity at the aggregate level. We highlight 5 stylized facts: 1) Prices change infrequently with a mean duration of approximately 4 to 7 months between price changes; 2) Price decreases are common accounting for roughly 45 percent of all price changes; 3) Price changes, both increases and decreases, are sizable compared to the prevailing in ation rate; 4) The size of price changes covaries strongly with the rate of in ation, whereas the fraction of items changing prices does not; and 5) There is signi cant dispersion in price levels as well as in the synchronicity of price changes across geographical regions. Based on a dynamic factor model, we also utilize prices at the disaggregated level to perform an in ation decomposition to understand the underlying driving factors of in ation. The key ndings are: 1) Prices at the micro level are driven mainly by idiosyncratic shocks but these shocks become less important for CPI in ation at the aggregate level; 2) Pure in ation which drives long-term price movements in Thailand is responsible for approximately 10 percent of overall price movements; 3) More than half of all within-quarter uctuations can be classi ed as relative price changes in response to aggregate shocks; 4) The short-run in ation-output tradeoff which appears weak in aggregate data becomes much stronger once volatile idiosyncratic price changes are removed.
C40|Measuring Rice Yield from Space: The Case of Thai Binh Province, Viet Nam|Despite a growing interest in using satellite data to estimate paddy rice yield in Southeast Asia, significant cloud coverage has led to a scarcity of usable optical data for such analysis. In this paper, we study the feasibility of using two alternative sources of satellite data—(i) surface reflectance fusion data which integrates Landsat and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) images, and (ii) L-band radar backscatter data from the Advanced Land Observing Satellite 2 (ALOS-2) PALSAR-2 sensors—to circumvent the cloud cover problem and estimate yield in Thai Binh Province, Viet Nam during the second growing season of 2015. Our findings indicate that although Landsat– MODIS fusion data are not necessarily beneficial for paddy rice mapping when compared with only using Landsat data, fusion data allows us to estimate the peak value of various vegetation indexes and derive the best empirical relationship between these indexes and yield data from the field. We also find that the L-band radar data not only has a lower performance in paddy rice mapping when compared with optical data, but also contributes little to rice yield estimation.
C40|A Barometer of Canadian Financial System Vulnerabilities|This note presents a composite indicator of Canadian financial system vulnerabilities—the Vulnerabilities Barometer. It aims to complement the Bank of Canada’s vulnerabilities assessment by adding a quantitative and synthesized perspective to the more granular (distributional) analysis presented in the Financial System Review. •The Vulnerabilities Barometer for Canada is above the level reached in 2007. The current state is driven by housing market vulnerabilities and elevated household indebtedness. The oil price shock contributed to the recent increase in vulnerabilities, though this risk factor has eased since the end of 2016. •When assessed across countries, the Vulnerabilities Barometer sends earlier and better signals of future stress episodes than its components taken individually, or than the credit-to-GDP gap. It is also consistent with the narrative of stressful episodes for peer countries.
C40|Assessing Cumulative Net Nutrition and the Transition from 19th Century Bound to Free-Labor by Ethnic Status|Average stature reflects cumulative net nutrition and health during economic development. This study introduces a difference-in-decompositions approach to show that although 19th century African-American cumulative net nutrition was comparable to working class whites, it was made worse-off with the transition to free-labor. Average stature reflects net nutrition over the life-course, and slave children’s BMIs increased more with age than whites as they approached entry into the adult slave labor force. Agricultural worker’s net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations but was worse-off under free-labor and industrialization. Within-group stature variation was greater than across-group variation, and white within-group stature variation associated with socioeconomic status was greater than African-Americans.
C40|Statistical Tests of the Demand for Insurance: An “All or Nothing” Decision|Several theoretical models and empirical results stress an unexpected all-or-nothing insurance behavior. Using experimental data of Corcos et al. (2017), who developed an extended version of Mossin’s traditional theoretical demand for insurance and provided non-parametric tests, this paper presents descriptive statistical analyses and econometric tests studying whether these experimental data comply with the all-or-nothing hypothesis. Our findings support this assumption for both risk averters and risk lovers. When this all-or-nothing behavior fails to meet Expected Utility predictions, it highlights a lack of responsiveness of individuals to insurance prices. When facing a more-than-actuarial insurance price, risk averters keep buying full insurance rather than partial insurance. A zero fixed cost holds risk lovers in the insurance market where they choose full instead of waive insurance. The bimodal nature of decisions might create an opportunity for the authority for driving people to enter the insurance market where they then buy full insurance.
C40|Screening for Bid-rigging – Does it Work?|This paper proposes a method to detect bid-rigging by applying mutually reinforcing screens to a road construction procurement data set from Switzerland in which no prior information about collusion was available. The screening method is particularly suited to deal with the problem of partial collusion, i.e. collusion which does not involve all firms and/or all contracts in a specific data set, implying that many of the classical markers discussed in the corresponding literature will fail to identify bid-rigging. In addition to presenting new screens for collusion, it is shown how benchmarks and the combination of different screens may be used to identify subsets of suspicious contracts and firms. The discussed screening method succeeds in isolating a group of “suspicious” firms exhibiting the characteristics of a local bid-rigging cartel with cover bids and a – more or less pronounced – bid rotation scheme. Based on these findings the Swiss Competition Commission (COMCO) opened an investigation and sanctioned the identified “suspicious” firms for bid-rigging in 2016.
C40|Oil price uncertainty and Chinese stock returns: New evidence from the oil volatility index|This paper investigates the impact of oil price shocks and oil price volatility shocks on the Chinese stock market index and five sector returns. In addition to the realized volatility, the paper uses the CBOE crude oil volatility index (OVX) to proxy for the oil price volatility. The empirical results suggest that oil price shocks positively affect Chinese stock returns. More importantly, evidence indicates that the OVX shocks have significant and negative effects on the Chinese stock market while the impact of realized volatility shocks is negligible, especially after the recent financial crisis.
C40|Co-movement of Africa’s equity markets: Regional and global analysis in the frequency–time domains|This paper examines regional and global co-movement of Africa’s stock markets using the three-dimensional continuous Morlet wavelet transform methodology. The analyses which are done in segments investigate co-movements with global markets; bilateral exchange rates expressed in US dollars and euro; and four regional markets in Africa. First, we find evidence of stronger co-movements broadly narrowed to short-run fluctuations. The co-movements are time-varying and commonly non-homogeneous — with phase difference arrow vectors implying lead–lag relationships. The presence of lead–lag effects and stronger co-movements at short-run fluctuations may induce arbitrage and diversification opportunities to both local and international investors with long-term investment horizons. The findings also reveal that some African equity markets are, to a degree, segmented from volatilities of the dollar and euro exchange rates. Thus, inferring that, ceteris paribus, international investors may diversify their portfolio investments across those markets without worrying about the effects of currency price volatility.
C40|The behavior of uncertainty and disagreement and their roles in economic prediction: a panel analysis|This paper examines point and density forecasts from the European Central Bank’s Survey of Professional Forecasters. We derive individual uncertainty measures along with individual point- and density-based measures of disagreement. We also explore the relationship between uncertainty and disagreement, as well as their roles in respondents’ forecast performance and forecast revisions. We observe substantial heterogeneity in respondents’ uncertainty and disagreement. In addition, there is little co-movement between uncertainty and disagreement, and forecast performance shows a more robust inverse relationship with disagreement than with uncertainty. Further, forecast revisions display a more meaningful association with disagreement than with uncertainty: Those respondents displaying higher levels of disagreement revise their point and density forecasts by a larger amount.
C40|Pathways from agriculture-to-nutrition in India: implications for sustainable development goals|Abstract Using a disaggregated dashboard approach with agriculture, food consumption, and demographic and health survey data, this study examines the progress of Indian states towards the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 2 on hunger and nutrition across different years. There is evidence of both disconnects and linkages among food security indicators along the agriculture-to-nutrition pathways across states. This heterogeneity implies that a food security policy with a single focus is not appropriate, given that there are more disconnects prevailing than linkages. The southern states performed better than the rest on almost all indicators, which was primarily attributed to better governance in ensuring food security. We also provide a mapping of the SDG 2 sub-goals, corresponding indicators, and to what extent their attainment is addressed in existing policies. Through a broadened and comprehensive approach under one coordinating body with a good set of improved interventions and governance, Indian states could attain food and nutrition security by 2030.
C40|Econometric tests to detect bid-rigging cartels: does it work?|This paper tests how well the method proposed by Bajari and Ye (2003) performs to detect bidrigging cartels. In the case investigated in this paper, the bid-rigging cartel rigged all contracts during the collusive period, and all firms participated to the bid-rigging cartel. The two econometric tests constructed by Bajari and Ye (2003) produce a high number of false negative results: the tests do not reject the null hypothesis of competition, although they should have rejected it. A robustness analysis replicates the econometric tests on two different sub-samples, composed solely by cover bids. On the first sub-sample, both tests produce again a high number of false negative results. However, on the second sub-sample, one test performs better to detect the bidrigging cartel. The paper interprets these results, discusses alternative methods, and concludes with recommendations for competition agencies.
C40|Simple Statistical Screens to Detect Bid Rigging|The paper applies simple statistical screens to a bid-rigging cartel in Switzerland, and shows how well the screens detect it by capturing the impact of collusion on the discrete distribution of the bids. In case of bid rigging, the support for the distribution of the bids decreases involving a lower variance, illustrated by the coefficient of variance and the kurtosis statistic. Furthermore, when firms rig bids without side-payment, the difference between the first and the second lowest bids increases whereas the difference between the losing bids decreases, involving a negatively skewed distribution of the bids, highlighted by the relative distance and the skewness statistic. Finally, the collusive interaction screen shows that the behaviour of firms changed radically between the cartel and post-cartel periods. Therefore, the simple statistical screens proposed in this paper purpose to screen large dataset and to detect bidrigging cartels by using only information on bids.
C40|Can Exposure to Tail Risk Explain Size, Book-to-Market, and Idiosyncratic Volatility Anomalies?|We examine the impact of aggregate tail risk on return dynamics of size, book-to-market ratio, and idiosyncratic volatility sorted portfolios. Using changes in VIX Tail Hedge Index (ΔVXTH) as a proxy for aggregate tail risk, and controlling for market, size, book-to-market, and aggregate volatility risk, we document significant portfolio return exposures to tail risk. In particular, portfolios that contain small, value and volatile stocks exhibit consistently positive and statistically significant tail risk betas, whereas portfolios of big, growth and non-volatile stocks exhibit negative tail risk betas. We posit that due to their positive tail risk exposures, tail risk-averse investors demand extra compensation to hold small, value, and high idiosyncratic volatility stocks. Our results offer a tail risk-based explanation to size, value, and idiosyncratic volatility anomalies.
C40|Multivariate Reflection Symmetry of Copula Functions|We propose a multivariate nonparametric copula test of reflection symmetry. The test is valid in any number of dimensions, extending previous results that cover the bivariate case. Furthermore, the asymptotic theory for the test relies on recent results on the dependent multiplier bootstrap, valid for sub-exponentially strongly mixing data. Consequently to the introduction of those two features, the procedure is suitable for financial time series whose asymmetric dependence, in distressed periods, has already been documented elsewhere. We conduct an extensive simulation study of empirical size and power and provide several examples of applications. In particular, we investigate the use of the statistic as a financial stress indicator by comparing it with the CISS, the leading ECB indicator
C40|Set Identification, Moment Restrictions, and Inference|For the past 10 years, the topic of set identification has been much studied in the econometric literature. Classical inference methods have been generalized to the case in which moment inequalities and equalities define a set instead of a point. We review several instances of partial identification by focusing on examples in which the underlying economic restrictions are expressed as linear moments. This setting illustrates the fact that convex analysis helps not only for characterizing the identified set but also for inference. From this perspective, we review inference methods using convex analysis or inversion of tests and detail how geometric characterizations can be useful.
C40|Une nouvelle approche expérimentale pour tester les modèles quantiques de l’erreur de conjonction|In classical probability theory, the probability of the conjunction of two events is smaller than the probability of only one of these events. Yet, agents do not always empirically judge in this way: this is the traditional conjunction fallacy. One of the currently promising accounts of this paradox relies on so-called quantum-like models, which have been developed from mathematical tools used in quantum theory. But are these models empirically adequate? Which versions of these models can be used? In particular, can the simplest versions, the non-degenerate ones, be sufficient? We propose here an original experimental protocol to test the quantum-like models for the conjunction fallacy in the lab. The results we obtain suggest that the non-degenerate models are not empirically adequate, and that future research on quantum-like models should consider degenerate ones. Classification JEL : C60, C91, D03.
C40|Invariance Axioms and Functional Form Restrictions in Structural Models|The dominant practice in economics is to choose the mathematical specification of model relations on the basis of convenience, without much theoretical support. This paper discusses how quantitative model specifications can, in some cases, be given a more formal scientific underpinning in the sense of being based on a priori theory. I use an example from discrete choice theory to illustrate that it is sometimes possible to obtain a complete characterization of the choice model derived from a set of plausible axioms. Furthermore, I discuss how axioms can be tested non-parametrically, given that suitable Stated Preference data are available.
C40|An application of artificial neural network and particle swarm optimisation technique for modelling and optimisation of centreless grinding process|" Centreless grinding operation is widely used in manufacturing industry for its high level of accuracy and micro-finishing of shaft, pin material. This paper presents an application of artificial neural network and particle swarm optimisation techniques for modelling and optimisation of centreless grinding operation for machining of C40 steel crane-hook-pin. Full factorial design is used taking three factors at three levels each and a total 3<SUP align=""right""><SMALL>3</SMALL></SUP> or 27 number of experiments are done in all possible combination of factors. The performance of this particular trained neural network has been tested with the experimental data and found satisfactory. Thus the proposed ANN model is efficiently used for predicting surface roughness in centreless grinding operation. Particle swarm optimisation technique combining with response surface modelling are used to find optimal parameter settings. The optimal parameter corresponds to 12 rpm regulating wheel speed, 1/3rd opening of coolant valve opening and 20.002 µm depth of cut."
C40|Multivariate Reflection Symmetry of Copula Functions|We propose a multivariate nonparametric copula test of reflection symmetry. The test is valid in any number of dimensions, extending previous results that cover the bivariate case. Furthermore, the asymptotic theory for the test relies on recent results on the dependent multiplier bootstrap, valid for sub-exponentially strongly mixing data. Consequently to the introduction of those two features, the procedure is suitable for financial time series whose asymmetric dependence, in distressed periods, has already been documented elsewhere. We conduct an extensive simulation study of empirical size and power and provide several examples of applications. In particular, we investigate the use of the statistic as a financial stress indicator by comparing it with the CISS, the leading ECB indicator.
C40|Indicators on global value chains: A guide for empirical work|Traditionally, the main source of data used to measure countries’ participation in international production networks or global value chains (GVCs) has been conventional international trade statistics. However, international fragmentation of production has weakened the analytic interpretability of these data as intermediate goods but also services cross borders many times on the way to their final destination. This is often referred to as the double (or multiple)-counting problem of international trade Statistics. This, in turn, has led to the development of a new branch of trade statistics, referred to as Trade in Value-Added (TiVA) providing new insights on GVCs, and corresponding databases, notably the OECD-WTO TiVA database, which provide a measure of international interdependencies through the construction of global input-output tables that show how producers in one country provide goods and/or services to producers and consumers in others. But with the field still relatively new, many users are struggling to fully understand how these new indicators should be used and indeed how they have been constructed. This document is designed to address those difficulties, providing, where appropriate guidance on “dos” and “don’ts”. It also reviews many other typical GVC indicators derived outside of input-output frameworks; recognising that gross measures of trade, and indicators derived from them, remain important and relevant for policy making.
C40|Awards and Rewards: Evidence from an Evaluation of the Metrobank's Search for Outstanding Teachers|"We investigate the impact of the ""Metrobank Award for Outstanding Teachers"" using a unique dataset from a survey of teachers who competed from 1988 to 2010. Our study is one of the firsts to use income as the primary indicator of success. When the sample is limited to those who were actively teaching in 2014, we find that the Award had a higher impact on awardees who were relatively younger. The intuitive explanation is that ""younger"" awardees have more years in their career to capitalize on the Award."
C40|Causal Inference on Education Policies: A Survey of Empirical Studies Using PISA, TIMSS and PIRLS|The identification of the causal effects of educational policies is the top priority in recent education economics literature. As a result, a shift can be observed in the strategies of empirical studies. They have moved from the use of standard multivariate statistical methods, which identify correlations or associations between variables only, to more complex econometric strategies, which can help to identify causal relationships. However, exogenous variations in databases have to be identified in order to apply causal inference techniques. This is a far from straightforward task. For this reason, this paper provides an extensive and comprehensive overview of the literature using quasi-experimental techniques applied to three well-known international large-scale comparative assessments, such as PISA, PIRLS or TIMSS, over the period 2004-2016. In particular, we review empirical studies employing instrumental variables, regression discontinuity designs, difference in differences and propensity score matching to the above databases. Additionally, we provide a detailed summary of estimation strategies, issues treated and profitability in terms of the quality of publications to encourage further potential evaluations. The paper concludes with some operational recommendations for prospective researchers in the field.
C40|Measuring and detecting situations of need and deprivation using Graded Response Models|In the present work we exploit information on living conditions of individuals to build an estimation of their degree of need and deprivation. The information we use have often subjective components that help in identifying situations of need and we assume that deprivation is a latent variable that we estimate with IRT models on Italian data. We then relate this estimated trait to more objective and observable variables that thus could be used within policy actions and welfare programs to pinpoint situations where the estimated deprivation is high.
C40|Point-in-Time PD Term Structure Models with Loan Credit Quality as a Component|Most point-in-time PD term structure models used in industry for stress testing and IFRS9 expected loss estimation apply only to macroeconomic scenarios. Loan level credit quality is not a factor in these models. In practice, credit profile at assessment time plays an important role in the performance of the loan during its lifetime. A forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model with loan credit quality as a component is widely expected. In this paper, we propose a forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model based on forward survival probability, extending the model proposed in [8] by including a loan specific credit quality score as a component. The model can be derived under the Merton model framework. Under this model, the forward survival probability for a forward term is driven by a loan credit quality score in addition to macroeconomic factors. Empirical results show, the inclusion of the loan specific credit score can significantly improve the performance of the model. The proposed approaches provide a tool for modeling point-in-time PD term structure in cases where loan credit profile is essential. The model can be implemented easily by using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED.
C40|A new semiparametric approach for mediation analyses|In economics it is very important to understand the mechanisms which determine the phenomena of interest. For example in marketing it is very important to analyze the factors which determine the future choices of the customer such that it is possible to influence the sales of a product. In most of the economic applications, to make this the researcher supposes the knowledge of the mathematical relations among the variables of interest and in particular these relations are supposed linear. In this work I propose a new estimation method for mediation models without supposing the form of the mathematical relations but aggregating many different equations. My new estimation method derives by Bauer?s work (2005) about the semiparametric approach for SEM (structural equation models). To apply my estimation method, I propose new formulas to calculate the direct, indirect and total effects. I apply my method both to simulated data and to marketing data.
C40|Causal analysis in marketing: a customer satisfaction problem|In recent years, shopping streets are declining in aid of shopping centers. Consequently, to maximize loyalty and competitiveness in an increasingly competitive market it is essential to understand the distinctions characterizing the customers who choose shopping centers from those who opt for shopping centers. To analyse this differentiation, I use the log-linear causal models but, since these have not a complete causal theory, I use a new causal analysis to remedy this problem (Gheno, 2016). Starting from a complex model, I come to a simpler model to understand the different behaviors of the two types of customers. The data analysis shows that shopping centers customers are more driven by the emotions than the more rational and concrete ones who choose shopping centers.
C40|Neighbourhood Effects on Educational Attainment: Does Family Background Influence the Relationship?|Evidence of the existence of neighbourhood effects upon educational attainment remains inconclusive, though recently receiving increased attention. This study adds to the existing literature to identify whether neighbourhood deprivation impacts upon the educational outcomes of 16 year olds, adopting Longitudinal Survey of Young People in England (LSYPE) data. Using propensity score matching methods, the main results indicate that individuals living in a deprived neighbourhood are 4 percentage points less likely to obtain the expected age 16 educational outcomes relative to characteristically similar individuals living in non-deprived neighbourhoods. Additionally, significant differential neighbourhood effects are identified for individuals with parents educated to at least post-16 level, relative to individuals with below post-16 level educated parents. Findings suggest that individuals with educated parents are disadvantaged by living in a deprived neighbourhood to a greater extent than individuals with less educated parents.
C40|Residential water demand and water waste in Taiwan|Abstract Residential water demand has long been an important topic of empirical research. How to estimate water waste, however, has rarely been touched. Using the stochastic frontier approach, this article jointly estimates the residential demand for water and water waste in Taiwan, where water resources are scarce and unevenly distributed throughout the island and across seasons. The empirical results confirm that residential water demand is closely related to household characteristics and the overuse of water is affected by environmental variables. The estimated price and income elasticities are below 0.1 in absolute value. The estimated amount of wasted water is around 83 L per capita per day, which is roughly 1/3 of the actual water consumption. It is also shown that overlooking the waste of water use results in an over-estimation of the subsistence water requirement.
C40|Management Accounting in a-centred organizations. A case study on mergers and acquisitions|Most of the studies on Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) have focused on the causes of their success or failure, but little is known about what really goes on in the life of organizations after a M&A. This study looks at management accounting in the aftermaths of M&A operations, with the aim of gaining new knowledge on the role it plays in shaping a new entity, by balancing old and new perspectives about the organizational reality and its envisaged future. Based on the concepts of Ôorganizational driftingÕ and of Ôa-centred organizationÕ proposed by Quattrone and Hopper (2001), this paper will develop a framework to understand the contextual features of newly formed groups in the aftermath of M&A operations. Subsequently, we will use the framework to understand the role of management accounting on it by making use of data collected during a fieldwork. This paper makes a double contribution. On one hand it deepens our understanding of M&A by emphasizing the a-centreness of newly formed entities and the organizational drifting they experience. On the other hand the paper contributes to extend our knowledge on the role of management accounting in an a-centred organization and in the process of organizational drifting, by uncovering its constitutive power in M&A operations, which has been very rarely addressed.
C40|Regionalization versus Internationalization of African Stock Markets: A frequency-time domain analysis|This paper examines regional and global co-movemnt of Africaâ€™s stock markets using the three-dimensional continuous Morlet wavelet transform methodology. The analyses which are done in segments investigate co-movements with global markets; bilateral exchange rates expressed in US dollars and euro; and four regional markets in Africa. First, we find evidence of stronger co-movements broadly narrowed to short-run fluctuations. The co-movements are time-varying and commonly non-homogeneous â€“ with phase difference arrow vectors implying lead-lag relationships. The presence of lead-lag effects and stronger co-movements at short-run fluctuations may induce arbitrage and diversification opportunities to both local and international investors with long-term investment horizons. The findings also reveal that some African equity markets are, to a degree, segmented from volatilities of the dollar and euro exchange rates. Thus, inferring that international investors may diversify their portfolio investments across those markets without worrying about the effects of currency price volatility.
C40|Student Dropout in Higher Education: An Application of Hazard Functions|Hazard functions are a part of survival analysis which is a branch of statistics dealing with failure in mechanical systems and death in biological organisms e.g. lifetime or reliability of machine components, survival times of patients in clinical trials. Here, the interest is focused on a group of individuals, for which there is a defined point event, often referred to as failure, arising after a length of time, referred to as the failure time. To gain more insight into student dropout we examine the application of hazard functions in higher education. In such a model, the probability is investigated that the student will complete/leave a degree in a given year conditional on him/her having ?survived? the programme up to that point. This may allow a wider analysis as it captures both students who have and have not completed their studies and examines the impact of selected variables for the duration of student?s higher education course.
C40|Evolving localization patterns of company foundationsEvidence from the German MST-industry|Abstract We investigate company foundations in the German micro technology industry by means of a spatial-temporal micro-geographic analysis. In order to deal with our unusually detailed data, we develop a new distance-based framework for a logistic regression that is able to present results in a continuous space. Locations of company foundations are investigated with respect to their spatial proximity to similar firms, patent owners, related industries and research institutions and are benchmarked with the overall distribution of company foundations in Germany. We demonstrate that spatial proximity has a clear influence on where new companies are founded. Furthermore, the influence of proximity to different agents is not constant over times but evolves with the industry’s life cycle.
C40|Application of the double kernel density approach to the multivariate analysis of attributeless event point datasets|Abstract Attributeless event point datasets (AEPDs) are datasets composed of discrete events or observations defined by their geographical location only and lacking any other additional attributes. Examples of such datasets include spotted criminal events, road accidents and residential locations of disease patients. A commonly used approach to the analysis of such datasets involves their aggregation into predefined areal units, such as neighborhoods or census tracts. However, this approach does not perform effectively when the events of interests are geographically localized and the number of areal units available for aggregation is small. An alternative approach to the analysis of AEPDs is based on double kernel density (DKD) smoothing, according to which events of interest are transformed into continuous density surfaces and then normalized by the density of the entire population from which the events of interest are drawn. In the present study, the applicability of the DKD approach to multivariate analysis is tested for estimation consistency, sensitivity to the number of input observations and potential bias attributed to the spatial dependency of neighboring observations. Our analysis indicates that the DKD approach provides reasonably stable and consistent estimates, if the following three preconditions are met: (a) the kernel estimation parameters are properly defined, (b) the number of reference points, used for transformation of continuous DKD surfaces into discrete observations, is sufficiently large, and (c) the spatial dependency of neighboring observations is taken into account using spatial analysis tools.
C40|Oil shocks on unemployment in Central and Eastern Europe|The aim of this paper is to shine some light on the effect of oil price movements on unemployment in Central and Eastern Europe. In order to do so, we disentangle oil prices movements by their sign. From there we analyse the separate effect of positive and negative movements of oil prices on unemployment rates. We find that although oil prices and unemployment are not very much correlated in the short run, the effect of oil price shocks on the natural rate of unemployment goes in the same direction, i.e. increases or decreases in oil prices increase or decrease the natural rate of unemployment.
C40|Oil price volatility and stock returns in the G7 economies|This study examines the relationship between oil price volatility and stock returns in the G7 economies (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US) using monthly data for the period 1970 to 2014. In order to measure oil volatility we consider alternative specifications for oil prices (world, nominal and real prices). We estimate a vector autoregressive model with the following variables: interest rates, economic activity, stock returns and oil price volatility taking into account the structural break in the year 1986. We find a negative response of G7 stock markets to an increase in oil price volatility. Results also indicate that world oil price volatility is generally more significant for stock markets than the national oil price volatility.
C40|Socioeconomic, Demographic and Geographic Factors Affecting Household Food Purchase and Acquisition Decisions in the United States as a Complex Economic System| Socioeconomic, demographic and geographic factors affecting food purchase and acquisition decisions by the individuals and households in the United States are complex. Twenty two variables associated with socioeconomic, demographic and geographic factors affecting food purchase and acquisition decisions are studied in an algorithm that involve machine learning and causality structures to uncover complex causality patterns associated with such variables. Several publically available data sets as well as most recently collected USDA data, Food APS are used in this study. Preliminary analyses show that unemployment, poverty and race are direct causes of food insecurity, while income causes food insecurity via poverty. Unemployment is a common cause for both food insecurity and poverty. This modeling effort will help improve the nation’s path for effective nutrition and health-related policy interventions as stipulated by USDA-Economic Research Service Strategic Goals.
C40|Food environment in the United States as a complex economic system|The food environment in the United States is complex. Sixteen socio-economic-demographic variables from various public data sources are studied with a machine learning algorithm to ascertain the causality structure associated with the food environment in the United States. High levels of unemployment and poverty are direct causes of high levels of food insecurity, while low income causes high levels of food insecurity via increased levels of poverty. Unemployment is a common cause for both increased levels of food insecurity and poverty. We find that food insecurity and participation in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) are related, yet no direct causality is observed. Contrary to past studies which find that SNAP participation decreased the occurrences of poverty, in contemporaneous time, we find that poverty and SNAP participation are related through several back-door paths, via food insecurity, unemployment, race and food taxes. Obesity and SNAP participation are indirectly related via several back-door paths, namely, race income, poverty and food insecurity and unemployment. Also, food insecurity and obesity are related by several back-door paths. Low income, high food taxes, and race (being Black and non-Hispanic) are direct causes of obesity. The complex causality structure in the US food environment reveals that policy variables cannot be treated independently of their rich causal structure. Government agencies responsible for designing policies for food assistance, poverty alleviation, combating food insecurity and obesity need to consider the interrelationships among these variables.
C40|Some Comments on the Current State of Econometrics|Regarding the current econometric scene, in this review I argue that (a) traditional econometric modeling approaches do not provide a reliable basis for making inferences about the causal effect of a supposed treatment of data in observational and quasi-experimental settings; and (b) the focus on conventional reductionist models and information recovery methods has led to irrelevant economic theories and questionable inferences and has failed in terms of prediction and the extraction of information relative to the nature of underlying economic behavior systems. Looking ahead, a nontraditional econometric approach is outlined. This method recognizes that our knowledge regarding the underlying behavioral system and observed data process is complex, partial, and incomplete. It then suggests a self-organized, agent-based, algorithmic-representation system that involves networks, machine learning, and an information theoretic basis for estimation, inference, model evaluation, and prediction.
C40|The impact of the financial crisis on the long-range memory of European corporate bond and stock markets|Abstract This paper investigates the presence of long memory in corporate bond and stock indices of six European Union countries from July 1998 to February 2015. We compute the Hurst exponent by means of the DFA method and using a sliding window in order to measure long range dependence. We detect that Hurst exponents behave differently in the stock and bond markets, being smoother in the stock indices than in the bond indices. We verify that the level of informational efficiency is time-varying. Moreover we find an asymmetric impact of the 2008 financial crisis in the fixed income and the stock markets, affecting the former but not the latter. Similar results are obtained using the R/S method.
C40|Corruption in Romania|Corruption as a phenomenon is of great interest for the society we live in. As there is no unit of measurement to determine the scale of this phenomenon, comparative studies are chosen most often for the areas concerned. The present paper describes a study focused on all counties in Romania, Bucharest included. The purpose of this research is to establish the determinant factors that influence the size and spread of corruption, as it manifests strong negative effects on the society we live in. Thus, using a set of regressions over the main variables, some correlation coefficients have been set, which after processing rendered a ranking of all the 42 analysed territorial units, sorted by the estimated size of corruption. The whole scientific approach was completed with a map of corruption, which synthesizes and presents the corruption spread nationwide
C40|Does Intra-Regional Trade Matter in Regional Stock Markets?: New Evidence from Asia-Pacific Region|We provide new evidence on the relationship between bilateral trade and stock market performance over Asia-Pacific region. Using three regional blocs in Asia-Pacific region -- the Far Eastern bloc, the Chinese bloc, and the Australian bloc, we examine two main questions: whether trade linkages between countries affect stock returns of trading partners and whether stock markets of trading partners are interdependent. By incorporating two distinct dynamic properties of regime shifting and cointegration in intra-regional trade and stock market index, we employ a newly suggested multi-variable smooth transition autoregressive vector error correction model (STAR-VECM). A series of STAR-based tests reveals the evidence that bilateral trade significantly Granger-causes stock returns in Asia-Pacific region with the effect varying over regime changes. Among three blocs, Far Eastern bloc displays the most pronounced complementary relationship between trade growth and stock returns compared to other blocs. We also find evidence of stock market synchronization within each region.
C40|Vyrobené V Číne: Hrozba Pre Európsky High-Tech Sektor? (Made In China: A Threat To European High-Tech Sector?)|V posledných dekádach zaznamenala Čína mimoriadny nárast celkového objemu exportov a zároveň zmenu exportnej štruktúry. Z prevažne jednoduchých výrobkov, náročných na prácu, sa čínske exporty posunuli smerom k sofistikovanejším produktom. Obzvlášť významný bol nárast v sektore elekroniky a high-tech výrobkov, ktoré boli až doposiaľ doménou vyspelých priemyslových krajín. Použitím gravitačného modelu sa v tejto práci snažíme zistiť, do akej miery predstavujú čínske high-tech exporty konkurenciu pre krajiny Európskej únie na partnerskom trhu krajín OECD v roku 2013. Výsledky nášho výskumu poukazujú na fakt, že nárast čínskych exportov nemá negatívny, ale naopak pozitívny vplyv na európske exporty v sektore high-tech, aspoň pre obdobie roku 2013. (In the last decades China has seen a spectacular rise in its export performance. In the same time it has experienced an important change in its export structure. Chinese exports have moved from predominantly exports of low-labor intensive goods towards higher sophistication of its export products. A particular rise was observed in the products such as electronics and other high-tech products which were for long time believed to be a domain of industrialized countries. Using gravity model we try to evaluate whether Chinese exports in the high-tech products during the year 2013 were competition for the European exporters in its OECD export markets. The results of our model suggest that the competition in the developed markets is not very high, in contrast, we observe that there is a small, but positive impact of rising Chinese exports on the European exports, at least in the year 2013.)
C40|Comparing Default Predictions in the Rating Industry for Different Sets of Obligors|We generalize the refinement ordering for well calibrated probability forecasters to the case were the debtors under consideration are not necessarily identical. This ordering is consistent with many well known skill scores used in practice. We also add an illustration using default predictions made by the leading rating agencies Moody’s and S&P.
C40|A Neglected Semi-Stylized Fact of Daily Stock Returns|We plot aggregated daily stock returns with absolute value less than x against x and show empirically that this often produces a typical spoon-shaped pattern which indicates a special type of asymmetry which has not been widely discussed before. This pattern disappears when individual returns are averaged; it is also absent in stock price indices, which points to explanations based on firm-specific drivers of returns.
C40|Dating the Financial Cycle: A Wavelet Proposition|We propose to date and analyze the financial cycle using the Maximum Overlap Discrete Wavelet Transform (MODWT). Our presentation points out limitations of the methods derived from the classical business cycle literature, while stressing their connection with wavelet analysis. The fundamental time-frequency uncertainty principle imposes replacing point estimates of turning points by interval estimates, which are themselves function of the scale of the analysis. We use financial time series from 19 OECD countries to illustrate the applicability of the tool.
C40|Marriage and health: Selection, protection, and assortative mating|Using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) and the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), we analyze the health gap between married and unmarried individuals of working-age. Controlling for observables, we find a gap that peaks at 10% points at ages 55–59 years. The marriage health gap is similar for men and women. If we allow for unobserved heterogeneity in innate health (permanent and age-dependent), potentially correlated with timing and likelihood of marriage, we find that the effect of marriage on health disappears below age 40 years, while about 5% points difference between married and unmarried individuals remains at older ages (55–59 years). This indicates that the observed gap is mainly driven by selection into marriage at younger ages, but there might be a protective effect of marriage at older ages. Exploring the mechanisms behind this result, we find that better innate health is associated with a higher probability of marriage and a lower probability of divorce, and there is strong assortative mating among couples by innate health. We also find that married individuals are more likely to have a healthier behavior compared to unmarried ones. Finally, we find that health insurance is critical for the beneficial effect of marriage.
C40|Oil price and exchange rate in India: Fresh evidence from continuous wavelet approach and asymmetric, multi-horizon Granger-causality tests|We use a continuous wavelet approach and deploy asymmetric, multi-horizon Granger-causality tests between the return series of the oil price and the India-US exchange rate, over the time-span 1980M1–2016M2. The results highlight important co-movements in the post-reform period, especially for the 2–4-years band. The wavelet Granger-causality tests show that the exchange rate Granger-causes the oil price in the long run, while the opposite applies in the short run. Moreover, we find that the Granger-causal relationship between variables is non-linear, asymmetric and indirect, which will help policymakers and traders to make better strategic and investment decisions.
C40|The equivalence of three latent class models and ML estimators|The purpose of this letter is to show the equivalence of three latent class models; the switching regression model with endogenous switching and a latent outcome (the binary Roy model), the probit model with a systematically misclassified dependent variable, and a trivariate probit model with partial observability. The probit model with measurement error is an enhanced version of existing models which allows for the potential correlation between error terms. Establishing this connection, we hope, will help a researcher working on one of these classes of estimators to benefit from the literature and software related to other families.
C40|Information theory for maximum likelihood estimation of diffusion models|We develop an information theoretic framework for maximum likelihood estimation of diffusion models. Two information criteria that measure the divergence of a diffusion process from the true diffusion are defined. The maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) converges asymptotically to the limit that minimizes the criteria when sampling interval decreases as sampling span increases. When both drift and diffusion specifications are correct, the criteria become zero and the inverse curvatures of the criteria equal the asymptotic variance of the MLE. For misspecified models, the minimizer of the criteria defines pseudo-true parameters. Pseudo-true drift parameters depend on approximate transition densities if used.
C40|Parametric model risk and power plant valuation|The fact that model and parameter risk are important sources of uncertainty in option pricing models and for risk management procedures has recently been recognised for financial markets, see Cont (2006); Morini (2011); Bannör and Scherer (2013). In the context of energy markets, investment decisions are often based on the valuation of fossil power plants as real options — depending on various underlying processes such as the power-, carbon emission certificate-, and gas price. To capture parametric model risk inherent in the valuation procedure of fossil power plants, we use a methodology recently established in Bannör and Scherer (2013). As gas-fired power plants are seen as flexible and low-carbon sources of electricity, which are important building blocks in terms of the switch to a low-carbon energy generation, we consider the model risk in this asset class in detail. Our findings reveal that spike risk is by far the most important source of parametric model risk.
C40|Conditional dependence of US and EU sovereign CDS: A time-varying copula-based estimation|In this paper, we perform an estimation based on the copula-GARCH model to assess the dependence structure of sovereign Credit Default Swaps (CDS) spreads between European countries and the United States. Using a daily data of CDS spreads covering the period from January 2007 to March 2016, we detect non-linear dependence structure of CDS spreads between the US and European countries. Our results indicate that sovereign CDS of those European countries with financial markets comparable to the US including the UK and those countries that showed a relative resilience to the euro area debt crisis including Germany have had higher conditional dependence with the US.
C40|Modeling loss data using mixtures of distributions|In this paper, we propose an alternative approach for flexible modeling of heavy tailed, skewed insurance loss data exhibiting multimodality, such as the well-known data set on Danish Fire losses. Our approach is based on finite mixture models of univariate distributions where all K components of the mixture are assumed to be from the same parametric family. Six models are developed with components from parametric, non-Gaussian families of distributions previously used in actuarial modeling: Burr, Gamma, Inverse Burr, Inverse Gaussian, Log-normal, and Weibull. Some of these component distributions are already alone suitable to model data with heavy tails, but do not cover the case of multimodality. Estimation of the models with a fixed number of components K is proposed based on the EM algorithm using three different initialization strategies: distance-based, k-means, and random initialization. Model selection is possible using information criteria, and the fitted models can be used to estimate risk measures for the data, such as VaR and TVaR. The results of the mixture models are compared to the composite Weibull models considered in recent literature as the best models for modeling Danish Fire insurance losses. The results of this paper provide new valuable tools in the area of insurance loss modeling and risk evaluation.
C40|Testing quantum-like models of judgment for question order effect|Lately, so-called “quantum” models, based on parts of the mathematics of quantum mechanics, have been developed in decision theory and cognitive sciences to account for seemingly irrational or paradoxical human judgments. We consider here some such quantum-like models that address question order effects, i.e. cases in which given answers depend on the order of presentation of the questions. Models of various dimensionalities could be used; can the simplest ones be empirically adequate? From the quantum law of reciprocity, we derive new empirical predictions that we call the Grand Reciprocity equations, that must be satisfied by several existing quantum-like models, in their non-degenerate versions. Using substantial existing data sets, we show that these non-degenerate versions fail the GR test in most cases, which means that, if quantum-like models of the kind considered here are to work, it can only be in their degenerate versions. However, we suggest that the route of degenerate models is not necessarily an easy one, and we argue for more research on the empirical adequacy of degenerate quantum-like models in general.
C40|Do short-term international capital inflows drive China's asset markets?|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between short-term international capital inflows and asset markets in China. First, several indices are used to measure the status of China's markets in recent years and to determine possible impacts of short-term foreign capital inflows on asset markets. Second, a structural vector auto-regressive (SVAR) model is used to explore the effects of the unsterilized portion of the monetary base and short-term international capital inflows on the Chinese stock markets and real estate markets. The empirical evidence demonstrates that the relationship between short-term international capital inflows and asset prices is self-fufilling and mutually reinforcing. The unsterilized portion of the monetary base further exacerbates asset price bubbles, which suggests that short-term international capital inflows and excess liquidity will gradually escalate the severity of asset price bubbles.
C40|Interest rate changes and stock returns: A European multi-country study with wavelets|This paper investigates the linkage between changes in 10-year government bond yields and stock returns for the major European countries in the time-frequency domain by using a number of cross-wavelet tools in the framework of the continuous wavelet transform, mainly the wavelet coherence and phase-difference. The results reveal that the degree of connection between 10-year bond rate movements and stock returns differs considerably among countries and also varies over time and depending on the time horizon considered. In particular, the UK shows the greatest interdependence between long-term interest rates and equity returns across time and frequencies, while the relationship is much weaker for several peripheral European countries such as Portugal, Ireland and Greece. The highest level of connection is observed for most countries since the onset of the recent global financial crisis. In addition, the significant linkage is mainly concentrated at investment horizons from one to 2years.
C40|Isletmelerin Finansal Basarili ve Basarisiz Olma Durumlarinin Veri Madenciligi ve Lojistik Regresyon Analizi Ile Tahmin Edilebilirligi|Gunumuz kosullari goz onune alindiginda isletmelerin hedeflerini gerceklestirebilmeleri icin finansal acidan guclu olmalari gerekmektedir. Bu nedenle finansal basarisizliklarinin tahmin edilmesi, isletmelerin gelecekte olusabilecek finansal riskleri tespit etmeleri ve gerekli onlemleri almalari bakimindan oldukca onemlidir. Calismada, Borsa Istanbul’da 2010-2013 doneminde kesintisiz olarak islem goren 143 imalat sanayi sirketinin yillik bilanco ve gelir tablosu verilerinden yararlanilarak isletmelerin finansal basarili ve basarisiz olma durumlari tahmin edilmeye calisilmistir. Arastirmada Veri Madenciligi ve Lojistik Regresyon Analizi yontemleri kullanilmistir. 2013 yili baz alinarak bir yil, iki yil ve uc yil oncesinin tahmin edilmesine yonelik modeller gelistirilmis ve modellerin siniflandirma dogruluklari baska bir ifadeyle modellerin tahmin gucu karsilastirilmistir. Analiz sonucunda, isletmelerin finansal basarili ve basarisiz olma durumlarini tahmin etmek icin olusturulan tum modellerde 2012 yili tahmin gucu en basarili yil olarak saptanmistir.
C40|Screening for bid-rigging - does it work?|This paper proposes a method to detect bid-rigging by applying mutually reinforcing screens to a road construction procurement data set from Switzerland in which no prior information about collusion was available. The screening method is particularly suited to deal with the problem of partial collusion, i.e. collusion which does not involve all firms and/or all contracts in a specific data set, implying that many of the classical markers discussed in the corresponding literature will fail to identify bid-rigging. In addition to presenting a new screen for collusion, it is shown how benchmarks and the combination of different screens may be used to identify subsets of suspicious contracts and firms in a data set. The discussed screening method succeeds in isolating a group of “suspicious” firms exhibiting the characteristics of a local bid-rigging cartel operating with cover bids and a – more or less pronounced – bid rotation scheme. Based on these findings the Swiss Competition Commission (ComCo) decided to open an investigation.
C40|How does pension eligibility affect labor supply in couples?|Many OECD countries are reforming their pension systems. We investigate how pension eligibility affects labor supply in couples. Inspired by a theoretical framework, we measure how the sharp change in the pension eligibility of both partners affects labor force participation. We find that both partners leave the labor force as they become eligible for a pension. The effect of their own pension eligibility is 12 percentage points for women and 28 percentage points for men. Women also reduce their labor force participation by 2 to 3 percentage points as their partner reaches pension eligibility. For men, the effect of their partner's eligibility is smaller and not significantly different from zero. For women and men with low education, the effect of their own eligibility is strong. Regardless of education level, the partner eligibility effect is strong in homogamous couples. Studying joint labor supply, we find that pension eligibility reduces labor supply in couples by 44 percentage points, approximately 4 percentage points more than in a model that ignores partner eligibility effects.
C40|Searching high and low: Extremal dependence of international sovereign bond markets|This paper examines the degree of interdependence among sovereign bond markets in 24 developed and developing countries during times of stress or crisis using extreme value theory. We discuss the tail behavior of individual sovereign bond spreads and compare the shape of that tail to exponential and power-law distributions. We proceed by estimating bivariate tail dependence index ? and search for evidence of asymptotic tail dependence in sovereign bond spreads series. In order to establish the statistical significance of estimated bivariate tail dependence indices, we construct a bootstrap-based approach to searching for the presence of asymptotic tail dependence derived on the basis of Davis et al. (2012). Our empirical findings suggest that the US bond market does not exhibit extreme right-tail co-movements with European sovereign bond market turbulence. Even though the UK did not adopt the euro, its sovereign bond market exhibits statistically significant right-tail dependencies with a number of euro zone bond markets, possibly indicating that it is not immune to financial distress originating from the EMU. New EU member states exhibit more frequent right-tail dependencies with other new EU member states when compared to old EU members.
C40|Predictive Bookmaker Consensus Model for the UEFA Euro 2016|"From 10 June to 10 July 2016 the best European football teams will meet in France to determine the European Champion in the UEFA European Championship 2016 tournament (Euro 2016 for short). For the first time 24 teams compete, expanding the format from 16 teams as in the previous five Euro tournaments. For forecasting the winning probability of each team a predictive model based on bookmaker odds from 19 online bookmakers is employed. The favorite is the host France with a forecasted winning probability of 21.5%, followed by the current World Champion Germany with a winning probability of 20.1%. The defending European Champion Spain follows after some gap with 13.7% and all remaining teams are predicted to have lower chances with England (9.2%) and Belgium (7.7%) being the ""best of the rest"". Furthermore, by complementing the bookmaker consensus results with simulations of the whole tournament, predicted pairwise probabilities for each possible game at the Euro 2016 are obtained along with ""survival"" probabilities for each team proceeding to the different stages of the tournament. For example, it can be determined that it is much more likely that top favorites France and Germany meet in the semifinal (7.8%) rather than in the final at the Stade de France (4.2%) - which would be a re-match of the friendly game that was played on 13 November 2015 during the terrorist attacks in Paris and that France won 2-0. Hence it is maybe better that the tournament draw favors a match in the semifinal at Marseille (with an almost even winning probability of 50.5% for France). The most likely final is then that either of the two teams plays against the defending champion Spain with a probability of 5.7% for France vs. Spain and 5.4% for Germany vs. Spain, respectively. All forecasts are the result of an aggregation of quoted winning odds for each team in the Euro 2016: These are first adjusted for profit margins (""overrounds""), averaged on the log-odds scale, and then transformed back to winning probabilities. Moreover, team abilities (or strengths) are approximated by an ""inverse"" procedure of tournament simulations, yielding estimates of probabilities for all possible pairwise matches at all stages of the tournament. This technique correctly predicted the winner of the FIFA 2010 and Euro 2012 tournaments while missing the winner but correctly predicting the final for the Euro 2008 and three out of four semifinalists at the FIFA 2014 World Cup (Leitner, Zeileis, and Hornik 2008, 2010a,b; Zeileis, Leitner, and Hornik 2012, 2014)."
C40|Factors Influencing Female Labor Force Participation in Egypt and Germany: A Comparative Study|This paper aims to identify the major factors influencing female labor force participation (FLFP) in Egypt and Germany. On a narrow scope and given the unclear relationship between educational attainment and Egyptian FLFP, this paper seeks to examine the effect of educational attainment on the Egyptian FLFP while considering other personal and household factors. On a broader scope, the literature on FLFP illustrates that certain personal and household characteristics determine FLFP. However, the question remains, to what extent these determinants differ between Egypt and Germany. This paper attempts to shed light on understanding if and how specific demographic factors affect the Egyptian FLFP in comparison with the German FLFP. Limited dependent variable technique; Probit model is utilized to determine which factors influence FLFP in both countries. The cross sectional analysis is conducted through the use of the 2012 Egyptian Labor Market Panel Survey (ELMPS) in collaboration with Egypt’s Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS) and the 2012 German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). Findings indicate that indeed higher educational attainment increases the Egyptian female’s predicted probability of participating in the labor market. Additionally, the comparative study showed that number of factors affect FLFP in both countries, some of which has a positive influence as years of schooling and age while others with a negative impact as being a married women, living in urban areas and number of children. On the other hand some other variables impact each country differently as wealth. Additionally, it was evident that years of schooling has a higher marginal impact on Egyptian FLFP yet, age, being married and number of children have a higher marginal effect on German FLFP.
C40|An Introduction to Alternative Methods in Program Impact Evaluation|During the recent years, researchers as well as policy makers have been increasingly interested in impact evaluation of development programs. A large number of impact evaluations have been developed and applied to measure the impact of programs. Different impact evaluation methods rely on different identification assumptions. This paper presents an overview of several widely-used methods in program impact evaluation. In addition to a randomization-based method, these methods are categorized into: (i) methods assuming “selection on observable” and (ii) methods assuming “selection on unobservable”. The paper discusses each method under identification assumptions and estimation strategy. Identification assumptions are presented in a unified framework of counterfactual and two-equation model.
C40|University Institutional Research and Student Recruitment Performance: Utilizing Marketing Communication for Knowledge Heterogeneity|Institutional research constantly generate useful but heterogeneous knowledge for university administrations. Thus the effectiveness of institutional research dependes on the communication of those heterogeneous knowledge to major stakeholders (e.g., parents, students, teachers, etc.). A conceptual paper is developed in regards to the influences of institutional research, word-of-mouth (via internal students and faculties), quality signaling (to external prospect students and stakeholders as potential customers), and customer relationship management, on student recruitment performance as a special form of customer decision. Grounded on the marketing communication perspective, we propose that the student recruitment performance is largely affected by word-of-mouth, quality signaling, and customer relationship management as strategic marketing communications, which are facilitated by institutional research. Institutional research is interpreted as a strategic marketing tool that can help identify, communicate, and visualize the strengths of a university. The conceptual model contributes to the search for marketing mechanisms through which institutional research can generate impact to external stakeholders. Formal propositions and their implications for future, larger-scaled surveys were discussed.
C40|Mexican Hat Wavelet Mathematical Formula Applied to Business and Economics|The Mexican hat wavelet mathematical formula is used in physics, music, and earthquake prediction to allow different equations to equal because the wavelet can approximate the exogenous and the endogenous variables. This spontaneous symmetry breaking equation can have applications to business and economics akin to the game theory Nash equation that enabled companies to provide yields to financial instruments without necessarily go through a zero sum equation scenario. This research will allow the economics and finance practioners to apply the model to their respective disciplines to be able to draw the different uses in business and economics in particular risk analysis.
C40|A Decision Support Model Suggestion for Logistics Support Unit in Risky Environment|Storage facilities have an important role for uninterrupted product/service flow and ensuring continuity in supply chains. Criteria, which will be taken into account for the location of this facilities, and criteria values, can alter in accordance with private or public sector and risk environment as well. Besides logistics costs, transportation opportunities and proximity to the customers, risk based criteria such as terror, sabotage, air strikes, and natural disasters play an important role in order to select facility location. During production flow, Logistics Support Bases (LSB) are the military facilities, which affect firstly operation process positively or negatively and secondly result of the operations, serve in the risk environment. In a specific environment, selection of LSB becomes a Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) problem for the decision maker. This study aims to determine qualifications which will be used to select the best suitable location of LSB; define the importance value of selected qualifications via DEMATEL method, and select the best location of LSB between alternative places. DEMATEL has used in the determination of criteria values and then VIKOR method has used to select the most appropriate location for LSB in the risk environment.
C40|Hazardous Materials Warehouse Selection as a Multiple Criteria Decision making Problem|Radioactive, toxic, smother, flammable, and explosive materials in solid, liquid or gas states which can negatively impact goods, organisms, and most importantly humans are called as “Hazardous Materials”. Hazardous material transportation and storage carry risk factors in addition to their other types of transportation operations. Furthermore, selection of a suitable warehouse becomes a problematic issue in which multiple criteria are evaluated as paying attention to risky circumstances. In this context, hazardous material warehouse selection is considered as a multiple criteria decision problem in our study. In particularly, for the explosives storage among other hazardous materials, necessary criteria are determined according to expert’s consultant. The determined criteria are weighted according to decision makers’ consultancy and the alternatives are evaluated by fuzzy MULTIMOORA under uncertainty throughout the decision making process in the study.. The proposed approach is discussed on a case study.
C40|Time for shopping – Social change of time use for shopping activities 1990-2012|The daily shopping, so activities that aim at the acquisition of mainly household-related goods, food and services, is a constituent element of modern consumer society. In addition to the monetary aspect of the extraction of goods and services from the market, the temporal aspect weighs in as opportunity costs for shopping activities, . Against the background of a postulated social change in recent decades that has led to an increase in the daily pace of life, the question is whether and how these accelerating changes have also transformed the time patterns of everyday shopping, such as shopping frequency and shopping time. To investigate this question, data of the time use surveys of the Federal Statistical Office from 1991/92, 2001/02 and 2012/13 is analyzed. The results suggest that both the average shopping frequency as well as the average shopping duration has increased during that period of time. It is discussed how these results are consistent with the hypothesis of an extensive social acceleration.
C40|Measuring Poverty in the Case of Buenos Aires: Why Time Deficits Matter|We describe the production of estimates of the Levy Institute Measure of Time and Income Poverty (LIMTIP) for Buenos Aires, Argentina, and use it to analyze the incidence of time and income poverty. We find high numbers of hidden poor--those who are not poor according to the official measure but are found to be poor when using our time-adjusted poverty line. Large time deficits for those living just above the official poverty line are the reason for this hidden poverty. Time deficits are unevenly distributed by employment status, family type, and especially gender. Simulations of the impact of full-time employment on those households with nonworking (for pay) adults indicate that reductions in income poverty can be achieved, but at the cost of increased time poverty. Policy interventions that address the lack of both income and time are discussed.
C40|Simulations of Employment for Individuals in LIMTCP Consumption-poor Households in Tanzania and Ghana, 2012|New methodology for producing employment microsimulations is introduced, with a focus on farms and household nonfarm enterprises. Previous simulations have not dealt with the issue of reduced production in farm and nonfarm household enterprises when household members are placed in paid employment. In this paper, we present a method for addressing the trade-off between paid employment and the farm and nonfarm business activities individuals may already be engaged in. The implementation of the simulations for Ghana and Tanzania is described and the quality of the simulation results is assessed.
C40|Quality of Match for Statistical Matches Used in the Development of the Levy Institute Measure of Time and Consumption Poverty (LIMTCP) for Ghana and Tanzania|This document presents a description of the quality of match of the statistical matches used in the LIMTCP estimates prepared for Ghana and Tanzania. For Ghana, the statistical match combines the Living Standards Survey Round 6 (GLSS6) with the Ghana Time Use Survey (GTUS) 2009, and for Tanzania it combines the Household Budget Survey (THBS) 2012 with the time-use data obtained from the Integrated Labor Survey Module (ILFS) 2006. In both cases, the alignment of the two datasets is examined, after which various aspects of the match quality are described. Despite the differences in the survey years, the quality of match is high and the synthetic dataset appropriate for the time poverty analysis.
C40|The Fragility of Meta-Regression Models in Observational Research|Many meta-regression analyses that synthesize estimates from primary studies have now been published in economics. Meta-regression models attempt to infer the presence of genuine empirical effects even if the authors of primary studies select statistically significant and theory-confirming estimates for publication. Meta-regression models were originally developed for the synthesis of experimental research where randomization ensures unbiased and consistent estimation of the effect of interest. Most economics research is, however, observational and authors of primary studies can search across different regression specifications for statistically significant and theory-confirming estimates. Each regression specification may possibly suffer from biases such as omitted-variable biases that result in biased and inconsistent estimation of the effect of interest. We show that if the authors of primary studies search for statistically significant and theory-confirming estimates, meta-regression models tend to systematically make false-positive findings of genuine empirical effects. The ubiquity of such search processes for specific results may limit the applicability of meta-regression models in identifying genuine empirical effects in economics.
C40|Does one size fit all at all times? The role of country specificities and state dependencies in predicting banking crises|Given the indisputable cost of policy inaction in the run-up to banking crises as well as the negative side effects of unwarranted policy activation, policymakers would strongly benefit from earlywarning thresholds that more accurately predict crises and produce fewer false alarms. This paper presents a novel yet intuitive methodology to compute country-specific and state-dependent thresholds for early-warning indicators of banking crises. Our results for a selection of early-warning indicators for banking crises in 14 EU countries show that the benefits of applying the conditional moments approach can be substantial. The methodology provides more robust signals and improves the early-warning performance at the country-specific level, by accounting for country idiosyncrasies and state dependencies, which play an important role in national supervisory authorities’ macroprudential surveillance.
C40|Competition and product mix adjustment of multi-product exporters : Evidence from Belgium|This paper studies the effects of competition in a destination market on the product sales distribution of Belgian multi-product firms using the framework of Mayer et al. (2014). We show that in high competition markets multi-product firms export relatively more of their core products thus skewing the sales distribution towards the best-performing varieties of the firm. A calibrated fit indicates that the general productivity effects that are associated with this skewness reaction are potentially large as firms adjust their production process to accommodate the increased demand for its core products. The skewness effect of high competition markets is only observed for products that the firm eventually drops, underlining the importance of the product extensive margin adjustment. The effect is not limited to manufacturing firms, but also extends to intermediaries in trade and is shown to depend on the type of good that is exported.
C40|Statistical Systems for Monitoring and Assessment the Ornithofauna as a Part of the Natural Capital of Bulgaria|Ornithofauna is an important part of the natural wealth of each country. Wide variety of birds exists and develops within the Republic of Bulgaria, most of which are rare and are found only in limited areas. Conservation of this natural capital requires conducting regular monitoring and evaluation on the prevalence and the population status of bird species and the conditions that threaten their existence and development. Monitoring systems of nesting birds have been examined such as specific statistical research in which the object of studying requires specific methods for observation and evaluation of the populations according the specifics of the species behavior. The main criteria for selection of species to be monitored from all groups of birds have been outlined. Statistical models for monitoring and assessment of population status of the various species of nesting birds in the country according to their behavioral specifics have been presented. The effectiveness of the various statistical models for monitoring and assessment of the Ornithofauna applied in the country has been explored.
C40|Frequency based co-movement of inflation in selected euro area countries|This paper investigates the extent to which inflation rates in selected euro area countries are synchronised. The synchronisation of inflation is analysed using the multiple-correlation and multiple cross correlation at different frequencies using the methodology of wavelets. This new measure of cohesion based on wavelets allows us to assess how synchronisation has fevolved across different frequencies. Our results indicate that inflation correlations are more apparent at lower frequencies and the co-movement grows with lower frequencies. When we allow the correlation to be analysed across different frequencies as well as over time, our results indicate that the correlation has increased after the formation of euro area probably because of the common monetary policy. Keywords: Co-movement, wavelets, time-frequency, inflation cycles JEL classification: C40, E31, E32, F44
C40|A Simple Class of Measures of Skewness|In this paper, a simple class of measures for detecting skewness in samples is introduced. The new class of measures is based on a new definition of skewness that takes midrange into consideration. The proposed coefficients of skewness can be computed easily with only three of the summary statistics, i.e., the minimum value, the maximum value and the median (or the mode, or the mean). Another advantage of the new statistics is that they are bounded by -1 and +1, hence, the coefficients of skewness can be interpreted easily. The powers of the proposed statistics to detect skewness are investigated by a limited Monte Carlo simulation in order to have an idea. The preliminary results indicate that the performances of the new statistics look generally good in a limited simulation. However, a more comprehensive investigation is needed.
C40|Forecasting 2016 US Presidential Elections Using Factor Analysis and Regression Model|The paper categorizes factors responsible for forecasting the outcome of U.S. presidential election 2016 using factor analysis, which groups the various economic and non-economic parameters based on the correlation among them. The major economic factor significant in 2016 US presidential election is the growth of the economy, and the ‘anti-incumbency factor that signifies how long the incumbent party has been controlling the White House is found to be an important non-economic factor likely to play a dominant role in the election. The dependent variables considered are the vote shares of the nominees of the incumbent and the non-incumbent majority party candidates. The forecast is calculated by running a regression of the significant factors, obtained through factor analysis technique, on the incumbent party vote share as well as on the non-incumbent party vote share. The proposed models forecast the vote share of Democrat candidate Mrs. Hillary Clinton to be 45.59% with a standard error of ±2.32% and that of Republican candidate Mr. Donald Trump to be 39.51% with a standard error of ±3.87%. Hence, the models built in the paper signal a comfortable margin of victory for the Presidential nominee of the incumbent party, Hillary Clinton. The study re-establishes the notion that the non-economic factors have a greater influence on the outcomes of election as compared to the economic factors, as some of the important economic factors such as inflation and unemployment rate failed to establish their significance.
C40|Exploring the effect of financial literacy courses on student achievement: a cross-country approach using PISA 2012 data|The aim of this research is to explore whether the deployment of specialized courses on basic financial concepts at schools has a significant impact on how able students are to apply the knowledge and skills that they learn to real-life situations involving financial issues and decision making. To do this, we exploit the rich set of comparative data about the countries participating in the PISA 2012 financial literacy assessment. This includes 18 of the 70 countries participating in this wave of PISA. Our empirical analysis is based on a difference-in-differences approach comparing the results of the same students across two subjects (financial literacy and reading). We assume that the distribution of students across schools does not depend on the provision of financial education. Thus we can estimate the effect of the treatment as the difference between the performance of students at schools that offer or do not offer financial education courses. Our results suggest that such courses have a significant and positive effect on student achievement regardless of the strategy applied to teach financial concepts.
C40|A General framework for modelling mortality to better estimate its relationship with interest rate risks|The need for having a good knowledge of the degree of dependence between various risks is fundamental for understanding their real impacts and consequences, since dependence reduces the possibility to diversify the risks. This paper expands in a more theoretical approach the methodology developed in for exploring the dependence between mortality and market risks in case of stress. In particular, we investigate, using the Feller process, the relationship between mortality and interest rate risks. These are the primary sources of risk for life (re)insurance companies. We apply the Feller process to both mortality and interest rate intensities. Our study cover both the short and the long-term interest rates (3m and 10y) as well as the mortality indices of ten developed countries and extending over the same time horizon. Specifically, this paper deals with the stochastic modelling of mortality. We calibrate two different specifications of the Feller process (a two-parameters Feller process and a three-parameters one) to the survival probabilities of the generation of males born in 1940 in ten developed countries. Looking simultaneously at different countries gives us the possibility to find regularities that go beyond one particular case and are general enough to gain more confidence in the results. The calibration provides in most of the cases a very good fit to the data extrapolated from the mortality tables. On the basis of the principle of parsimony, we choose the two-parameters Feller process, namely the hypothesis with the fewer assumptions. These results provide the basis to study the dynamics of both risks and their dependence.
C40|Stabilitatea financiară a României. Determinanți și proiecții pentru următoarele două decenii<BR>[Financial stability in Romania. Determinants and projections for the two next decades]|Ensuring and maintaining the financial stability, in the long and very long term perspective, is an essential prerequisite for achieving Romania's sustainable development goals in the next two decades and accelerating the convergence process with EU member states. The study aims to analyze the main determinants of the financial stability (degree of financial intermediation, costs of bank financing, sustainability of public debt, foreign debt and international investment position, exports of goods and services, foreign direct investments). The current state of Romania from these points of view, the related gaps and vulnerabilities are presented, together with policies, mechanisms and tools that allow them to be achieved. The analysis based on the scenario method for designing the strategic directions and targets of Romania’s economic development over the next two decades highlights a number of aspects, trends and challenges regarding the modalities and ways of the transition to the development stage based on knowledge, innovation and competitiveness under the conditions of maintaining the financial stability.
C40|A wavelet-based multivariate multiscale approach for forecasting|In an increasingly data rich environment, factor models have become the workhorse approach for modelling and forecasting purposes. However, factors are non-observable and have to be estimated. In particular, the space spanned by the unknown factors is typically estimated via principal components. Herein, it is proposed a novel procedure to estimate the factor space resorting to a wavelet based multiscale principal component analysis. Through a Monte Carlo simulation study, it is shown that such an approach allows to improve both factor model estimation and forecasting performance. In the empirical application, one illustrates its usefulness for forecasting GDP growth and inflation in the United States.
C40|Assessment of Price Risk on Agricultural Inventory Credit under Sparse Data Conditions|El crédito prendario es ampliamente utilizado como un instrumento para satisfacer las necesidades de capital de trabajo. Existen metodologías para evaluar el riesgo de precio para estos esquemas crediticios, tales como modificaciones de valor en riesgo (VaR ) . La mayoría de estos métodos se basan en supuestos de distribución. Sin embargo, cuando el número de observaciones es bajo es difícil refugiarse en el teorema del límite central. La contribución de este trabajo es proponer una metodología para estimar el riesgo de precios a la baja, incluso en presencia de datos escasos. El uso de la metodología se ilustra con el análisis de precios para un producto en particular. El propósito de este modelo de simulación es proporcionar información de apoyo para la toma de decisiones en los procesos de concesión de crédito.
C40|Business cycle synchronization within the European Union: A wavelet cohesion approach|In this paper, we map the process of business cycle synchronization across the European Union. We study this synchronization by applying wavelet techniques, particularly the cohesion measure with time-varying weights. This novel approach allows us to study the dynamic relationship among selected countries from a different perspective than the usual time-domain models. Analyzing monthly data from 1990 to 2014, we show an increasing co-movement of the Visegrad countries with the European Union after the countries began preparing for the accession to the European Union. With particular focus on the Visegrad countries we show that participation in a currency union possibly increases the co-movement. Furthermore, we find a high degree of synchronization in long-term horizons by analyzing the Visegrad Four and Southern European countries' synchronization with the core countries of the European Union.
C40|Easier said than done: the divergence between soft and hard data|Between the first half of 2013 and the summer of 2014, survey data pointed to a gradual recovery of economic activity, while the hard data continued to show persistent weakness. After providing statistical evidence to support the hypothesis that, during the sovereign debt crisis, the relationship between soft and hard variables for the Italian economy has weakened, the paper evaluates some possible explanations for this gap. The micro data for the quarterly survey conducted by the Bank of Italy – Il Sole 24 Ore on growth and inflation expectations tend to rule out the hypothesis that the gap between the qualitative and quantitative indicators comes from selection effects due to the progressive exclusion from the sample of economically distressed firms. Furthermore, the prolonged recession seems to have modified firms’ expectations, leading to a downward revision of production plans and the setting of a “new normal” situation. Therefore, firms may still have expressed favorable expectations for the economic outlook in spite of cyclically slack activity.
C40|Relación entre política monetaria y estabilidad financiera: un análisis aplicado para Colombia|Este documento analiza la relación que existe entre las decisiones de política monetaria y las condiciones de estabilidad financiera, considerando a los precios de los activos como la variable fundamental, pudiéndose evidenciar a través de estimaciones econométricas que el Banco de la República entre 1996 y 2012 no ha tenido respuesta alguna a las variables asociadas a la estabilidad financiera, como la brecha de los precios de activos y el crédito. Por tanto, se adaptó un modelo teórico y calibrándolo se demostró que cuando el banco central responde a la brecha de los precios de los activos se tiende a una mayor estabilidad financiera. En ese sentido, a través de regresiones fue posible evidenciar que las brechas de los precios de las acciones y del precio de la vivienda responden en forma positiva a una expansión monetaria, definiendo con esto la existencia de un mecanismo por medio del cual el Banco Central de Colombia incidirá en la estabilidad financiera. ****** This paper analyzes the relationship between monetary policy decisions and financial stability conditions, considering the asset prices as the key variable. The econometric estimates show that the Banco de la Republica has not had any response between 1996 and 2012 to the variables associated with financial stability, such as the gap in asset prices and credit. In this sense, we adapt and calibrate a theoretical model that shows that when the central bank responds to the gap in asset prices there is greater financial stability. Therefore one can see that the gaps in share prices and housing prices respond positively to a monetary expansion, defining with it the existence of a mechanism by which the Central Bank of Colombia will affect the financial stability.
C40|Relación entre política monetaria y estabilidad financiera: un análisis aplicado para Colombia|Este documento analiza la relación que existe entre las decisiones de política monetaria y las condiciones de estabilidad financiera, considerando a los precios de los activos como la variable fundamental, pudiéndose evidenciar a través de estimaciones econométricas que el Banco de la República entre 1996 y 2012 no ha tenido respuesta alguna a las variables asociadas a la estabilidad financiera, como la brecha de los precios de activos y el crédito. Por tanto, se adaptó un modelo teórico y calibrándolo se demostró que cuando el banco central responde a la brecha de los precios de los activos se tiende a una mayor estabilidad financiera. En ese sentido, a través de regresiones fue posible evidenciar que las brechas de los precios de las acciones y del precio de la vivienda responden en forma positiva a una expansión monetaria, definiendo con esto la existencia de un mecanismo por medio del cual el Banco Central de Colombia incidirá en la estabilidad financiera.
C40|The informational content of market-based measures of inflation expectations derived from govenment bonds and inflation swaps in the United Kingdom|Market-based measures of inflation expectations can be derived either from the difference between yields on nominal and inflation-linked government bonds or from inflation swap rates. These measures are important indicators of the outlook for inflation and are monitored regularly by the United Kingdom’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), alongside other measures of inflation expectations such as those based on surveys. However, the market rates we observe are not perfect measures of expected future inflation. Moreover, in the United Kingdom inflation-linked market instruments reference RPI inflation, whereas the MPC’s target is CPI inflation of 2%. To better extract useful information about expectations for CPI inflation, we develop a no-arbitrage term structure model to decompose the forward inflation curve into: measures of CPI inflation expectations; the expected spread between expected RPI and CPI inflation (the RPI/CPI inflation ‘wedge’); and estimates of risk premia. We then further decompose risk premia estimates into inflation risk premia and liquidity risk premia. We show that long-horizon expectations of CPI inflation, as implied by our model, fell in the 1990s after the introduction of inflation targeting and the creation of the MPC and have since remained fairly stable at around 2%. Our model also suggests that the large falls in measures of implied inflation based on index-linked gilts after the financial crisis were to a large extent the result of changes in liquidity premia in inflation-linked gilt prices.
C40|The Estimation of Multi-dimensional Fixed Effects Panel Data Models|The paper introduces for the most frequently used three-dimensional fixed effects panel data models the appropriate within estimators. It analyzes the behaviour of these estimators in the case of no-self-flow data, unbalanced data and dynamic autoregressive models. Then the main results are generalised for higher dimensional panel data sets as well.
C40|Europe 2020 Development Strategy In Romania|"The objective of this study is to explore the Europe 2020 development strategy, from Romania, trough qualitative methods and the corelation analysis trough quantitative methods of the European Funds present in Romania in the period 2007-2010 with the strategy's indicators. From the indicators presented by the European Uniun for the Europe 2020 development strategy,t the following indicators were chosen: ""Total expenses for Research and Development as % of GDP)"", ""Renewable energy share of the total energy consumption"", ""Early school leavers rate"" and an alaysis of the correlation with the ""Total available allocated budget of the European Union financed projects, arithmetic mean per project"" indicator, using Pearson's correlation coefficient and determining also the algebraic average, range, absolute deviation, mean absolute deviation, standard deviation, skewness and kurtosis."
C40|Self-Selection in School Choice|No abstract is available for this item.
C40|Fiscal Deficits and Economic Growth in Nigeria: A Chow Test Approach|The recent criticism of poor fiscal performance levelled against the democratic regimes in Nigeria has resulted in questions being asked as to the soundness of the acclaim which heralded its advent. Such questions generally focus on the growth impacts of the deficits incurring during this regimes. In view of this, this study examined the relative impact of fiscal deficits (FSD) on economic growth in Nigeria during the military and democratic regimes. The study employed Chow endogenous break test, unit root and cointegration tests. The results derived from the Chow test analysis reveal that there is a difference between the growth-impact of FSD in the two regimes. In particular, the study found that FSDs had a significant growthimpact during the military regime, while it has not had a significant impact on economic growth during the democratic regime. On the other hand, the study’s results indicated that the interest rate did not have a significant growth-impact during both regimes, while the gross fixed capital formation had a significant growth impact during both regimes in view of the findings, the study recommended the strengthening of the country’s budgetary institutions so as to ensure the de-politicization of the budgetary process. Furthermore, the study recommended the reduction in the current lending rate so as to ensure increased access to investment funds by domestic entrepreneurs.
C40|Stock returns and inflation in Pakistan|The nexus between stock returns and inflation is assessed for Pakistan using the methodology of frequency based causality and continuous wavelet transform over a long sample period 1961:M07–2012:M02. The preliminary investigation using the frequency based causality suggests interdependence of stock return and inflation. Our deeper investigation using the tools of wavelet coherency and wavelet phase angle in the continuous wavelet transform framework, however, explore dependency between stock returns and inflation over certain time periods; especially for lower time scales. For higher time scales, the study finds stock returns and inflation to be in the phase (positively related) when consumers' price inflation is considered and independent when producers' price inflation is utilized. Overall results based on both the inflation measures indicate that, inflation does not erode the value of stocks in Pakistan and stocks could be used as hedge against inflation at least in the long-run.
C40|Correlations between oil and stock markets: A wavelet-based approach|In a global economy, shocks occurring in one market can spill over to other markets. This paper investigates the impact of oil shocks and stock market crashes on correlations between stock and oil markets. We test changes in correlations for different time scales with non-overlapping confidence intervals based on estimated wavelet correlations. Our results indicate that correlation between oil and stock markets tends to be stable in non-shock periods, around zero, but this changes during oil and financial shocks both at higher and lower frequencies. We find evidence of contagion, in particular during the 2008 and 2011 stock market falls. At low frequencies, the number of correlation breakdowns during oil shocks and stock market crashes is higher and they can be interpreted as shifts in market co-movements.
C40|Time-varying dependence between stock and government bond returns: International evidence with dynamic copulas|This paper investigates the dependence pattern between stock and long-term government bond returns for a wide range of developed countries over the last two decades by using a dynamic DCC-GARCH-copula model. This approach allows obtaining a flexible and comprehensive description of the time variation in the linkage between stock and bond markets.
C40|High dimensional generalized empirical likelihood for moment restrictions with dependent data|This paper considers the maximum generalized empirical likelihood (GEL) estimation and inference on parameters identified by high dimensional moment restrictions with weakly dependent data when the dimensions of the moment restrictions and the parameters diverge along with the sample size. The consistency with rates and the asymptotic normality of the GEL estimator are obtained by properly restricting the growth rates of the dimensions of the parameters and the moment restrictions, as well as the degree of data dependence. It is shown that even in the high dimensional time series setting, the GEL ratio can still behave like a chi-square random variable asymptotically. A consistent test for the over-identification is proposed. A penalized GEL method is also provided for estimation under sparsity setting.
C40|The heterogeneous Great Moderation|In this paper I show that a more accurate analysis of the Great Moderation leads to interesting and novel findings about macroeconomic volatility dynamics in the last decades. The main empirical result of the paper is that the Great Moderation has diversely affected macroeconomic volatility at different horizons (short-run, business-cycle, and medium-run). I refer to this phenomenon as the “heterogeneous Great Moderation” across frequencies. I formally test these findings by defining a frequency domain structural break test that detects the presence of a break in the variance of real macroeconomic variables at different frequencies. I derive its asymptotic and small sample properties, and I apply it to U.S. macroeconomic variables to provide statistical evidence that the Great Moderation is mainly confined to short-run fluctuations. I finally use a DSGE model to investigate which elements of the model can generate the heterogeneous Great Moderation. I find that, whereas just a decline of the magnitude of the shocks and a change in the monetary policy cannot replicate the stylized facts, accounting for the increased persistence of the exogenous disturbances is the key feature for generating the heterogeneous Great Moderation.
C40|Fine structure of the price–demand relationship in the electricity market: Multi-scale correlation analysis|In this research we investigate the problems of dynamic relationship between electricity price and demand over different time scales for two largest price zones of the Russian wholesale electricity market. We use multi-scale correlation analysis based on a modified method of time-dependent intrinsic correlation and the complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition with adaptive noise for this purpose. Three hypotheses on the type and strength of correlations in the short-, medium- and long-runs were tested. It is shown that price zones significantly differ in internal price–demand correlation structure over the comparable time scales, and not each of the theoretically formulated hypotheses is true for each of them. We can conclude that the answer to the question whether it is necessary to take into account the influence of demand-side on electricity spot prices over different time scales, is significantly dependent on the structure of electricity generation and consumption on the corresponding market.
C40|Geographical diversification with a World Volatility Index|This paper proposes a new ‘World Volatility Index’, coined WVIX, by constructing the first index that approximates the aggregate volatility level of the G20 countries. The empirical analysis makes use of the factor dynamic conditional correlation model – with an automated methodology to detect the number of factors – in order to (i) sum up the information contained in the implied volatility indexes belonging to the US, the UK, the Eurozone, Japan and emerging countries, and (ii) examine the time-varying correlation between them. The results reveal that the WVIX evolves around 22%, but its activity can vary sharply depending on its exposure to various sources of geographical risks (e.g. the latest 2010–2011 European debt crisis). Thus constructed as an early warning device, the methodology behind the WVIX can be replicated by market practitioners to datasets that better suit their needs.
C40|An analysis of the determinants of financial distress in Italy: A competing risks approach|This paper investigates the influence and the effect of micro-economic indicators and firm-specific factors on different states of financial distress. In particular, a competing risks model is estimated taking into account the differences among variables leading firms to exit the market through bankruptcy, liquidation and inactivity. The determinants of financial distress for any exit route are identified on the basis of the influence on the hazard ratios of the significant variables selected for each state. Furthermore, the predictive performance of the competing-risks model over the single-risk framework is evaluated, with respect to different time windows, by means of some accuracy measures. The results reached on a sample of Italian firms provide support for the hypothesis that the factors influencing firms' way out strongly depend on the exit routes and highlighting the need to distinguish among them by means of a multiple-state approach.
C40|Business cycle synchronization of the Visegrad Four and the European Union|In this paper, we map the process of synchronization of the Visegrad Four within the framework of the European Union using the wavelet techniques. In addition, we show that the relationship of output and key macroeconomic indicators is dynamic and varies over time and across frequencies. We study the synchronization applying the wavelet cohesion measure with time-varying weights. This novel approach allows for studying the dynamic relationship among countries from a different perspective than usual timedomain models. Analysing monthly data from 1990 to 2014, the results for the Visegrad region show an increasing co-movement with the European Union after the countries began with preparation for the accession to the European union. The participation in a currency union possibly increases the co-movement. Further, analysing the Visegrad and South European countries' synchronization with the European Union core countries, we find a high degree of synchronization in long-term horizons.
C40|Insights to the European debt crisis using recurrence quantification and network analysis|The turmoil in the sovereign debt markets in Europe has raised concerns on the usefulness of sovereign credit default swaps and government bond yields in periods of distress. In addressing this issue, we introduce a novel nonlinear approach for the analysis of non-stationary multivariate data based on complex networks and recurrence analysis. We show the relevance of the approach in studying joint risk connections, extracting hidden spatial information, time dependence, detection of regime changes and providing early warning indicators. The feasibility and relevance of the approach in studying systemic risk is discussed. Finally, we share more light on possible extensions and applications of the approach to systemic risk
C40|Coupling direction of the European Banking and Insurance sectors using inter-system recurrence networks|Modern financial systems exhibit a high degree of interdependence making it difficult in predicting. This has raise concerns on the correct identification of coupling direction in financial sectors of the economy. This study explores a “two-way” risk connection between the European banking and insurance sector based on geometrical closeness of observations. Specifically, the study looks at the inter-system recurrence networks in tracing dynamical transitions and detecting coupling direction between these sectors. The overall results shows that the banking sector is central in risk transmission compared to the insurance sector. A comprehensive discussion of the feasibility and relevance of the approach in studying systemic risk is provided
C40|Correlation and efficiency of propensity score-based estimators for average causal effects|Propensity score based-estimators are commonly used to estimate causal effects in evaluation research. To reduce bias in observational studies researchers might be tempted to include many, perhaps correlated, covariates when estimating the propensity score model. Taking into account that the propensity score is estimated, this study investigates how the efficiency of matching, inverse probability weighting and doubly robust estimators change under the case of correlated covariates. Propositions regarding the large sample variances under certain assumptions of the data generating process are given. The propositions are supplemented by several numerical large sample and finite sample results from a wide range of models. The results show that the correlation may increase or decrease the variances of the estimators. There are several factors that influence how correlation affects the variance of the estimators, including the choice of estimator, the strength of the confounding towards outcome and treatment, and whether a constant or non-constant causal effect is present.
C40|Evaluation of sequences of treatments with application to active labor market policies|This paper proposes a new framework for analyzing the effects of sequences of treatments with duration outcomes. Applications include sequences of active labor market policies assigned at specific unemployment durations and sequences of medical treatments. We consider evaluation under unconfoundedness and propose conditions under which the survival time under a specific treatment regime can be identified. We introduce inverse probability weighting estimators for various average effects. The finite sample properties of the estimators are investigated in a simulation study. The new estimator is applied to Swedish data on participants in training, in a work practice program and in subsidized employment. One result is that enrolling an unemployed person twice in the same program or in two different programs one after the other leads to longer unemployment spells compared to only participating in a single program once.
C40|Maize Productivity and Input Subsidies in Malawi: A State-Contingent Stochastic Production Frontier Approach|We make cross-sectional comparisons of productivity in a risky agricultural setting. To make meaningful comparisons, we find it necessary to define a new productivity index that satisfies important axioms from index number theory (e.g., transitivity). The index can be computed without any information on output or input prices. However, it cannot be computed without an estimate of a state-contingent production frontier. We use maximum likelihood methods to estimate a state-contingent stochastic production frontier that explicitly allows for variations in input quality. We find that differences in productivity are mainly due to differences in environment and scale-mix efficiency. In turn, we conjecture that differences in scale-mix efficiency are partly driven by variations in access to input subsidies. The maximum likelihood estimator appears to do a poor job of disentangling the effects of technical inefficiency and statistical noise.
C40|Conditional Systemic Risk with Penalized Copula|Financial contagion and systemic risk measures are commonly derived from conditional quantiles by using imposed model assumptions such as a linear parametrization. In this paper, we provide model free measures for contagion and systemic risk which are independent of the speci - cation of conditional quantiles and simple to interpret. The proposed systemic risk measure relies on the contagion measure, whose tail behavior is theoretically studied. To emphasize contagion from extreme events, conditional quantiles are speci ed via hierarchical Archimedean copula. The parameters and structure of this copula are simultaneously estimated by imposing a non-concave penalty on the structure. Asymptotic properties of this sparse estimator are derived and small sample properties illustrated using simulations. We apply the proposed framework to investigate the interconnectedness between American, European and Australasian stock market indices, providing new and interesting insights into the relationship between systemic risk and contagion. In particular, our ndings suggest that the systemic risk contribution from contagion in tail areas is typically lower during times of nancial turmoil, while it can be signi cantly higher during periods of low volatility.
C40|Evaluating the efficiency of public services|Efficiency is an important consideration for those who manage public services. Costs vary with output and with a variety of other factors. In the case of higher education, for example, factors include quality, student demographics, the scale and scope of the higher education provider, and the size and character of the real estate. But even when taking all these factors into account, costs vary across providers because of differences in efficiency. Such differences offer clues about good practice that can lead to improvements in the system as a whole. The role of efficiency is illustrated by reference to higher education institutions in England.
C40|Analyzing Time–Frequency Based Co-movement in Inflation: Evidence from G-7 Countries|The co-movement in the international inflation rates, among others, may be produced by common shocks, similarities in central bank reaction functions, international trade and the operation of purchasing power parity theory. However, to assess the synchronization of inflation fluctuations across countries or regions is critical from the perspective of understanding inflation behavior and formulation of correct monetary policy. This study attempts to investigate inflation rates co-movement among G7 countries at different frequencies or time scales under the framework of the continuous wavelets. In particular, this study analyzes the coherency and the phase relationship in time–frequency space in inflation rates of G7 countries. The wavelet-based measure of cohesion allows us to assess simultaneously how synchronization has evolved over time and across frequencies. Overall, our results indicate that inflation co-movements in G7 countries are multi-scale and characterized by structural breaks. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C40|A Monte Carlo study on multiple output stochastic frontiers: a comparison of two approaches|In the estimation of multiple output technologies in a primal approach, the main question is how to handle the multiple outputs. Often, an output distance function is used, where the classical approach is to exploit its homogeneity property by selecting one output quantity as the dependent variable, dividing all other output quantities by the selected output quantity, and using these ratios as regressors (OD). Another approach is the stochastic ray production frontier (SR), which transforms the output quantities into their Euclidean distance as the dependent variable and their polar coordinates as directional components as regressors. A number of studies have compared these specifications using real world data and have found significant differences in the inefficiency estimates. However, in order to get to the bottom of these differences, we apply a Monte-Carlo simulation. We test the robustness of both specifications for the case of a Translog output distance function with respect to different common statistical problems as well as problems arising as a consequence of zero values in the output quantities. Although our results show clear reactions to some statistical misspecifications, on average none of the approaches is clearly superior. However, considerable differences are found between the estimates at single replications. Taking average efficiencies from both approaches gives clearly better efficiency estimates than taking just the OD or the SR. In the case of zero values in the output quantities, the SR clearly outperforms the OD with observations with zero output quantities omitted and the OD with zero values replaced by a small positive number. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C40|Az egyéni munkaerő-piaci aktivitás becslése mikroszimulációs modellkeretben<BR>[Estimating individual labor market activity in Hungary in a microsimulation framework]|A tanulmány a magyarországi egyéni munkaerő-piaci aktivitás becslésével foglalkozik, amely a MIDAS-HU nyugdíj-mikroszimulációs modell munkaerő-piaci moduljának kulcsfontosságú építőeleme. Az elemzés érdekében többváltozós statisztikai módszereket alkalmaztunk egy óriás méretű, adminisztratív adatokat tartalmazó adathalmazon. A felhasznált adatok több mint négy évtized teljes körű demográfiai, foglalkoztatottsági és járulékfizetési adatait tartalmazzák egyénenkénti bontásban. Bár a becslést a MIDAS modellek logikájának megfelelően keresztmetszeti szemléletben hajtottuk végre, az egyenletekbe az eredeti belga modelltől eltérően hosszmetszeti adatokból nyert információkat is beépítettünk. Ezt egyrészt a rendelkezésünkre álló, jóval hosszabb idősorok információtartalmának optimális felhasználása, másrészt a hazai munkaerőpiacon - elsősorban az 1990-es évek elején - lezajlott jelentős strukturális átalakulások indokolták. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: H55, C15, C40, C53.
C40|Early Warning Signs of the Economic Crisis in Greece: A Warning for Other Countries and Regions|Warning signs about the developing economic crisis in Greece were present in the growth rate of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and in the growth of the GDP well before the economic collapse. The growth ratewas strongly unstable. On average, in less than 50 years, it decreased 10-folds but after reaching a low minimum it quickly increased 6-folds only to crash before completing the full cycle. The decreasing growthrate was leading to an asymptotic maximumof the GDP but it was soon replaced by a fast-increasing growth rate propelling the GDP alonga pseudo-hyperbolic trajectory, which if continued would have escaped to infinity in 2017. Such a growth could not have been possibly supported. Under these conditions, the economic collapse in Greece was inevitable.
C40|Quality of Match for Statistical Matches Using the Consumer Expenditure Survey 2011 and Annual Social Economic Supplement 2011|This paper describes the quality of the statistical match between the Current Population Survey (CPS) March 2011 supplement and the Consumer Expenditure Survey (CEX) 2011, which are used for the integrated inequality assessment model for the United States. In the first part of this paper, the alignment of the datasets is examined. In the second, various aspects of the match quality are described. The results show appropriate balance across different characteristics, with some imbalances within narrow characteristics.
C40|The Co-Movement of U.S. Equity Returns with the Developed and Emerging Markets of Australasia and Asia|This paper examines the behavior of the monthly and daily correlation coefficients and co-variances of a broad set of Pacific Basin equity markets compared to the S&P 500 index, showing that the correlations and co-variances vary greatly over time and across markets. Many discussions of international diversification focus solely on the recent correlations of returns of international equities. It seems clear from the evidence presented here that the near complete reliance on recent correlation coefficients to describe the diversification benefits of individual foreign markets is misdirected. Not only should correlations over several periods be examined but also other risk measures should be included in the examination. This research illustrates that the Pacific Basin markets which exhibit the lowest correlations with the U.S. market may not be the lowest risk markets when additional factors such as covariance, skewness, and kurtosis are taken into consideration.
C40|Insights to the European debt crisis using recurrence quantification and network analysis|The turmoil in the sovereign debt markets in Europe has raised concerns on the usefulness of sovereign credit default swaps and government bond yields in periods of distress. In addressing this issue, we introduce a novel nonlinear approach for the analysis of non-stationary multivariate data based on complex networks and recurrence analysis. We show the relevance of the approach in studying joint risk connections, extracting hidden spatial information, time dependence, detection of regime changes and providing early warning indicators. The feasibility and relevance of the approach in studying systemic risk is discussed. Finally, we share more light on possible extensions and applications of the approach to systemic risk.
C40|Coupling direction of the European Banking and Insurance sectors using inter-system recurrence networks|"Modern financial systems exhibit a high degree of interdependence making it difficult in predicting. This has raise concerns on the correct identification of coupling direction in financial sectors of the economy. This study explores a ""two-way"" risk connection between the European banking and insurance sector based on geometrical closeness of observations. Specifically, the study looks at the inter-system recurrence networks in tracing dynamical transitions and detecting coupling direction between these sectors. The overall results shows that the banking sector is central in risk transmission compared to the insurance sector. A comprehensive discussion of the feasibility and relevance of the approach in studying systemic risk is provided."
C40|Influence of Degree of Customers’ Co-Participation on Their Assessment of Product Design and Functionality|The present paper presents the results of an empirical study conducted among Bulgarian customers of furniture sector on the influence of the degree of customers’ participation (according to the position of Customer Order Decoupling Point) on their opinion concerning product design and functionality, which are analyzed and discussed.
C40|Business cycle dynamics: A bottom-up approach with Markov-chain measurement|Business cycle dynamics can be seen as footprints left by individual decision makers. Tracing those footprints we offer a novel, largely model independent and exogenous measure of the business cycle dynamics. This measure also, allows for distinguishing positive and negative shocks without prior estimation. Utilizing more than twentythousand observations of firms surveyed quarterly in the periods (1999-2006), we employ a Markov-chain approach combined with conventional time series econometrics for gauging the dynamics of business cycles. Since we start the analysis with firm level data we label our method the “bottom-up approach”.
C40|Cohesion within the euro area and the US: A wavelet-based view|The analysis of synchronisation of macroeconomic fluctuations across countries or regions has been crucial, for example, for the debate on economic integration. In this paper, we propose a multivariate measure of synchronisation to assess cohesion across countries or regions by resorting to wavelet analysis. This wavelet-based measure of cohesion allows one to study how synchronisation has evolved over time and across frequencies simultaneously. In particular, we investigate the cohesion among euro area countries and within the US, both at the regional and state levels, over the last decades. In addition, an analysis at the sectoral level is also conducted. The results obtained unveil a noteworthy heterogeneity and highlight the usefulness of a wavelet-based measure of cohesion.
C40|Modeling Maximum Entropy Distributions for Financial Returns by Moment Combination and Selection|In empirical finance, conditional distributions of financial returns are often established by specifying the standardized error distributions of GARCH-type models. In this article, we apply the maximum entropy (MaxEnt) approach and propose a moment combination and selection method to explore this distribution-building problem. We demonstrate that this framework is useful for unifying and comparing existing distribution specifications, generating more suitable distribution spec-ifications, and shedding light on the roles of different moments in the distribution-building process. We also show the applicability of our method to real data by means of an empirical study on stock index returns.
C40|"Índice de Competitividad Municipal 2013: Metodología para su construcción basada en Análisis Factorial y su aplicación en municipios urbanos en México || Municipal Competitiveness Index 2013: Methodology of definition based on Factorial Analysis and application to Mexican urban municipalities"|"El documento presenta una descripción detallada de la metodología para construir el Índice de Competitividad Municipal 2013 para México. El índice es calculado utilizando una metodología basada en Análisis Factorial y compara el desempeño de 96 municipios pertenecientes a 24 zonas metropolitanas en diferentes estados de la República Mexicana. El índice incluye 61 variables agrupadas en cuatro dimensiones o subíndices: Económica, Institucional, Socio-demográfica y Urbano Ambiental. El Índice de Competitividad Municipal es el promedio de los cuatro índices. Los resultados muestran evidencia de que los municipios pertenecientes a la zona metropolitana de Monterrey son los que en general tienen más alta posición en el ranking de competitividad y resaltan la necesidad de una mayor cooperación y coordinación intermunicipal para mejorar la competitividad de aquellos municipios que pertenecen a una misma zona metropolitana. El estudio se enfoca particularmente en el análisis de los factores de cada dimensión de la competitividad para los municipios del Estado de Puebla incluidos en la muestra. || This paper presents a detailed explanation of the methodology to construct the Municipal Competitiveness Index 2013 for Mexico. The index is calculated using a methodology based on Factor Analysis and compares the performance of 96 municipalities belonging to 24 metropolitan areas in different States of the Mexican Republic. The index includes 61 variables grouped into four dimensions or sub-indexes: Economic, Institutional, Socio-demographic and Urban-environmental. The Municipal Competitiveness Index is the average of the four indexes. The results show evidence that municipalities of Monterrey metropolitan area are, in general, the ones with higher position in the competitiveness ranking, and highlight the need of inter-municipal cooperation and coordination in order to improve competitiveness of those municipalities belonging to a common metropolitan area. The study particularly focuses on the analysis of factors of each competitiveness dimension for municipalities in Puebla State included in the sample."
C40|Testing of Capital Assets Pricing Model (CAPM) in Cement Sector & Power Generation and Distribution Sector in Turkey|This study is conducted to investigate the CAPM (Capital Asset Pricing Model) in Turkey based on the sources of information from Istanbul Stock exchange emphasizing only on the Cement Sector and Power Generation & Distribution Sector. The data range is from 1st January 2012 to 31st December 2013. In the Cement Sector we get data for 10 companies and in the Power Generation and Distribution we get data for 10 companies. The consequences are only substantial for only mention stocks and only for few years. This paper shows the relationship between the Coefficients Beta ( ) and Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) of the Cement Sector and Power Generation and Distribution Sector in Turkey and then get regression analysis of Coefficients Beta ( ) and Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) both of the sector shows In-significant result, which means the Capital Assets Pricing Model (CAPM) is not applicable in Turkey Cement Sector and Power Generation and Distribution Sector.
C40|Real-time monitoring of carbon monoxide using value-at-risk measure and control charting| One of the most important environmental health issues is air pollution, causing the deterioration of the population's quality of life, principally in cities where the urbanization level seems limitless. Among ambient pollutants, carbon monoxide (CO) is well known for its biological toxicity. Many studies report associations between exposure to CO and excess mortality. In this context, the present work provides an advanced modelling scheme for real-time monitoring of pollution data and especially of carbon monoxide pollution in city level. The real-time monitoring is based on an appropriately adjusted multivariate time series model that is used in finance and gives accurate one-step-ahead forecasts. On the output of the time series, we apply an empirical monitoring scheme that is used for the early detection of abnormal increases of CO levels. The proposed methodology is applied in the city of Athens and as the analysis revealed has a valuable performance.
C40|Effects of credit constraints on the productivity of small and medium-sized enterprises in Cameroon|This paper assesses the determinants and effects of credit constraints on the productivity of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Cameroon. Use is made of the Cameroon enterprise survey data collected by the World Bank in 2009 and an endogenous switching regression model. Results show that interest rates, size of enterprise, size of loan, size of collateral, maturity of loans and legal status of enterprises are major sources of credit constraints faced by SMEs. Results also indicate that medium enterprises are more credit constrained than small enterprises; meanwhile the effects of credit constraints affect small enterprises more than medium enterprises. Credit constrained firms have lower levels of productivity relative to unconstrained firms. These results have implications for the creation of credit bureaux, prudential stringency and rationalization of the Cameroon tax system.
C40|Consumer’s Behaviour in East Slovakia after Euro Introduction during the Crisis|The paper highlights the results of the survey of potential retail customers. The survey emphasizes the relationship between their responses to the chosen marketing pricing strategies and the perception of the introduction of the euro and the crisis. The multi-dimensional techniques were used to implement input data concerning perceptions of the euro introduction and the crisis in order to create a segmentation of respondents dividing them into: optimists, pessimists, crisispessimists, euro-pessimists, profi teers. It was subsequently proven that the responses of the members of these segments to the chosen pricing strategies EDLP (Every Day Low Pricing), Hi-Lo (High Low Pricing) and PMG (Price Matching Guarantees) differ significantly. Furthermore, the relation between the found segmentation and the subjective perception and assignment to the social group from the point of financial security is shown. Moreover, further segmentation of respondents according to their subjective anxiety about their future was carried out. Finally, the emphasis is put on the relation between the perception of the euro introduction in the country during the current infl uence of the world economic crisis on potential retail customers in the East Slovak Region and their subjective anxiety about their future.
C40|Mediating Effects of Organizational Citizenship Behavior on Organizational Performance: Empirical Analysis of Public Employees in Guadalajara, Mexico|Aunque se ha escrito mucho sobre la importancia de reclutar y retener empleados que realizan acciones voluntarias y espontaneas, pocos han explorado el efecto mediador de los comportamientos organizacionales de ciudadania en el desempeño organizacional. En este estudio se examinan los efectos directos e indirectos del estilo de liderazgo transformacional, motivacion por el servicio publico y el comportamiento organizacional de ciudadania (OCB, por sus siglas en ingles) en el desempeño de las organizaciones publicas. Se plantea la hipotesis de que cuando los empleados perciben que una organizacion publica se esta practicando un estilo de liderazgo transformacional (TLS, por sus siglas en ingles), es probable que tengan una opinion favorable sobre el desempeño de su organizacion, pero el efecto es indirecto y mediado por el OCB. Al mismo tiempo, si los empleados tienen un fuerte deseo de servir y mejorar el bienestar de los demas, estan dispuestos a actuar mas alla de sus requerimientos de trabajo y, por lo tanto, es probable que expresen una opinion positiva del desempeño de su organizacion. Se utilizo un modelo de ecuaciones estructurales para examinar las percepciones de 1,016 empleados publicos en la Zona Metropolitana de Guadalajara, Mexico. Los resultados sugieren que los empleados publicos mexicanos muestran el OCB (comportamiento extra rol) que sera asociado a un mejor desempeño de las organizaciones publicas debido a sus altos niveles de PSM (motivacion por el servicio publico, siglas en ingles). El TLS esta tambien asociado a un mejor desempeño de las organizaciones, asi como al desempeño del OCB. Pero no encontramos el rol mediador del OCB entre el TLS y el desempeño organizacional.
C40|The GEDI Methodology and its Application to the Countries of North Africa - La metodologia GEDI e una sua applicazione ai paesi del Nord Africa|GEDI (Global Entrepreneurship and Development Index) offers a measure of the quality and scale of the firm formation process in the most important countries in the world. It combines both individual and country level data to offer policy-makers a tool to understand the entrepreneurial strengths and weaknesses of their economies and to implement policies to support productive entrepreneurship. GEDI is a three-component index that takes into account the different aspects of entrepreneurship. All the three components, called “sub-indexes”, are complex measures themselves that include various characteristics of entrepreneurial attitudes, entrepreneurial actions and entrepreneurial aspirations. In this paper we review the book “GEDI, Global Entrepreneurship & Development Index” performing a regression analysis between GDP and GEDI for North Africa countries and for Italy. - L’indice GEDI (Global Entrepreneurship and Development Index) offre una misura della qualità e della dimensione del processo di formazione delle imprese nei maggiori paesi del mondo. L’indice offre ai decisori uno strumento per individuare i punti di forza e di debolezza delle loro economie, consentendo così di implementare politiche a sostegno dell’imprenditorialità. GEDI è un indice formato da tre componenti, che tiene conto dei diversi aspetti dell’imprenditorialità, tre misure complesse che comprendono varie caratteristiche di attitudini, azioni e aspirazioni imprenditoriali. In questo lavoro la revisione del libro “Gedi, Global Entrepreneurship & Development Index” viene svolta eseguendo un’analisi di regressione tra il PIL e GEDI per i paesi del Nord Africa e per l’Italia.
C40|Construction Of Economic Indicators Using Internet Searches|The volume of online data searches can be used as indicators of economic analysis and forecasting. This paper reviews some of the applications that use the large data sets provided by the Internet user searches and presents a very specific case for Romanian economy. These data provide some additional information relative to existing surveys and with further development, internet search data could become an important tool for analysis and prediction.
C40|A Decision Support System to Predict Financial Distress. The Case Of Romania|Financial distress prediction has become a topic of great interest for most decision makers over the last decades, especially because of the valuable insights and effective early warnings of potential bankruptcy yielded by such prediction models. Therefore, discovering a suitable model for predicting financial distress is likely to be of great significance to global investors. Thus, this paper aims to offer a practical solution to predict financial distress in Romania by focusing on developing an integrated decision support system and on analysing the effectiveness of several prediction models based on decision trees, logit and hazard models, as well as neural networks.
C40|INSIGHTS ON THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE ROMANIAN LABOUR MARKET. A DESCRIPTION OF THE POVERTY STATE AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF SOCIAL TRANSFERS (International Conference “EUROPEAN PERSPECTIVE OF LABOR MARKET - INOVATION, EXPERTNESS, PERFORMANCE”)|In this paper, we assess the poverty state and the effectiveness of social transfers in Romania and in other three neighbouring countries (Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Poland) as compared to the EU average with the aim to provide measures for improving the social protection system in our country. We find that Romania is the second country in the EU as regards the people at risk of poverty or social exclusion and has the lowest threshold for risk of poverty in the entire EU, of 103.33 euro per month. Unfortunately, the social transfers are not effective for solving the poverty problem and the spending on social assistances cannot be increased, as it represents already over one third of the revenues of the state budget.
C40|Location Quotient,Coefficient of Specialization and Shift-Share|This technical document describes the foundations for three different regional economic functions implemented in MATLAB and R. These functions are Location Quotients, Coefficients of Localization, and Shift-Share Analysis.
C40|Variance Estimation Using Package vardpoor in R|The paper is devoted to the R package vardpoor. The Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia in 2012 developed R package vardpoor. The package vardpoor was developed with the objective to modernise the sample error estimation in sample surveys. Sampling errors can be estimated for household, agricultural and business surveys using the package. The main advantage of the proposed package is its simplicity and flexibility. R package vardpoor is implemented in practice. Sampling error estimation mechanism, calculation of the domain-specific study variables, variable linearization, calculation of regression residual, and variance estimation with the ultimate cluster method, variance estimation of the simple random sampling is briefly explained in the paper.
C40|Evaluating South Africaâ€™s Tobacco Control Initative: A Synthetic Control Approach|South Africa has since 1994 consistently and aggressively increased excise taxes on cigarettes in order to maintain a total tax burden of around 50% of the average retail selling price. The tax rises have translated into large increases in the inflation-adjusted price of cigarettes. For instance, the average real price per pack increased by 110% between 1994 and 2004. This paper uses a transparent and data-driven technique, the Synthetic Control method, to evaluate the impact on cigarette consumption of South Africaâ€™s large-scale tobacco tax increases. We find that per capita cigarette consumption would not have continued declining in the absence of the consistent tax rises that began in 1994. Specifically, we find that by 2004, per capita cigarette consumption was 36% lower than it would have been had the tax increases not occurred. Our treatment effect estimates survive a series of placebo and robustness tests.
C40|A Content Analysis Of Airline Websites: An Evaluation Of The Airline Companies That Have Direct Flights To Istanbul Ataturk Airport In 2013|The demand of the air transportation is showing increase rapidly in Turkey. At the same time, ?stanbul Airport is near the top point from the point of air traffic in Europe. Because of the rapid development of information technology since the 1990s, many people today intensively use this technology for research, socializing, shopping, and many other activities. This study attempts to evaluate airline company websites using the content analysis method. According to the conclusions of this study, some recommendations are made to improve the websites that were included in the study thereby evaluating the websites of the airlines that have flights to ?stanbul Airport in 2013.
C40|Behavior of Covariance Matrices with Equi-Correlation Approach|Funds and asset managers are increasingly concerned with quantitative and econometric model in order to apply their portfolio models. The main goal of this publication is to study the behavior and the proportions of a stock portfolio from CAC All-Tradable with these kinds of models and compare the results with the historical approach. A GARCH (1,1) process has been used for modelling each asset volatility and Engle dynamic equi-correlation model to forecast covariance matrices. From a small amount of underlying values, the question is raised whether forecasted covariance matrix is more relevant than traditional variance-covariance matrix in a context of minimum variance portfolio model.
C40|Time–frequency relationship between share prices and exchange rates in India: Evidence from continuous wavelets|The paper examines the relationship between exchange rates and share prices using the wavelets approach, and more specifically the continuous wavelet power spectrum, cross-wavelet transform, and cross-wavelet coherency. Our results, based on Indian data, lend support to the traditional (Am Econ Rev 70:960–971, 1980 ) as well as the new portfolio hypothesis (Am Econ Rev 83:1356–1369, 1993 ), albeit over different time periods and across different time scales. The wavelet approach used in the paper has helped to uncover some interesting economic relationships within the time–frequency domain which have remained hidden thus far. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C40|How do migrants save? Evidence from the British Household Panel Survey on temporary and permanent migrants versus natives|This paper investigates the saving behavior of migrants in the UK across different dimensions, i.e., comparing temporary versus permanent migrants and migrants versus natives. Established theoretical predictions show that migrants save more when they plan to stay in the destination only temporarily as target savers. Our empirical evidence takes into account the contemporaneous choice of savings and remittances. Moreover, when comparing the saving profiles of both natives and migrants, we uncover the weight of observable socio‐economic characteristics other than income and wealth. We use the British Household Panel Survey for the period 1991‐2008. The estimation results confirm that temporary migrants have a propensity to save 26 per cent higher than permanent migrants in UK. We also introduce an index of financial capability adjusted for income as an explanatory variable and, when employing the Blinder‐Oaxaca decomposition for the Tobit model of saving choice, migrants are more affected by observable social‐economic characteristics than natives. JEL classification: F22; D91; C40 Copyright Arcangelis and Joxhe; licensee Springer. 2015
C40|A robust Bayesian dynamic linear model for Latin-American economic time series: “the Mexico and Puerto Rico cases”|The traditional time series methodology requires at least a preliminary transformation of the data to get stationarity. On the other hand, robust Bayesian dynamic models (RBDMs) do not assume a regular pattern or stability of the underlying system but can include points of statement breaks. In this paper we use RBDMs in order to account possible outliers and structural breaks in Latin-American economic time series. We work with important economic time series from Puerto Rico and Mexico. We show by using a random walk model how RBDMs can be applied for detecting historic changes in the economic inflation of Mexico. Also, we model the Consumer Price Index, the Economic Activity Index and the total number of employments economic time series in Puerto Rico using local linear trend and seasonal RBDMs with observational and states variances. The results illustrate how the model accounts the structural breaks for the historic recession periods in Puerto Rico. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
C40|Environmental sustainability and pressure groups|This study puts forth the importance of effects of pressure groups on environmental sustainability. A comprehensive literature review has revealed that there are just case studies in theoretical modelling that attempt to analyze the relation between special interest groups and environmental sustainability. When special interest groups act in an organized manner, they turn into pressure groups. For this reason, pressure groups should have a negative impact on environmental sustainability. According to the results of the first empirical analysis in this field, which was based on the data from 127 countries, there is a negative correlation between the level of environmental sustainability and pressure groups. The negative correlation between the pressure groups and environmental sustainability reaches the most significant level in developed countries. Therefore, we can conclude that as the number of pressure groups increases, the level of environmental sustainability decreases. Consequently, the implementation of policies which are created and applied to raise the level of welfare of today’s and future generations depend on developed countries which work without bowing to pressure groups. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
C40|Financing Statistics Development in Asia and the Pacific|The present paper discusses four main questions: 1. Scope of statistics development in Asia and the Pacific in the context of the post-2015 development agenda 2. Existing costing exercises for the improvement of national statistical systems 3. Estimated financing need for statistics development in Asia-Pacific in the period leading up to 2030 4. Ways of improving the estimates of financing needs for statistics development in the region and beyond Based on limited data, the lower bound figure required for statistics development in the region is calculated as between USD 370-380 million per annum for the period 2016-2030.
C40|Business cycle synchronization of the Visegrad Four and the European Union|In this paper, we map the process of synchronization of the Visegrad Four within the framework of the European Union using wavelet techniques. We show that the relationship of among countries is dynamic and that it varies over time and across frequencies. We study the synchronization applying the wavelet cohesion measure with time-varying weights. This novel approach allows us to study the dynamic relationship among countries from a different perspective than the usual time-domain models. Analyzing monthly data from 1990 to 2014, the results for the Visegrad region show an increasing co-movement with the European Union after the countries began preparing for accession to the European Union. Participation in a currency union possibly increases the co-movement. Furthermore, we find a high degree of synchronization in long-term horizons by analyzing the Visegrad Four and Southern European countries' synchronization with the core countries of the European Union.
C40|Lawrence R. Klein and the Economic Forecasting – A Survey|"Lawrence Robert Klein played a fundamental role in the genesis and development of econometric applications and forecasting. The work dedicated to forecasting earned him the 1980 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences ""for the creation of econometric models and their application to the analysis of economic fluctuations and economic policies”. His pioneering initiatives and his research that spanned over almost 70 years make L. R. Klein one of the key figures in macroeconomics and econometrics."
C40|The Multi-Criteria Nodal Analysis of the System of Companies Resident in Romania|On the basis of the peculiarities of turnover structural distributions, identified as a result of research conducted on 1009 classified markets, the paper comparatively analyzes the structural distributions of the major economic indicators of the national system of companies. The choice of economic indicators took into account their significance in the economic stability and behavior of companies. The conclusion of the paper is that the selected structural distributions fall into a class with the same features.
C40|The Use of Intermediate Management Balances as a Performance Management Tool in Electricity Companies|Starting from the assumption that the company is a place where material chances take place, and inputs thus become outputs, in the countries that use the continental accounting system, comparisons in time and space concerning the company results are made based on intermediate balances of administration. The analysis of the company performance based on intermediate balances of administration makes it possible to highlight the manner in which value is created and transferred within the company. This paper presents an analysis of expenses and incomes’ concentration based on Gini Struck coefficient. The results of this analysis represent the basis for a number of strategic managerial decisions. The article aims at presenting the relevance of intermediate balances of administration for the decision-making process within electricity companies.
C40|Statistical Delimitation of the Profile of Local Elections Candidate – An Applied Statistics Research|This article devoted to the delimitation of candidate profile, by means of an opinion survey representative of various categories of voters placed in the same area or locality, vitally depended on the perception of the people the questionnaire-based research was addressed to, on the categories of questions, solutions and interpretations that are most likely to be targets of the reader’s interest; they were presented in the kind of language that all of them are used to, thus aiming to maximize the utility and impact of the research through its usefulness, and anticipating its regular resuming, as well as a permanent adequacy of the form, and even the style of the paper.
C40|An Alternative Method of Component Aggregation for Computing Multidimensional Well-Being Indicators|This paper questions the validity of the statistical methods currently used in computing the composite indicators of well-being from their main subcomponents. The facts that most of the weights of the principal sub-components of the composite indicators are equal, that the determinants of well-being are correlated, and that the results are interpreted primarily in terms of country ranks, point out to the appropriateness of using a rank-based method for computing the composite indicators form their sub-indexes. A comparison of the actual ranks with ranks computed as averages of the ranks of sub-indexes for three well-known indicators of well-being, Human Development Index, Legatum Prosperity Index, and Social Progress Index, shows that results are almost the same. This calls into question the use of weighted averages of actual values of sub-components, as very high values for a sub-component increases a country’s relative rank, despite much lower performance on other sub-components, as in the case of USA and New Zealand. Our proposed approach helps achieve more robust/reliable rankings of countries and tackle the issues posed by extreme values or non-normal distributions of the sub-components variables used.
C40|Decomposing inequality change from the perspective of reranking and income growth between income groups|This paper proposes a decomposition of the change in inequality from the perspective of income groups. For every dichotomisation of the income distribution into poorer and richer parts, the decomposition allows to detect the change in the relative income gap between the two parts and the reranking between poorer and richer individuals. This decomposition approach is particularly suitable when analysts split the population between the individuals initially below the poverty line and those above the poverty line, since the decomposition allows to capture the effects of reranking and disproportional growth in income between poor and non-poor individuals and to compare these effects with those detected for the entire population. An application to Italian income data illustrates the proposed decomposition. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
C40|A PLS path model to investigate the relations between institutions and human development|The paper studies the relations between institutions and human development, in particular the causal effects of the different types of institutions on different components of human development. We assume development to be created by aggregate demand; in particular that aggregate demand determines the material components of human development. We thus divide institutions into those that create demand and those that are determined by the whole process of development. Similarly we divide human development in its three traditional components (economic development, health, knowledge). Both human development and institutions are assumed to be multidimensional constructs; all the main components of these constructs are defined as latent variables, and the relations between them as structural relations. A partial least squares (PLS) path model is developed: it is the aggregation (and simultaneous estimation) of an outer model relating observed or manifest variables to their own latent variable and of a structural model (inner model) relating some endogenous latent variable to other latent variables. From the goodness of fit point of view, our results seem to validate our theoretical assumptions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
C40|Inflation-Industrial Growth Nexus in India â€“ A Revisit Through Continuous Wavelet Transform|We study the inflation-industrial growth nexus in India using the methodology of wavelets. More specifically, cross wavelet power spectrum, cross wavelet coherency, and wavelet phase angle, tools of Continuous Wavelet Transform are used to unravel time and frequency dependent relationships between industrial growth and inflation. It is shown that inflation and industrial growth are negatively related at low frequencies having time dynamics of eight to sixteen months, with inflation leading industrial growth for almost whole of the time period considered.
C40|An Economic Perspective (Model) on US Corporations and Treasury Stock|Treasury stock and firm market value using a modified Tobin’s q are modeled by using a firm utility preference function and a quadratic constraint function. The choice of the quadratic form is based on an econometric analysis of the relationship of q to T, the amount of treasury stock held by the firm. US industrial corporations were sampled for the quarterly period from 1969 to 2013. There are 1,041 panels (firms) and some 32,494 overall observations. The statistical results were quite good. The firm’s optimum solution resulted in a q that is less than the maximum q given by the inverted U-shaped constraint. I argue that stockholders would prefer the maximum q.
C40|Super Golfonomics|Super Golfonomics continues along the path of Professor Shmanske's pathbreaking Golfonomics . It uses economic and statistical analysis of the sport of golf for three main purposes, (1) For the enjoyment of golfers and fans of professional golf, (2) to teach a little economics and show how it can be used to analyze the game of golf, and (3) to use golf statistics and golf course statistics to comment on social, political, and economic issues like gender discrimination, inefficient pricing and public finance. Professor Shmanske pioneered the field of golf economics with his early writings in Golfonomics . Now, Super Golfonomics presents his more recent scholarship in the field in a form accessible to an intelligent, general readership. Contents: Introduction The Economics of Slow Play Golf Course Waiting: The Good, the Bad ¡­ Golf Course Waiting: ¡­ and the Ugly Consistency or Heroics Skills, Performance, and Earnings in the Tournament Compensation Model: Evidence from PGA TOUR Microdata Gender Discrimination Revisited Gender and Driving Distance To Play or not to Play: The Skills Match To Enter or not to Enter: Another Look To Bet or not to Bet: Sports Gambling, Golf, and Efficient Markets Still Looking for Economic Impact: The Case of the Golf Majors The Best of the Rest Readership: Researchers and students who are interested in applying economics principles to the game of Golf.
C40|A Wavelet Approach to Synchronization of Output Cycles|The dynamic comovement between time series is a key concept in macroeconomic analysis. The extent to which series are cyclically synchronized is particularly important for evaluating the feasibility of common policy measures for groups of countries. This paper investigates concepts in the time domain and in the frequency domain that have traditionally been used to detect and describe such cyclical comovements in output data. However, methods from the former category cannot account for different cycle lengths, while the statistics from the latter category fail to capture transient relationships. Therefore, the use of multivariate wavelet analysis and a modification of the cohesion statistic from Fourier analysis is suggested to simultaneously assess comovement at the frequency level and over time for both country pairs and larger aggregates. The main finding from applying this method to output cycles is that synchronization does indeed vary across both dimensions and that important events during the time span of the sample, such as the introduction of the Euro, can be visualized. As a further benefit of the wavelet approach, it turns out to be hardly sensitive to the technique employed to extract the cyclical component from the output series.
C40|Modeling and Forecasting the Distribution of Energy Forward Returns - Evidence from the Nordic Power Exchange|We explore intraday transaction records from NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe from January 2006 to October 2013. We analyze empirical results for a selection of existing realized measures of volatility and incorporate them in a Realized GARCH framework for the joint modeling of returns and realized measures of volatility. An influential bias in these measures is documented, which motivates the use of a flexible and robust methodology such as the Realized GARCH. Within this framework, forecasting of the full density for long horizons is feasible, which we pursue. We document variability in conditional variances over time, which stresses the importance of careful modeling and forecasting of volatility. We show that improved model fit can be obtained in-sample by utilizing high-frequency data compared to standard models that use only daily observations. Additionally, we show that the intraday sampling frequency and method have significant implications for model fit in-sample. Finally, we consider an extensive out-of-sample exercise to forecast the conditional return distribution. The out-of-sample results for the Realized GARCH forecasts suggest a limited added value from using “traditional” realized volatility measures. For the conditional variance, a small gain is found, but for densities the opposite is the case. We conclude that realized measures of volatility developed in recent years must be used with caution in this market, and importantly that the use of high-frequency financial data in this market leaves much room for future research.
C40|Rendimiento privado de la educación y prima salarial en España. Un meta-análisis|El objetivo de este trabajo es realizar una revisión sistemática de los estudios que han abordado la estimación de primas salariales y, en su caso, de los rendimientos privados de la educación en España. En un trabajo anterior (Braña, 2012) se incluía una revisión de trabajos que han estimado primas salariales o rendimientos de la educación, habiendo encontrado 80 trabajos. Continuando con la revisión se han encontrado 20 trabajos más. Para hacer una revisión sistemática de los resultados de trabajos de investigación sobre un tema concreto existe una técnica, aplicada originalmente en el campo de la epidemiología, conocida como meta-análisis, que permite que la revisión de los resultados se haga de manera rigurosa con objeto alcanzar conclusiones válidas a partir de la evidencia disponible. En la aplicación del meta-análisis seguiremos las guías que ha elaborado la Meta-Analysis of Economics Research Network (MAER-Net), publicadas recientemente (T. D. Stanley et allia, 2013).
C40|Province-level Convergence of China CO2 Emission Intensity| This study offers a unique contribution to the literature by investigating the convergence of province-level carbon dioxide emission intensity among a panel of 30 provinces in China over the period 1990-2010. We use a novel, spatial dynamic panel data model to evaluate an empirically testable hypothesis of convergence among provinces. Our results suggest that: (1) CO2 emission intensities are converging across provinces in China; (2) the rate of convergence is higher with the dynamic panel data model than the cross-sectional regression models; and, (3) province-level CO2 emission intensities are spatially correlated and the rate of convergence, when controlling for spatial autocorrelation, is higher than with the non-spatial models.
C40|The Biggest Bang for the Buck: Valuation of Various Components of a Regional Promotion Campaign by Participating Restaurants| This study examined how various components of the Certified South Carolina campaign are valued by participating restaurants. A choice experiment was conducted to estimate the average willingness to pay (WTP) for each campaign component using a mixed logit model. Three existing campaign components—Labeling, Multimedia Advertising, and the ‘‘Fresh on the Menu’’ program—were found to have a significant positive economic value. Results also revealed that the type of restaurant, the level of satisfaction with the campaign, and the factors motivating participation significantly affected restaurants’ WTP for the campaign components.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C40|The Biggest Bang for the Buck: Valuation of Various Components of a Regional Promotion Campaign by Participating Restaurants| This study examined how various components of the Certified South Carolina campaign are valued by participating restaurants. A choice experiment was conducted to estimate the average willingness to pay (WTP) for each campaign component using a mixed logit model. Three existing campaign components—Labeling, Multimedia Advertising, and the ‘‘Fresh on the Menu’’ program—were found to have a significant positive economic value. Results also revealed that the type of restaurant, the level of satisfaction with the campaign, and the factors motivating participation significantly affected restaurants’ WTP for the campaign components.
C40|Catchment Areas and Access to Better Schools|We compare popular school choice mechanisms in terms of children's access to better schools (ABS) than their catchment area school, in districts with school stratification and where priority is given for residence in the catchment area of the school. In a large market model with two good schools and one bad school, we calculate worst-case and best-case bounds of the Boston Mechanism (BM). We find that both BM and DA convey a non-negligible risk that catchment area priority fully determines the final assignment regardless parents' preferences. Top-Trading Cycles is an alternative that provides more access to better schools than DA.
C40|Extremal Dependence in International Output Growth: Tales from the Tails|" type=""main"" xml:id=""obes12032-abs-0001""> This article explores the comovement of the economic activity of several OECD countries during periods of large negative and positive growth. Extremal dependence measures are here applied to assess the degree of cross-country tail dependence of output growth rates. Our main empirical findings are: (i) cross-country tail dependence is much stronger during periods of large negative growth, than during the ones of large positive growth; (ii) cross-country growth is asymptotically independent; (iii) cross-country tail dependence is considerably stronger than the one arising from a Gaussian dependence model. In addition, our results suggest that, among the typical determinants for explaining international output growth synchronization, only economic specialization similarity seems to play a role during such extreme periods."
C40|A Study Regarding The Major Geographical Disparities In The Romanian Number Of Schools|According to a new report of the European Commission, the European area in which one lives can have a considerable influence on the education and on the life perspectives. The report - the first one of this kind – urges the member states of the European Union to undertake more efforts in order to reduce these inequalities. Starting with the results that are included in this report, the current paper aims to move the analysis to the Romanian space, studying the discrepancies between macro regions (NW, Center, NE, SE, South-Muntenia, Bucharest – Ilfov, SW, West) to the principal educational indicators. The research is going to use the FAC method (The Factorial Analysis of the Correspondents) which is a descriptive method of multidimensional analysis of the data based on the calculus of the χ2 distances between the points. Through this method we are going to test not only the independence of the variables, but their association as well.
C40|A Note on Regressions with Interval Data on a Regressor|Motivated by Manski and Tamer (2002) and especially their partial identification analysis of the regression model where one covariate is only interval-measured, we present two extensions. Manski and Tamer (2002) propose two estimation approaches in this context, focussing on general results. The modified minimum distance (MMD) estimates the true identified set and the modified method of moments (MMM) a superset. Our first contribution is to characterize the true identified set and the superset. Second, we complete and extend the Monte Carlo study of Manski and Tamer (2002). We present benchmark results using the exact functional form for the expectation of the dependent variable conditional on observables to compare with results using its nonparametric estimate, and illustrate the superiority of MMD over MMM.
C40|Identifying excessive credit growth and leverage|Unsustainable credit developments lead to the build-up of systemic risks to financial stability. While this is an accepted truth, how to assess whether risks are getting out of hand remains a challenge. To identify excessive credit growth and aggregate leverage we propose an early warning system, which aims at predicting banking crises. In particular, we use a modern classification tree ensemble technique, the “Random Forest”, and include (global) credit as well as real estate variables as predictors.
C40|Co-movements of GCC emerging stock markets: New evidence from wavelet coherence analysis|This paper examines the short term and long term dependencies between stock market returns for the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Countries (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) during the period 2005–2010. Our empirical investigation is based on the wavelet squared coherence which allows us to assess the co-movement in both time-frequency spaces. Our results reveal frequent changes in the pattern of the co-movements especially after 2007 for all the selected GCC markets at relatively higher frequencies. We further note an increasing strength of dependence among the GCC stock markets during the last financial crisis signifying enhanced portfolio benefits for investors in the short term relative to the long term. On the financial side, we uncover that the strength of co-movement between GCC markets may impact the multi-country portfolio's value at risk (VaR) levels. These findings provide potential implications for portfolio managers operating in the GCC region who are invited to consider co-movement through both frequencies and time when designing their portfolios.
C40|The price stability under inflation targeting regime: An analysis with a new intermediate approach|This paper analyzes the relevance of the inflation targeting (IT) policy in achieving its primary goal of medium-term price stability. Contrary to previous studies, we propose, in this work, a new approach; an intermediate approach that consists in conducting a time-series analysis (employed in the literature under unilateral cases-absolute approach) with a comparison of inflation performance of IT countries and those of non-IT countries (comparison made in literature under the relative approach). Empirically, we employ a frequency analysis based on evolutionary spectral theory of Priestley (1965–1996) in order to distinguish between different inflation horizons; short-run and the medium-run inflation rates. To check the stability of spectral density functions for inflation series for each country under studied frequencies, we apply a Bai and Perron (2003a,b) test. Our results show that after IT framework implementation, there is no break point in inflation series in short and medium terms. This result is not verified for non-IT countries. Therefore, IT is more relevant in achieving price stability and consequently more effective on inflation expectation anchoring than other monetary policies.
C40|Sluggish US employment recovery after the Great Recession: Cyclical or structural factors?|This paper aims at investigating the causes of the observed departure of employment path from the GDP movements occurred in US in the late of 2008 onwards. Starting from a production function approach, and assuming that the TFP growth is explained by variables linked to the business cycle, we are able to formulate an extended version of Okun’s law based on cyclical factors. Out-of-sample forecasting for the period 2008 onward shows that predicted US employment is on average 1.7% above the observed one, meaning that this gap cannot be attributed to identified cyclical factors.
C40|Timescale-dependent stock market comovement: BRICs vs. developed markets|This paper examines the differences in the asset return comovement of the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China), the other developed economies in their regions (Canada, Hong Kong and Australia) and the major industrialized economies (the U.K., Germany and Japan) with respect to the U.S. for different return periods. The novelty of the paper is that the stock return indices are decomposed to several timescales using wavelet analysis and that the results are further used as inputs for the dynamic conditional correlation (DCC) framework, which is used as a measure of comovement. The results propose that the level of stock market comovement depends on regional aspects, the level of development and especially on the timescale of returns. These factors should be carefully considered in designing internationally diversified portfolios. The BRICs provide some portfolio diversification benefits, but it is not justifiable to treat all BRICs as a homogeneous group of emerging economies in terms of stock market comovement.
