C41|Age discontinuity and nonemployment benefit policy evaluation through the lens of job search theory|A recent strand of papers use sharp regression discontinuity designs (RDD) based on age discontinuity to study the impacts of minimum income and unemployment insurance benefit extension policies. This design challenges job search theory, which predicts that such RDD estimates are biased. Owing to market frictions, people below the age threshold account for future eligibility to the policy. This progressively affects their search outcomes as they get closer to entitlement. Comparing them to eligible people leads to biased estimates because both groups of workers are actually treated. We provide a nonstationary job search model and illustrate the theoretical biaseson the datasets used in the literature. Our results suggest that the employment impact of minimum income policies are (significantly) under-estimated, whereas the impacts of benefit extensions on nonemployment duration are (not significantly) over-estimated.
C41|Timed to Say Goodbye: Does Unemployment Benefit Eligibility Affect Worker Layoffs?|We study how unemployment benefit eligibility affects the layoff exit rate by exploiting quasi-experimental variation in eligibility rules in Italy. By using a difference-indifferences estimator, we find an instantaneous increase of about 12% in the layoff probability when unemployment benefit eligibility is attained, which persists for about 16 weeks. These findings are robust to different identifying assumptions and are mostly driven by jobs started after the onset of the Great Recession, in the South and for small firms. We argue that the moral hazard from the employer’s side is the main force driving these layoffs.
C41|What Happens When Voting Rules Change? The Case of New Zealand|This paper examines the impact of New Zealand’s 1996 adoption of a mixed member proportional (MMP) voting scheme on representation in the legislature, voter turnout, vote volatility and the likelihood of an incumbent party winning re-election. I then consider whether MMP has had any negative consequences for the effectiveness of government policy in relation to fiscal accountability and countercyclical intervention. The data used in the analysis begins from the formation of the party system in New Zealand (in 1890) and extends through the adoption of MMP to the present (2017). The data set covers 42 elections: 34 before 1996 and 8 after.
C41|Another Look at “Bank Competition and Financial Stability: Much Ado about Nothing?”|This study replicates Zigraiova and Havranek’s (2016) meta-analysis of banking competition and financial stability. It performs multiple types of replications: a “Reproduction” replication where Z&H’s data and code are verified to reproduce the results of their study; a “Repetition” replication where the studies used by Z&H are independently recoded and then re-analyzed; an “Extension” replication where additional studies on banking competition and stability are analyzed; and a “Robustness Analysis” where we check Z&H’s results using an alternative empirical procedure. Our analysis strongly confirms Z&H’s main finding that competition in the banking sector has an economically negligible effect on financial stability. This result is consistently confirmed across a variety of replication analyses. Most impressively, we confirm their finding even when we analyze a completely independent set of 35 studies not included in Z&H’s meta-analysis. Our results for Z&H’s other findings are less supportive. As the first comprehensive replication of a meta-analysis, this study also provides insights into the robustness of meta-analysis. We find that meta-regression analysis, where estimated effects are related to data, estimation, and study characteristics, is sensitive to how data are coded and to the choice of estimation procedure; and that this sensitivity extends to “best practice” estimates.
C41|Local Constant-Quality Housing Market Liquidity Indices|The average time on market (TOM) of sold properties is frequently used by practitioners and policymakers as a market liquidity indicator. This figure might be misleading as the average TOM only considers properties that have been sold. Furthermore, traded properties are heterogeneous. Since these features differ over the cycle, the average TOM could provide wrong signals about market liquidity. These problems are more severe in markets where properties trade infrequently. In this paper, a methodology is provided that allows for the construction of constant-quality housing market liquidity indices in thin markets that can be estimated up to the end of the sample. The latter is particularly important since market watchers are generally interested in the most recent information regarding market liquidity and less in historical information. Using individual transactions data on three different types of Dutch municipalities (small, medium, and large) it is shown that the average TOM overestimates market liquidity in bad times and underestimates market liquidity in good times. The option to withdraw is the most important reason why the average TOM is misleading. Furthermore, constant-quality liquidity leads the average TOM and price changes. The indices not only show that illiquidity is higher during busts, but also that liquidity risk is higher. Additional results suggest that setting a high list price relative to the estimated value results in a higher TOM, but this effect differs over time. Both the list price premium and the effect on sale probability are higher during busts. Differences in housing quality over the cycle, however, also play a significant role. Finally, the method allows for the construction of indices that are more robust to revisions, especially in thinner markets.
C41|Mortgage Loss Severities: What Keeps Them So High?|Mortgage loss-given-default (LGD) increased significantly when house prices plummeted and delinquencies rose during the financial crisis, but it has remained over 40 percent in recent years despite a strong housing recovery. Our results indicate that the sustained high LGDs post-crisis are due to a combination of an overhang of crisis-era foreclosures and prolonged foreclosure timelines, which have offset higher sales recoveries. Simulations show that cutting foreclosure timelines by one year would cause LGD to decrease by 5–8 percentage points, depending on the trade-off between lower liquidation expenses and lower sales recoveries. Using difference-in-differences tests, we also find that recent consumer protection programs have extended foreclosure timelines and increased loss severities in spite of their benefits of increasing loan modifications and enhancing consumer protections.
C41|A flexible approach to age dependence in organizational mortality. Comparing the life duration for cooperative and non-cooperative enterprises using a Bayesian Generalized Additive Discrete Time Survival Model|This paper proposes a new estimation model to capture the complex effect of age on organization survival. Testing various theoretical propositions on organizational mortality, we study the survival of French agricultural cooperatives in comparison with other firms with which they compete. The relationship between age and mortality in organizations is analyzed using a Bayesian Generalized discrete-time semi-parametric hazard model with correlated random effects, incorporating unobserved heterogeneity and isolating the various effects of time. This analysis emphasizes the specificity of the temporal dynamics of cooperatives in relation to their special role in agriculture.
C41|The impact of sanctions for young welfare recipients on transitions to work and wages and on dropping out|The reintegration of young welfare recipients into the labor market is a major policy goal in many European countries. In this context monitoring and sanctions are important policy tools. In this paper, we analyze the impact of strict sanctions on job search outcomes for young welfare recipients in Germany. The German benefit system is characterized by harsh sanctions for this group. Strict sanctions effectively take away the benefits for three months if young welfare recipients do not comply with their job search requirements. We jointly analyze the impact of these sanctions on job search outcomes and on dropping out of the labor force based on administrative data on a large inflow sample of young male jobseekers into welfare. We estimate multivariate duration models taking selection based on unobservables into account. Our results indicate that there is a trade off between an increased job entry rate and an increased withdrawal from the labor force as well as lower entry wages. Sanctions increase the probability of finding a job, but these jobs go along with lower earnings. Moreover, sanctions significantly increase the probability of dropping out.
C41|“Testing for private information using trade duration models with unobserved market heterogeneity: The case of Banco Popular”|In this paper, we attempt to assess the potential importance of different types of traders (i.e., those with public and private information) in financial markets using a specification of the standardized duration. This approach allows us to test unobserved heterogeneity in a nonlinear version based on a self-exciting threshold autoregressive conditional duration model. We illustrate the relevance of this procedure for identifying the presence of private information in the final days of trading of Banco Popular, the first bank rescued by the European Single Resolution Board.
C41|Education and life-expectancy and how the relationship is mediated through changes in behaviour: a principal stratification approach for hazard rates|We investigate the causal impact of education on life-expectancy using data for England and Wales from the Health and Lifestyles Survey and how that impact is mediated through changes in health behaviour (smoking, exercise, having breakfast). For identification of the educational gain in mortality we employ a Regression Discontinuity Design implied by an increase in the minimum school leaving age in 1947 (from 14 to 15) together with a principal stratification method for the mortality hazard rate. This method allows us to derive the direct and indirect (through one or more mediators) effect of education on the implied life-expectancy. Basic maximum likelihood estimation of a standard Gompertz hazard model for the mortality rate suggests that staying in school beyond age 15 years significantly increases life-expectancy by more than 14 years, with large indirect effects running through smoking and exercise. In contrast, estimates from the principal strata method indicate that the educational gain is much smaller (and statistically insignificant) for those who were induced to remain in school beyond age 15. The direct effect of education is even negative for females (but statistically insignificant). Neither, do we find statistically significant indirect effects of education on mortality running through health behaviour.
C41|Timed to say goodbye: Does unemployment benefit eligibility affect worker layoffs?|We study how unemployment benefit eligibility affects the layoff exit rate by exploiting quasiexperimental variation in eligibility rules in Italy. By using a difference-in-differences estimator, we find an instantaneous increase of about 12% in the layoff probability when unemployment benefit eligibility is attained, which persists for about 16 weeks. These findings are robust to different identifying assumptions and are mostly driven by jobs started after the onset of the Great Recession, in the South and for small firms. We argue that the moral hazard from the employer's side is the main force driving these layoffs.
C41|Age Discontinuity and Nonemployment Benefit Policy Evaluation through the Lens of Job Search Theory|A recent strand of papers use sharp regression discontinuity designs (RDD) based on age discontinuity to study the impacts of minimum income and unemployment insurance benefit extension policies. This design challenges job search theory, which predicts that such RDD estimates are biased. Owing to market frictions, people below the age threshold account for future eligibility to the policy. This progressively affects their search outcomes as they get closer to entitlement. Comparing them to eligible people leads to biased estimates because both groups of workers are actually treated. We provide a nonstationary job search model and quantify the theoretical biases on the datasets used in the literature. Our results suggest that the employment impact of minimum income policies are (significantly) under-estimated, whereas the impacts of benefit extensions on nonemployment duration are (not significantly) over-estimated.
C41|Information Environments and High Price Impact Trades: Implication for Volatility and Price Efficiency|Using high-frequency transaction and Limit Order Book (LOB) data, we extend the identification dimensions of High Price Impact Trades (HPITs) by using LOB matchedness. HPITs are trades associated with disproportionately large price changes relative to their proportion of volume. We nd that a higher presence of HPITs leads to a decline in volatility due to more contrarian trades against uninformed traders, but this decline varies with information environments and liquidity levels. Further, we show that more HPITs lead to higher price eciency for stocks with greater public disclosure and higher liquidity. Our empirical results provide evidence that HPITs mainly reect fundamental-based information in a high public information environment, and belief-based information in a low public information environment.
C41|Zero-Inflated Autoregressive Conditional Duration Model for Discrete Trade Durations with Excessive Zeros|In finance, durations between successive transactions are usually modeled by the autoregressive conditional duration model based on a continuous distribution omitting frequent zero values. Zero durations can be caused by either split transactions or independent transactions. We propose a discrete model allowing for excessive zero values based on the zero-inflated negative binomial distribution with score dynamics. We establish the invertibility of the score filter. Additionally, we derive sufficient conditions for the consistency and asymptotic normality of the maximum likelihood of the model parameters. In an empirical study of DJIA stocks, we find that split transactions cause on average 63% of zero values. Furthermore, the loss of decimal places in the proposed model is less severe than incorrect treatment of zero values in continuous models.
C41|A Bayesian Gamma Frailty Model Using the Sum of Independent Random Variables: Application of the Estimation of an Interpurchase Timing Model|In statistics, researchers have rigorously investigated the reproductive property, which maintains that the sum of independent random variables with the same distribution follows the same family of distributions. However, even if a distribution of the sum of random variables demonstrates the reproductive property, estimating parameters appropriately from only summed observations is difficult. This is because of identification problems when component random variables have different parameters. In this study, we develop a method to effectively estimate parameters from the sum of independent random variables with different parameters. In particular, we focus on the sum of Gamma random variables composed of two types of distributions. We generalize the result according to Moschopoulos(1985) to a proportional hazard model with covariates and a frailty model to capture individual heterogeneities. Additionally, to estimate each parameter from the sum of random variables, we incorporate auxiliary information using quasi-Bayesian methods, and we propose the estimation procedure by Markov chain Monte Carlo. We confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method through a simulation study and apply it to the interpurchase timing model in marketing.
C41|Birth and Employment Transitions of Women in Turkey: Conflicting or Compatible Roles?|The relationship between fertility and employment among women is a challenging topic that requires further exploration, especially for developing countries where the micro and macro evidence fails to paint a clear picture. This study analyzes the two-way relationship between women's employment and fertility in Turkey using a hazard approach with piece-wise constant exponential modelling, using data from the 2008 Turkey Demographic and Health Survey. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first study that makes use of an event history analysis to analyze this relationship within a developing country context. Specifically, a separate analysis is made of the association between the employment statuses of women in their first, second, third, and fourth and higher order conceptions, and the association of fertility and its various dimensions with entry and exit from employment. The findings suggest that a two-way negative association exists between fertility and employment among women in Turkey, with increasing intensities identified among some groups of women. Our findings also cast light on how contextual changes related to the incompatibility of the roles of worker and mother have transformed the fertility-employment relationship in Turkey, in line with propositions of the role incompatibility hypothesis.
C41|Dynamic Causal Effects of Post-Migration Schooling on Labour Market Transitions|Immigrants often experience difficulties integrating the local labor market. In Canada, the government of Quebec implemented a program back in 1996 that explicitly selected highly qualified workers (Bachelors’, Masters’ or PhD’s). This paper investigates the extent to which the return to foreign-acquired human capital is different from the education acquired in Quebec. Specifically, we seek to estimate the benefits of post-migration education over foreign-education on the transitions between qualified and unqualified jobs and unemployment by means of a multiple-spells and multiple-states model. Our results indicate that immigrants originating from well-off countries have no need to further invest in domestic education. On the other hand, immigrants from poorer countries, despite being highly qualified, benefit greatly from such training in the long run as it eases their transitions into qualified and unqualified jobs and out of unemployment. Our results also indicate that selection into domestic education needs to be accounted for to avoid significant selection problems.
C41|Dynamic Causal Effects of Post-Migration Schooling on Labour Market Transitions|Immigrants often experience diÿculties integrating the local labor market. In Canada, the govern-ment of Quebec implemented a program back in 1996 that explicitly selected highly qualified workers (Bachelors’, Masters’ or PhD’s). This paper investigates the extent to which the return to foreign-acquired human capital is di˙erent from the education acquired in Quebec. Specifically, we seek to estimate the benefits of post-migration education over foreign-education on the transitions between qualified and un-qualified jobs and unemployment by means of a multiple-spells and multiple-states model. Our results indicate that immigrants originating from well-o˙ countries have no need to further invest in domestic education. On the other hand, immigrants from poorer countries, despite being highly qualified, benefit greatly from such training in the long run as it eases their transitions into qualified and unqualified jobs and out of unemployment. Our results also indicate that selection into domestic education needs to be accounted for to avoid significant selection problems.
C41|Economic and political drivers of the duration of credit booms|This paper presents a new perspective on the study of credit booms by examining what determines their duration and by testing for relevant political features. The results from the estimation of a discrete-time duration model show that not only economic factors but also political dynamics play an important role in explaining the duration of credit booms. These are found to last longer when the economy is both growing faster and exhibits lower levels of liquidity in the banking system; but credit booms tend to be shorter when countries improve their current account position. Furthermore, their duration is affected by the electoral cycle as well as when centre parties are in office. Credit expansions that end in a banking crisis are also found to be statistically longer and their duration more sensitive to economic and political factors. Finally, we find strong evidence that Central Bank independence and the length of credit booms are inversely related.
C41|Estimation of competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity using hsmlogit|This article presents hsmlogit, a new Stata command that estimates multispells discrete time competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity. hsmlogit allows for the estimation of one, two and up to three competing risks, as well as a maximum of ve points of support for the identication of unobserved heterogeneity distribution (Heckman and Singer, 1984). The main contribution of hsmlogit is that allows for exploiting the richness of large longitudinal micro datasets, by estimating competing risks duration models, instead of one-risk models (such as hshaz and hshaz2), as well as it takes into account the presence of unobserved heterogeneity affecting transition rates. In addition to this, and taking into account the larger size of longitudinal micro datasets used for the estimation of discrete time duration models, hsmlogit also provides the algebraic expressions of both rst and second order derivatives that, respectively, dene the gradient vector and Hessian matrix, which signicantly reduce time required to achieve model convergence.
C41|Bayesian inference and prediction of a multiple-change-point panel model with nonparametric priors|Change point models using hierarchical priors have been very successful estimating the parameter values of short-lived regimes. However, hierarchical priors have been parametric which leads to shrinkage in the estimates of extraordinary regime parameters. We overcome this by modeling the hierarchical priors nonparametrically. We also extend the change point to a panel of change point processes where the prior shares in the probabilities of changing regimes. When applied to the returns from a panel of actively managed, US equity, mutual funds our multiple-change-point panel model finds mutual fund skill is not persistent but changes over time.
C41|Simple Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley (1935) to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the riskfree rate.
C41|Simple Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley (1935) to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the risk-free rate.
C41|Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the risk-free rate.
C41|Entrepreneurial motivation and business performance: evidence from a French Microfinance Institution|Abstract This article examines the link between entrepreneurial motivation and business performance in the French microfinance context. Using hand-collected data on business microcredits from a Microfinance Institution (MFI), we provide an indirect measure of entrepreneurial success through loan repayment performance. Controlling for the endogeneity of entrepreneurial motivation in a bivariate probit model, we find that “necessity entrepreneurs” are more likely to have difficulty repaying their microcredits than “opportunity entrepreneurs”. However, type of motivation does not appear to make a difference to business survival. We test for the robustness of our results using parametric duration models and show that necessity entrepreneurs experience difficulties in loan repayment earlier than their opportunity counterparts, corroborating our initial findings. Our results are also robust to a sharper analysis of motivation, focusing on unemployment (on the necessity side) and non-pecuniary benefits from success (on the opportunity side).
C41|Business Training and Loan Repayment: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|Although most Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) invest in non-financial services such as business training, empirical evidence on the impact of training on microborrowers’ performance is at best mixed. We address this issue by accounting for business training allocation and its possible effects on borrowers’ behavior. We first show empirically (using data from a French MFI) that the relationship between business training allocation and borrowers’ risk is complex and non- linear. By taking this into account, we establish a positive effect of business training on the survival time of loans. These results are robust to controlling for the MFI’s selection process. We moreover propose a theoretical explanation for the non-linear relationship between borrowers’ risk and training allocation based on reverse asymmetric information, showing that it can lead to increased MFI outreach.
C41|The marginal cost of track reinvestments in the Swedish railway network: Using data to compare methods|In this study, we analyze the difference between survival and corner solution models in estimating the marginal cost of reinvestments. Both approaches describe the reinvestment process in rather intuitively similar ways but have several methodological distinctions. We use Swedish railway data on track segment and section levels over the period 1999-2016 and focus on reinvestments in track superstructure. Results suggest the marginal costs from survival and corner solution models are SEK 0.0041 and SEK 0.0103, respectively. The conclusion is that the corner solution model is more appropriate, as this method consider the impact traffic has on the risk of reinvestment as well as on the size of the reinvestment cost. The survival approach does not consider the latter, which is problematic when we have systematic variations in costs due to traffic and infrastructure characteristics.
C41|Post-acquisition dynamics of technology start-ups: drawing the temporal boundaries of post-acquisition restructuring process|The evolutionary perspective is important in order to understand post-acquisition restructuring as a dynamic process. In particular, this paper focuses on how the survival pattern of target start-ups as autonomous business units changes over time. This study observes a large sample of Swedish technology start-ups entering from 1997 to 2002 and follows them until 2009. Based on a discrete-time duration analysis, we find that acquisition affects the survival of target start-ups differently in the short-run and the long-run. Within 4 years after acquisition, acquisition is found to lower the probability of survival of start-ups as autonomous business units. However, from the 5th year after acquisition, the acquisition effects tend to become positive, although not statistically significant after possible endogeneity of acquisition is controlled for. It is inferred that acquired start-ups experience an extensive selection and experimentation internally by acquirers through post-acquisition restructuring within 4 years after acquisition. During the process, target start-ups’ operations are temporally disrupted
C41|Time-Dependency in Producers’ Price Adjustments: Evidence from Micro Panel Data|Existing micro evidence of firms’ price changes tends to show a downward sloping hazard rate – the longer the price of a product has remained the same, the less likely it is that the price will change. Using a panel of Norwegian plant- and product-specific prices, we also find a downward sloping hazard when applying a Kaplan–Meier model. After having controlled for both observed and unobserved characteristics, we find flat hazards with spikes in the first and twelfth months. This suggests time-dependent price-setting by at least some of the producers. The spike after 12 months might be explained by seasonal demand effects, but also by the pricing season effect related to information acquisition and processing, negotiation and signing of price contracts. The revealed price adjustment pattern is at odds with the predictions of the Calvo model, a central element in many dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models, as this assumes constant frequencies of price adjustments over time. Our empirical findings instead point to a modified Calvo model where firms in some periods experience lower menu costs. Finally, the empirical findings may have implications for the effectiveness of monetary policy interventions.
C41|Firm-level investment spikes and aggregate investment over the Great Recession| Firm-level investment paths are commonly characterised by periods of low or zero investment punctuated by large investment ‘spikes’. We document that such spikes are important for understanding ?rm and aggregate level investment in the UK. We show that annual variation in aggregate investment is driven by variation in the number of ?rms undertaking investment spikes rather than in the size of spikes or in investment outside of spikes. Our main contribution is to set out and estimate a ?rm-level model of the timing of investment spikes that: (i) incorporates measures of macroeconomic conditions and can be used to replicate movements in aggregate investment; (ii) incorporates a role for ?rm capital structure, which we demonstrate explains part of ?rms’ heterogeneous investment responses to the Great Recession. We ?nd an important role for low demand growth in depressing investment in the recession and for ongoing uncertainty in prolonging investment weakness in later years. The minority of ?rms that persistently operate with high debt levels were signi?cantly less likely to undertake an investment spike after the recession, which is consistent with them having been more exposed to ?nancial distress.
C41|The Cyclicality of the Stepping Stone Effect of Temporary Agency Employment|This paper investigates whether the stepping stone effect of temporary agency employment moves over the business cycle. Using German administrative data for the period 1985-2012 and an estimation framework based on the timing-events model, we construct a time series of in-treatment and post-treatment effects and estimate their relationship to the aggregate unemployment rate. We find evidence for a strong lock-in effect of temporary agency employment that is even more pronounced in tight labor markets. This suggests that firms do not use agency employment as a screening device when unemployment is low. Moreover, we find a noticeable countercyclical positive post-treatment effect indicating that workers might be able to activate networks established while being in treatment. We further document that the treatment effects are non-linear over the business cycle.
C41|A Unique Bond: Twin Bereavement and Lifespan Associations of Identical and Fraternal Twins|Empirical analyses of twin mortality often use models with dependent unobserved frailty terms capturing genetic and childhood environmental determinants. This ignores that mortality rates can be co-dependent due to bereavement effects, i.e. to a time-dependent causal effect of the loss of the co-twin on the mortality rate of the surviving twin. We develop a novel methodology and perform an empirical analysis based on a comprehensive model incorporating both types of dependence. We prove full identification without functional-form restrictions and we estimate models with data on twin pairs from the Danish Twin Registry. Among men, the loss of an identical co-twin at age 75 causally reduces the remaining lifetime on average by more than a year. This bereavement effect is less severe among non-identical twins or if the loss occurs at a higher age. Estimates of correlations between the frailty terms by zygosity and the ensuing implications for the relative importance of mortality determinants are highly sensitive to whether bereavement is taken into account.
C41|The impact of mental problems on mortality and how it is moderated by education|Mental disorders have a large impact on invalidity and mortality. Poor mental health is associated with low education, which is also associated with poor health and higher mortality. The association between mental health and mortality may, therefore, be partly explained by the increased incidence of mental problems of the low educated. An important issue is that mental health problems, education attainment and mortality may all depend on the same observed and unobserved individual factors. Such confounding renders both the incidence of mental health problems and education endogenous in the mortality analysis. We account for both the selective incidence of mental health problems and selective educational attainment by using a correlated multistate model for the mental health (hospitalization) process (both admittance an discharge) and mortality with a re-weighting technique (inverse propensity weighting) based on the probability to attain higher education. We use Swedish Military Conscription Data (1951-1960), linked to the administrative Swedish death and National Hospital Discharge registers. We observe the timing of admittance and discharge from mental hospitals, the moment and cause of death and the education level. We estimate the effect of mental hospitalization and education on the morality rate and how the effect of mental hospitalization is moderated by education. Our empirical results indicate a strong effect of both mental hospitalization and education on mortality. Mental hospitalization affects mortality due to external causes of death in particular. Only for the low educated improving education moderates the impact of mental hospitalization on mortality. We also found that ignoring confounding would overestimate the impact of mental hospitalization on mortality. Accounting for confounding in mental hospitalization seems to be more important than accounting for selective educational attainment.
C41|Interdependent Hazards, Local Interactions, and the Return Decision of Recent Migrants|Consider the duration of stay of migrants in a host country. We propose a statistical model of locally interdependent hazards in order to examine whether interactions at the level of the neighbourhood are present and lead to social multipliers. To this end, we propose and study a new two-stage estimation strategy based on an inverted linear rank test statistic. Using a unique large administrative panel dataset for the population of recent labour immigrants to the Netherlands, we quantify the local social multipliers in several factual and counterfactual experiments, and demonstrate that these can be substantial.
C41|Bounds on Average and Quantile Treatment Effects on Duration Outcomes under Censoring, Selection, and Noncompliance|"We consider the problem of assessing the effects of a treatment on duration outcomes using data from a randomized evaluation with noncompliance. For such settings, we derive nonparametric sharp bounds for average and quantile treatment effects addressing three pervasive problems simultaneously: self-selection into the spell of interest, endogenous censoring of the duration outcome, and noncompliance with the assigned treatment. Ignoring any of these issues could yield biased estimates of the effects. Notably, the proposed bounds do not impose the independent censoring assumption|which is commonly used to address censoring but is likely to fail in important settings|or exclusion restrictions to address endogeneity of censoring and selection. Instead, they employ monotonicity and stochastic dominance assumptions. To illustrate the use of these bounds we assess the effects of the Job Corps (JC) training program on its participants' last complete employment spell duration. Our estimated bounds suggest that JC participation may increase the average duration of the last complete employment spell before week 208 after randomization by at least 5.6 log points (5.8 percent) for individuals who comply with their treatment assignment and experience a complete employment spell whether or not they enrolled in JC. The estimated quantile treatment effects suggest the impacts may be heterogeneous, and strengthen our conclusions based on the estimated average effects."
C41|Business Training Allocation and Credit Scoring: Theory and Evidence from Microcredit in France|The microcredit market, where inexperienced micro-borrowers meet experienced microfinance institutions (MFIs), is subject to reversed asymmetric information. Thus, MFIs' choices can shape borrowers' beliefs and their behavior. We analyze how this mechanism may influence microfinance institution decisions to allocate business training. By means of a theoretical model, we show that superior information can lead the MFI not to train (or to train less) riskier borrowers. We then investigate whether this mechanism is empirically relevant, using data from a French MFI.Confirming our theoretical reasoning, we find a non-monotonic relationship between the MFI's decision to train and the risk that micro-borrowers represent.
C41|Sufficient Statistics for Unobserved Heterogeneity in Structural Dynamic Logit Models|We study the identification and estimation of structural parameters in dynamic panel data logit models where decisions are forward-looking and the joint distribution of unobserved heterogeneity and observable state variables is nonparametric, i.e., fixed-effects model. We consider models with two endogenous state variables: the lagged decision variable, and the time duration in the last choice. This class of models includes as particular cases important economic applications such as models of market entry-exit, occupational choice, machine replacement, inventory and investment decisions, or dynamic demand of differentiated products. The identification of structural parameters requires a sufficient statistic that controls for unobserved heterogeneity not only in current utility but also in the continuation value of the forward-looking decision problem. We obtain the minimal sufficient statistic and prove identification of some structural parameters using a conditional likelihood approach. We apply this estimator to a machine replacement model.
C41|Optimal dynamic basis trading|Abstract We study the problem of dynamically trading a futures contract and its underlying asset under a stochastic basis model. The basis evolution is modeled by a stopped scaled Brownian bridge to account for non-convergence of the basis at maturity. The optimal trading strategies are determined from a utility maximization problem under hyperbolic absolute risk aversion risk preferences. By analyzing the associated Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman equation, we derive the exact conditions under which the equation admits a solution and solve the utility maximization explicitly. A series of numerical examples are provided to illustrate the optimal strategies and examine the effects of model parameters.
C41|How Long Does It Take You to Pay? A Duration Study of Canadian Retail Transaction Payment Times|Using an exclusive data set of payment times for retail transactions made in Canada, I show that cash is the most time-efficient method of payment (MOP) when compared with payments by debit and credit cards. I model payment efficiency using Cox proportional hazard models, accounting for consumer choice of MOP. I propose two instruments to identify and estimate the causal relationship between MOP and payment time: (1) the value of the transaction, and (2) the duration of the payment preceding the one under observation. Discounting consumer selection underestimates the efficiency of cash relative to cards. Overall, the efficiency of MOPs is an important component of the private and social costs of making and accepting payments. The efficiency of cash helps explain its continued use in Canada, which is motivated by its low cost in terms of payment time for consumers and merchants.
C41|The Duration in the Market of New Housing in Mexico|In this article we study the market duration of new housing built by developers in Mexico between 2013 and 2015. In particular, this document discusses whether the physical characteristics of housing, state of location, date put on sale, time of construction, the initial price and the size of the developer have any effect on the duration of new houses in the market. We use a survival analysis Cox model. The most important results indicate that the probability of a new house being sold between t and t+1 (hazard rate) decreases with time and, in general, is lower for units of larger size, those that took much time on the construction process, and those constructed by small developers.
C41|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
C41|Adaptation to catastrophic events with two layers uncertainty: Central planner perspective|We study the optimal adaptation to extreme climate events by the central gov- ernment in a setup where events are dynamically uncertain and the government does not know the true probabilities of events. We analyze dierent policy decision rules minimizing expected welfare losses for sites with dierent expected damages from the catastrophic event. We nd out under which conditions it is optimal to wait before implementation of a prevention measures to obtain more information about the underlying probabilistic process. This waiting time crucially depends on the information set of the planner and the implemented learning procedure. We study dierent learning procedures on behalf of the planner ranging from simple perfect learning to two-layers Bayesian updating in the form of Dirichlet mixture processes.
C41|Estimating Survival Times Using Swiss Hospital Data|We compare and evaluate two different approaches to estimate overall survival curvesfrom censored data of recurrent events: (1) standard survival time analysis, and (2) a multistate framework that explicitly estimates the mortality rate during censored periods. With both models, we estimate disease-specific survival curves with data from the Swiss Federal Statistical Office's medical statistics on hospitals (MedStat). Using cancer registry data as a benchmark for overall survival, we find that the accuracy of survival time estimates based on the multistate model are not superior to the simpler single-risk model. Although the computationally demanding multistate model is less accurate in predicting survival times, it may nevertheless be useful if intermediate transitions are the targeted issues.
C41|A Dynamic Model of Political Party Equilibrium: The Evolution of ENP in Canada, 1870–2015|The effective number of political parties (ENP) in a first-past-the-post single member (SMP) electoral system is analyzed as a dynamic process whereby the tournament nature of the election contest induces excessive entry and sunk entry costs promote persistence even as Duverger-Demsetz type political competition works to winnow unsuccessful minor candidates and parties. The result is a fringe of parties circulating in long run equilibrium. The factors hypothesized to affect the entry and exit of candidates and parties are analyzed first using an auto-regressive distributed lag (ARDL) model that allows for the separation of an evolving equilibrium time path from short run variations in response to transitory changes in conditioning variables and the process of convergence back to the long run equilibrium. The possibility that the short run adjustment process is asymmetric either for parties or candidates is tested adopting panel estimation techniques. The results are consistent with an observed time path for parties that incorporates slower adjustment to positive as opposed to negative shocks. Variations in the size and trend of both the long and short run are then examined for ENP’s ability to predict changes in the competitiveness of the Canadian federal electoral system.
C41|A Replication of “Are Competitive Banking Systems More Stable?” (Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking, 2009)|This study replicates Schaeck, Čihák, and Wolfe (2009), henceforth SCW, and performs a variety of robustness checks. Using a cross-country, time series sample of 45 countries from 1980-2005, SCW investigate the relationship between competition and concentration in the banking system, and the occurrence of country-level systemic crises. Their primary measure of competition in the banking industry is Panzar and Rosse’s H-statistic. Concentration is measured using a concentration ratio of the three largest banks. They conclude that (i) competition and concentration measure two separate dimensions of the banking sector, and (ii) greater competition is associated with fewer systemic crises. Using data and code provided by the authors, we are able to exactly reproduce the original results of SCW. However, we find that their results are not generally robust. While we confirm their results on concentration, when we extend the data to the current period and use updated variable values, we find that competition, as measured by the H-statistic, is consistently insignificant across both duration and logit models.
C41|A Replication of “Bank Competition and Financial Stability: Much Ado About Nothing?” (Journal of Economic Surveys, 2016)|This study replicates Zigraiova and Havranek’s (2016) meta-analysis of banking competition and financial stability. It performs three types of replications: a “Reproduction” replication where Z&H’s data and code are verified to reproduce the results of their study; a “Repetition” replication where the studies used by Z&H are independently recoded and then re-analyzed; and an “Extension” replication, where 35 additional studies on banking competition and stability are examined to see if they confirm Z&H’s findings. Our replication analyses confirm Z&H’s main finding that competition in the banking sector is unrelated to financial stability. However, we do not confirm their finding of publication selection in the “Extension” replication, and both “Repetition” and “Extension” replications fail to confirm most of Z&H’s findings about the effects of data, estimation, and study characteristics on estimated competition effects. While our “Repetition” replication produced a high match rate with Z&H’s data, we found that the meta-regression analysis was substantively impacted by discrepancies between the original and recoded data. We conclude that meta-regression analyses should be viewed with caution. We also demonstrate that “best practice” estimates can be precarious and highly dependent on variable specification and how “best practice” is defined. They likewise should be viewed with caution. Our study highlights the value-added that replication brings to meta-analyses. While some of Z&H’s results were found to not be robust, the fact that all three types of replications confirmed Z&H’s main finding about competition and stability provides strong evidence that this finding can be regarded with confidence.
C41|Chronic Poverty in Kazakhstan|Given the lack of longitudinal data for Central Asia, research on poverty has largely ignored the time dimension. This study uses panel data constructed from the rotating cross-sectional Kazakhstan Household Budget Survey for the 2001-2009 period. The panel data provides an opportunity to measure chronic poverty levels and poverty transitions for the first time in Kazakhstan. We find that, despite the rapid and substantial reduction in poverty in the country since the turn of the century, and depending on the measure of chronic poverty employed, as much as a quarter of the population has experienced persistent poverty. However, the majority of chronically poor experience interrupted poverty spells. We apply the multiple-spell hazard model analysis to shed light on factors that impact on poverty exit and re-entry. The results of these estimates confirm that families with children under age six are experiencing higher probability of entry into poverty and lower probability of exit from poverty. Policy interventions are needed to improve the situation by providing an affordable state child care system in Kazakhstan.
C41|Using Response Times to Measure Ability on a Cognitive Task|I show how using response times as a proxy for effort coupled with an explicit process-based model can address a long-standing issue of how to separate the effect of cognitive ability on performance from the effect of motivation. My method is based on a dynamic stochastic model of optimal effort choice in which ability and motivation are the structural parameters. I show how to estimate these parameters from the data on outcomes and response times in a cognitive task. In a laboratory experiment, I find that performance on a Digit-Symbol test is a noisy and biased measure of cognitive ability. Ranking subjects by their performance leads to an incorrect ranking by their ability in a substantial number of cases. These results suggest that interpreting performance on a cognitive task as ability may be misleading.
C41|La maternidad y el empleo formal en Colombia|Usando los registros de la Planilla Integrada de Liquidación de Aportes (PILA), en este documento se investigan las dinámicas de empleo de una población de mujeres jóvenes, que tenían trabajos formales y tomaron licencias de maternidad cuando estas aumentaron de 12 a 14 semanas. Al tratarse de un cambio no anticipado, se argumenta que la Ley 1468 de julio de 2011 dio un tratamiento diferenciado a las mujeres que estaban próximas a recibirla. Para diferentes grupos se compararon las probabilidades de conservar el empleo, iniciar uno nuevo, salir temporalmente de la formalidad o abandonarla permanentemente; en un periodo de 60 meses de observación desde el momento que iniciaron la licencia. Los resultados indican que las licencias protegen el empleo de las madres en el corto plazo y el aumento en la duración no afectó la probabilidad de continuar con el mismo empleo. Sin embargo, a largo plazo sí disminuyó la probabilidad de reengancharse en nuevos trabajos e incrementó la probabilidad de abandonar la formalidad. ******* ABSTRACT: Using the Colombian Integrated Record of Contributions to Social Security, this document investigates the labor dynamics of a population of young women, who had formal jobs and were close to receive a maternity leave when it was increased from 12 to 14 weeks. Being an unanticipated change, it is argued that the Law 1468 of July 2011 gave different treatments to these women. For an observational period of 60 months, intergroup comparisons were made using the probabilities to continue with the same job, to start a new one, to take a temporary leave from the formality, and to drop out of the formal labor market. Results show that the Colombian maternity leave does protect the employment of mothers in the short term; and the increase in duration did not affect the probability to continue with the same job. However, the long-term effects of an extended maternity leave would include lower probabilities to start new jobs and higher probabilities to abandon the formal market.
C41|Impacto de la mortalidad evitable en los patrones de mortalidad de la región Caribe, 1999—2014|Impacto de la mortalidad evitable en los patrones de mortalidad de la región Caribe, 1999—2014 Impact of avoidable mortality on mortality patterns in the Caribbean Region, 1999—2014 Alí M. Arrieta—Arrieta* Álvaro J. Flórez—Tanús** Nelson Alvis Guzmán*** * Economista. Universidad de Cartagena. Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Cartagena, Colombia. aarrietaa@unicartagena.edu.co ** Magíster en Economía de la Salud y del Medicamento (e). Universidad Pompeu Fabra. Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Universidad de Cartagena. Cartagena, Colombia. alvaroflorezt@gmail.com *** MD. MPH. Ph. D. Universidad de Cartagena. Profesor Titular — Senior Researcher. Director Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud –GIES. Cartage na, Colombia. nalvis@yahoo.com. Universidad de la Costa. Grupo de Investigaciones en Gestión Hospitalaria y Políticas de Salud. Resumen Actualmente la muerte es un hecho inevitable, sin embargo, la esperanza de vida ha cambiado de forma importante en el tiempo y aún en nuestros días difiere ampliamente entre grupos humanos. El avance de la tecnología sanitaria ha permitido que ciertas muertes puedan controlarse, postergarse o evitarse. Por ello, el objetivo de este artículo es medir el impacto que tienen las causas de muerte evitable, sobre las variables demográficas en la región Caribe colombiana, 1999—2014. Para lograrlo, se utilizó el método de eliminación hipotética de causas de muertes usando tablas de vidas. Los resultados indican que si en el periodo de estudio se hubiesen evitado algunas muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y causas externas de mortalidad, la esperanza de vida de esta población se hubiera prolongado significativamente. Palabras clave: Mortalidad evitable, tablas de vida, región Caribe, Colombia. Clasificación JEL: J10, J11, J18, C13, C41. Abstract Death is now an inevitable fact, however, life expectancy has changed significantly in time and still in our day it differs widely between human groups. The advancement of health technology has allowed certain causes of death to be controlled, postponed or avoided. Therefore, the objective of this research is to measure the impact of a preventable death cause on demographic variables in the Colombian Caribbean region 1999—2014. To achieve this, the hypothetical method of elimination death causes using life—tables. The results indicate that in this period of study, if deaths from diseases of the circulatory system and external causes of mortality had been avoided, the life expectancy of this population would have been significantly prolonged. Keyword: Avoidable mortality, life tables, Caribbean region, Colombia. JEL Codes: J10, J11, J18, C13, C41. 1. INTRODUCCIÓN La muerte es un hecho inevitable, sin embargo, la edad promedio de la defunción ha cambiado de forma importante a lo largo de la historia y aún en nuestros días var a ampliamente entre diferentes comunidades. Estas variaciones son el efecto de determinantes biológicos, ambientales, socioeconómicos y psicosociales, que influyen sobre el proceso vital. Dichos factores están sujetos a su vez a su propia dinámica histórica, se articulan de manera diferente y responden en grado variable a los avances tecnológicos (Gómez—Arias, 2008). Uno de los campos específicos del análisis de la mortalidad como fenómeno socioeconómico es el de la mortalidad evitable. Si bien es cierto que la muerte es un hecho inevitable, existen diferentes mecanismos o alternativas que hacen posible frenarla o postergarla si se interviene tempranamente en los factores que la desencadenan (Dávila—Cervantes & Agudelo—Botero, 2014). En el estudio de la mortalidad evitable se justifica, al igual que en el resto de causas de mortalidad, la incorporación de los factores socioeconómicos, a fin de explicar las desigualdades existentes en su distribución entre los diferentes grupos de población. Algunos autores han propuesto listas de causas de mortalidad evitable basadas en la Clasificación Internacional de Enfermedades (CIE), las cuales varían según el concepto que cada autor tenga sobre la evitabilidad de las diferentes condiciones. Este concepto toma importancia desde los años 70 en el campo de la epidemiología y en la literatura científica, sin embargo, no se cuenta con una definición exacta de ella. De acuerdo con Taucher (1978), a quien se le atribuye en gran parte el avance y desarrollo de este tema en América Latina, la estructura por causa de las defunciones está vinculada al grado de desarrollo de un país, ya que las tasas de mortalidad por causas se usan como indicadores del nivel de salud e identificación de los principales problemas de la población, porque es más fácil medir la mortalidad que la morbilidad. De acuerdo con Acosta & Romero (2014), las causas de muerte más sobresalientes están constantemente relacionadas con factores que pueden ser evitables, en la medida en que se pueda entender de qué se muere la población y cuáles son los grupos más vulnerables. Indagar sobre el tema de mortalidad evitable continúa siendo de vital interés en los campos de la demografía, la salud pública y la planificación del desarrollo. Esto puede atribuirse en gran medida a las relaciones existentes entre mortalidad y condiciones socioeconómicas, que se reflejan en diferencias de niveles y de causas de mortalidad entre países y entre sectores de un mismo país (Taucher, 1978). Así, la mortalidad evitable es considerada como uno de los indicadores más importantes al momento de medir las condiciones y calidad de vida de una población. El término evitabilidad depende en gran parte de las condiciones socioeconómicas de cada país. En el caso de Colombia y, en especial, la región Caribe, se experimenta una importante transición demográfica y epidemiológica, acompañada del avance tecnológico y el desarrollo científico en la medicina; así, las causas de muerte por enfermedades transmisibles se desplazan por enfermedades no transmisibles (cardiovasculares y cánceres) (Acosta & Romero P., 2014). En tal sentido, el estudio de la mortalidad evitable constituye un factor importante para medir el desempeño de los sistemas de salud y de los avances en desarrollo y bienestar en una comunidad. Las muertes evitables representan un costo social. En efecto, cuanto más joven es la persona que fallece “antes de lo esperado”, se provoca un impacto mayor sobre el capital humano de una ciudad, región o país (Alvis—Guzmán & Alvis—Estrada, 2009). Por ello, el objetivo de esta investigación es medir el impacto que tiene la mortalidad evitable, sobre los patrones de mortalidad de los habitantes de la región Caribe colombiana, durante el periodo 1999 a 2014. 2. MORTALIDAD EVITABLE: UNA REVISIÓN A LA LITERATURA INTERNACIONAL Y NACIONAL El concepto de mortalidad evitable tiene su origen hace cuatro décadas, y es el resultado del cuestionamiento por el impacto de los avances de la medicina en el descenso de la mortalidad observado durante la primera mitad del siglo XX. También se debe en gran parte al interés de un grupo de expertos de la Universidad de Harvard por desarrollar indicadores colectivos e individuales para evaluar la calidad de la atención médica (Franco et al., 2006). El uso de la mortalidad por causas específicas para evaluar el estado de los servicios sanitarios y las políticas públicas en salud asistencial nace en el siglo XX. Juanatey (2015) señala que los primeros vestigios datan desde el año 1928 en Reino Unido, donde se efectuaron estudios acerca de la mortalidad materna con la finalidad de identificar los errores y las áreas en las que se podrían realizar mejoras, y así poder evitar muertes innecesarias. Asimismo, plantea que en Estados Unidos se realizaron estudios similares en 1930, lo que conllevó a reducciones importantes en las tasas de mortalidad materna. El concepto toma mayor fuerza a partir de la década de los 70, con los importantes aportes de Rutstein, a quien se le atribuye ser el padre del concepto de evitabilidad (Rutstein et al. 1976). Él dirigió el Grupo Activo de Enfermedades Evitables y Manejables, el cual tomó como fuente el concepto de médicos especialistas y elaboró una lista de enfermedades, incapacidades y causas de muerte conocidas, consideradas innecesariamente precoces, pues si todo lo que se tenía que hacer se hubiera hecho, dichas defunciones se hubieran prevenido o retrasado. Este grupo desarrolló un método de medición de la calidad de los cuidados médicos, sustentado en contar los casos de enfermedades innecesarias, discapacidad y muertes prematuras. Por tanto, construyeron una lista de 90 condiciones que denominaron “eventos centinela de la salud”, pues suponían que su presencia era una señal de alerta para el seguimiento de la atención médica, ya que los casos de enfermedad, discapacidad o muerte en estas condiciones se consideran prevenibles y/o tratables mediante atención médica adecuada y oportuna (Rutstein et al., 1976). Para el grupo de Rutstein (1976), el hallazgo de muertes clasificadas como evitables debía interpretarse como una señal de alarma para las autoridades sanitarias, pues estas defunciones constituían indicadores de que la calidad de la atención médica, en alguno de sus niveles, era susceptible de mejorar. En consecuencia, se proponía incorporar el estudio de las causas de muerte evitable a los sistemas de vigilancia en salud pública (Juanatey, 2015). Para la década de los 80, aparece un grupo de investigadores británicos, que tiene como máximo exponente a Charlton. Este grupo de investigadores fue el pionero en utilizar el concepto de mortalidad evitable en un estudio empírico con datos procedentes de Inglaterra y Gales (Charlton et al., 1983), y en examinar las tendencias nacionales e internacionales. Rescatan la preocupación y necesidad de diseñar indicadores del resultado de la atención médica contra los cuales pudiera evaluarse el uso de los recursos. Es decir, el propósito central iba encaminado a establecer índices que pudieran mostrar el resultado de las intervenciones médicas. Así, Charlton et al. (1983) afianzaron la posibilidad de poder usar la mortalidad evitable como indicador para monitorizar el proceso y los resultados de la atención sanitaria. Los primeros resultados de las investigaciones de este grupo muestran que los factores sociales cobran un papel importante a la hora de comparar las razones estandarizadas de mortalidad, ya que se encontraron variaciones determinantes entre las diferentes regiones, es decir que la muerte evitable, así como la atención médica, eran también influenciadas por factores sociales. Pero las diferencias permanecían después del ajuste por factores sociales, sugiriendo que la variación en la mortalidad por estas causas se relacionaba también con los servicios de salud. Posteriormente, para la segunda mitad de la década de los años 1980 aparecen los aportes de Holland (1986), quien, junto con otro grupo de investigadores, por medio del Programa de Investigación de Servicios de Salud de la Comunidad Europea, publicó el Atlas de Mortalidad Evitable de la Comunidad Europea. En los análisis propuestos por este grupo de investigación, se evidencia la afinidad con las conclusiones propuestas por Charlton, que buscaba mejorar la relación entre algunas causas de muerte e intervenciones médicas específicas. Las causas de muerte se consideraron evitables cuando eran objeto de intervenciones efectivas y de proveedores de atención médica que fueran identificables. Para Holland (1986), las defunciones evitables pueden subdividirse en indicadores de atención médica (causas de muertes evitables con servicios médicos) e indicadores de políticas nacionales de salud (causas de muertes evitables con programas de salubridad pública). El Atlas denominaba a estas causas “indicadores de mortalidad evitable” con la intención de proveer señales de advertencia de fallas potenciales en la prestación de los servicios de salud. De acuerdo con Nolte & Mckee (2004), el concepto de mortalidad evitable se ha utilizado en mayor medida a finales del siglo XX, según las premisas provenientes de Rutstein (1976). Ellos introdujeron la noción de muertes evitables, proponiendo una lista de las condiciones en las que la muerte no debe ocurrir en presencia de atención médica oportuna y eficaz. Los datos de mortalidad con los cuales realizaron su estudio fueron extraídos de los archivos de mortalidad de la OMS para los años 1980—1998. Utilizaron una lista abreviada de causas de mortalidad evitable acorde con la lista de revisión de la CIE por sexo y edad. El análisis de la mortalidad evitable de Nolte & Mckee (2004) se limitó a los grandes estados miembros de la Unión Europea. Así, se observaron cambios susceptibles de mortalidad evitable en Austria, Dinamarca, Finlandia, Francia, Grecia, Alemania, Italia, los Países Bajos, Portugal, España, Suecia y Reino Unido. En términos generales, Holland et al. (2009) establecen que la mortalidad evitable es un concepto atractivo para los investigadores del campo de la salud, lo que ha conducido a un sinnúmero de publicaciones académicas a nivel internacional, pero lamentablemente son pocos los estudios de la utilización de los datos para mejorar los servicios. Argumenta que, cuando se han utilizado, se han centrado en la identificación de las fallas a nivel individual (médicos), en lugar de identificar las deficiencias del sistema, la mala ejecución de las políticas, la falta de recursos y la falta de coordinación de atención, entre otros factores. En América Latina, una de las pioneras en el análisis de mortalidad evitable fue Taucher (1978), quien argumenta que, a pesar de ser la muerte un evento inevitable, existen causas que pueden ser evitadas. Plantea que las enfermedades aceptadas como causa de muerte no tenían necesariamente un desenlace fatal y propuso clasificar las causas de defunción en evitables y no evitables, de acuerdo con el conocimiento vigente. Por consiguiente, los análisis de las causas de muerte podían utilizarse tanto para evaluar como para planificar las intervenciones, y se revelan como un recurso esencial para la gestión de políticas públicas. Taucher (1978) consideraba que la muerte es el resultado de múltiples condiciones, y proponía reagrupar las defunciones según grupos de intervenciones que más pudieran contribuir a su control. Entre las conclusiones a las que llegó Taucher (1978), se argumenta que las causas que provocan un mayor número de muertes, y que podrían evitarse con algunas medidas de fácil aplicación en el estado actual del conocimiento científico, son: los accidentes, las neumonías y las enfermedades de la primera infancia. A su vez, deja el camino abierto a la profundización del análisis de algunos factores condicionantes en el marco de las políticas de desarrollo, como lo son la mortalidad infantil y algunas de sus causas agrupadas en el rubro de “evitables por medidas mixtas”. En el caso colombiano, en la última década han surgido importantes estudios en esta materia. Entre estos resalta el trabajo investigativo propuesto por Gómez—Arias et al. (2009), quienes afianzaron su estudio hacia la elaboración de un inventario de indicadores de mortalidad evitables, para que los tomadores de decisiones puedan usar en el estudio de las fallas en el control de los riesgos de mortalidad predominantes en Colombia y en otros países con condiciones epidemiológicas y sanitarias similares. Para lograr el cometido, Gómez—Arias et al. (2009), utilizaron los registros oficiales de mortalidad de Colombia de 1985 a 2001. Una vez establecido el perfil de la mortalidad, procedieron a definir un sistema de clasificación de la mortalidad evitable, que pudiera aplicarse a las causas de muerte predominantes en el país. Para ello, en lugar de recurrir a un grupo de expertos, para construir este indicador, seleccionaron los indicadores de las listas de mortalidad evitable de Holland y Taucher, ya que ambas han logrado un buen consenso a nivel internacional. En consecuencia, para darle una mayor contextualización al indicador, dadas las condiciones epidemiológicas locales, decidieron integrar los dos enfoques propuestos mediante un algoritmo que combinó las listas. Así, cada causa de muerte ocurrida en el tiempo de estudio se clasificó como evitable o no, según el algoritmo establecido. Posteriormente, sobresalen los aportes del Instituto Nacional de Salud (INS, 2014a, 2014b), que parten del concepto de muerte evitable como aquella que, dados los conocimientos médicos y la tecnología actual, podría evitarse con servicios de salud de prevención y/o tratamiento. Por ello, proponen ampliar este concepto, sus costos y perspectivas adicionales del análisis. Para lograrlo, la institución elaboró un listado actualizado de mortalidad evitable, apoyado en las clasificaciones aceptadas internacionalmente (Taucher, 1978; Holland, 1986; Nolte & Mckee, 2004; Carvalho & Duarte, 2007 & Gómez—Arias et al., 2009). Una vez obtenida la lista de causas, realizan la estimación de las tasas de mortalidad ajustadas por edad y sexo, por toda causa y por causa de muerte evitable. Adicionalmente, agruparon los eventos con base en la clasificación de grupo de causas del Estudio de Carga Global de Enfermedad, GBD—2010 (IHME, 2010). Asimismo, estimaron los APVP para todas las causas de muerte evitable, a partir de la expectativa de vida de referencia del GBD, 2010. Para las causas de muerte evitable valoraron la pérdida económica por la pérdida de productividad. Posteriormente, Acosta & Romero (2014), en su investigación basaron el interés en conocer los cambios de las principales causas de muerte en Colombia. Considerando que las causas de muerte más destacadas están usualmente relacionadas con factores que pueden ser evitables, en la medida en que se entienda de qué se muere la población y cuáles son los grupos de edad más vulnerables. Los autores acuden a la estimación de la esperanza de vida en el caso hipotético de la eliminación de enfermedades y factores externos que causan el mayor número de muertes en el país. De igual forma calculan, para cada grupo de edad, la probabilidad de fallecer por las distintas causas de defunción seleccionadas. Acosta & Romero (2014) realizan el análisis de causas de muerte utilizando tablas de vida, las cuales brindan la facilidad de calcular la probabilidad de morir y de sobrevivencia en una edad y por una causa determinada. En sí, este estudio permite conocer los beneficios de utilizar las tablas de vida en el análisis de causas de muerte, ya que dan la oportunidad de conocer la severidad de las distintas causas, lo que no es posible inferir a partir de tasas brutas o porcentajes simples. A partir de estos primeros antecedentes, se puede denotar que el concepto de mortalidad evitable es relativamente reciente, teniendo en cuenta que los primeros estudios de mortalidad se llevaron a cabo hace mucho tiempo. Este concepto se inició teniendo en cuenta la mortalidad materna, dado que el seguimiento y el control en las mujeres embarazaras era mucho más factible. Otro aspecto para resaltar es que el estudio de la mortalidad evitable es diferente según el contexto que se esté analizando; y estas diferencias se hacen mucho más palpables cuando se comparan los estudios entre países desarrollados y en desarrollo, ya que el término de evitabilidad depende en gran medida de las condiciones socioeconómicas, tecnológicas, políticas y ambientales de cada país. 3. METODOLOGÍA: ELIMINACIÓN HIPOTÉTICA DE CAUSAS DE MUERTE EVITABLE USANDO TABLAS DE VIDAS CON MÚLTIPLES SALIDAS Para el análisis de la mortalidad en la región Caribe, se utilizaron los registros de estadísticas vitales publicados por el Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadísticas (DANE). Específicamente, el número de defunciones por sexo, grupo etario y causas agrupadas según la lista de 6/67—CIE—101 (OPS; OMS, 2008). Fue necesario conocer el listado de todas las causas que son consideradas evitables. En este sentido, se tuvo en cuenta la lista de causas de muerte evitable formulada por el INS (2014b). Esta lista tiene en cuenta la clasificación a nivel internacional y a nivel latinoamericano. Es decir, tiene en cuenta la lista de causas de muerte evitable descrita Al seleccionar las causas de muertes evitables para Colombia, se parte del supuesto que estas mismas causas podrían ser evitadas en cada una de las regiones que componen el territorio nacional. Así, se estaría dejando a un lado las diferencias geográficas, climáticas, sociales, económicas y tecnológicas internas, las cuales podrían afectar la evitabilidad de las distintas causas de muerte. La metodología que se sigue en el desarrollo de esta investigación es la descrita por Acosta & Romero (2014), quienes utilizan el proceso de eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte con tablas de vida con múltiples salidas, como herramienta para conocer los patrones de mortalidad en una población especifica. Los autores consideran que trabajar con tablas de vida representa ciertas ventajas en el análisis socioeconómico de las variables que atañen a la mortalidad en una población específica. Principalmente, porque, al evaluar el impacto de una causa de muerte sobre una población con tablas de vida, se deja a un lado el riesgo de caer en las malas interpretaciones de las tasas de mortalidad cuando no se tiene en cuenta el efecto poblacional. Otro aspecto importante es que las tablas de vida tienen la particularidad de ser estacionarias, lo que significa que el número de nacidos es igual al número de defunciones ocurridas en todas las edades. Así, los cálculos realizados a partir de ellas, no están influenciados por el tamaño de las cohortes. A su vez, permiten identificar las edades en las que es más probable morir por determinada causa, siendo este uno de los aspectos que más contribuyen con el objeto de esta investigación, ya que se pueden identificar del total de muertes, consideradas evitables, cuál es la que mayor peso tiene en la región Caribe. El proceso de eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte en distintos escenarios, descrito por Acosta & Romero (2014), parte de dos postulados esenciales. El primero se refiere a la estacionariedad de las tablas de vida, lo cual hace referencia a que el número de nacidos l(0), es igual al número de defunciones ocurridas en todas las edades, es decir: El segundo se refiere a que la tasa específica de mortalidad de una persona en una edad exacta x, o sea u(x), equivale a la suma de todas las tasas de mortalidad por todas las causas de muerte. En términos matemáticos sería: Donde: uj (x) ? 0 es la tasa de mortalidad relacionada con la causa de muerte j. Al promediar esta tasa con la población comprendida entre [x, x+n], es posible conocer la tasa central de mortalidad para una causa en específico, como se muestra en la siguiente ecuación: En la ecuación anterior, se denota que la tasa central de mortalidad total es igual a la sumatoria de cada una de las tasas de mortalidad por cada causa. En este mismo sentido, es preciso conocer que el término , es decir, el número de años vividos entre las edades x y x+n, es igual a la población estacionaria comprendida entre estas edades. Este factor, al ser multiplicado por la tasa de mortalidad central, muestra el número de muertes ocurridas a una generación entre las edades x y x+n, es decir: De la fórmula anterior es posible conocer el número de muertes por una causa en específico (ecuación a) y la proporción en el número de defunciones por determinada causa (ecuación b). De igual forma, las tablas de vidas permiten conocer la probabilidad que tiene una persona de x años de edad de fallecer por una causa de muerte en específico. Este hecho es posible, si se parte del supuesto que las causas de muerte se mantienen constantes en el tiempo, sin tener en cuenta su evolución. Esta probabilidad se puede conocer de la siguiente manera: Por otra parte, y siguiendo de igual forma a Acosta & Romero (2014), a partir de las tablas de vida se puede establecer escenarios hipotéticos donde se eliminan las tasas de mortalidad producidas por una causa en específico. Para esta investigación se eliminan las causas de muerte consideradas evitables; así se analizaría el impacto que tiene cada una de ellas en la tasa de mortalidad general, en el número de sobrevivientes y, mejor aún, en la esperanza de vida. Para poder realizar estas estimaciones es preciso definir una nueva función de mortalidad. Esta estaría expresada de la siguiente manera: uj*(x) por ende, la suma de todas las tasas de mortalidad va a cambiar, dado que se le está restando la participación de la j causa de mortalidad. Este proceso queda reflejado de la siguiente manera: Así las cosas, la nueva tasa de mortalidad (sin incluir la participación de muertes ocasionadas por la causa de muerte que se elimina), es determinada por el producto entre la tasa general de mortalidad y un factor Rj(x); dicho factor expresa la proporción de muertes que no están relacionadas con la causa de muerte que no se quiere eliminar. Este factor está presente para todas las funciones de la nueva tabla de vida a calcular y varía dependiendo la edad que se esté analizando, como se muestra a continuación: Dónde: nDx: es el total de defunciones por cada grupo de edad. nDx*j : es la suma de todas las defunciones, excepto las muertes por las causas que se quiere eliminar, por grupos de edad. Una vez calculado el valor del factor, se puede conocer los cambios en las probabilidades de supervivencia, al eliminar una causa de muerte, en este caso las causas evitables. El proceso se explica de la siguiente manera: Donde: npx : es la probabilidad de supervivencia por edad, teniendo en cuenta todas las causas de muerte. npx*j : es la probabilidad de supervivencia por edad, habiendo eliminado una causa de muerte. Ahora bien, dado que la tasa de mortalidad total disminuye al eliminar las muertes por la causa que se quiere eliminar, el número de sobrevivientes a la edad exacta x aumentará, es decir: De igual forma, al disminuir la tasa de mortalidad, la esperanza de vida tenderá a aumentar. Para poder conocer los cambios que experimenta la esperanza de vida, es necesario acudir al principio que dice que la participación de un individuo en la esperanza de vida es el tiempo que transcurre entre el momento en el que se alcanza la edad x años de vida y el momento en el que muere. Por ello, la manera de conocer la “nueva esperanza de vida” está dada por la siguiente ecuación: Este aporte de Acosta & Romero (2014), junto con las premisas de mortalidad hipotética nula realizadas por Arriaga (1996) y los aportes de Bocco (1996), permite conocer el impacto de la mortalidad por causa de muerte específica sobre la esperanza de vida de la población entre dos edades seleccionadas para el análisis. Por ejemplo, si se quiere estudiar la mortalidad en edades reproductivas, en edades laborales, o en edades muy avanzadas. En este caso se analizarán los cambios en la mortalidad y el impacto que tienen sobre la población las causas de muerte consideradas evitables. 4. IMPACTO DE LAS CAUSAS DE MUERTE EVITABLE EN LOS PATRONES DE MORTALIDAD DE LOS HABITANTES DE LA REGIÓN CARIBE En la región Caribe durante el periodo en estudio se observa una importante incidencia de muertes evitables. Las causas de muerte evitable relacionadas con las causas extremas, las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, entre otras, son las más sobresalientes. Por ello, se valora el impacto que tendría la eliminación (evitar) de las muertes que se dieron a causas de estas enfermedades en los patrones de mortalidad de los habitantes de la región, a saber: la probabilidad de morir, la probabilidad de sobrevivencia, y la esperanza de vida por grupos etarios y por género. Del total de causas de muertes evitables descritas por el INS (2014b), el 56,7% corresponden a causas extremas; el 8,9% a enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias; un 8,4% a embarazo, parto y puerperio; y un 6,6% a causas de muerte relacionadas con afecciones en el periodo neonatal, siendo estos cuatro grupos los que abarcan el 80,6% del total de causas evitables descritas por la institución. También es de resaltar la baja participación de las enfermedades de la piel, trastornos mentales, las enfermedades del sistema nervioso, las enfermedades del sistema genitourinario y las malformaciones. A pesar que el grupo de causas de muerte extremas contiene gran parte de las casusas de muerte evitable, en la práctica suele ser diferente, y mucho más en la región Caribe. Las causas relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio han sido las de mayor prevalencia en los últimos quince años; seguidas de las causas extremas, las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, los cánceres, las enfermedades endocrinas y nutricionales, y las enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias. Estos grupos de enfermedades presentan una participación muy marcada, sin embargo, la prevalencia de las causas de muerte que conforman cada grupo ha variado. En el caso de las causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, de 1999 a 2008 (primer y segundo quinquenio de estudio) las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón y accidentes cerebrovasculares fueron las de mayor participación; sin embargo, de 2009 a 2014 (último quinquenio del periodo de estudio) se mantienen las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón, pero aumentan las muertes a causa de las hemorragias y la cardiopatía hipertensiva. Para el caso de las causas de muerte evitable extremas, durante los dos primeros quinquenios, los homicidios y los accidentes de tránsito en carretera abarcan el 60% de las muertes de este grupo; no obstante, para el último quinquenio las muertes a causa de los accidentes en motocicletas aumentaron considerablemente; es decir que en los últimos cinco años las dos principales causas de muerte evitable extremas en la región Caribe son los homicidios, accidentes en motocicleta y los accidentes automovilísticos. En el caso de las causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema respiratorio, las enfermedades respiratorias bajas y las enfermedades pulmonares crónicas han sido las dos principales causas de muerte evitable en los dos primeros quinquenios; y para el último quinquenio las enfermedades crónicas del pulmón han tomado mayor participación. Por el lado de los cánceres, se encontró que el grupo considerado evitable ha tendido a disminuir, pero las enfermedades que lo conforman han tenido una distribución casi que constante. En 1999, el 60% de los cánceres considerados evitables fueron: cáncer de tráquea, bronquios y pulmón (22,9%); seguido del cáncer de cuello uterino (13,4%); cáncer de colon y recto (12%) y por último el cáncer de mama (11,5%). Para el año 2008, la distribución cambia un poco: el cáncer de tráquea, bronquios y pulmón sigue en primer lugar (26,8%), pero el cáncer de mama gana participación (14%), el cáncer de cuello uterino se mantiene (13%), y el cáncer de colon disminuye (10,2%). Para el año 2014, la participación en las muertes, a causa de cáncer de tráquea, bronquio y pulmón, tienden a disminuir (24,5%); sin embargo, se resalta el aumento significativo del cáncer de mama, el cual pasó a 18,7%, el cáncer de colon y recto disminuyó (11,8%), al igual que las muertes a causa del cáncer de cuello uterino (11,4%). Con respecto a las enfermedades endocrinas y nutricionales, se tiene que las principales causas evitables durante el periodo de análisis han sido: en primer lugar, la diabetes (57%), seguida de la desnutrición (30,2%) y enfermedades crónicas del riñón a causa de la diabetes (12,8%). En el grupo de enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias, se resalta que en 1999 las principales causas evitables eran las enfermedades diarreicas (36,3%), seguidas de las enfermedades relacionadas con el VIH (26,1%), y la tuberculosis (21,7%). En 2014, las enfermedades diarreicas abarcaron el 38,4%, las enfermedades relacionadas con VIH pasaron al 30%, y la tuberculosis fue de 12,9%. 4.1. Eliminación hipotética de causas de muerte evitable Un primer ejercicio consistió en calcular las diferencias en la probabilidad de morir, eliminando los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable. En la figura 1, se muestran tres paneles, los cuales corresponden a los tres quinquenios de estudio (1999—2003; 2004—2008; 2009—2014). Los resultados muestran que, manteniendo constantes las condiciones de mortalidad observadas durante el primer quinquenio (panel a), la probabilidad de morir en los hombres de la región no varía significativamente al eliminar las causas de muerte relacionadas con enfermedades del sistema digestivo, las infecciones—parasitarias y los cánceres. La eliminación de las causas relacionadas con las afecciones en el periodo neonatal disminuye la probabilidad de morir considerablemente en los niños menores de 5 años. Las diferencias más significativas se observan al momento de eliminar las causas extremas, las del sistema circulatorio y las del sistema respiratorio. Con la eliminación de las causas extremas, disminuye considerablemente, y en mayor proporción en las edades de 5 a 55 años. En el caso de la eliminación de las causas del sistema circulatorio, las diferencias se ven reflejadas en mayor medida en las edades de 50 a 75 años, al igual que el caso de haberse evitado las causas del sistema respiratorio. En el segundo y tercer periodos de análisis, la situación es un poco distinta (panel c). Las probabilidades son más bajas en comparación con el periodo anterior. Las variaciones se observan, en mayor medida, en el último quinquenio de estudio (panel e), donde la eliminación de las principales causas de muerte representa un mayor peso en el total de defunciones; por tanto, las probabilidades disminuyen al momento que se eliminan tales causas, mucho más cuando se eliminan las causas de muerte extremas y las relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio. La mayor diferencia entre el primer y último quinquenio está en que en el último, con la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, las probabilidades disminuyan desde edades superiores a los 10 años, mas no a partir de los 55 años, como se daba al principio. Para el caso de las mujeres, los escenarios son distintos. Las funciones de probabilidad de morir en las mujeres tienen una curva mucho más definida (forma de jota), y menores en comparación con la de los hombres. En el primer quinquenio (panel b), la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio son las más significativas a partir de edades superiores a los 50 años. Para el segundo quinquenio (panel d), la situación cambió un poco. En adición a las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, la eliminación de las causas extremas tiende a disminuir la probabilidad de muerte, y en especial en las mujeres de edades inferiores, de 5 a 45 años. En los últimos cinco años (panel f), el panorama se ve mucho más distinto. Al eliminar las principales causas de muerte evitable, el riesgo de muerte para las mujeres disminuye de modo considerable, principalmente al eliminar las causas extremas y las del sistema circulatorio. Un segundo ejercicio consistió en evidenciar el impacto que tienen las distintas causas de muerte evitable sobre la probabilidad de sobrevivencia de los individuos de la región. En la figura 2, en los paneles a, c, e, se observan las probabilidades de sobrevivir en hombres. En el primer quinquenio, la eliminación de la mayoría de las causas no impacta significativamente las probabilidades de sobrevivir, sin embargo, la eliminación de las causas extremas lo hacen, principalmente en los hombres con edades de 15 a 55 años. Por su parte, la eliminación de las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio también muestra cambios significativos en los hombres con edad superior a los 55 años, al igual que las muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema respiratorio. En el segundo quinquenio, el panorama es muy parecido, pero, al eliminar las causas extremas, la probabilidad de supervivencia empieza a aumentar desde edades más tempranas, es decir, empieza desde los 5 a los 55 años. Este mismo comportamiento se evidencia al eliminar las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, en las cuales las diferencias se notan desde la edad de los 40 años. Para el último periodo, las diferencias son mucho más marcadas. Al eliminar las causas extremas, las probabilidades de supervivencia aumentan desde edades muy tempranas, y la brecha aumenta mucho más en las edades productivas, 15 a 65 años. En el caso de eliminar las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, la probabilidad de supervivencia en los hombres mayores a 50 años se hace mayor. Para el caso de las mujeres, los resultados muestran que las probabilidades de supervivencia son mayores a las de los hombres. Si se analizan los paneles b, d y f, se observa que las probabilidades son mayores durante casi todo el ciclo de la vida, y tienden a ser parecidas después de los 65 años. Este comportamiento podría explicarse porque los hombres están expuestos en mayor medida a causas extremas de mortalidad, principalmente en edades de 15 a 60 años. De 1999 a 2003, las principales causas de muerte que impactan la probabilidad de sobrevivencia en las mujeres fueron las relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio y las respiratorias. 4.2. Impacto de las causas de muerte evitable en la esperanza de vida Un tercer ejercicio consistió en calcular la probabilidad de morir que tienen los habitantes de la región durante el resto de años que les queda por vivir. El ejercicio se realizó teniendo en cuenta los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable y grupos de edad, bajo el supuesto de que las condiciones de mortalidad observadas en la región se mantienen constantes en el tiempo. También se parte del supuesto que, al analizar el impacto de una causa en específico, el efecto de las otras es nulo, es decir, son mutuamente excluyentes e independientes. Los resultados observados en la tabla 2 describen que los niños menores de 5 años, independientemente del género, tienen mayor probabilidad de morir a causa de enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias, aunque en el último quinquenio la probabilidad de que mueran a causa de enfermedades del sistema respiratorio ha aumentado. A pesar de que las defunciones por causas extremas han disminuido, continúan siendo la principal causa de muerte en los hombres de la región. En 1999, la probabilidad que tenía un hombre con 25 años de morir por una causa extrema en el resto de su vida fue de 41%, mientras que en 2014 la probabilidad pasó a 34,3%. En el caso de los hombres con 45 años, la situación es muy parecida, sin embargo, están altamente expuestos a morir por una enfermedad del sistema circulatorio. Para los hombres con edades superiores a 65 años, las causas extremas representan bajo riesgo; por tanto, la mayor probabilidad de morir en lo que les resta de vida es a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los cánceres y las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio. En el caso de las mujeres, las diferencias con respecto a los hombres son más significativas cuando están en edad de 25 años, dado que el riego de morir por una causa extrema es bajo, pero es alta la probabilidad de morir a causa de un cáncer, de un embarazo, por un parto riesgoso o una enfermedad del sistema circulatorio. En el caso de las mujeres con 45 años, tienen mayor probabilidad de morir a causa de cáncer, principalmente el cáncer de mama y el de cuello uterino. También están altamente expuestas a morir a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, e incluso en mayor medida que las mujeres de 25 años. En el caso de las mujeres con 65 años y más, la prevalencia de los cánceres y las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio se mantienen, si bien ha aumentado la probabilidad de morir a causa de problemas en el sistema respiratorio. Analizar el impacto que tiene los distintos grupos de causas de muerte evitable sobre las probabilidades de mortalidad y, por ende, de sobrevivencia, conlleva directamente al análisis de los cambios en la esperanza de vida de los habitantes de la región. Este indicador, como se mencionó antes, es uno de los más importantes al momento de planificar y evaluar políticas públicas en salud, ya que en ella se ve reflejada la eficiencia de dichas políticas. Por ello, un cuarto ejercicio consistió en realizar ensayos en los que, al eliminar las causas de muerte consideradas evitables, se evidenciaran los cambios que producían en la esperanza de vida por cada grupo de edad. En la tabla 3, los resultados muestran que, si en el periodo de 1999 a 2003 se hubiesen controlado o evitado las muertes a causa de algunas enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los hombres hubiesen ganado 9,7 años más de vida, mientras que las mujeres hubiesen ganado 14 años, aproximadamente. En el caso de que se hubiesen evitado las muertes por causas extremas, los “beneficiados” en este caso solo serían los hombres, con 4,2 años adicionales, mientras que en las mujeres solo se hubiese prolongando la vida en 0,8 años. Para el quinquenio de 2004 a 2008, la distribución se mantiene, sin embargo, se resalta el aumento de los años ganados a causa de las muertes evitables relacionadas con el sistema respiratorio, tanto en hombres como en mujeres. Para el quinquenio de 2009 a 2014, la situación es un poco distinta. A pesar de que la esperanza de vida aumentó tanto en hombres como en mujeres, las enfermedades consideradas evitables han tendido a disminuir, por tanto, los años de vida ganados por dichas causas también lo han hecho. De 2009 a 2014, los años de vida ganados, con la eliminación de las causas evitables del sistema circulatorio, pasaron a 7,8 años en los hombres, y en las mujeres fue de 9,6 años. Es decir que, en los hombres, en estos quince años, los años de vida ganados disminuyeron en 20,1%, y en las mujeres 31,8%. Estos resultados indican que en la región Caribe, a medida que transcurre el tiempo, están disminuyendo las enfermedades consideradas evitables, dando paso a enfermedades no evitables, dado el alcance de la tecnología y la infraestructura médica. Un ejemplo de esta premisa se constata al observar los años de vida ganados a causa de las enfermedades infecciosas y parasitarias. También se observa la disminución en los años de vida ganados a causa de cánceres considerados evitables, a pesar de que este grupo de enfermedades han aumentado en la región. 5. DISCUSIÓN/CONCLUSIONES Con la finalización de este estudio, que condujo al presente artículo, se pudo determinar que entre el 80% y 90% de las defunciones ocurridas en el grupo de edad menor a 5 años podrían ser evitadas. Las muertes a causa de afecciones en el periodo neonatal son las de mayor impacto en esta población, es decir, la brecha entre la prevalencia de este grupo con el resto es muy marcada, aproximadamente seis veces mayor. Asimismo, se resalta la distribución constante que han tenido las causas de muerte evitable en este grupo poblacional. Para el caso de la población vulnerable, es decir aquella mayor a 65 años, el grupo de causas evitables relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, como lo son las enfermedades isquémicas del corazón, los accidentes cerebrovasculares y la cardiopatía hipertensiva, son las de mayor prevalencia en estos quince años de estudio. Sin embargo, con menor proporción en los últimos años. En 1999, la participación de estas enfermedades en este grupo poblacional fue de 58,7%, y en 2014 pasó a 51,3%. Por otra parte, es de resaltar el aumento de las defunciones a causa de enfermedades del sistema digestivo, las cuales, en 1999, abarcaban el 2,9% y en 2014 pasaron al 4,1%. De igual forma, en este grupo poblacional, las defunciones a causa de cánceres evitables y las enfermedades del sistema genitourinario evitables han disminuido. En el grupo poblacional de 15 a 64 años, se realizó el análisis por género. Para el caso de los hombres, la mayor tasa de defunción evitable se debe a las causas extremas. Sin embargo, a partir de 2008, ha presentado un ritmo decreciente, ubicándose en 2014 con los niveles más bajos en este periodo de estudio. Por su parte, se evidenció aumento en las causas relacionadas con las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio; en 1999, la participación de estas enfermedades fue del 17%, y para 2014 la proporción pasó a 23,4%, lo que significa que estas enfermedades están aumentando en hombres. Para el caso de las mujeres, se resalta el aumento significativo de los cánceres evitables. En 1999, la participación fue de 20%, aproximadamente, mientras que en 2014 pasó a 27%, lo que evidencia el aumento de la mortalidad a causa de cánceres que pueden ser evitados. Esta característica diferencia, en gran parte, los patrones de mortalidad evitable de las mujeres con los hombres; mientras que en las mujeres aumentan las causas de muerte por cánceres evitables, en los hombres disminuye. Asimismo, mientras que en las mujeres disminuyen las causas de muerte evitable relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio, en los hombres sucede lo contrario. Ahora bien, si en el periodo de 1999 a 2014 se hubiesen controlado o evitado las muertes por causas extremas o algunas enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, las probabilidades de morir en un hombre disminuirían en 37,2% y 15,8%, respectivamente. En las mujeres, estas probabilidades disminuirían en 19,7% y 10,4% si se controlarán las muertes a causa de las enfermedades del sistema circulatorio y respiratorio. De manera análoga, las probabilidades de sobrevivencia de un hombre, en promedio, aumentarían en un 14% y 6,1% si se controlaran las causas extremas de mortalidad y las causas de muerte relacionadas con el sistema circulatorio. En las mujeres, las probabilidades de sobrevivencia aumentarían en 8,7%, 6,2% y 5,2%, si se postergaran las causas de muerte relacionadas con enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, las enfermedades del sistema respiratorio, y los cánceres evitables (principalmente el cáncer de mama y cuello uterino). En concreto, los cambios en los patrones de mortalidad experimentados en la población de la región Caribe a causa de la mortalidad evitable, se traducen en cambios significativos en la esperanza de vida. Por ello, si en estos quince años de estudio se hubiesen evitado o postergado las muertes a causa de enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, los hombres hubiesen ganado, en promedio, 7,8 años más de vida, mientras que las mujeres hubiesen ganado 10 años, aproximadamente. En el caso de que se hubiesen evitado las muertes por causas extremas, los “beneficiados” en este caso solo serían los hombres, con 5 años adicionales. 6. LIMITACIONES Los aspectos que más limitaron el desarrollo de esta investigación fueron principalmente dos. Inicialmente, no se cuenta con una lista de causas de muerte evitable actualizada para la región Caribe, por tanto, al utilizar la lista establecida por el INS (2014b), se está dejando a un lado las diferencias geográficas, climáticas, sociales, económicas y tecnológicas internas del país, las cuales podrían afectar la evitabilidad de las distintas causas de muerte. Un segundo aspecto limitante tiene que ver con la metodología. Específicamente el supuesto de permanencia en las causas de muerte en el transcurso del tiempo, ya que las causas de muerte varían considerablemente con el desarrollo económico, social y tecnológico de un país o región. Notas 1 Clasificación Internacional de Enfermedades (10a versión).por Holland (1986) y Nolte & Mckee (2004). Para el segundo caso, se tiene en cuenta las listas descritas por Taucher (1978), Gómez—Arias (2008) y Carvalho & Duarte (2007) (tabla 1). Se tomó como referencia este listado de causas evitables, porque es el estudio que ha implementado la lista de causas evitables más reciente para el país. REFERENCIAS Acosta, K., & Romero P., J. (2014). Cambio recientes en las principales causas de mortalidad en Colombia (Documentos de Trabajo Sobre Economía Regional n.° 209). Cartagena de Indias. Alvis—Guzmán, N., & Alvis—Estrada, L. (2009). Costos económicos de la mortalidad evitable en Cartagena, Colombia, 2000—2005. Rev. Salud Pública, 11(6), 970—978. Arriaga, E. (1996). Los años de vida perdidos: su utilización para medir el nivel y cambio de la mortalidad. Notas de Población, 24(63), 7—38. Bocco, M. (1996). La relación entre los años de vida perdidos y la esperanza de vida: aplicaciones para el análisis de la mortalidad. Notas de Población, XXIV(63), 39—60. Carvalho Malta, D., & Duarte, E. C. (2007). Causas de mortes evitáveis por ações efetivas dos serviços de saúde: uma revisão da literatura. Ciência & Saúde Coletiva, 12(3), 765—776. Charlton, J. R. H., Silver, R., Hartley, R. M., & Holland, W. W. (1983). Geographical variation in mortality from conditions amenable to medical intervention in England and Wales. The Lancet, 321(8326), 691—696. DANE, D. A. N. de E. (2017). Nacimientos y defunciones. Retrieved September 2, 2017. Dávila—Cervantes, C., & Agudelo—Botero, M. (2014). Mortalidad evitable en México y su contribución a los años de vida perdidos. Análisis por grado de marginación estatal, 2001—2010. Papeles de Población, 20(82), 267—286. Franco—Marina, F., Lozano, R., Villa, B., Soliz, P., & Secretaría de Salud de México, M. (2006). La mortalidad en México, 2000—2004. Muertes evitables: magnitud, distribución y tendencias. México, D.F. Gómez—Arias, R. D. (2008). La mortalidad evitable como indicador de desempeño de la política sanitaria. Colombia, 1985—2001 (Primera). Colombia: Universidad de Antioquia. Gómez—Arias, R. D., Bonmatí, A. N., Pereyra—Zamora, P., Rodríguez—Ospina, F., & Agudelo—Londoño, S. (2009). Mortalidad evitable y políticas en salud. Colombia, 1985—2002. Colombia Médica, 40(4), 373—86. Holland, W., Berenberg, W., & Chalmers, T. (2009). Measuring the quality of medical care. J Health Serv Res Policy, 14(3), 183—186. Holland, W. W. (1986). The “avoidable death” guide to Europe. Health Policy, 6(2), 115. IHME, I. for H. M. and E. (2010). The global burden of disease: Generating evidence, guiding policy. The Global Burden of Disease, 52. INS, I. N. de S. (2014a). Informe 3: Mortalidad evitable en Colombia para 1998—2011. Bogotá, Colombia. INS, I. N. de S. (2014b). Metodología de análisis. Informe 3: Mortalidad evitable en Colombia. Bogotá, Colombia. Juanatey, A. (2015). Análisis temporal y geográfico de la mortalidad evitable en España 1990—2011. Universiad de Santiago de Compostela. Nolte, E., & Mckee, M. (2004). Does health care save lives? Avodaible mortality revisited (The Nuffel). London. OPS, Organización Panamericana de la Salud; OMS, (2008). Clasificación estadística internacional de enfermedades y problemas relacionados con la salud—CIE—10. Rutstein, D. D., Berenberg, W., Chalmers, T. C., Child, C. G., Fishman, A. P., Perrin, E. B., Evans, C. C. (1976). Measuring the quality of medical care. A Clinical Method. New England Journal of Medicine, 294(11), 582—588. Taucher, E. (1978). Chile: Mortalidad desde 1955 a 1975. Tendencias y causas. Centro Latinoaméricano de Demografía, Serie A(162), 83.
C41|Informal Employment Dynamics in Paraguay|I characterize informal-formal employment transitions in Paraguay. Results indicate that some factors, such as education and firms size, improve workers' movement between informal and formal employment, and wage gains from moving into formality are modest. Workers who tend to stay indenitely informal are more likely to become unemployed or inactive. Estimates, based on a survival model, indicate that education and firm size highly increase informal-to-formal transitions, especially if workers have stayed informal for a long time. Older women have lower formal-to-informal transitions and, surprisingly, education plays no significant role. Mincer estimates point to high wages for formal workers, compared with informal, but that individual workers' wage gains from moving into formality are small.
C41|Sufficient Statistics for Unobserved Heterogeneity in Structural Dynamic Logit Models|We study the identification and estimation of structural parameters in dynamic panel data logit models where decisions are forward-looking and the joint distribution of unobserved heterogeneity and observable state variables is nonparametric, i.e., fixed-effects model. We consider models with two endogenous state variables: the lagged decision variable, and the time duration in the last choice. This class of models includes as particular cases important economic applications such as models of market entry-exit, occupational choice, machine replacement, inventory and investment decisions, or dynamic demand of differentiated products. The identification of structural parameters requires a sufficient statistic that controls for unobserved heterogeneity not only in current utility but also in the continuation value of the forward-looking decision problem. We obtain the minimal sufficient statistic and prove identification of some structural parameters using a conditional likelihood approach. We apply this estimator to a machine replacement model.
C41|How Do Unemployed Workers Behave Prior to Retirement? A Multi-State Multiple-Spell Approach|We examine the behaviour of unemployed older workers up to five years prior to the point at which they can transition out of unemployment because they become eligible to receive pension benefits. We use a unique dataset covering the unemployment histories (longitudinal data) of individuals born between 1940 and 1965 who were registered with any of the public employment offices in Poland. Thus, we study a whole population of individuals who experienced this type of transition over the time period 1996-2015. We examine the transition from unemployment to retirement as a multi-year process. We analyse multiple unemployment spells, identify transition pathways, and look for patterns in these transitions. Moreover, we estimate a conditional risk set model (a stratified Cox model). Our research proves that being close to the point at which they are eligible to receive pension benefits leads individuals 'wait' to fulfil these eligibility criteria.
C41|Discriminant Analysis with Spherical Data|Discriminant analysis for spherical data, or directional data in general, has not been extensively studied, and most papers focus on one distribution, the von Mises-Fisher.
C41|Counterfactual Analysis Using Censored Duration Data|We propose standardization techniques for the duration distribution in a population with respect to another taken as standard using right censored data, which forms a basis for counterfactual comparisons between distributional features of interest. Alternative standardizations are based on either a proportional hazard semiparametric specification or a nonparametric specification of the underlying conditional distribution. Applications to the restricted mean survival time and the hazard rate are discussed in detail. The proposal is applied to the counterfactual analysis of spells of unemployment duration gender gaps in Spain between 2004-2007. The behavior in small samples is investigated using Monte Carlo experiments.
C41|Revisiting supply and demand indexes in real estate|In this paper we disentangle reservation prices of buyers and sellers for commercial real estate at the city level. To do so, we further develop and extend the Fisher et al. (2003, 2007) methodology to a repeat sales indexing framework. This has the advantage that it takes care of all unobserved heterogeneity, which is an important consideration in commercial real estate. Furthermore, it allows for the construction of supply and demand indexes without the need for many property characteristics or assessed values. A key innovation in our methodology, which also enables granular index production, is our use of a Bayesian, structural time series model for index estimation. By introducing these new methodological developments, we are able to estimate reliable, robust supply and demand indexes for all major metropolitan areas in the US. Here we focus on two very different urban markets: New York and Phoenix. Consistent with the notion of pro-cyclical liquidity, we find that buyers' reservation prices move much more extremely and earlier than sellers' reservation prices. Our results show that the demand indexes in both New York and Phoenix went down a full year earlier than the supply indexes during the crisis.
C41|Market Efficiency and Optimal Hedging Strategy for the US Ethanol Market|The aim of this paper is to study the ethanol price dynamics in the US market and find the optimal hedging strategy. To this end, we first attempt to identify the long-term relationship between ethanol spot prices and the prices of futures contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT). Then, we model the short-term dynamics between these two prices using a Markov-switching vector error correction model (Ms-VECM). Finally, accounting for the variance dynamics using a Gjr-MGarch error structure, we compute a time-varying hedge ratio and determine the optimal hedging strategy in the US ethanol market.
C41|Business cycle duration dependence and foreign recessions|We estimate business cycle regime switching logit models for G7 countries to determine the effect of duration of the current business cycle phase and of foreign recessions on the likelihood that expansions and recessions come to an end. With respect to expansions in a G7 country, we find that the probability they end roughly doubles each time another G7 country falls into a recession. We also find that expansions in the US and Germany are duration dependent, i.e. are more likely to end as they grow older. This contrasts with other G7 countries where expansions are not duration dependent. With respect to recessions in a G7 country, we find that the likelihood of them coming to an end is not affected by other G7 countries’ recessions. We find duration dependence of recessions for all G7 countries, i.e. recessions that have gone on for a while are more likely to end. JEL Classification: E32, C41
C41|Hazard Model Analysis of Community College Outcomes|Community colleges serve a diverse set of students, from recent immigrants studying for citizenship tests to students looking to transfer to four-year institutions. Relative to continuous enrollment, the three most common outcomes for students are to graduate, transfer to a four-year institution, or drop out without either of the previous two outcomes. We use a competing-risks hazard model to jointly model the determinants of these three outcomes for Kentucky two-year college students. Our results highlight the importance of multiple factors such as working while enrolled, financial aid, demographics, and having a GED.
C41|Asymmetric Risk Impacts of Chinese Tourists to Taiwan|Since 2008, when Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-Jeou relaxed the Cross-Strait policy, China has become Taiwan’s largest source of international tourism. In order to understand the risk persistence of Chinese tourists, the paper investigates the short-run and long-run persistence of shocks to the change rate of Chinese tourists to Taiwan. The daily data used for the empirical analysis is from 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2018. McAleer’s (2015) fundamental equation in tourism finance is used to link the change rate of tourist arrivals and the change in tourist revenues. Three widely-used univariate conditional volatility models, namely GARCH(1,1), GJR(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1), are used to measure the short-run and long-run persistence of shocks, as well as symmetric, asymmetric and leverage effects. Three different Heterogeneous AutoRegressive (HAR) models, HAR(1), HAR(1,7) HAR(1,7,28), are considered as alternative mean equations for capturing a variety of long memory effects. The mean equations associated with GARCH(1,1), GJR(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1) are used to analyse the risk persistence of the change in Chinese tourists. The exponential smoothing process is used to adjust the seasonality around the trend in Chinese tourists. The empirical results show asymmetric impacts of positive and negative shocks on the volatility of the change in the number of Group-type and Medical-type tourists, while Individual-type tourists display a symmetric volatility pattern. Somewhat unusually, leverage effects are observed in EGARCH for Medical-type tourists, which shows a negative correlation between shocks in tourist numbers and the subsequent shocks to volatility. For both Group-type and Medical-type tourists, the asymmetric impacts on volatility show that negative shocks have larger effects than do positive shocks. The leverage effect in EGARCH for Medical-type tourists implies that larger shocks would decrease volatility in the change in the numbers of Medical-type tourists. These results suggest that Taiwan tourism authorities should act to prevent the negative shocks for the Group-type and Medicaltype Chinese tourists to dampen the shocks that arise from having fewer Chinese tourists to Taiwan.
C41|Country-specific fiscal reaction functions: what lessons for EMU ?|This paper deals with heterogeneous fiscal behaviors of euro area countries. We estimate EMU Members States fiscal reaction function using time series approach covering the period 1990 :Q1-2017 :Q2. Among the major lessons from this analysis, three general and striking results are worth highlighting : (1) factors explaining national fiscal reaction function in the short run differ from those in the long run, (2) some explanatory variables seem common to all countries while others only concern a small number of countries and (3) the sign of the impact of these explanatory variables can also differ between the countries. Finally, this paper raises the implications of heterogeneous fiscal policies on the functioning of monetary union and asks the question of fiscal convergence in the euro area.
C41|Is the South African economy likely to fall back into recession in 2018-2019?|This paper has two main objectives: on the one hand, to establish the occurrence of a recession of the South African economy during the years 2015-2016; on the other hand, to build a predictive model to determine whether South Africa is likely to fall back into contraction in the years 2018-2019. Consequently, we first propose a turning point chronology for the business cycle based on a classical conception of economic cycles and a non-parametric algorithm – called BBQ for BryBoschan Quarterly – applied to the real GDP series for the period 1970-2017. Its implementation allows us to detect one recession in the economic activity which lasted four quarters in 2015 and 2016. Special attention is given to the macroeconomic context of the analysis. Secondly, a dynamic probit model is built, which includes only one predictor, namely the total credit supply. In-sample results show that this dynamic specification performs very well. A real-time forecast leads to the result that the probability that the South African economy will fall back into recession during the 2018Q1-2019Q1 period, is extremely small.
C41|Testing for the Conditional Geometric Mixture Distribution|This study examines the mixture hypothesis of conditional geometric distributions using a likelihood ratio (LR) test statistic based on that used for unconditional geometric distributions. As such, we derive the null limit distribution of the LR test statistic and examine its power performance. In addition, we examine the interrelationship between the LR test statistics used to test the geometric and exponential mixture hypotheses. We also examine the performance of the LR test statistics under various conditions and confirm the main claims of the study using Monte Carlo simulations.
C41|The Impact of Mental Problems on Mortality and How It Is Moderated by Education|Mental disorders have a large impact on invalidity and mortality. Poor mental health is associated with low education, which is also associated with poor health and higher mortality. The association between mental health and mortality may, therefore, be partly explained by the increased incidence of mental problems of the low educated. An important issue is that mental health problems, education attainment and mortality may all depend on the same observed and unobserved individual factors. We account for both the selective incidence of mental health problems and selective educational attainment by using a correlated multistate model for the mental health (hospitalization) process (both admittance an discharge) and mortality with a re-weighting technique (inverse propensity weighting) based on the probability to attain higher education. We use Swedish Military Conscription Data (1951-1960), linked to the administrative Swedish death and National Hospital Discharge registers. We estimate the effect of mental hospitalization and education on the morality rate and how the effect of mental hospitalization is moderated by education. Our empirical results indicate a strong effect of both mental hospitalization and education on mortality. Mental hospitalization affects mortality due to external causes of death in particular. Only for the low educated improving education moderates the impact of mental hospitalization on mortality. We also found that ignoring confounding would overestimate the impact of mental hospitalization on mortality. Accounting for confounding in mental hospitalization seems to be more important than accounting for selective educational attainment.
C41|China’s Selective Two-Child Policy and Its Impact on the Marriage Market|This paper analyzes the effects of the earlier selective two-child policy (TCP) in the 1990s (both parents have to be only children) to explore the impacts of this relaxation on the marriage market as well as the fertility effect due to the marriage choice distortion. By using a difference in differences (DID) design in a subhazard model with competing risks, the results show that the subhazard ratio is 355.06% higher and this treatment effect is significant at a 1% level. The results suggest that the selective TCP increased the probability of the treatment group of choosing an only-child spouse rather than marrying a spouse with siblings or a spouse belonging to an ethnic minority. The marriage effect is stronger in urban areas where OCP was previously implemented more rigorously. The probability of giving birth to a second child is also positive and significant in a DID design, which implies that the fertility preference is binding under the OCP.
C41|Birth and Employment Transitions of Women in Turkey: Conflicting or Compatible Roles?|"The relationship between fertility and employment among women is a challenging topic that requires further exploration, especially for developing countries where the micro and macro evidence fails to paint a clear picture. This study analyzes the two-way relationship between women’s employment and fertility in Turkey using a hazard approach with piece-wise constant exponential modelling, using data from the 2008 Turkey Demographic and Health Survey. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first study that makes use of an event history analysis to analyze this relationship within a developing country context. Specifically, a separate analysis is made of the association between the employment statuses of women in their first, second, third, and fourth and higher order conceptions, and the association of fertility and its various dimensions with entry and exit from employment. The findings suggest that a two-way negative association exists between fertility and employment among women in Turkey, with increasing intensities identified among some groups of women. Our findings also cast light on how contextual changes related to the incompatibility of the roles of worker and mother have transformed the fertility-employment relationship in Turkey, in line with propositions of the role incompatibility hypothesis. Final version published 2018 as ""Birth and employment transitions of women in Turkey: The emergence of role incompatibility"" in Demographic Research (https://www.demographic-research.org/volumes/vol39/46/)"
C41|Early Cannabis Use and School to Work Transition of Young Men|We study the impact of early cannabis use on the school to work transition of young men. Our empirical approach accounts for common unobserved confounders that jointly affect selection into cannabis use and the transition from school to work using a multivariate mixed proportional hazard framework in which unobserved heterogeneities are drawn from a discrete mixing distribution. Extended models account for school leavers' option of returning to school rather than starting work as a competing risk. We find that early cannabis use leads young men to accept job offers more quickly and at a lower wage rate compared to otherwise similar males who did not use cannabis. These effects are present only for those who use cannabis for longer than a year before leaving school. Overall, our findings are consistent with a mechanism whereby early non-experimental cannabis use leads to greater impatience in initial labor market decision-making.
C41|On the role of vertical differentiation in enhancing survival of export flows: Evidence from a developing country|This paper analyzes the role of vertical differentiation linked with global production networks in increasing the chance of export survival using highly disaggregated machinery exports data from Turkey for the 1998-2013 period. Results obtained from descriptive statistics analysis suggest that duration of Turkey’s machinery exports is remarkably short with the median duration of merely one year. In addition, the likelihood of the survival of exports widely varies across product types (total machinery products, finished machinery products and machinery parts and components) and across trade types (horizontally differentiated products and vertically differentiated products). Based on discrete-time duration models, the empirical results demonstrate that vertical differentiation as well as product and market diversification are associated with a higher export survival rate, particularly for parts and components linked with global production networks. The evidence hence supports the hypothesis that global production sharing activities greatly increases the chances of survival in export markets.
C41|Delay determinants of European Banking Union implementation|Most countries in the European Union (EU) delay the transposition of European Commission (EC) directives, which aim at reforming banking supervision, resolution, and deposit insurance. We compile a systematic overview of these delays to investigate if they result from strategic considerations of governments conditional on the state of their financial, regulatory, and political systems. Transposition delays pertaining to the three Banking Union directives differ considerably across the 28 EU members. Bivariate regression analyses suggest that existing national bank regulation and supervision drive delays the most. Political factors are less relevant. These results are qualitatively insensitive to alternative estimation methods and lag structures. Multivariate analyses highlight that well-stocked deposit insurance schemes speed-up the implementation of capital requirements, banking systems with many banks are slower in implementing new bank rescue and resolution rules, and countries with a more intensive sovereign-bank nexus delay the harmonization of EU deposit insurance more.
C41|A General Semiparametric Approach to Inference with Marker-Dependent Hazard Rate Models|We examine a new general class of hazard rate models for duration data, containing a parametric and a nonparametric component. Both can be a mix of a time effect and possibly time-dependent marker or covariate effects. A number of well-known models are special cases. In a counting process framework, a general profile likelihood estimator is developed and the parametric component of the model is shown to be asymptotically normal and efficient.
C41|When Do Firms Leave Cartels? Determinants And The Impact On Cartel Survival|We use a dataset of 615 firms which participated in 114 illegal cartels – convicted by the European Commission between 1999 and 2016 – to investigate the determinants of the duration of a firm’s participation in a cartel. Applying a piecewise-constant exponential proportional hazard model with a particular focus on the impact of internal and external time-varying determinants, we find that firms show a higher probability to leave a cartel if prior exits occurred as well as in periods of high demand growth. However, we find a lower exit probability in situations of prior entries to the cartel or in periods of high interest rates. Additional estimations at the cartel level further suggest that firm exits increase the probability of a cartel breakdown substantially.
C41|Job Creation Schemes in Turbulent Times|This paper analyzes the impact of job creation schemes (JCS) on job search outcomes in the context of the turbulent East German labor market in the aftermath of the German reunification. High job destruction characterized the economic environment. JCS were heavily used in order to cushion this development. Using data from 1990-1999 and building upon the timing-of-events approach, we estimate multivariate discrete time duration models taking selection based on both observed and unobserved heterogeneity into account. Our results indicate that participation in JCS increases the unemployment duration mainly due to profound locking-in effects. However, twelve months after the program start the significantly negative impact on the job finding probability vanishes. We find evidence for effect heterogeneity. Our results suggest that female and highly skilled participants leave unemployment quicker than other groups, which results in highly skilled women benefiting from participation. However, we find no significant impact on post-unemployment employment stability. Our results are robust to allowing for random treatment effects. Also taking into account endogenous participation in training programs or multiple treatment effects do not change the results.
C41|On estimating market microstructure noise variance|We study the market microstructure noise-variance estimation of high-frequency stock prices. Based on the Hansen and Lunde (2006) approach, we propose estimates using subsampling method at different time scales. We conduct a Monte Carlo study to compare our method against others in the literature. Our results show that our proposed estimates have lower (absolute) mean error and root mean-squared error, and their performance is quite stable at different time scales.
C41|Spillovers from the oil sector to the housing market cycle|We assess the spillovers from the oil sector to the housing market cycle using quarterly data for 20 net oil-exporting and -importing industrial countries, and employing continuous- and discrete-time duration models. We do not uncover a statistically significant difference in the average duration of booms and normal times in the housing markets of those net oil-importers and net oil-exporters. Similarly, the degree of exposure to commodity price fluctuations does not seem to significantly affect the housing market cycle. However, we find that housing booms are shorter when oil prices increase than housing busts when oil prices decrease. We also show that the net oil-importers are more vulnerable to protracted housing slump episodes than the net-oil exporters.
C41|Public-private partnerships from budget constraints: Looking for debt hiding?|The use of Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) to realize and operate public infrastructures is often associated with fiscal-circumventing motivations. Using data at the municipal level, this paper investigates whether budget-constrained public authorities adopt PPPs in order to hide public debt. The results show that financial difficulties often lead to a preference for PPPs instead of traditional forms of public procurement, but this behavior is not explained by the possibility of debt-hiding. Explanations for these findings are discussed.
C41|Size and technology: The Odd Couple for affiliates survival|Firms’ survival and internationalization modes are key elements to assess a country's competitiveness. We draw on this to study how firms’ characteristics affect business demographic dynamics. We focus on affiliates survival probability, modeling it conditional on both parent company’ and affiliates’ set of characteristics. We generalize the base model used in business demography, disentangling and stressing the effects of both size and technological relationships between affiliates and investors. We show that, larger affiliates of large investors compete better and survive longer. Being part of a network of affiliates in the same country and/or sector improves firm survival probability. When investors have a higher (lower) technological level than their affiliates, the affiliates’ failure probability increases (decreases). An investor more technologically advanced than its affiliates, it is likely to consider them a cost-saving investment. While affiliates with a higher level of technology than their parent may be considered strategic.
C41|Are the Spanish long-term unemployed unemployable?|Abstract Long-term unemployment reached unprecedented levels in Spain in the wake of the Great Recession and it still affects around 57% of the unemployed. We document the sources that contributed to the rise in long-term unemployment and analyze its persistence using state-of-the-art duration models. We find pervasive evidence of negative duration dependence, while personal characteristics such as mature age, lack of experience, and entitlement to unemployment benefits are key to understand the cross-sectional differences in the incidence of long-term unemployment. The negative impact of low levels of skill and education is muted by the large share of temporary contracts, but once we restrict attention to employment spells lasting at least 1 month these factors also contribute to a higher risk of long-term unemployment. Surprisingly, workers from the construction sector do not fare worse than similar workers from other sectors. Finally, self-reported reservation wages are found to respond strongly to the cycle, but much less to individual unemployment duration. In view of these findings, we argue that active labor market policies should play a more prominent role in the fight against long-term unemployment while early activation should be used to curb inflows.
C41|The Spike at Benefit Exhaustion in the Finnish Labor Market|"Many studies have found that the exit rate from unemployment increases in the vicinity of the exhaustion day of unemployment insurance benefits. The extent to which this ""spike"" is driven by job search behavior is important for assessing the distortionary effect of unemployment insurance. Card, Chetty and Weber (American Economic Review 2007; 97: 113-118) find a large spike in the exit rate from registered unemployment but only a very small spike in the job finding rate in Austria. We replicate their analysis using matched register data for Finland. We find a large spike also in the job finding rate at the time of benefit exhaustion, even though it is clearly smaller than the spike in the exit rate from unemployment benefits. In addition, we demonstrate difficulties in measuring the time to benefit exhaustion when the benefit entitlement can elapse at a reduced rate during activation measures or part-time working. Unless the remaining benefit entitlement is directly observed in the data, the resulting measurement error can lead to downward biased estimates of the spikes at benefit exhaustion."
C41|The frequency of banking crises in a dynamic setting: a discrete-time duration approach|This paper focuses on descriptive features of banking crises. More than two centuries of banking crises are considered, and a discrete-time duration model is estimated to identify the hazard function characterizing banking crises. The model makes it possible to identify a time-dependence effect in the occurrence of banking crises. The time dependence that emerges from the hazard function is potentially generated by a wide variety of structural and cyclical factors. In this paper, the hazard function serves a descriptive purpose and provides two insights into the frequency of banking crises. First, it shows the extent to which policymakers failed in muting the exposure to a new banking crisis during the two decades following a banking crisis. Second, it provides quantitative evidence that graduation from banking crises is elusive.
C41|The private value of plant variety protection and the impact of exemption rules| Plant Breeders Rights (PBRs) are sui generis IPRs intended to promote plant variety creation. Two characteristics distinguish PBRs from patents: the research and the farmers' exemptions. This article attempts to assess the impact of these exemption rules on the private value of PBRs. For this purpose, a microeconometric model of PBRs renewals is developed and estimated. This model extends previous models of patents renewals by allowing the use of PBRs-specific variables. It is argued that simple tests on the coefficients associated with key PBRs-specific variables can provide insights into the impact of the two exemption rules. Implementation to PBRs in France over the period 1973–2011 for six major crops suggests that neither the farmers' exemption nor the research exemption have a clear-cut effect on the private value of PBRs. We conclude that there is no evidence to argue in favor of a reform of PBRs.
C41|Are the Laffer curve and the green paradox mutually exclusive?|In this paper, we study the relationship between the Laffer curve and the green paradox in the context of a Ramsey model with endogenous labor supply in which pollution increases consumer demand (through a compensation effect). We find that—in the long run—the conditions under which a Laffer curve and a green paradox emerge are mutually exclusive. Indeed, the Laffer curve exists under a weak compensation effect, while the green paradox requires a strong effect. Also, we find that, in the short run, limit cycles may arise in the presence of a Laffer curve, while they never occur under a green paradox.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|The impact of state aid on the survival and financial viability of aided firms|We estimate the causal impact of restructuring aid granted by the European Commission between 2000 and 2012 on the survival and financial viability of aided firms. Using a comprehensive dataset we find that restructuring aid decreases the hazard rate of a market exit by 58–68% and increases firms’ average survival time by 8–15 years, depending on the definition of firm survival. We also find that aid receiving firms have a significantly higher probability to improve their financial viability than the counterfactual group in the longer run.
C41|Fertility Regulation Behavior: Sequential Decisions in Tunisia|Fertility analysis in Tunisia is revisited by focusing on regulation instruments instead of the number of births or the number of children alive. In Muslim societies, in which marriage is the exclusive acknowledged childbearing context, a woman may be seen as starting her fertility regulation period by postponing her age at marriage. Once married, she can adjust the delay before her first birth control. Then, she can decide whether or not to use a contraceptive, and finally she can select a specific contraception method. These four decisions, approximately arranged sequentially, may somewhat interact with the sequential stages of the woman’s lifecycle and involve distinct motivations: (1) enrolment in higher education; (2) participation in the labor market; (3) a given fertility objective; and (4) dealing with middle age and old age health problems. Using data from the 2001 Tunisian PAP-FAM survey data, we estimate econometric models that provide an approximate description of fertility regulation as an outcome of the above sequential decisions. Accordingly, the significant effects of our explanatory variables gradually arise and vanish across the models as the women proceeds in her fertility regulation process. Our findings suggest that family network and sociocultural environment greatly shape the household preference for children. Although strict causality inference is beyond the possibilities of a single cross-section, the elicited correlations point to suggestive explanations that call for additional collection efforts to better capture lifecycle decisions of family members and the interactions of the extended family across this lifecycle.
C41|The Role of Sickness in the Evaluation of Job Search Assistance and Sanctions|Unemployment insurance agencies may combat moral hazard by punishing refusals to apply to assigned vacancies. However, the possibility to report sick creates an additional moral hazard, since during sickness spells, minimum requirements on search behavior do not apply. This reduces the ex-ante threat of sanctions. We analyze the effects of vacancy referrals and sanctions on the unemployment duration and the quality of job matches, in conjunction with the possibility to report sick. We estimate multi-spell duration models with selection on unobserved characteristics. We find that a vacancy referral increases the transition rate into work and that such accepted jobs go along with lower wages. We also find a positive effect of a vacancy referral on the probability of reporting sick. This effect is smaller at high durations, which suggests that the relative attractiveness of vacancy referrals increases over the time spent in unemployment. Overall, around 9% of sickness absence during unemployment is induced by vacancy referrals.
C41|The impact of participation in job creation schemes in turbulent times|This paper analyzes the impact of participation in job creation schemes (JCSs) on job search outcomes in the context of the turbulent East German labor market in the aftermath of the German reunification. High job destruction characterized the economic environment. JCSs were heavily used in order to cushion this development. Using data from 1990–1999 and building upon the timing-of-events approach, we estimate multivariate discrete time duration models taking selection based on both observed and unobserved heterogeneity into account. Our results indicate that after initial negative effects during the typical program duration of twelve months, probably driven by reduced job search effort during participation resulting in a rearrangement of the job queue, the impact on the job finding probability becomes insignificantly positive. Additional results, however, suggest that female and highly skilled participants leave unemployment quicker than other groups, which results in highly skilled women benefiting from participation. In general, we find no significant impact on post-unemployment employment stability. Our results are robust to allowing for random treatment effects. Also taking into account endogenous participation in training programs, endogenous censoring, or multiple treatment effects do not change the results.
C41|An empirical model of the decision to switch between electricity price contracts|We present a novel model for a time series of individual binary decisions which depends on the history of prices. The model is based on the Bayesian learning procedure which is at the core of sequential decision making. We show that the model capture dependence on past events and past priors in a straightforward fashion, the model capture some dependence on initial condition, here in the form of the prior at the start of the decision period, and that estimation through maximum likelihood is straightforward. We estimate the parameters of the model on a sample of Swedish households who have to decide over time between competing electricity contracts. The estimated parameters suggest that households respond to prices by switching between contracts, and that the response can be rather substantial for alternative price processes
C41|Migration, Forced Displacement and Fertility during Civil War: A Survival Analysis|The civil war in Burundi (1993-2005) caused a massflow of refugees into neighboring countries as well as a large number of internally displaced persons. In fact, half of the population was displaced at least once during the course of the conflict. The aim of this study is to explore to what extent migration during the conflict impacted fertility outcomes. Using retrospective data on birth and residential histories at the mother-year level from a nationally representative survey conducted in August 2002, we examine the impact of war and migration on the probability of first births and on birth spacing. A parametric survival regression model is adopted to predict the hazard of having an additional child on a sample of about 4,500 Burundian women. Our results suggest that the risk of an additional pregnancy is higher in years of forced displacement of the mother, whereas it is lower in the case of residence in the forced displacement site. We do not find a statistically significant effect different from no migration in the years that the women voluntary migrated. Fertility however sharply increases once the women resided in the migration site.
C41|The creation and resolution of working hour discrepancies over the life course|"""Studies on labor supply have increasingly taken account of not only the actual working hours, but also of working hour preferences as well as the discrepancy between them. However, longitudinal research on this topic remains scarce. This paper contributes to the analysis of working hour discrepancies by exploring how hours mismatch emerges and resolves with special consideration of the household context. We use a rich longitudinal data set, the German Socio-economic panel (GSOEP), for a discrete duration analysis applying a fixed effects-logit estimator. With special consideration of the household context, the findings suggest that female underemployment is strongly related to household responsibilities impeding the mismatch resolution. On the contrary, the creation of female overemployment is linked to higher qualification and job autonomy. In those positions working hour discrepancies also turn out to be persistent. Male hour constraints can be associated to job positions in a similar way. Nevertheless, the results also show that household responsibilities are less important for both male under- and overemployed."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
C41|Growth Breaks and Growth Spells in Sub-Saharan Africa|This paper examines the growth performance of sub-Saharan African countries since 1960 through the lens of growth turning points (accelerations and decelerations) and periods of sustained growth (growth spells). Growth accelerations are generally associated with improved external conditions, increased investment and trade openness, declines in inflation, better fiscal balances, and improvements in the institutional environment. Transitioning from growth accelerations to growth spells often requires additional efforts beyond what is needed to trigger an acceleration. Growth spells are sustained by fiscal policy that prevents excessive public debt accumulation, monetary policy geared toward low inflation, outward-oriented trade policies, and structural policies that reduce market distortions, as well as supportive external environment and improvements in democratic institutions. Overall, determinants of growth spells in sub-Saharan Africa are different from those in the rest of the emerging and developing countries.
C41|Imperfect Monitoring of Job Search: Structural Estimation and Policy Design|We build and estimate a nonstationary structural job search model that incorporates the main stylized features of a typical job search monitoring scheme in unemployment insurance (UI) and acknowledges that search effort and requirements are measured imperfectly. On the basis of Belgian data, monitoring is found to affect search behavior only weakly because assessments were scheduled late and infrequently, the monitoring technology was not sufficiently precise, and lenient Belgian UI results in caseloads that are less responsive to incentives than elsewhere. Simulations show how changing the aforementioned design features can enhance effectiveness and that precise monitoring is key in this.
C41|Early Cannabis Use and School to Work Transition of Young Men|We study the impact of early cannabis use on the school to work transition of young men. Our empirical approach accounts for common unobserved confounders that jointly affect selection into cannabis use and the transition from school to work using a multivariate mixed proportional hazard framework in which unobserved heterogeneities are drawn from a discrete mixing distribution. Extended models account for school leavers' option of returning to school rather than starting work as a competing risk. We find that early cannabis use leads young men to accept job offers more quickly and at a lower wage rate compared to otherwise similar males who did not use cannabis. These effects are present only for those who use cannabis for longer than a year before leaving school. Overall, our findings are consistent with a mechanism whereby early non-experimental cannabis use leads to greater impatience in initial labor market decision-making.
C41|“How do unemployed workers behave prior to retirement? A multi-state multiple-spell approach”|We examine the behaviour of unemployed older workers up to five years prior to the point at which they can transition out of unemployment because they become eligible to receive pension benefits. We use a unique dataset covering the unemployment histories (longitudinal data) of individuals born between 1940 and 1965 who were registered with any of the public employment offices in Poland. Thus, we study a whole population of individuals who experienced this type of transition over the time period 1996-2015. We examine the transition from unemployment to retirement as a multi-year process. We analyse multiple unemployment spells, identify transition pathways, and look for patterns in these transitions. Moreover, we estimate a conditional risk set model (a stratified Cox model). Our research proves that being close to the point at which they are eligible to receive pension benefits leads individuals ‘wait’ to fulfil these eligibility criteria.
C41|Under heavy pressure : intense monitoring and accumulation of sanctions for young welfare recipients in Germany|"""With the introduction of a new welfare benefit system in 2005, Germany implemented quite strict benefit sanctions for welfare recipients aged younger than 25 years. For all types of non-compliance except for missing appointments, their basic cash benefit is withdrawn for three months. A second sanction of the same type within one year implies a complete benefit cut for three months. We analyze the impact of these sanctions on job search outcomes and on transitions out of the labor force. Our analysis is based on administrative data on a large inflow sample of young male jobseekers into welfare in West Germany. We estimate separate models for people living alone and people living with their family, as sanctioned welfare recipients living with other household members can partly rely on their support and might react less by increasing search intensity and lowering reservation wages. We estimate the parameters of multivariate duration models taking selection based on unobservables into account. Our results suggest that both the first and the second sanction increase the probability of finding a job, but that these jobs go along with lower earnings due to first but not the second sanction. Moreover, first sanctions significantly increase the transition rate out of the labor force of both groups of young men, while second sanctions amplify this effect only for young men living in single households."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
C41|The spike at benefit exhaustion in the Finnish labor market| Many studies have found that the exit rate from unemployment increases in the vicinity of the exhaustion day of unemployment insurance benefits. The extent to which this spike is driven by job search behavior is important for assessing the distortionary effect of unemployment insurance. Card, Chetty and Weber (American Economic Review 2007; 97: 113â€“118) find a large spike in the exit rate from registered unemployment but only a very small spike in the job finding rate in Austria. We replicate their analysis using matched register data for Finland. We find a large spike also in the job finding rate at the time of benefit exhaustion, even though it is clearly smaller than the spike in the exit rate from unemployment benefits. In addition, we demonstrate difficulties in measuring the time to benefit exhaustion when the benefit entitlement can elapse at a reduced rate during activation measures or part-time working. Unless the remaining benefit entitlement is directly observed in the data, the resulting measurement error can lead to downward biased estimates of the spikes at benefit exhaustion.
C41|A Joint Hazard-Longitudinal Model of the Timing of Migration, Immigrant Quality, and Labor Market Assimilation|This paper develops and estimates a joint hazard-longitudinal (JHL) model of the timing of migration and labor market assimilation – two processes that have been assumed to be independent in the existing literature. The JHL model accounts for the endogenous age of entry in estimating the returns to years since migration by allowing cross-equation correlations of random intercepts with individual rates of wage assimilation. Commonly ignored sample selection issues due to non-random survey attrition and missing wages are also addressed. Using German household panel surveys from 1984 to 2014 and home country-level data from 1961, we find large upward bias in the OLS-estimated average rate of wage assimilation. Our estimates suggest that immigrants with lower unobserved skills and with a higher unobserved propensity to migrate early have a faster assimilation rate.
C41|Birth and Employment Transitions of Women in Turkey: Conflicting or Compatible Roles?|The relationship between fertility and employment among women is a challenging topic that requires further exploration, especially for developing countries where the micro and macro evidence fails to paint a clear picture. This study analyzes the two-way relationship between women’s employment and fertility in Turkey using a hazard approach with piece-wise constant exponential modelling, using data from the 2008 Turkey Demographic and Health Survey. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first study that makes use of an event history analysis to analyze this relationship within a developing country context. Specifically, a separate analysis is made of the association between the employment statuses of women in their first, second, third, and fourth and higher order conceptions, and the association of fertility and its various dimensions with entry and exit from employment. The findings suggest that a two-way negative association exists between fertility and employment among women in Turkey, with increasing intensities identified among some groups of women. Our findings also cast light on how contextual changes related to the incompatibility of the roles of worker and mother have transformed the fertility-employment relationship in Turkey, in line with propositions of the role incompatibility hypothesis.
C41|Firm Industry Affiliation and Multiple Bank Relationships|Abstract We explain the number of bank relationships a firm maintains by the number of industries it operates in, analyzing 13,570 listed firms in 18 Eastern European countries. We estimate a variety of stylized models including OLS, Tobit and negative binomial that directly accounts at once for the number of bank relationships. Controlling for many firm characteristics and accounting for all observed and unobserved time-invariant heterogeneity across firms, we find that the number of industries the firm operates in corresponds to a higher number of bank relationships, possibly because banks specialize in certain industries.
C41|Bayesian Data Combination Approach for Repeated Durations under Unobserved Missing Indicators: Application to Interpurchase-Timing in Marketing|In this study, we focus on intermittent missingness in repeated duration analysis, which is common in applied studies but has not rigorously been considered in statistics. Under intermittent missingness, whether any missing events exist between two observed events is unknown. In other words, the missing indicators are never observed. Thus, if there exist any missing events between two observed events, we observe only the cumulated duration between two or more events. We propose a quasi-Bayes estimation method that utilizes population-level information to identify unobserved intermittent missingness. The proposed model consists of the following: (1) latent variable model, (2) latent missing indicator model which separates true and composite duration, (3) mixtures of duration models and (4) moment restriction from population-level information to deal with nonignorable intermittent missingness. We use a new estimation procedure that combines objective functions of likelihood and GMM simultaneously with latent variables, which we call Bayesian data combination. We apply the proposed model to analyze interpurchase-duration in database marketing using purchase-history data in Japan, which capture purchase incidences and purchase stores.
C41|Stochastic processes of limited frequency and the effects of oversampling|We provide first set estimates for benefit elasticity of median unemployment duration that are robust to assumptions on the censoring mechanism.
C41|Testing a parametric transformation model versus a nonparametric alternative|Despite an abundance of semiparametric estimators of the transformation model, no procedure has been proposed yet to test the hypothesis that the transformation function belongs to a finite-dimensional parametric family against a nonparametric alternative. In this paper we introduce a bootstrap test based on integrated squared distance between a nonparametric estimator and a parametric null. As a special case, our procedure can be used to test the parametric specification of the integrated baseline hazard in a semiparametric mixed proportional hazard (MPH) model. We investigate the finite sample performance of our test in a Monte Carlo study. Finally, we apply the proposed test to Kennan’s strike durations data.
C41|Contagion During the Initial Banking Panic of the Great Depression|The initial banking crisis of the Great Depression has been the subject of debate. Some scholars believe a contagious panic spread among financial institutions. Others argue that suspensions surged because fundamentals, such as losses on loans, drove banks out of business. This paper nests those hypotheses in a single econometric framework, a Bayesian hazard rate model with spatial and network effects. New data on correspondent networks and bank locations enables us to determine which hypothesis fits the data best. The best fitting models are ones incorporating network and geographic effects. The results are consistent with the description of events by depression-era bankers, regulators, and newspapers. Contagion - both interbank and spatial - propelled a panic which healthy banks survived but which forced illiquid and insolvent banks out of operations.
C41|The Impact of the 2012 Spanish Labour Market Reform on Unemployment Inflows and Outflows: a Regression Discontinuity Analysis using Duration Models|This paper studies the impact of the 2012 Spanish labour market reform on the probability of exiting and entering unemployment using a regression discontinuity approach based on duration models. The 2012 reform modified important aspects of hiring and dismissal procedures in Spain and, by doing that, affected the probability of exiting both unemployment and employment. Comparing labour market performance before and after February 2012 and using a competing risk duration model for the exit from both unemployment and employment, we find that the reform has helped employment creation in two ways. First, it has increased the likelihood of exiting from unemployment to employment. Secondly, it has reduced the probability of dismissal for workers on a temporary contract.
C41|Faster estimation of discrete time duration models with unobserved heterogeneity using hshaz2|This article presents hshaz2, a new Stata command that uses d2 ml method to estimate discrete time duration models with unobserved heterogeneity. The main advantage of using hshaz2 is the gain in computation speed, that takes special relevance as the sample size increases. Estimation results show that, on a sample size of 568,042 observations, hshaz2 spends 0.42 and 1.13 minutes to achieve the convergence of a discrete time proportional hazard model with two and three points of support, respectively. Furthermore, hshaz2 allows for the estimation of multispell duration models, where individuals may be observed at risk of exiting more than once. Using, a sample with 1,547,507 observations, hshaz2 spends 1.17 and 2.17 minutes to achieve convergence of a multispell discrete time proportional hazard model with two and three points of support, respectively.
C41|Does Experience Exert Impact on a PPP Performance?|Researchers traditionally assume that learning is a product of experience. In general it means that learning can only take place through the attempt to solve a problem and therefore only takes place during activity (Arrow, 1962). On the ground of organizational theory it has two implications. First we can agree that repeated activity requires less effort. Second we can argue that firms undertake activities, with which they have been the most successful in the past and that they expect to be the most successful in the future. The aim of the research is twofold. Firstly, this article aims to investigate if we can identify a relationship between the experience in PPP projects and the performance of initiatives of this kind. Secondly, the article aims to provide an interpretation of the relationship between experience and PPP performance. This research investigates factors influencing the survival of PPP projects in Poland over the period 2009-2015. Cox proportional hazard model is utilized to distinguish between PPPs that succeeded to the operation phase and those that were cancelled on the procurement stage. The research confirms the existence of a positive relationship between experience in PPP and the outcome of a PPP development.
C41|Gender as Determinant Factor of Routes for Registered Unemployment Exit|Numerous studies show that men’s and women’s situation on the labour market differs. Women’s disadvantageous position on the labour market has been confirmed by statistical data. Finding a job is just one of many causes why an individual is crossed out from the labour office register. The registered unemployed can retire, apply for invalidity pension, receive early retirement benefits or start full time studies. One of the most common causes of de-registering is the unemployed person’s unjustified refusal to accept a job offer. The above causes are regarded as competing risks of various kinds. The purpose of this article is to assess the effect of the unemployed individual’s gender on the probability and intensity of de-registering from the labour office lists due to finding a job, de-registering or other causes. The study made use of the survival analysis methods. The assessment of the probability of de-registration due to a specific cause was made by means of the cumulative incidence function. The intensity of de-registration was tested with the Lunn-McNeil model. Differences in the effect of gender on the de-registration possibility were tested with the use of Gray’s test. The study was based on individual data of people registered by the Labour Office in Szczecin. Among women, job-finding was the most common cause of de-registration, followed by the removal from the register. In the case of men the order was reversed, the most probable de-registration cause was the removal, followed by job-finding. The remaining causes were of marginal significance, both for men and women. Women took up a job more intensively than men and were less intensively removed from the register. The differences between males and females in the intensities of de-registering due to the remaining causes were not statistically relevant.
C41|Duration Model of Enterprises – Analysis of Territorial Groups|The popular term of business demography or demography of the firm denotes a relatively young area of science which focuses on the structures of cohorts of firms and the changes that undergo within these structures. As both the terms suggest, the studies use research methods traditionally applied in demographic studies. Survival analysis is increasingly used in business demography. The purpose of the present study was to build the enterprises survival models for territorial groups in Zachodniopomorskie (Poland). In the first stage the Kaplan-Meier estimator was calculated and the test to verify the similarity of the survival function for poviats was conducted. Poviats were classified into groups. Next, the tables of enterprises survival were built and the business liquidation intensity was analysed in individual groups. In this study the continuous-time non-parametric models were used: Kaplan-Meier estimator, Gehan test and duration table. Those methods were employed to model the survival time and find differences in the survival of firms in the poviats of the Zachodniopomorskie. In keeping with the above scheme five territorial groups with similar enterprises survival time models were distinguished. The study results presented in this article reveal the differentiation of enterprises survival models in the territorial groups. Five groups of poviats were distinguished. These groups, as a result of the study, have been characterized.
C41|The Effect of Economic Uncertainty on the Housing Market Cycle|This paper examines the spill over effect of economic uncertainty on the duration probability of housing market booms, busts and normal times among 12 OECD countries. Quarterly data from 1985 to 2012 were used. Based on a discrete-time duration (hazard) model, we find that the probability of exiting housing market busts increases with higher economic uncertainty in a statistically significant fashion. Uncertainty, however, is not found to influence the likelihood of leaving booms and normal times. Our results tend to suggest that housing serves as possible hedge against uncertainty.
C41|A flexible approach to age dependence in organizational mortality. Comparing the life duration of cooperative and non-cooperative enterprises using a Bayesian Generalized Additive Discrete Time Survival Model| This paper proposes a new estimation model to capture the complex effect of age on organization survival. Testing various theoretical propositions on organizational mortality, we study the survival of French agricultural cooperatives in comparison with other firms with which they compete. The relationship between age and mortality in organizations is analyzed using a Bayesian Generalized discrete-time semi-parametric hazard model with correlated random effects, incorporating unobserved heterogeneity and isolating the various effects of time. This analysis emphasizes the specificity of the temporal dynamics of cooperatives in relation to their special role in agriculture.
C41|Using data from universities with different structure of academic year to model student attrition|Pooling the data from a number of universities into a single sample poses a problem for researchers who are performing regression analysis of student attrition. Academic year can be divided into different academic terms in different universities, and this discrepancy has to be taken into account. This paper considers a problem of using data with different periodicity in the framework of discrete-time event history analysis and gives an example of an estimated attrition model.
C41|Firm Employment Resilience and FDI: Evidence from Italy|Making use of an original data set we investigate the employment dynamics of a panel of Italian manufacturing firms over 2002-2010, and check whether, during the onset of the financial crisis (2008-2009), foreign multinational firms (FM) operating in Italy show a different employment adjustment with respect to domestic multinationals (DM) and to non multinational firms (NM). This paper is the first to test this issue for Italy and follows the benchmarking literature on other countries. We carry out an extensive descriptive analysis relative to firm characteristics and to employment growth over the period disaggregated by the three firms types, also taking into account subsamples of firms with different size and geographical location. We also estimate a GMM System dynamic panel model allowing the global crisis to impact differently on firms employment. A strong evidence of heterogeneity in terms of productivity, wages and financial indicators and of regional location is observed across the three firm types. Besides, the crisis did affect employment in firms according to their multinational status while also hitting firms differently according to other characteristics such as size, location and sectors. By looking at the descriptive analysis, over the crisis, employment changes were negative for the overall sample (-0.50) but increasing in dm and in fm (2.05 per cent). However, the econometric findings, which control at the same time for several factors affecting employment (firm ownership but also other firm and industry variables in addition to regional location), show a different picture: foreign multinationals are systematically more likely to experiment employment growth reductions than domestic multinationals and national enterprises in the North Centre area of the country thus contributing to the employment contraction during the crisis. Our results are not consistent with the idea that foreign investment are less affected by an economic crisis and that they may act as stabilisers in an economy.
C41|Migration, Forced Displacement and Fertility during Civil War: A Survival Analysis|The civil war in Burundi (1993-2005) caused a mass flow of refugees into neighboring countries as well as a large number of internally dis- placed persons. In fact, half of the population was displaced at least once during the course of the conflict. The aim of this study is to explore to what extent migration during the conflict impacted fertility outcomes. Using retrospective data on birth and residential histories at the mother-year level from a nationally representative survey con- ducted in August 2002, we examine the impact of war and migration on the probability of first births and on birth spacing. A parametric survival regression model is adopted to predict the hazard of having an additional child on a sample of about 4,500 Burundian women. Our results suggest that the risk of an additional pregnancy is higher in years of forced displacement of the mother, whereas it is lower in the case of residence in the forced displacement site. We do not find a statistically significant effect different from no migration in the years that the women voluntary migrated. Fertility however sharply increases once the women resided in the migration site.
C41|Public cash transfers and poverty dynamics in Europe|Abstract Using individual-level data for 11 European countries, in combination with country-level data, this paper examines associations between the receipt of public transfers by individuals and their probabilities of exiting and entering poverty, as well as the total amount of time spent below the poverty line. Rather than focusing on welfare regime typology or shares of transfers in total income as most studies do, we partition total transfer income into separate transfer components and account for countries heterogeneity in their provision. The results show that an increase in the amount of unemployment transfers received by individuals is associated with higher probabilities of exiting poverty when these transfers are combined with well-developed active labor market policies. Old-age transfers become an important instrument for the reduction in time spent below the poverty line if they are generous in size and not progressively distributed along the total income distribution. Finally, an increase in the amount of family benefits received is associated with lower probabilities of poverty entry in the countries which spend larger shares of gross domestic product on child care facilities.
C41|Export survival and the dynamics of experience|Abstract This paper focuses on developing countries’ pioneer exports to the OECD and obtains several important results on export dynamics, linking export experience and export survival. Using product level data at the SITC 5-digit level for 114 developing countries over the 1962–2009 period, we show that prior export experience obtained in non-OECD markets significantly increases survival of pioneer exports toward the OECD. The experience does not need to last long, as gaining experience for more than two years does not confer any additional benefit. The effect of experience depreciates rapidly with time: a break in export experience prior to entering the OECD reduces the advantage on survival. Finally, the role of prior export experience is particularly relevant for survival in the first two years upon entry into the OECD. The geographic dynamic of export experience reveals that experience is acquired in neighboring, easy to access markets before reaching more distant, richer partners and ultimately serving the OECD with a higher probability of survival.
C41|The Impact of Tobacco Control Policies on Smoking Initiation in Europe|Our paper investigates the effect of tobacco control policies on smoking initiation in eleven European countries. We analyze longitudinal data of individuals by using information about their age of onset of smoking. We apply hazard rate models to study smoking initiation. Thus, we are able to take into account observed and unobserved personal characteristics as well as the effect of the introduction of a variety of tobacco control policies including bans on tobacco advertisements, smoke-free air regulation, health warnings on packages of cigarettes and treatment programs to help smokers quitting. We find that none of these tobacco control policies influence smoking initiation.
C41|Equivalent representations of discrete-time two-state panel data models|There are two common approaches to analyzing discrete-time two-state panel data: one focuses on modeling the determinants of state occupancy, the other on modeling the determinants of transition between states. This note shows that there are one-to-one correspondences between the two representations, between the two probability distributions in an unrestricted context, and between low-order Markov models of state occupancy and semi-Markov models of transition between states with strictly limited duration dependence.
C41|Estimation of dynamic models of recurring events with censored data|In this paper we consider estimation of dynamic models of recurring events (event histories) in continuous time using censored data. We develop maximum simulated likelihood estimators where missing data are integrated out using Monte Carlo and importance sampling methods. We allow for random effects and integrate out the unobserved heterogeneity using a quadrature rule. In Monte Carlo experiments, we find that maximum simulated likelihood estimation is practically feasible and performs better than both listwise deletion and auxiliary modelling of initial conditions.
C41|Fertility Regulation Behavior: Sequential Decisions in Tunisia|Fertility analysis in Tunisia is revisited by focusing on regulation instruments instead of the number of births or the number of children alive. In Muslim societies, in which marriage is the exclusive acknowledged childbearing context, a woman may be seen as starting her fertility regulation period by postponing her age at marriage. Once married, she can adjust the delay before her first birth control. Then, she can decide whether or not to use a contraceptive, and finally she can select a specific contraception method. These four decisions, approximately arranged sequentially, may somewhat interact with the sequential stages of the woman's lifecycle and involve distinct motivations: (1) enrolment in higher education; (2) participation in the labor market; (3) a given fertility objective; and (4) dealing with middle age and old age health problems. Using data from the 2001 Tunisian PAP-FAM survey data, we estimate econometric models that provide an approximate description of fertility regulation as an outcome of the above sequential decisions. Accordingly, the significant effects of our explanatory variables gradually arise and vanish across the models as the women proceeds in her fertility regulation process. Our findings suggest that family network and sociocultural environment greatly shape the household preference for children. Although strict causality inference is beyond the possibilities of a single cross-section, the elicited correlations point to suggestive explanations that call for additional collection efforts to better capture lifecycle decisions of family members and the interactions of the extended family across this lifecycle.
C41|Optimal mean-reverting spread trading: nonlinear integral equation approach|Abstract We study several optimal stopping problems that arise from trading a mean-reverting price spread over a finite horizon. Modeling the spread by the Ornstein–Uhlenbeck process, we analyze three different trading strategies: (i) the long-short strategy; (ii) the short-long strategy, and (iii) the chooser strategy, i.e. the trader can enter into the spread by taking either long or short position. In each of these cases, we solve an optimal double stopping problem to determine the optimal timing for starting and subsequently closing the position. We utilize the local time-space calculus of Peskir (J Theor Probab 18:499–535, 2005a) and derive the nonlinear integral equations of Volterra-type that uniquely characterize the boundaries associated with the optimal timing decisions in all three problems. These integral equations are used to numerically compute the optimal boundaries.
C41|Bounds on treatment effects on transitions|This paper considers the identification of treatment effects on conditional transition probabilities. We show that even under random assignment only the instantaneous average treatment effect is point identified. Since treated and control units drop out at different rates, randomization only ensures the comparability of treatment and controls at the time of randomization, so that long-run average treatment effects are not point identified. Instead, we derive bounds on these average effects. Our bounds do not impose (semi)parametric restrictions, for example, proportional hazards. We also explore assumptions such as monotone treatment response, common shocks and positively correlated outcomes that tighten the bounds.
C41|Fiscal policy effects on non-performing loan formation|The fiscal situation in an economy may have a significant impact on the evolution of Non-Performing loans (NPLs). Austerity measures limit the loan servicing capacity of households and businesses (Perotti, 1996) whereas public borrowing accelerates markedly ahead of sovereign debt and banking crisis (Reinhart and Rogof, 2010). We empirically approach the effects of fiscal policy on NPLs employing a global data set for 31 countries covering a fifteen year period. We control also for other macroeconomic factors so as to quantify effects stemming from fiscal policy measures. We employ panel data methodologies since they provide us the means to deal with unobserved country heterogeneity when examining the determinants of asset quality. We also examine the one period ahead forecasting performance of our models in line with the cross sample panel data validating suggestions of Granger and Huang (1997). Our findings imply that, on a global level, when accounting for variables linked to macroeconomic performance such as GDP growth and the unemployment rate, fiscal pressure imposed on the economy, as measured by changes in the cyclically adjusted primary surplus, constitute important determinants of Non-Performing loan formation. Also our specifications provide efficient out-of-sample one-step ahead forecasts combining effectively unobserved country heterogeneity with observed macro and fiscal determinants. Our analysis could be of great interest to policymakers since the assessment of credit risk in the banking sector is a crucial element of macro-prudential policy. In this framework, besides strict macroeconomic performance metrics one should also take into account the fiscal framework when trying to explain the key drivers behind NPL evolution.
C41|Duration Dependence in Employment: Evidence From the Last Half of the 20th Century|This paper extends the investigation of Ignaczak [5] of the first employment spell of workers across five different birth cohorts using pooled data from the 15th and 20th cycles of the Canadian General Social Survey (GSS) to subsequent spells of employment with the purpose of testing for employment duration dependence. As the information on the GSS surveys spans well over the last half of the 20th century we are able to test not only the potential duration dependence but its stability over time. This paper contributes to the debate of employment stability by analyzing the differences between job and employment durations and showing that successive cohorts of workers have had increasingly shorter first employment durations. The analysis finds cohort effects which play a significant role in explaining declining employment tenure. The cohort effects can be seen as a proxy for a number of socio-economic factors that affect the hazard of separation from employment. Separate analysis is completed for men and women by birth cohort. This pattern of declining tenure has occurred for both men and women, but the decline has been far more prominent for men. For men, macroeconomic factors affect the hazard more strongly in more recent cohorts, which is consistent with recessionary periods generating decreasing employment stability across cohorts. For women, cohort effects are consistent with the increasing generosity of maternity leave provisions through Unemployment Insurance.
C41|Irrigation Practices, Water Effectiveness and Productivity Measurement|This paper develops a consistent theoretical framework for measuring irrigation water effectiveness and its impact on productivity growth rates by assuming a smooth transition process from traditional to modern irrigation technologies among individual farmers.
C41|A Simple R-Estimation Method for Semiparametric Duration Models|Modeling nonnegative financial variables (e.g. durations between trades, traded volumes or asset volatilities) is central to a number of studies across financial econometrics, and, despite the efforts, still poses several statistical challenges. Among them, the efficiency aspects of semiparametric estimation. In this paper, we concentrate on estimation problems in Autoregressive Conditional Duration (ACD) models with unspecified innovation densities. Exponential quasi-likelihood estimators (QMLE) are the usual practice in that context. The efficiency of those QMLEs (the only Fisher-consistent QMLEs) unfortunately rapidly deteriorates away from the reference exponential density—a phenomenon that has been emphasized earlier by Drost and Werker (2003), who propose various semiparametrically efficient procedures to palliate that phenomenon. Those procedures rely on a general semiparametric approach which typically requires kernel estimation of the underlying innovation density. We propose rank-based estimators (R-estimators) as a substitute. Just as the QMLE, R-estimators remain root-n consistent irrespective of the underlying density, and rely on the choice of a reference density under which they achieve semiparametric efficiency; that density, however, needs not be the exponential one. Contrary to the semiparametric estimators proposed by Drost and Werker (2003), R-estimators neither require tangent space calculations nor kernel-based density estimation. Numerical results moreover indicate that R-estimators based on exponential reference densities uniformly outperform the exponential QMLE under such families of innovations as the Weibull or Burr densities. A real data example about modeling the price range of the Swiss stock market index concludes the paper.
C41|The Specification of Dynamic Discrete-Time Two-State Panel Data Models|This paper compares two approaches to analyzing longitudinal discrete-time binary outcomes. Dynamic binary response models focus on state occupancy and typically specify low-order Markovian state dependence. Multi-spell duration models focus on transitions between states and typically allow for state-specific duration dependence. We show that the former implicitly impose strong and testable restrictions on the transition probabilities. In a case study of poverty transitions, we show that these restrictions are severely rejected against the more flexible multi-spell duration models.
C41|Spread Term Structure and Default Correlation|The aim of this paper is to analyse default correlation and its implications for the term structures of corporate bonds and credit derivatives, reconsidering the results of Jarrow, R., and F. Yu [2001] and the related literature. We first provide different characterisations of spread term structures, when the available information corresponds to the default histories of the firms. The approach is then extended to factor models, in both static and a dynamic framework. We discuss in details the links between default correlation and jumps in short term spreads, and how these phenomena depend on the available information.
C41|Análisis de la supervivencia de las spin-offs universitarias creadas en España: Factores diferenciales respecto a empresas similares|En las últimas décadas el auge de la creación de spin-offs universitarias ha sido justificado por una serie de efectos positivos como ser una fuente de transferencia de conocimiento y contribuir al desarrollo económico y social de cualquier territorio. Sin embargo, no existe un consenso sobre su aportación real al crecimiento o las probabilidades de supervivencia de este tipo de empresas. Este trabajo, analiza la supervivencia de las spin-offs universitarias en España en base a una muestra formada por 469 spin-offs universitarias. En primer lugar, se identifica el porcentaje de empresas de la muestra que siguen vivas en cada año comparado con un grupo de empresas similares para posteriormente analizar el mismo en función de factores considerados clave para la supervivencia de una empresa y de variables obtenidas de las cuentas anuales. Los resultados obtenidos muestran que las spin-offs participadas por socios de capital riesgo, que exportan o tienen patentes tienen unos porcentajes de supervivencia superiores al resto.
C41|El desajuste educativo en el Mercado laboral Caleño: Un análisis a partir de las Vacantes|Este artículo analiza los diplomas en el mercado laboral de Cali a partir de los clasificados colocados en El PAIS, el principal periódico de la ciudad. A partir de diferenciar del total de los clasificados aquellos en los que se exige el diploma para acceder a un trabajo se construye una serie de tiempo y se analizan sus propiedades. Las pruebas de raíz unitaria muestran que la serie del diploma tiene una raíz unitaria por lo que se realiza un análisis de descomposición del tipo Beveridge-Nelson. Esta descomposición permite estimar el componente permanente y transitorio de los diplomas. Nuestros resultados muestran que el mercado laboral caleño es bastante credencialista ya que se exige de forma regular el diploma para acceder a un puesto de trabajo.
C41|Understanding the non-convergence of agricultural futures via stochastic storage costs and timing options|This paper studies the market phenomenon of non-convergence between futures and spot prices in the grains market. We postulate that the positive basis observed at maturity stems from the futures holder's timing options to exercise the shipping certificate delivery item and subsequently liquidate the physical grain. In our proposed approach, we incorporate stochastic spot price and storage cost, and solve an optimal double stopping problem to give the optimal strategies to exercise and liquidate the grain. Our new models for stochastic storage rates lead to explicit no-arbitrage prices for the shipping certificate and associated futures contract. We calibrate our models to empirical futures data during the periods of observed non-convergence, and illustrate the premium generated by the shipping certificate.
C41|Las reformas de la Ley Concursal durante la Gran Recesión|Traditionally, bankruptcy procedures in Spain have been lengthy and costly processes that have nearly always (95%) resulted in the liquidation of the insolvent firm. These dysfunctions became apparent with the large increase in bankruptcy filings during the crisis that started in 2008 and the ensuing congestion of the courts. In order to resolve these and other problems, the Bankruptcy Law has been reformed several times. The goal of this research is to analyse the impact of these reforms on two facets: the length of bankruptcy procedures and the probability of achieving a successful reorganisation, hence avoiding the firm’s liquidation. Our findings show that two of the four reforms analysed increased the percentage of reorganisations and decreased bankruptcy duration through improving the quality of insolvency administrators and by fostering out-of-court workouts for large corporations.
C41|Price Setting Practices In Greece: Evidence From A Small-Scale Firm-Level Survey|The paper documents the price setting practices followed by some 400 or so firms operating in Greece. Survey replies reveal: a low percentage of firms changing prices with frequency higher than annual; staggering of price changes during the year; sluggish adjustment of prices to cost shocks; asymmetries in price adjustment across positive and negative cost shocks and a speedier adjustment to increases in costs than to reductions in demand. The data confirm cross-sectional variations in price setting practices also found for other countries. On the basis of the results reached the conjecture that the prevalence of small firms, of firms providing services to businesses and of firms active in tourism-related activities might lie behind the inflation persistence exhibited until recently in Greece appears plausible.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|Unemployment Insurance and Underemployment|Should unemployment insurance (UI) systems provide coverage for underemployed job seekers? Based on a statistical analysis of Norwegian unemployment spells, we conclude that the answer to this question is yes. Allowing insured job seekers to retain partial UI benefits during periods of insufficient part-time work not only reduces UI expenditures during the part-time work period; it also unambiguously reduces the time until a regular self-supporting job is found. Probable explanations are that even small temporary part-time jobs provide access to useful vacancy-information and that such jobs are used by employers as a screening device when hiring from the unemployment pool.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|Market Power and Duration of R&D Investment in a Panel of Italian Firms|Studies about innovation find evidence of a positive relationship between technological advancement and firm performance, in particular when the innovative effort is continuous. This paper aims to further the analysis on the duration of R&D investment at the firm level. The contribution of this study is threefold: first, we extend Máñez et al. [2014], Triguero et al. [2014] analysis for Spain to the Italian case: we use a panel of manufacturing and service companies, thus enlarging the view of R&D duration within the European countries. Secondly, from a methodological point of view, we employ both discrete- and continuous-time duration models, in order to test the Proportional Hazards (PH) assumption, i.e. the assumption that the hazard rate is equivalent over time across groups. Last, but not least, we assess whether a firm’s likelihood of continuing investment in R&D depends on the market power of companies. We test alternative measures for market power: the classical price-cost margin and a new proxy for the firm demand elasticity, obtained from a specific survey question. Results are in line with the hypothesis that R&D presents considerable temporal spill overs and strong persistence, even once unobserved heterogeneity is controlled for. Also, we argue that the appropriate proxy for market power is the firm demand elasticity, and we find support for the Schumpeterian hypothesis.
C41|Die Wohnsitzauflage als kostspielige Integrationsbremse für Flüchtlinge|Die Wohnsitzauflage soll die nachhaltige Integration anerkannter Flüchtlinge fördern. Aus ökonomischer Sicht scheint sie hierfür jedoch wenig geeignet. Frühere Erfahrungen zeigen, dass eine Festschreibung des Wohnortes die Wahrscheinlichkeit, eine Arbeitsstelle zu finden, reduziert. Der so verursachte Anstieg der Arbeitslosenquote anerkannter Flüchtlinge bedeutet insbesondere für den Bundeshaushalt Mehr - ausgaben. Dies ist das Ergebnis einer Beispielrechnung, die sowohl die erwarteten Arbeitsmarkteffekte der Wohnsitzauflage, als auch landesdurchschnittliche Ausgaben für Bezieher des Arbeitslosengeldes II berücksichtigt. Der erwartete Ausgabenanstieg ist insbesondere auf die zusätzlichen Ausgaben für die Kosten der Unterkunft arbeitsloser Flüchtlinge zurückzuführen, die vom Bund getragen werden.
C41|Oaxaca-Blinder Type Counterfactual Decomposition Methods for Duration Outcomes|Existing inference procedures to perform counterfactual decomposition of the difference between distributional features, applicable when data is fully observed, are not suitable for censored outcomes. This may explain the lack of counterfac- tual analyses using target variables related to duration outcomes, typically observed under right censoring. For instance, there are many studies performing counterfac- tual decomposition of the gender wage gaps, but very few on gender unemployment duration gaps. We provide an Oaxaca-Blinder type decomposition method of the mean for censored data. Consistent estimation of the decomposition components is based on a prior estimator of the joint distribution of duration and covariates under suitable restrictions on the censoring mechanism. To decompose other distribu- tional features, such as the median or the Gini coefficient, we propose an inferential method for the counterfactual decomposition by introducing restrictions on the func tional form of the conditional distribution of duration given covariates. We provide formal justification for asymptotic inference and study the finite sample performance through Monte Carlo experiments. Finally, we apply the proposed methodology to the analysis of unemployment duration gaps in Spain. This study suggests that factors beyond the workers' socioeconomic characteristics play a relevant role in explaining the difference between several unemployment duration distribution fea- tures such as the mean, the probability of being long term unemployed and the Gini coefficient.
C41|Diferencias de género en la edad del primer matrimonio: una evidencia desde los modelos de búsqueda marital para Colombia|Este estudio pretende establecer de qué manera la decisión de casarse se ve afectada por un entorno socioeconómico familiar que favorece la acumulación de capital humano y por la transición hacia el rol económico de la adultez. Se evalúa si las diferencias de género en las características de entrada al matrimonio disminuyen a medida que se reducen las diferencias en el estatus económico de hombres y mujeres. Con este propósito, se estima un modelo de duración de la búsqueda marital para evaluar si estas variables explican la decisión de hombres y mujeres colombianos de casarse o comenzar uniones de hecho a determinada edad. Mayores posibilidades de educación e inserción laboral femenina reducen las diferencias en el comportamiento matrimonial entre hombres y mujeres generando incentivos a postergar las uniones.
C41|Modelling and Forecasting with Financial Duration Data Using Non-linear Model|The class of autoregressive conditional duration (ACD) models plays an important role in modelling the duration data in economics and finance. This paper presents a non-linear model to allow the first four moments of the duration to depend nonlinearly on past information variables. Theoretically the model is more general than the linear ACD model. The proposed model is fitted to the data given by the 3534 transaction durations of IBM stock on five consecutive trading days. The fitted model is found to be comparable to the Weibull ACD model in terms of the in-sample and out-of-sample mean squared prediction errors and mean absolute forecast deviations. In addition, the Diebold-Mariano test shows that there are no significant differences in forecast ability for all models.
C41|Between Life Cycle Model, Labor Market Integration and Discrimination: An Econometric Analysis of the Determinants of Return Migration|This paper studies the determinants of return migration by applying the Cox hazard model to longitudinal micro data from 1996 to 2012, including immigrants of a wide range of nationalities. The empirical results reveal the validity of the life cycle model of Migration Economics and a strong return probability decreasing effect of labor market integration and societal integration. Modeling non-proportional effects of qualification and social benefits supports the human capital thesis and supplies new insights with regard to the supranational European labor market and to development policy. At the beginning of residence highly qualified immigrants as well as immigrants obtaining social benefits display a rather high hazard ratio that, however, decreases each additional year of residence afterwards. Via survivor functions further remarkable results about non-proportional adverse selection effects and about the interaction between qualification and labor market integration can be found. Finally, the paper derives important policy implications from the empirical analysis with a special focus on the interface between public economics and development policy and on combining classical guest worker approaches with modern concepts of brain gain and the human capital hypothesis.
C41|The Role of Sickness in the Evaluation of Job Search Assistance and Sanctions|Unemployment insurance agencies may combat moral hazard by punishing refusals to apply to assigned vacancies. However, the possibility to report sick creates an additional moral hazard, since during sickness spells, minimum requirements on search behavior do not apply. This reduces the ex ante threat of sanctions. We analyze the e?ects of vacancy referrals and sanctions on the unemployment duration and the quality of job matches, in conjunction with the possibility to report sick. We estimate multi-spell duration models with selection on unobserved characteristics. We ?nd that a vacancy referral increases the transition rate into work and that such accepted jobs go along with lower wages. We also ?nd a positive e?ect of a vacancy referral on the probability of reporting sick. This e?ect is smaller at high durations, which suggests that the relative attractiveness of vacancy referrals increases over the time spent in unemployment. Overall, around 9% of sickness absence during unemployment is induced by vacancy referrals.
C41|Exporting, R&D investment and firm survival in the Indian IT sector|This paper examines the effect of exporting and R&D investment on firm survival for a panel of Indian IT firms. We show that exporting has competing effects on firm survival. On the one hand, exporting and investing in productivity are complementary activities, while, on the other, exporting activity is an additional source of uncertainty for the firm. We show that both effects influence survival, but operate at different points in time. Specifically, the hazard facing exporters is higher than non-exporters in the initial phase following entry into the export market, reflecting the fact that exporters are particularly vulnerable to shocks in the start-up phase. However, over time, exporters benefit more from productivity gains than non-exporters and the hazard facing exporters falls below that confronting non-exporters.
C41|Modeling rating transitions with instantaneous default|The time-continuous discrete-state Markov process is a common model for rating transitions. We present a low-dimensional model that jointly models defaults as a consequence of a cascade of downgrades, as well as an instantaneous default from a good rating grade, and study the resulting maximum-likelihood estimator. By using a martingale limit theorem, we show asymptotic normality. Using a regional cooperative bank portfolio as a sample, reveals that an increase in credit quality is more likely for corporate debtors with poor ratings, while for good ratings, a downgrade is more likely. The effect can be described as a contraction toward medium rating grades.
C41|Identification of the timing-of-events model with multiple competing exit risks from single-spell data|The identification result of the timing-of-events model (Abbring and Van den Berg, 2003b) is extended to a model with several competing exit risk equations. This extension allows e.g. to simultaneously identify the different effects a benefit sanction has on the rate of finding work and leaving the labor force.
C41|Patent propensity, R&D and market competition: Dynamic spillovers of innovation leaders and followers|In this article, dynamic interactions among stock return, Research and Development (R&D) investment, patent applications and patent propensity of firms are studied. Patent innovation leader and follower firms are identified with respect to their quality-adjusted knowledge stock. Significant and positive dynamic spillover effects are obtained in a panel vector autoregressive model. We find positive dynamic spillover effects from patent innovation leader to followers. We show that an increasing degree of competition enhances innovation and patent applications, which helps firms appropriating part of the benefits of their R&D investments.
C41|A compound duration model for high-frequency asset returns|This paper builds a model of high-frequency equity returns by separately modeling the dynamics of trade-time returns and trade arrivals. Our main contributions are threefold. First, we characterize the distributional behavior of high-frequency asset returns both in ordinary clock time and in trade time. We show that when controlling for pre-scheduled market news events, trade-time returns of the near-month E-mini S&P 500 futures contract are well characterized by a Gaussian distribution at very fine time scales. Second, we develop a structured and parsimonious model of clock-time returns using a time-changed Brownian motion composed with a general, non-Lévy directing process. Particular cases of this model allow for leptokurtosis and volatility clustering in clock-time returns, even when trade-time returns are Gaussian. Finally, we highlight conditions for the directing process which are required in order to generate proper volatility dynamics while simultaneously matching the unconditional distribution of returns. In-sample fitting and out-of-sample realized volatility forecasting demonstrate the strength of our model relative to leading candidates.
C41|Lapse risk in life insurance: Correlation and contagion effects among policyholders’ behaviors|The present paper proposes a new methodology to model the lapse risk in life insurance by integrating the dynamic aspects of policyholders’ behaviors and the dependency of the lapse intensity on macroeconomic conditions. Our approach, suitable to stable economic regimes as well as stress scenarios, introduces a mathematical framework where the lapse intensity follows a dynamic contagion process, see Dassios and Zhao (2011). This allows to capture both contagion and correlation potentially arising among insureds’ behaviors. In this framework, an external market driven jump component drives the lapse intensity process depending on the interest rate trajectory: when the spread between the market interest rates and the contractual crediting rate crosses a given threshold, the insurer is likely to experience more surrenders. A log-normal dynamic for the forward rates is introduced to build trajectories of an observable market variable and mimic the effect of a macroeconomic triggering event based on interest rates on the lapse intensity. Contrary to previous works, our shot-noise intensity is not constant and the resulting intensity process is not Markovian. Closed-form expressions and analytic sensitivities for the moments of the lapse intensity are provided, showing how lapses can be affected by massive copycat behaviors. Further analyses are then conducted to illustrate how the mean risk varies depending on the model’s parameters, while a simulation study compares our results with those obtained using standard practices. The numerical outputs highlight a potential misestimation of the expected number of lapses under extreme scenarios when using classical stress testing methodologies.
C41|Why do carbon prices and price volatility change?|An asymmetric information microstructural pricing model is proposed in which price responses to information and liquidity vary with every transaction. bid-ask quotes and price components account for learning by incorporating changing expectations of the rate of transacted volume (trading intensity) and the risk level of incoming trades. Analysis of European carbon futures transactions finds expected trading intensity to simultaneously increase the information component and decrease the liquidity component of price changes, but at different rates. This explains some conflicting results in prior literature. Further, the expected persistence in trading intensity explains the majority of the autocorrelations in the level and the conditional variance of price change; helps predict hourly patterns in returns, variance and the bid-ask spread; and differentiates the price impact of buy versus sell and continuing versus reversing trades.
C41|Forecasting distress in European SME portfolios|In this paper, we examine idiosyncratic and systematic distress predictors for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in Europe over the period 2000–2009. We find that SMEs across European regions are vulnerable to common idiosyncratic factors but systematic factors vary. Moreover, systematic factors move average distress rates and small SMEs are more vulnerable to these factors compared to large SMEs. By including many very small companies in the sample, our models offer unique insights into the European small business sector. By exploring distress in a multi-country setting, the models uncover regional vulnerabilities. Finally, by incorporating systematic dependencies, the models capture distress co-movements.
C41|Scars of recessions in a rigid labor market|We study the impact of graduating in recessions in the Belgian labor market, where high minimum wages protect the low educated against wage losses but possibly reinforce the unemployment risk. By contrast, due to labor regulations, the high-educated can get stuck in low-wage jobs. We find that a typical recession leaves the wages of the low-educated unaffected, but reduces their working time and earnings by about 4.5% for up to twelve years after graduation. For the high-educated, working time is not persistently affected, but hourly wages and earnings are. This wage and earnings penalty increases with experience, and reaches roughly −6% ten years after labor market entry.
C41|Optimal unemployment benefits in the presence of informal labor markets|We assess optimal unemployment benefit level and duration in a labor market with many informal jobs. Using administrative data from Argentina, a country with high informality, we exploit discontinuities in duration, and a reform that increases benefits. We find that increasing benefits hardly extends unemployment spells but raises re-employment wages. In contrast, extending unemployment benefits prolongs unemployment spells with no effect on re-employment wages. In a search model, we derive sufficient statistics to analyze the welfare effects of a reform that increases benefits by shortening duration. Calibrating our formula using our empirical results, we find that welfare would increase with higher benefits and shorter duration.
C41|Sanctions and the exit from unemployment in two different benefit schemes|This paper investigates the effect of benefit sanctions on the exit rate from unemployment using a unique set of rich register data on unemployed Finnish individuals. The timing-of-events approach is applied to distinguish between the selection and causal effects of sanctioning. The results imply that the effect of sanctions differs according to the benefits received. Sanctions encourage unemployed individuals receiving flat-rate labour market support (LMS) to find jobs, whereas unemployed individuals receiving earnings-related (UI) allowances to leave the labour force. The encouraging effect of sanctions on active labour market policy programmes is relatively small and statistically significant only among LMS recipients.
C41|The effect of the potential duration of unemployment benefits on unemployment exits to work and match quality in France|Recent empirical literature finds very limited average effects of generous unemployment benefits on match quality. This study examines those effects in a setting where they could be large. We focus on workers with low employability and evaluate the impact of a large increase in potential benefit duration from 7 to 15months. Our regression discontinuity design does not elicit significant short-term or medium-term effects on either employment duration or wages, whereas we find large positive effects on unemployment and non-employment duration.
C41|Earnings exemptions for unemployed workers: The relationship between marginal employment, unemployment duration and job quality|In some countries including Germany unemployed workers can increase their income by working a few hours per week. The intention is to keep unemployed job seekers attached to the labour market and to increase their job-finding probabilities. To analyze the unemployment dynamics of job seekers with and without marginal employment, we consider an inflow sample into unemployment and estimate multivariate duration models. While we do not find any significant impact on the job finding probability in a model with homogeneous effects, models allowing for time-varying coefficients indicate a decreased job finding probability of marginal employment at the beginning of the unemployment spell and an increased job finding probability for the long-term unemployed. Our results suggest that job seekers with marginal employment find more stable post-unemployment jobs, and we find some evidence that the relationship between marginal employment and wages and employment stability varies with respect to skill levels, sector and labor market tightness.
C41|Housing wealth accumulation: The role of public housing|The public housing sector provides housing units at below-market rents, potentially allowing its tenants to save for a downpayment more quickly than they would have otherwise. In this paper, we analyze the effect of a spell in public housing on age at first-time homeownership using the French Housing Survey. We use a pseudo-panel approach that takes into account the specificities of the local housing market, to derive individual tenure transitions from multiple cross-sections data, for the period 1979–2006. Using an IV strategy to control for a potential selection into public housing, we jointly estimate public housing tenancy and duration before first-time homeownership, and take into account unobserved heterogeneity. Our results indicate that a spell in public housing increases the hazard to homeownership, supporting the idea that, in France in the study period, the public housing policy provided an important pathway to homeownership.
C41|Inverted-U relationship between R&D intensity and survival: Evidence on scale and complementarity effects in UK data|Existing evidence on the relationship between R&D intensity and firm survival is varied and often conflicting. We argue that this may be due to overlooking R&D scale effects and complementarity between R&D intensity and market concentration. Drawing on Schumpeterian models of competition and innovation, we address these issues by developing a formal model of firm survival and using a panel dataset of 37,930 of R&D-active UK firms over 1998–2012. We report the following findings: (i) the relationship between R&D intensity and firm survival follows an inverted-U pattern that reflects diminishing scale effects; (ii) R&D intensity and market concentration are complements in that R&D-active firms have longer survival time if they are in more concentrated industries; and (iii) creative destruction as proxied by median R&D intensity in the industry and the premium on business lending have negative effects on firm survival. Other findings concerning age, size, productivity, relative growth, Pavitt technology classes and the macroeconomic environment are in line with the existing literature. The results are strongly or moderately robust to different samples, stepwise estimations, and controls for frailty and left truncation.
C41|Governors’ term of office and information disclosure: Evidence from Japan|Local governors who hold office for longer periods are thought to be more likely to collude with various groups to increase their own benefit through long-term interaction. There is no term limit for local governors in Japan, seemingly causing such collusive behavior. However, since 1987, local government at the prefecture level has begun to promulgate public information disclosure ordinances, which is anticipated to prevent collusive behavior. As of 2001, all 47 local governments have promulgated their local ordinances. This paper uses a prefecture-level dataset from 1987 and 2001 to explore whether the number of years that local governors hold office is associated with the timing of the promulgation of public information disclosure ordinances. The major finding using survival regression analysis is that the longer local governors hold office, the less likely the ordinance is promulgated. This highlights the policy implication that the term of local governors should be limited.
C41|The Dynamic Process of Economic Takeoff and Industrial Transformation|This paper studies the patterns and key determinants of staged economic development. We construct a two-sector dynamic general equilibrium model populated with one-period lived non-overlapping generations, featuring endogenous enhancement in modern technology and endogenous accumulation of labor skills and capital funds. We consider preference biases toward the traditional sector of necessities, capital barriers to the modern sector, and imperfect substitution between skilled and unskilled workers. By calibrating the model to fit historic U.S. development, we find that modern technologies, saving incentives and capital scales/barriers are the most important determinants of the takeoff time. By evaluating the process of economic development, we identify that what shapes saving incentives is most crucial for the speed of modernization after taking off. We further establish that labor, capital and output are most responsive to the initial state of modern technologies, but least responsive to skill endowments, along the dynamic transition path.
C41|Heterogeneity and Unemployment Dynamics|This paper develops new estimates of flows into and out of unemployment that allow for unobserved heterogeneity across workers as well as direct effects of unemployment duration on unemployment-exit probabilities. Unlike any previous paper in this literature, it develops a complete dynamic statistical model that allows us to measure the contribution of different shocks to the short-run, medium-run, and long run variance of unemployment as well as to specific historical episodes. This paper finds that changes in the inflows of newly unemployed are the key driver of economic recessions and identify an increase in permanent job loss as the most important factor. [Working Paper 22451]
C41|Heterogeneity in the Dynamics of Disaggregate Unemployment|This paper explores the role that unobserved heterogeneity within an observed category plays in the dynamics of disaggregate unemployment and in the cross-sectional differences across individuals of the duration of unemployment spells. The distribution of unobserved heterogeneity is characterized as a mixture of two distributions with each mean and weight determined by the inflows and outflows of workers with unobserved types H and L, which are identified based on the nonlinear state-space model of Ahn and Hamilton (2016). I found that the contribution of each factor to the dynamics of disaggregate unemployment differs by observed category. The inflow of type L workers is the most important factor in the majority of demographic groups in the business-cycle frequency. I identify permanent job loss to be the observable characteristic most closely associated with the type L attribute. A simple model of heterogeneity based on two unobserved types can account for explain more than 50 percent of the cross-sectional dispersion in completed-duration spells after the Great Recession, while observed heterogeneity makes only a minor contribution.
C41|Out-migration and attrition of physicians and dentists before and after EU accession (2003 and 2011): the case of Hungary|Abstract This paper employs a large-scale, individual-level, panel dataset to analyse the effect of EU accession on the probability of out-migration on the part of Hungarian physicians and dentists between 2003 and 2011. The study uses event history modelling and competing risk models. The results show that EU accession did not at the time affect the probability of out-migration while after the end of the transitional period of restrictions on the free movement of labour from the new EU member states to Austria and Germany, the probability of doctors’ migration increased considerably. Relative wages and peer pressure also exercise a significant role in the out-migration decisions of young medical doctors. We also find that more than half of those medical doctors who left the country during the observation period returned some time later. The data furthermore suggest a massive flow of doctors to domestic jobs outside the health care system.
C41|Crime and labour market turnover| We go beyond unemployment to investigate how its determinants, specifically hires, lay-offs and quits, affect crime. As expected, we find less crime in localities with higher hiring and quit rates and lower lay-off rates. The size of relationships is on the order of studies analysing the link between unemployment and crime.
C41|Identification of the timing-of-events model with multiple competing exit risks from single-spell data|The (single-spell) identification result of the timing-of-events model by Abbring and Van den Berg (2003b) is extended to a model with several competing exit risk equations. The extended model can be used for example to simultaneously identify the different effects a benefit sanction has on the rate to find work and the rate to leave the labor force. A flexible dependence structure between competing exit risks and the duration until entry into treatment accounts for selection effects caused by unobserved characteristics of the job searcher.
C41|Nonparametric Identification of a Time-Varying Frailty Model|In duration analysis, the Mixed Proportional Hazard model is the most common choice among practitioners for the specification of the underlying hazard rate. One major drawback of this model is that the value of the frailty term (i.e. unobserved factors) is time-invariant. This paper introduces a new model, the Mixed Random Hazard (MRH) model, which allows the frailty term to be time-varying. We provide sufficient conditions under which the new model is nonparametrically identified. Moreover, a theoretical framework is proposed for testing whether the true model is MRH. We conclude this paper with a discussion of how the arguments for the univariate MRH model can be extended to various multivariate problems.
C41|A new model for interdependent durations with an application to joint retirement| This paper introduces a bivariate version of the generalized accelerated failure time model. It allows for simultaneity in the econometric sense that the two realized outcomes depend structurally on each other. Another feature of the proposed model is that it will generate equal durations with positive probability. The motivating example is retirement decisions by married couples. In that example it seems reasonable to allow for the possibility that each partner's optimal retirement time depends on the retirement time of the spouse. Moreover, the data suggest that the wife and the husband retire at the same time for a nonnegligible fraction of couples. Our approach takes as a starting point a stylized economic model that leads to a univariate generalized accelerated failure time model. The covariates of that generalized accelerated failure time model act as utility-flow shifters in the economic model. We introduce simultaneity by allowing the utility flow in retirement to depend on the retirement status of the spouse. The econometric model is then completed by assuming that the observed outcome is the Nash bargaining solution in that simple economic model. The advantage of this approach is that it includes independent realizations from the generalized accelerated failure time model as a special case, and deviations from this special case can be given an economic interpretation. We illustrate the model by studying the joint retirement decisions in married couples using the Health and Retirement Study. We provide a discussion of relevant identifying variation and estimate our model using indirect inference. The main empirical nding is that the simultaneity seems economically important. In our preferred speci cation the indirect utility associated with being retired increases by approximately 5% when one's spouse retires. The estimated model also predicts that the marginal eff ect of a change in the husbands' pension plan on wives' retirement dates is about 3.3% of the direct eff ect on the husbands'.
C41|Unemployment Exits Before and During the Crisis|Using administrative data from Spanish Social Security, we compare the pattern and the determinants of individual unemployment durations and the stability of jobs found after unemployment before and during the recent crisis. We find particularly strong effects of the crisis on the hazards in the beginning of the unemployment spell. The groups hit hardest by the crisis are men, immigrants, older workers, and individuals with lower levels of education. The disadvantage of men is mainly due to the more pro-cyclical nature of men´s jobs. Decompositions show that the increase in average unemployment duration and the decrease in average duration of the new job during the crisis are not explained by changing characteristics of the individuals who become unemployed.
C41|When the Going Gets Tough... Financial Incentives, Duration of Unemployment and Job-Match Quality|In the aftermath of the Great Recession, the Spanish government reduced the replacement rate (RR) from 60% to 50% after 180 days of unemployment for all spells beginning on July 15, 2012. Using Social Security data and a Differences-in-Differences approach, we find that reducing the RR by 10 percentage points (or 17%) increases workers’ odds of finding a job by at least 41% relative to similar workers not affected by the reform. To put it differently, the reform reduced the mean expected unemployment duration by 5.7 weeks (or 14%), implying an elasticity of 0.86. We find strong behavioral effects as the reform reduced the expected unemployment duration right from the beginning of the unemployment spell. While the reform had no effect on wages, it did not decrease other measures of post-displacement job-match quality. After 15 months, the reform decreased unemployment insurance expenditures by 16%, about half of which are explained by job seekers’ behavioral changes.
C41|Education, cognitive ability, and cause-specific mortality: A structural approach| Education is negatively associated with most major causes of death. Prior work ignores the premise that cause-specific hazards are interdependent and that both education and mortality depend on cognitive ability. We analyse Swedish men aged 18–63, focusing on months lost due to specific causes—which solves the interdependence problem—and use a structural model that accounts for confounding due to cognitive ability. In a standard Cox model controlling for Intelligence Quotient, improving education is associated with large decreases in mortality for major causes of death. In the structural model, improving education is associated with a small decrease in months lost for most causes and education levels. Among the least educated, however, improving education strongly reduces the months lost, mainly those lost from external causes, such as accidents and suicide. Results suggest that conventional analysis of education and mortality may be biased, even if accounting for observed cognition.
C41|"Rebuttal of ""On Nonparametric Identification of Treatment Effects in Duration Models"""|In their IZA Discussion Paper 10247, Johansson and Lee claim that the main result (Proposition 3) in Abbring and Van den Berg (2003b) does not hold. We show that their claim is incorrect. At a certain point within their line of reasoning, they make a rather basic error while transforming one random variable into another random variable, and this leads them to draw incorrect conclusions. As a result, their paper can be discarded.
C41|Job Creation Schemes in Turbulent Times|This paper analyzes the impact of job creation schemes (JCS) on job search outcomes in the context of the turbulent East German labor market in the aftermath of the German reunification. High job destruction characterized the economic environment. JCS were heavily used in order to cushion this development. Using data from 1990-1999 and building upon the timing-of-events approach, we estimate multivariate discrete time duration models taking selection based on both observed and unobserved heterogeneity into account. Our results indicate that participation in JCS increases the unemployment duration mainly due to profound locking-in effects. However, twelve months after the program start the significantly negative impact on the job finding probability vanishes. We find evidence for effect heterogeneity. Our results suggest that female and highly skilled participants leave unemployment quicker than other groups, which results in highly skilled women benefiting from participation. However, we find no significant impact on post-unemployment employment stability. Our results are robust to allowing for random treatment effects. Also taking into account endogenous participation in training programs or multiple treatment effects do not change the results.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|Age at Immigration Matters for Labor Market Integration: The Swedish Example|This paper analyses how age at immigration to Sweden and getting a first foothold in the labor market is related. We estimate hazard rate models using registry data on all persons who arrived in each of the years 1990, 1994, 1998, and 2002. The results show that the number of years taken to get a foothold in the Swedish labor market increases rapidly by age among immigrants from middle- and low-income countries aged 40 +. Most individuals who are born in middle- or low-income countries who immigrate after age 50 never get a foothold in the Swedish labor market.
C41|How to stimulate single mothers on welfare to find a job: evidence from a policy experiment|Abstract We present the results from a policy experiment in which single mothers on welfare were stimulated to enter the labor market and increase their work experience. The aim of the policy was not per se for single mothers to leave welfare completely but to encourage them to find a job if only a part-time job. Two policy instruments were introduced: an earnings disregard and job creation. The experiment was performed at the municipality level in the Netherlands, a country with relatively high benefits and low incentives for single mothers to leave welfare for work. In our analysis, we make a distinction between native and immigrant welfare recipients. For immigrant single mothers, we find a positive employment effect of an earnings disregard. Job creation in addition to the earnings disregard increased working hours for some groups of single mothers. Although the outflow from welfare was not affected, welfare expenditures were reduced.
C41|Going into Business and Out of Business: The Role of Human Capital|An evaluation of the impact of an entrepreneur's human capital on her/his entrepre-neurial ability is likely to suffer from a sample selection bias if performed on a sample of new entrepreneurs alone. Our theoretical model of entrepreneurial choice allows us to characterize this bias. It is shown to be positive (respectively negative) for individuals who were in a favorable (respectively adverse) situation in the labor market at the time at which they decided to become self-employed. Our empirical application measures the impact of the entrepreneur's education on the newly created firm's survival. It is found to be strong and significant for individuals who were previously employed in the new firm's branch of activity, whereas it is at best weakly significant for individuals who were previously unemployed or employed in a branch different from that of the new firm, so that they are more likely to have been poorly matched. These results suggest a very substantial sample selection bias in our sample.
C41|Efficiency of Health Investment: Education or Intelligence?|In this paper we hypothesize that education is associated with a higher efficiency of health investment, yet that this efficiency advantage is solely driven by intelligence. We operationalize efficiency of health investment as the probability of dying conditional on a certain hospital diagnosis, and estimate a multistate structural equation model with three states: (i) healthy, (ii) ill (in hospital), and (iii) death. We use data from a Dutch cohort born around 1940 that links intelligence tests at age 12 to later-life hospitalization and mortality records. The results suggest that higher Intelligence induces the higher educated to be more efficient users of health investment - intelligent individuals have a clear survival advantage for most hospital diagnoses - yet for unanticipated health shocks and diseases that require complex treatments such as COPD, education still plays a role.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|Screening For A Chronic Disease: A Multiple Stage Duration Model With Partial Observability| We estimate a dynamic multistage duration model to investigate how early detection of diabetes can delay the onset of lower extremity complications and death. We allow for partial observability of the disease stage, unmeasured heterogeneity, and endogenous timing of diabetes screening. Timely diagnosis appears important. We evaluate the effectiveness of two potential policies to reduce the monetary costs of frequent screening in terms of lost longevity. Compared to the status quo, the more restrictive policy yields an implicit value for an additional year of life of about $50,000, whereas the less restrictive policy implies a value of about $120,000.
C41|Is There Moral Hazard in the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative Debt Relief Process?|The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) were created by the IMF and World Bank to help low-income countries reduce their debt burden and to facilitate reaching the Millennium Development Goals. After entering the decision point of the HIPC Initiative stage, countries receive interim aid while following a strategic path to improve their macroeconomic stability via structural reforms. Many countries reached the completion point of the HIPC Initiative stage within a few years, receiving a substantial amount of debt relief. Other countries remained in the interim period for almost a decade. We explore the relationship between the level of corruption in HIPC countries and the length of time between the decision and the completion point. We use survival-time models to estimate the effect of various characteristics of the countries on the probability that each country will exit the interim period. The results show that countries with lower corruption and better rule of law complete the HIPC process faster.
C41|Between Life Cycle Model, Labor Market Integration and Discrimination: An Econometric Analysis of the Determinants of Return Migration|This paper studies the determinants of return migration by applying the Cox hazard model to longitudinal micro data from 1996 to 2012, including immigrants of a wide range of nationalities. The empirical results reveal the validity of the life cycle model of Migration Economics and a strong return probability decreasing effect of labor market integration and societal integration. Modeling non-proportional effects of qualification and obtaining social benefits supports the human capital thesis and supplies new insights with regard to the supranational European labor market and to development policy. At the beginning of residence highly qualified immigrants as well as immigrants obtaining social benefits display a rather high hazard ratio that, however, decreases each additional year of residence afterwards. Via survivor functions further remarkable results about adverse selection effects and about the interaction between qualification and labor market integration can be found. Finally the paper derives important policy implications from the empirical analysis.
C41|There And Back Again: Women's Marginal Commuting Costs|We use a partial-equilibrium model of job search with non-wage job attributes to estimate female workers' marginal willingness to pay to reduce commuting distance in Germany. This issue not only has implications for congestion policy, spatial planning and transport infrastructure provision, but is also relevant to our understanding of gender differences in labour market biographies in a more general sense. Gender differences in willingness to pay for job attributes could contribute significantly to observed disparities in a number of labour market behaviours and outcomes, such as participation, labour supply, wages and job mobility. Our analysis makes particular reference to heterogeneity by regional structure and local labour market conditions, and outlines ways of incorporating other types of heterogeneity into the analysis. Using a Cox model on a large administrative dataset, we find a marginal willingness to pay of e0.15 of women workers to reduce commuting distance by one kilometre.
C41|Deregulation and the determinants of entry: Evidence from the German interurban bus industry|Two years after the deregulation of the German interurban bus industry in January 2013, two new entrants emerged as market leaders: MeinFernbus (MFB) and FlixBus (FB). We use a comprehensive route-level data set to investigate the determinants of route entry for both providers. Applying survival models, we find that both companies show an increased probability to enter populous, centrally located routes with large shares of young inhabitants; however, they both avoid entries into routes including an airport or with low quality rail connection. Furthermore, both market leaders refrain from entering small and medium-sized routes in which another provider is already operating. In large markets, however, they both show an increased entry probability independent of the presence of a competitor.
C41|Deregulation and the determinants of network access: evidence from the German interurban bus industry| We investigate the characteristics of cities gaining access to the German interurban bus network in the first two years following the deregulation of the industry in January 2013. Applying both parametric and semi-parametric survival models, we find strong evidence that the probability of a city to be added to a provider’s network increases not only with the mere size of its population but also with further demographic characteristics such as average income or the share of young and old inhabitants. Additionally, while an increasing importance of tourism has a further positive effect, a rising automobile density is imposing a significantly negative impact on the probability of a city to gain access to the network.
C41|The effectiveness of medical and vocational interventions for reducing sick leave of self‐employed workers|We investigate whether interventions by (a) medical doctors and (b) occupational specialists are effective in reducing sick leave durations among self‐employed workers. Therefore, we exploit unique administrative data comprising all sick leave claims by self‐employed workers insured with a major Dutch private insurer between January 2009 and March 2014. We estimate a multivariate duration model dealing with nonrandom selection into the two intervention types by controlling for observable and unobservable claimant characteristics. We find adverse treatment effects for both interventions, irrespective of whether they are started early or (middle) late in the sickness spell.
C41|Nonparametric instrumental variable methods for dynamic treatment evaluation|We develop a nonparametric instrumental variable approach for the estimation of average treatment effects on hazard rates and conditional survival probabilities, without model structure.We derive constructive identification proofs for average treatment effects under noncompliance and dynamic selection, exploiting instrumental variation taking place during ongoing spells. We derive asymptotic distributions of the corresponding estimators. This includes a detailed examination of noncompliance in a dynamic context. In an empirical application, we evaluate the French labor market policy reform PARE which abolished the dependence of unemployment insurance benefits on the elapsed unemployment duration and simultaneously introduced additional active labor market policy measures. The estimated effect of the reform on the survival function of the duration of unemployment duration is positive and significant. Neglecting selectivity leads to an underestimation of the effects in absolute terms.
C41|Time Aggregation and State Dependence in Welfare Receipt|Dynamic discrete-choice models have been an important tool in studies of state dependence in benefit receipt. An assumption of such models is that benefit receipt sequences follow a conditional Markov process. This property has implications for how estimated period-to-period benefit transition probabilities should relate when receipt processes are aggregated over time. This paper assesses whether the conditional Markov property holds in welfare benefit receipt dynamics using high-quality monthly data from Norwegian administrative records. We find that the standard conditional Markov model is seriously misspecified. Estimated state dependence is affected substantially by the chosen time unit of analysis, with the average treatment effect of past benefit receipt increasing with the level of aggregation. The model can be improved considerably by permitting richer types of benefit dynamics: Allowing for differences between the processes for entries and persistence we find important disparities especially in terms of the effects of permanent unobserved characteristics. Extending the model further, we obtain strong evidence for duration and occurrence dependence in benefit receipt. Based on our preferred model, the month-to-month persistence probability in benefit receipt for a first-time entrant is 37 percentage points higher than the entry rate of an individual without previous benefit receipt. Over a 12-month period, the average treatment effect is about 5 percentage points.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C41|Cognitive Ability and the Mortality Gradient by Education: Selection or Mediation?|Large differences in mortality rates across those with different levels of education are a well- established fact. This association between mortality and education may partly be explained by confounding factors, including cognitive ability. Cognitive ability may also be affected by education so that it becomes a mediating factor in the causal chain. In this paper we estimate the impact of education on mortality using inverse probability weighted (IPW) estimators, using either cognitive ability as a selection variable or as a mediating variable. We develop an IPW estimator to analyse the mediating effect in the context of survival models. Our estimates are based on administrative data, on men born in 1944-1947 who were examined for military service in the Netherlands between 1961-1965, linked to national death records. For these men we distinguish four education levels and we make pairwise comparisons. From the empirical analyses we conclude that the mortality differences observed by education are only attributable to education effects for highly educated individuals. For less educated individuals the observed mortality gain is mainly attributable to differences in cognitive ability.
C41|A Flexible Link Function for Discrete-Time Duration Models|This paper proposes a discrete-time hazard regression approach based on the relation between hazard rate models and excess over threshold models, which are frequently encountered in extreme value modelling. The proposed duration model employs a flexible link function and incorporates the grouped-duration analogue of the well-known Cox proportional hazards model and the proportional odds model as special cases. The theoretical setup of the model is motivated, and simulation results are reported, suggesting that the model proposed performs well. The simulation results and an empirical analysis of US import durations also show that the choice of link function in discrete hazard models has important implications for the estimation results, and that severe biases in the results can be avoided when using a flexible link function.
C41|Exploring the survival of patent licensing: some evidence from French foreign agreements|Abstract This paper aims to determine the factors that impact on the duration of technology licensing contracts. Using a transaction costs framework, we derive some propositions related to the influence of the contractual safeguards and of institutions on the failure rate of such agreements. We conduct an empirical investigation based on a new dataset of 250 contracts from the French National Institute of Intellectual Property. We show that the actual duration of licensing agreements (a) is positively associated to their profitability and to the level of technological competition, (b) is positively associated to the presence of a renegotiation clause, and (c) is independent of other contractual or institutional safeguards.
C41|Spinoffs in Germany: characteristics, survival, and the role of their parents|Using a 50 % sample of all private sector establishments in Germany, we report that spinoffs are larger, initially employ more skilled and more experienced workers, and pay higher wages than other startups. We investigate whether spinoffs are more likely to survive than other startups, and whether spinoff survival depends on the quality and size of their parent companies, as suggested in some of the theoretical and empirical literature. Our estimated survival models confirm that spinoffs are generally less likely to exit than other startups. We also distinguish between pulled spinoffs, where the parent company continues after they are founded, and pushed spinoffs, where the parent company stops operations. Our results indicate that in western and eastern Germany and in all sectors investigated, pulled spinoffs have a higher probability of survival than pushed spinoffs. Concerning the parent connection, we find that intra-industry spinoffs and spinoffs emerging from better-performing or smaller parent companies are generally less likely to exit. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
C41|Identifying the effect of college education on business and employment survival|We use a multipronged identification strategy to estimate the effect of college education on business and employment survival. We account for the endogeneity of both education and business ownership with a competing risks duration model augmented with a college selection equation. We estimate the model jointly on the self-employed and salaried employees in the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979. Unlike most previous studies, we find that college does not increase business survival. By contrast, a college degree significantly increases employment survival. Cognitive skills have a positive impact on survival for both the self-employed and employees. These findings suggest that college benefits the self-employed less than salaried, perhaps by generating skills more useful in employment than self-employment, or because of differences in the value of signaling. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
C41|Identifying the effect of college education on business and employment survival|Abstract We use a multipronged identification strategy to estimate the effect of college education on business and employment survival. We account for the endogeneity of both education and business ownership with a competing risks duration model augmented with a college selection equation. We estimate the model jointly on the self-employed and salaried employees in the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979. Unlike most previous studies, we find that college does not increase business survival. By contrast, a college degree significantly increases employment survival. Cognitive skills have a positive impact on survival for both the self-employed and employees. These findings suggest that college benefits the self-employed less than salaried, perhaps by generating skills more useful in employment than self-employment, or because of differences in the value of signaling.
C41|Hova lettek az orvosok?. Az orvosok külföldre vándorlása és pályaelhagyása Magyarországon, 2003-2011<BR>[Where have all the doctors gone?. Migration and attrition of physicians and dentists in Hungary between 2003 and 2011]|A tanulmány nagymintás, egyéni paneladatokra alapozva azt vizsgálja, hogy miként változott a magyarországi orvosok külföldre vándorlásának és más okból történt pályaelhagyásának valószínűsége 2003 és 2011 között. Az eseménytörténeti elemzés, a versengő kockázati modellek eredményei azt mutatják, hogy először az EU-csatlakozást követően, majd 2010 tavaszától, végül az osztrák és német munkavállalási korlátozások feloldása után felgyorsult az orvosok migrációja. Az eredmények arra is felhívják a figyelmet, hogy Magyarországon az orvosok külföldre vándorlása mellett ugyanolyan súlyú probléma a belföldi pályaelhagyás is, tehát az, hogy az orvosok itthon helyezkednek el más állásban. Emellett - ha időszakosan is - az is fokozza az orvoshiányt, hogy a fiatal orvosok jelentős része átmenetileg inaktív státusba kerül. A tanulmány korcsoportonként külön is bemutatja a különböző irányú pályaelhagyás vagy a migráció valószínűségének változását és az orvosok jellemzőinek hatását ezekre a kockázatokra. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: C41, C55, I10, J4, J40, J45, J60, J61.
C41|Standing and ‘survival’ in the adult film industry| It is conventional wisdom that knowing the right people is essential for one’s career. This claim is supported in the literature on social capital. However, the empirical evidence in this field remains ambiguous. While the literature recognizes that ‘connections’ help finding any job at all, it remains unclear if long-term benefits exist. In contrast to other industries, collaborations between performers in adult films are easily observed. Consequently, a collaborative network can be constructed which serves as an input in order to estimate the effect of a person’s centrality on individual success. Unfortunately, success is not easily observed either. Hence, in this manuscript, the survival in the industry is used as a proxy for professional success. This assumption is justified by the economic argument that, in the absence of lock-in effects, performers will remain in the industry as long as it remains profitable. The profitability does not only depend on monetary aspects but also includes costs from social stigma and adverse effects on health and mental well-being. Using a combination of network analysis and duration models, the results indicate that there is a strong correlation between network centrality and survival in the adult film industry.
C41|Smile or die: Can subjective well-being increase survival in the face of substantive health impairments?|A robust relationship between subjective well-being and mortality has been established in the literature, but few studies address how subjective well-being interacts with the impact of concrete diseases on survival. In addition, issues of endogeneity between bad health and subjective well-being are ignored when it comes to survival. We assess both for the British Household Panel Survey (BHPS; 1991–2008) and specifically analyze whether subjective well-being predicts better chances of surviving diseases such as cancer or heart conditions. We find that several of the studied diseases consistently decrease survival chances in our sample (e.g. hazard ratio 3.47 for cancer), also when controlling for the severity of health problems. But our results do not suggest that well-being mitigates the effect these diseases have on mortality. Life satisfaction also does not predict longer survival in the data set if we control for the endogeneity of subjective well-being.
C41|Nonparametric Instrumental Variable Methods for Dynamic Treatment Evaluation|We develop a nonparametric instrumental variable approach for the estimation of average treatment effects on hazard rates and conditional survival probabilities, without model structure. We derive constructive identification proofs for average treatment effects under noncompliance and dynamic selection, exploiting instrumental variation taking place during ongoing spells. We derive asymptotic distributions of the corresponding estimators. This includes a detailed examination of noncompliance in a dynamic context. In an empirical application, we evaluate the French labor market policy reform PARE which abolished the dependence of unemployment insurance benefits on the elapsed unemployment duration and simultaneously introduced additional active labor market policy measures. The estimated effect of the reform on the survival function of the duration of unemployment duration is positive and significant. Neglecting selectivity leads to an underestimation of the effects in absolute terms.
C41|A novel approach to modeling price volatility of sovereign debt instruments â€“ the example of the Croatian governmentâ€™s debt-based instruments|Debt-based financial instruments are specific due to the maturity component and conventional approaches in estimating their volatility may not be applicable. This paper focuses on modeling and forecasting price volatility of sovereign debt instruments while taking into account their maturity. In doing so we propose a simple and useful technique for obtaining the desired confidence of volatility estimates. The proposed approach provides price volatility estimates for debt instruments issued by Croatian government denominated in HRK and in EUR.
C41|When the Going Gets Tough... Financial Incentives, Duration of Unemployment and Job-Match Quality|In the aftermath of the Great Recession, the Spanish government reduced the replacement rate (RR) from 60% to 50% after 180 days of unemployment for all spells beginning on July 15, 2012. Using Social Security data and a Differences-in-Differences approach, we find that reducing the RR by 10 percentage points (or 17%) increases workers' odds of finding a job by at least 41% relative to similar workers not affected by the reform. To put it differently, the reform reduced the mean expected unemployment duration by 5.7 weeks (or 14%), implying an elasticity of 0.86. We find strong behavioral effects as the reform reduced the expected unemployment duration right from the beginning of the unemployment spell. While the reform had no effect on wages, it did not decrease other measures of post-displacement job-match quality. After 15 months, the reform decreased unemployment insurance expenditures by 16%, about half of which are explained by job seekers' behavioral changes.
C41|Unemployment duration and job-match quality in urban China: The dynamic impact of 2008 Labor Contract Law|We assess the dynamic impact of employment protection legislation in transition economies. We use the Chinese 2008 Labor Contract Law to identify the effects of employment protection on job-finding rates and subsequent job-match quality, in relation to the duration of workers' past unemployment. The causal effects are estimated in a sharp regression-discontinuity design, allowing for workers’ unobserved characteristics to jointly underlie their sequential and multidimensional outcomes in labor markets. Even though the law protracts unemployment duration in the short run, once an individual succeeds in finding a job, it improves job-match quality including better job security, higher wages and higher likelihood of receiving social insurance. However, where there is equal unemployment duration, migrants have lower job-finding rates and worse job-match quality than locals. Men have lower job-finding rates but better job-match quality than women. Future research should use longer panel data to evaluate long-term effects on labor markets.
C41|Equity Option Listing and Underlying Market Quality: Evidence from a Price Duration Model|We empirically investigate the effect of option listing on the underlying stock market quality by examining the stock price duration dynamic, the liquidity and the informed trading activity around option listing. We use trade-to-trade data accounting for intraday seasonality and find evidence of less frequent trades and higher intraday seasonal liquidity after option listing. Our Log-ACD models, jointly with the informed trading activity results indicate no permanent change in the underlying market quality and reject the hypothesis of a permanent move of informed traders. Our findings suggest that a new arrival of informed traders could occur during the trading day as a seasonal feature. Robustness check tests confirm these results except for the low-volume stocks for which we find evidence of informed traders’ migration. Further tests show that the Euronext and Liffe merger in 2002 had an impact on the duration process and on its informational content.
C41|Macroeconomic Variables, Government Effectiveness and Sovereign Credit Rating: A Case of Egypt|Sovereign credit rating reflects the country ability to meet its financial obligations (at present and in future) on its maturities, therefore, it is an important indicator that concerns international financial institutions and foreign investors who are interested in foreign direct investment in order to know the minimum expectation of risks that can be faced in specific country. This paper aims to i) examine the effect of macroeconomic variables on the Egyptian sovereign credit rating (SCR) and ii) also investigate the impact of investment environment (measured by government effectiveness) on the SCR using the dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS) method over the period from 1990 to 2014. The results indicate that GDP growth, inflation, fiscal balance, reserves, current account balance, public domestic debt, and the government effectiveness have a significant impact on the sovereign credit rating in Egypt. This study has important implications for investors and policymakers.
C41|Modeling mortgage survival|Paper is devoted to modeling risks of mortgage default and prepayment using data from large Russian mortgage agency. Various techniques of survival analysis are applied to estimate corresponding hazard functions and their relation to loan characteristics. Along with traditional, one-equation regression models, split population approach is used. Special attention is paid to model selection issues.
C41|The Dynamics of Ex-ante Weighted Spread: An Empirical Analysis|Given the importance of the Limit Order Book (LOB) in price formation and in gauging liquidity and information asymmetry, we model the evolution of the ex-ante weighted spread embedded in an open LOB and investigate the impact of market-related variables on such spread. Our modeling involves decomposing the joint distribution of the ex-ante weighted spread into simple and interpretable distributions. Our results have several implications: (i) trade durations, quote durations, and other short-run variables, such as spread change and volume, do influence the ex-ante weighted spread; (ii) trade imbalance does not affect the state of the LOB; (iii) trade volume has a very different effect on low-level and high-level LOB; (iv) there is an asymmetry in magnitudes of weighted spread increase and decrease. Finally, we propose a possible application of our decomposition model in computing stock resiliency and show that low-level spread is more resilient than high-level spread.
C41|Design of Early Warning System for Predicting Exposure to Failure Time of Banks|The collapse and failure of a bank could have devastating consequences to the entire banking system and widespread repercussion effect on other banks and the economy as a whole. The main objective of this paper is to design an early warning system for predicting failure time of banks by type of ownership and investigating the effects of the leading indicators in predicting bankruptcy of the Iran's banks using Kaplan-Meier model and Cox hazard model in survival analysis framework. For this purpose, banks financial statement over the period of 2001-2014 were used. The study showed that the survival of Iranian banks Influenced by 13 leading variable that banking supervisors can use these indices for identifying high-risk banks. The results have shown that Private banks have been less shelf life and the cost indices, credit risk and liquidity risk are the most important factors affecting the time of bank’s insolvency.
