C50|One Bad Turn Deserves Another: How Terrorism Sustains the Addiction to Capital Flight in Africa|Abstract This inquiry assesses if terrorism sustains the capital flight trap and whether the relationship is affected by varying the levels of governance and globalisation. The empirical evidence is based on interactive generalised method of moments with data from 37 African countries for the period 1996–2010. The following are established: (1) Evidence of a capital flight trap is apparent because past values of capital flight have a positive effect on future values of capital flight. (2) Terrorism sustains the positive effect of the capital flight trap on capital flight. (3) For the most part (especially with regard to political governance), terrorism sustains the addiction to capital flight in above-median governance sub-samples. Policy implications are discussed.
C50|Capital Flight and Extent of Corruption control in the Least Corrupt African Countries: An Empirical assessment|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of corruption control on capital flight in the least corrupt African countries and uses panel data covering the period of 1996-2010. The results show that the extent of corruption proxy, the total natural resources rent are statistically significant and affect positively the capital across the pooled, random and fixed effects. Inflation and economic growth are also found to have a negative impact on capital flight. Moreover, exchange rate has a negative and significant effect on capital flight. The findings of this study suggest that the extent of corruption control by responsible institutions can be considered as one of the most effective weapons in the fight against capital flight in the least corrupt African countries. The paper recommends to the government of the least corrupt countries in Africa to create an enabling political and economic environment for investorâ€™s attractiveness. This in turn will reduce the occurrence of capital flight and lead to the sustainable development.
C50|Inflation interdependence in advanced economies|Although there is a vast literature on GDP comovement across countries, there is scant evidence on inflation interdependence. We analyze inflation comovements across a wide set of advanced economies and across the subset of euro area countries. Some of our findings are expected, such as the fact that inflation interdependence among advanced economies is quite relevant, but is higher among euro area countries, which show strong trade links and a share common monetary policy, or the fact that inflation synchronization among countries is highest for energy prices, reflecting common oil shocks. We also find a robust puzzle: core inflation interdependence is fairly low and this result holds for both core goods and services. Inflation synchronization seems to be particularly linked to comovements in driving variables of open economy new Keynesian Phillips curve and mark-up pricing models.
C50|The added value of more accurate predictions for school rankings|School rankings based on value-added (VA) estimates are subject to prediction errors, since VA is defined as the difference between predicted and actual performance. We introduce the use of random forest (RF), rooted in the machine learning literature, as a more flexible approach to minimize prediction errors and to improve school rankings. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the advantages of this approach. Applying the proposed method to Italian middle school data indicates that school rankings are sensitive to prediction errors, even when extensive controls are added. RF estimates provide a low-cost way to increase the accuracy of predictions, resulting in more informative rankings, and more impact of policy decisions.
C50|Nonlinear relationship between the weather phenomenon El Niño and Colombian food prices|Extreme weather events, like a strong El Niño (ENSO), affect society in many different ways especially in the context of recent globe warming. In the Colombian case, ENSO had a significant impact on consumer food prices during the strongest event in 2015-16. Our research evaluates the relationship between ENSO and Colombian food inflation growth by using a smooth transition non-linear model. We estimate the impacts of a strong ENSO on food inflation growth by adopting Generalized Impulse Response Functions (GIRFs) and the results suggest that the weather shocks are transitory and asymmetric on inflation. A strong El Niño shock has a significate effect on the food inflation growth from six to nine months after the shock and the accumulated elasticity is close to 465 basic points. We build the GIRFs for eight different episodes associated with a strong El Niño in the period corresponding from March 1962 to December 2018 and there is no evidence of changes in the size of Colombian food inflation growth responses over time. **** RESUMEN: Eventos extremos del clima como El Niño (ENSO) fuerte afectan la sociedad de diferentes maneras en especial en el reciente contexto de calentamiento global. En 2015-16, se observó el evento de El Niño más fuerte en los últimos cien años el cual presentó un impacto significativo sobre los precios de alimentos al consumidor en el caso colombiano. El presente trabajo de investigación evalúa la relación entre ENSO y el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos para el consumidor en Colombia usando un modelo no lineal de transición suave y estimando funciones de impulso respuesta generalizadas (GIRFs). Los resultados sugieren que dichos choques climáticos son transitorios y asimétricos sobre la inflación. Así, El Niño fuerte tiene un impacto significativo sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos entre seis y nueve meses después del choque climático y la elasticidad acumulada es 465 puntos básicos. Adicionalmente, se construyeron GIRFs para ocho diferentes episodios de tiempo asociados con un fenómeno de El Niño fuerte que se observaron entre marzo de 1962 y diciembre de 2018 y se encontró que no hay evidencia estadística de cambios en el tamaño de las respuestas del crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos en Colombia a través del tiempo.
C50|Monetary policy spillovers, capital controls and exchange rate flexibility, and the financial channel of exchange rates|We assess the empirical validity of the trilemma (or impossible trinity) in the 2000s for a large sample of advanced and emerging economies. To do so, we estimate Taylor-rule type monetary policy reaction functions, relating the local policy rate to real-time forecasts of domestic fundamentals, global variables, as well as the base-country policy rate. In the regressions, we explore variations in the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates across different degrees of exchange rate flexibility and capital controls. We find that the data are in general consistent with the predictions from the trilemma: Both exchange rate flexibility and capital controls reduce the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates. However, we also find evidence that is consistent with the notion that the financial channel of exchange rates highlighted in recent work reduces the extent to which local policymakers decide to exploit the monetary autonomy in principle granted by flexible exchange rates in specific circumstances: The sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates for an economy with a flexible exchange rate is stronger when it exhibits negative foreign-currency exposures which stem from portfolio debt and bank liabilities on its external balance sheet and when base-country monetary policy is tightened. The intuition underlying this finding is that it may be optimal for local monetary policy to mimic the tightening of base-country monetary policy and thereby mute exchange rate variation because a depreciation of the local currency would raise the cost of servicing and rolling over foreign-currency debt and bank loans, possibly up to a point at which financial stability is put at risk. JEL Classification: F42, E52, C50
C50|Dominant-Currency Pricing and the Global Output Spillovers from U.S. Dollar Appreciation|Different export-pricing currency paradigms have different implications for a host of issues that are critical for policymakers such as business cycle co-movement, optimal monetary policy, optimum currency areas and international monetary policy coordination. Unfortunately, the literature has not reached a consensus on which pricing paradigm best describes the data. Against this background, we test for the empirical relevance of dominant-currency pricing (DCP). Specifically, we first set up a structural three-country New Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model which nests DCP, producer-currency pricing (PCP) and local-currency pricing (LCP). In the model, under DCP the output spillovers from shocks that appreciate the U.S. dollar multilaterally decline with an economy's export-import U.S. dollar pricing share differential, i.e., the difference between the share of an economy's exports and imports that are priced in the dominant currency. Underlying this prediction is a change in an economy's net exports in response to multilateral changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate that arises because of differences in the extent to which exports and imports are priced in the dominant currency. We then confront this prediction of DCP with the data in a sample of up to 46 advanced and emerging-market economies for the time period from 1995 to 2018. Specifically, controlling for other cross-border transmission channels, we document that consistent with the prediction from DCP the output spillovers from U.S. dollar appreciation correlate negatively with recipient economies' export-import U.S. dollar invoicing share differentials. We document that these findings are robust to considering U.S. demand, U.S. monetary policy and exogenous exchange rate shocks as a trigger of U.S. dollar appreciation, as well as to accounting for the role of commodity trade in U.S. dollar invoicing.
C50|Do Energy Efficiency Networks Save Energy? Evidence from German Plant-Level Data|In energy efficiency networks, groups of firms exchange experiences on energy conservation in regular meetings over several years. The companies implement energy efficiency measures in order to reach commonly agreed energy savings and CO2 reduction goals. Energy efficiency networks exist in several countries, such as Germany, Sweden and China. Existing evaluations of such voluntary regional networks in Germany claim that participants improved energy efficiency at twice the speed of the industry average. Based on comprehensive data from the German manufacturing census, this paper examines whether participation in energy efficiency networks has a causal impact on energy conservation and CO2 emissions. I employ both a difference-in-differences estimator, using companies that joined energy efficiency networks at a later point in time as a control group, as well as a semiparametric matching estimator. I demonstrate that for the average participant there is no evidence of a statistically significant effect on energy productivity or CO2 emissions due to the network activities. However, there is some indication that exporters may have benefitted from the networks by reducing their CO2 emissions.
C50|Monetary policy spillovers, capital controls and exchange rate flexibility, and the financial channel of exchange rates|We assess the empirical validity of the trilemma or impossible trinity in the 2000s for a large sample of advanced and emerging market economies. To do so, we estimate Taylor rule-type monetary policy reaction functions, relating the local policy rate to real-time forecasts of domestic fundamentals, global variables, as well as the base-country policy rate. In the regressions, we explore variations in the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates across different degrees of exchange rate flexibility and capital controls. We find that the data are in general consistent with the predictions from the trilemma: both exchange rate flexibility and capital controls reduce the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates. However, we also find evidence that is consistent with the notion that the financial channel of exchange rates highlighted in recent work reduces the extent to which local policymakers decide to exploit the monetary autonomy in principle granted by flexible exchange rates in specific circumstances: the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates for an economy with a flexible exchange rate is stronger when it exhibits negative foreign currency exposures which stem from portfolio debt and bank liabilities on its external balance sheet and when base-country monetary policy is tightened. The intuition underlying this finding is that it may be optimal for local monetary policy to mimic the tightening of base-country monetary policy and thereby mute exchange rate variation because a depreciation of the local currency would raise the cost of servicing and rolling over foreign currency debt and bank loans, possibly up to a point at which financial stability is put at risk.
C50|Introducing dominant currency pricing in the ECB’s global macroeconomic model|A large share of global trade being priced and invoiced primarily in US dollar rather than the exporter’s or the importer’s currency has important implications for the transmission of shocks. We introduce this “dominant currency pricing” (DCP) into ECB-Global, the ECB’s macroeconomic model for the global economy. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to incorporate DCP into a major global macroeconomic model used at central banks or international organisations. In ECB-Global, DCP affects in particular the role of expenditure-switching and the US dollar exchange rate for spillovers: In case of a shock in a non-US economy that alters the value of its currency multilaterally, expenditure-switching occurs only through imports; in case of a US shock that alters the value of the US dollar multilaterally, expenditure-switching occurs both in non-US economies’ imports and – as these are imports of their trading partners – exports. Overall, under DCP the US dollar exchange rate is a major driver of global trade, even for transactions that do not involve the US. In order to illustrate the usefulness of ECB-Global and DCP for policy analysis, we explore the implications of the euro rivaling the US dollar as a second dominant currency in global trade. According to ECB-Global, in such a scenario the global spillovers from US shocks are smaller, while those from euro area shocks are amplified; domestic euro area monetary policy effectiveness is hardly affected by the euro becoming a second globally dominant currency in trade. JEL Classification: F42, E52, C50
C50|Estimating impulse response functions when the shock series is observed|We compare the finite sample performance of a variety of consistent approaches to estimating impulse response functions (IRFs) in a linear setup when the shock of interest is observed. Although there is no uniformly superior approach, iterated approaches turn out to perform well in terms of root mean-squared error (RMSE) in diverse environments and sample sizes. For smaller sample sizes, the inclusion of all ‘relevant’ variables is not always desirable.
C50|Monetary policy spillovers, capital controls and exchange rate flexibility, and the financial channel of exchange rates|We assess the empirical validity of the trilemma (or impossible trinity) in the 2000s for a large sample of advanced and emerging market economies. To do so, we estimate Taylor-rule type monetary policy reaction functions, relating the local policy rate to real-time forecasts of domestic fundamentals, global variables, as well as the base-country policy rate. In the regressions, we explore variations in the sensitivity of local to base-country policy rates across different degrees of exchange rate flexibility and capital controls. We find that the data are in general consistent with the predictions from the trilemma: Both exchange rate flexibility and capital controls reduce the sensitivity of local to base-country pol- icy rates. However, we also find evidence that is consistent with the notion that the financial channel of exchange rates highlighted in recent work reduces the extent to which local policymakers decide to exploit the monetary autonomy in principle granted by flexible exchange rates in specific circumstances: The sensi- tivity of local to base-country policy rates for an economy with a flexible exchange rate is stronger when it exhibits negative foreign-currency exposures which stem from portfolio debt and bank liabilities on its external balance sheet and when base-country monetary policy is tightened. The intuition underlying this finding is that it may be optimal for local monetary policy to mimic the tightening of base-country monetary policy and thereby mute exchange rate variation because a depreciation of the local currency would raise the cost of servicing and rolling over foreign-currency debt and bank loans, possibly up to a point at which finan- cial stability is put at risk.
C50|Dominant-currency pricing and the global output spillovers from US dollar appreciation|Different export-pricing currency paradigms have different implications for a host of issues that are critical for policymakers such as business cycle co-movement, optimal monetary policy, optimum currency areas and international monetary policy co-ordination. Unfortunately, the literature has not reached a consensus on which pricing paradigm best describes the data. Against this background, we test for the empirical relevance of dominant-currency pricing (DCP). Specifically, we first set up a structural three-country New Keynesian dynamic stochastic gen- eral equilibrium model which nests DCP, producer-currency pricing (PCP) and local-currency pricing (LCP). In the model, under DCP the output spillovers from shocks that appreciate the US dollar multilaterally decline with an economy’s export-import US dollar pricing share differential, i.e. the difference between the share of an economy’s exports and imports that are priced in the dominant currency. Underlying this prediction is a change in an economy’s net exports in response to multilateral changes in the US dollar exchange rate that arises because of differences in the extent to which exports and imports are priced in the dominant currency. We then confront this prediction of DCP with the data in a sample of up to 46 advanced and emerging market economies for the time period from 1995 to 2018. Specifically, controlling for other cross-border trans- mission channels, we document that consistent with the prediction from DCP the output spillovers from US dollar appreciation correlate negatively with recipient economies’ export-import US dollar invoicing share differentials. We document that these findings are robust to considering US demand, US monetary policy and exogenous exchange rate shocks as a trigger of US dollar appreciation, as well as to accounting for the role of commodity trade in US dollar invoicing.
C50|What Do Sectoral Dynamics Tell Us About the Origins of Business Cycles?|"We use economic theory to rank the impact of structural shocks across sectors. This ranking helps us to identify the origins of U.S. business cycles. To do this, we introduce a Hierarchical Vector Auto-Regressive model, encompassing aggregate and sectoral variables. We find that shocks whose impact originate in the ""demand"" side (monetary, household, and government consumption) account for 43 percent more of the variance of U.S. GDP growth at business cycle frequencies than identified shocks originating in the ""supply"" side (technology and energy). Furthermore, corporate financial shocks, which theory suggests propagate to large extent through demand channels, account for an amount of the variance equal to an additional 82 percent of the fraction explained by these supply shocks."
C50|The value of flexibility in power markets|The concept of flexibility is not one you find in standard microeconomics textbooks, yet it already plays a major role in the remuneration of the resources that generate and consume electricity every day and is likely to play an even larger role with the penetration of large intermittent renewable capacities. In this paper we attempt to quantify the net revenues that can be captured by a flexible resource able to react to the short term price variations on the day-ahead and intraday markets in Germany. We find that the difference between day-ahead and intraday revenues for a flexible resource has been increasing (although the profitability has been decreasing on both markets). This difference is more pronounced once 15 mn price variations can be captured by a flexible resource. The net revenues from the local 15 mn auction (which is held 3 h after the hourly “coupled” day-ahead auction) are more than eight times higher than the day-ahead hourly auction but below the net revenues that can be captured with the high prices from the continuous market. The results of the backward-looking empirical estimations allow us to distinguish and quantify two components of flexibility: (1) the “immediacy” value as we are approaching real-time and the urgency of the delivery increases (this value is revealed during the continuous intraday process and is highly linked to the stochastic nature of power supply and demand (i.e., wind/solar forecasts, forced outages of thermal generation,…) forecast error risk), and (2) the “ramping capability” component based on the technical characteristics as a resource can react to variations of shorter granularity (15 mn vs. 60 mn). We model and quantify the ramping capability component using a geometric brownian motion with jumps.
C50|EMU-Risk Synchronisation and Financial Fragility Through the Prism of Dynamic Connectedness|This study employs dynamic connectedness as a measure of financial risk synchronisation considering government bond yields in 11 EMU member states. In particular, large values of the relevant index can be an indication of comparable levels of risk further implying that the common currency area consists of a financially sensible set of countries. By contrast, small connectedness values can be an indication of fragmentation whereupon certain countries are considered to be safer than others. The latter would be detrimental for the EMU as it fuels financial fragility, which practically stipulates that crises occur as a result of self-fulfilling market fears. The results are based on a daily dataset which spans between 1st September 2003 and 31st August 2018. Findings show that fragmentation was present at the height of the European sovereign debt crisis and that the interconnectedness has not yet reverted to its pre-2009 levels. In addition, core countries appear to transmit shocks to periphery countries although, occasionally, there are noteworthy disparities. Further investigating these disparities on a pairwise connectedness level - which helps to identify sensible pairs of countries in terms of financial risk - shows that core countries dominate this exercise, with the exception of the bilateral relation between Italy and Spain. The fact that most periphery countries of our sample are not included in these pairs raises concerns and calls for a more substantial integration.
C50|Municipal infrastructure spending capacity in South Africa: a panel smooth transition regression (PSTR) approach|This paper assesses the factors that contribute to underspending of the capital budget at the local government level by making use of a nonlinear model based on the panel smooth transition regression (PSTR) model. South Africa is used as a case study. Capital transfer is identified as an important threshold variable in that the degree to which municipalities spend their capital budget depends on a threshold determined by capital transfer. The results of the empirical analysis show that large amounts of capital transfers to local government contribute to underspending by municipalities in South Africa. Moreover, the results indicate that capital budget spending could be improved by ensuring that the trade-off between the current budget and capital budget is reduced, increasing the fiscal capacity of municipalities, which gives them financial autonomy to raise their own revenues.
C50|An analysis of the unbiased forward rate hypothesis in developed and emerging economies|This study assesses whether the unbiased forward rate hypothesis (UFRH) holds in its strong or weak form in selected developed and emerging economies. Moreover, the paper assesses whether this hypothesis, or the relationship between the forward and spot exchange rates, is better specified by a linear or nonlinear model. The paper makes use of the smooth transition error correction model (STECM) to account for long-run relationship and asymmetric adjustment between the two exchange rates. The results of the empirical analysis show the possibility of nonlinear cointegration between the spot and forward exchange rates in a number of developed and emerging economies. In addition, the results reveal that the magnitude of the speed of adjustment to cancel arbitrage opportunities is higher in emerging than in developed markets. This occurs because the size of arbitrage profit is higher in emerging markets compared to developed markets
C50|Methods of Economic Theory: Variables, Transactions and Expectations as Functions of Risks|This paper develops methods and framework of economic theory free from general equilibrium tools and assumptions. We model macroeconomics as system of agents those perform transactions with other agents under action of numerous expectations. Agents expectations are formed by economic and financial variables, transactions, expectations of other agents, other factors that impact macro economy. We use risk ratings of agents as their coordinates on economic domain and approximate description of economic variables, transactions and expectations of numerous separate agents by density functions of variables, transactions and expectations of aggregated agents on economic domain. Motion of separate agents on economic domain due to change of agents risk rating produce economic flows of variables, transactions and expectations. These risk flows define dynamics of economic variables and disturb any supposed market equilibrium states all the time. Permanent evolution of market supply-demand states due to risk flows makes general equilibrium concept too doubtful. As example we apply our methods to model assets pricing and return fluctuations.
C50|Trends in FDI and its role in Development and Convergence|The empirical study is based on 138 countries (and territories) for which there are available comparable data regarding FDI at UNCTAD, FDI/MNE database (www.unctad.org/fdistatistics) for 2000-2017. In order to analyse the relations between FDI and GDP per capita and the socalled Real Convergence, usually evaluated only based on expressing GDP per capita in international dollars PPP (Purchasing Power Parity), data for the global economy (represented by the group of 138 countries and territories, as W138), are for the period 2000-2018 from World Bank, and for the period up to 2024 from IMFforecast (IMF Report,April 2019).
C50|Education And Earnings In South Africa: An Application Of The Mincerian Function|The understanding of the interaction between education and income can never be exhausted, mainly because education remains the leading mechanism for upward social mobility. The argument is that people with higher levels of income are more likely to earn a higher income that those with lower level of education, that?s the rule, although there maybe exceptions to the rule, the numbers for such cases are arguable small. However, there exists differences in the extent to which education influences income, earnings differentials exist by countries and social groups. This paper uses data published in 2017 by Statistics South Africa collected in the general household survey (GHS) which interviewed 72291 individuals across all the 9 provinces of the country. Using a mincerian function the paper estimates returns to education in South Africa. The results show that as expected, there is a positive relationship between education and earnings. The regression results also showed that based on the South African Household data, there is significant difference by race and gender. The results set a basis for re-examining the measurement of the variable used to capture education. The fact that a unit change in years of education is used needs to be changed so that different levels of education a weighted correctly.
C50|Financial and Fiscal Interaction in the Euro Area Crisis : This Time was Different|This paper highlights the anomalous characteristics of the Euro Area `twin crises' by contrasting the aggregate macroeconomic dynamics in the period 2009-2013 with the business cycle fluctuations of the previous decades. We report three stylised facts. First, the contraction in output was marked by an anomalous downfall in investment, while consumption, savings and unemployment followed their historical relation with GDP. Second, households and financial corporations debts, and house prices deviated from their pre-crisis trends. Third, the jump in the public deficit GDP ratio in 2008-2009 was unprecedented and so was the fiscal consolidation that followed. Our analysis points to the financial nature of the crisis as a likely explanation for these facts. Importantly, the `anomaly' in public deficit is in large part explained by extraordinary measures in support of the financial sector, which show up in the stockflow adjustments and reveal a key interaction between the fiscal and the financial sectors.
C50|Data Science for Entrepreneurship Research : Studying Demand Dynamics for Entrepreneurial Skills in the Netherlands|The recent rise of big data and artificial intelligence (AI) is changing markets, politics, organizations, and societies. It also affects the domain of research. Supported by new statistical methods that rely on computational power and computer science --- data science methods --- we are now able to analyze data sets that can be huge, multidimensional, unstructured, and are diversely sourced. In this paper, we describe the most prominent data science methods suitable for entrepreneurship research and provide links to literature and Internet resources for self-starters. We survey how data science methods have been applied in the entrepreneurship research literature. As a showcase of data science techniques, based on a dataset of 95% of all job vacancies in the Netherlands over a 6-year period with 7.7 million data points, we provide an original analysis of the demand dynamics for entrepreneurial skills in the Netherlands. We show which entrepreneurial skills are particularly important for which type of profession. Moreover, we find that demand for both entrepreneurial and digital skills has increased for managerial positions, but not for others. We also find that entrepreneurial skills were significantly more demanded than digital skills over the entire period 2012-2017 and that the absolute importance of entrepreneurial skills has even increased more than digital skills for managers, despite the impact of datafication on the labor market. We conclude that further studies of entrepreneurial skills in the general population --- outside the domain of entrepreneurs --- is a rewarding subject for future research.
C50|Takeaways from the special issue on The Practice of Replication|In July 2017, Economics: The Open Access, Open Assessment E-Journal issued a call for papers for a special issue on 'The Practice of Replication.' In that call, the journal explained that there was no generally accepted procedure for how to do a replication. Likewise, there was no generally accepted standard for determining whether a replication 'confirms or disconfirms' an original study. Accordingly, the journal called for papers to identify principles for how to do a replication and how to interpret its results; and to apply those principles in crafting a replication plan for a study of the author's choosing. The hope was that this exercise would produce some progress on 'the practice of replication.' The special issue is now complete with a total of eight journal articles. This commentary places the respective articles within a common framework and identifies observations and lessons learned from the respective studies.
C50|Introducing dominant currency pricing in the ECB's global macroeconomic model|"A large share of global trade being priced and invoiced primarily in US dollar rather than the exporter's or the importer's currency has important implications for the transmission of shocks. We introduce this ""dominant currency pricing"" (DCP) into ECB-Global, the ECB's macroeconomic model for the global economy. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to incorporate DCP into a major global macroeconomic model used at central banks or international organisations. In ECB-Global, DCP affects in particular the role of expenditure switching and the US dollar exchange rate for spillovers: In case of a shock in a non-US economy that alters the value of its currency multilaterally, expenditure switching occurs only through imports; in case of a US shock that alters the value of the US dollar multilaterally, expenditure switching occurs both in non-US economies' imports and - as these are imports of their trading partners - exports. Overall, under DCP the US dollar exchange rate is a major driver of global trade, even for transactions that do not involve the US. In order to illustrate the usefulness of ECB-Global and DCP for policy analysis, we explore the implications of the Euro rivaling the US dollar as a second dominant currency in global trade. According to ECB-Global, in such a scenario the global spillovers from US shocks are smaller, while those from euro area shocks are amplified; domestic euro area monetary policy effectiveness is hardly affected by the Euro becoming a second globally dominant currency in trade."
C50|Does music quality matter for audience voters in a music contest?|"There are numerous studies analyzing factors of success in media-broadcasted artistic contests, especially music competitions. However, one factor that is generally neglected in the literature is the quality of the artistic performances (i.e. ""music quality""). In this paper, we approach this research gap by developing two novel concepts of music quality and by employing unique measures during the empirical analysis of a popular German music television contest in order to analyze how different dimensions of the music and performance quality influences the final voting results. We use the complete historical voting dataset of the music contest from its inception in 2005 until its last broadcast in 2015, collecting 2,816 observations in total. First, we define dimensions of ""objective quality"" according to insights from musicological research/literature. Second, we conceptualize dimensions of ""subjective quality"" because music preferences may be subjective and are not necessarily based on how experts' define ""good"" music. We measure these subjective dimensions in an experimental setting with students from two German universities. Our analysis shows that different quality dimensions affect the outcome of voting results in different ways and not all quality dimensions reveal themselves as significant. In general, subjective quality dimensions turn out to be more relevant than objective ones. The differentiated results of our analysis support the value of our approach to deconstruct quality into different dimensions and test them individually."
C50|Structural Labour Supply Models and Microsimulation|The purpose of the paper is to provide a discussion of the various approaches for accounting for labour supply responses in microsimulation models. The paper focus attention on two methodologies for modelling labour supply: (i) the discrete choice model and (ii) the random utility â€“ random opportunities model. The paper then describes approaches to utilising these models for policy simulation in terms of producing and interpreting simulation outcomes, outlining an extensive literature of policy analyses utilising these approaches. Labour supply models are not only central for analysing behavioural labour supply responses but also for identifying optimal tax-benefit systems, given some of the challenges of the theoretical approach. Combining labour supply results with individual and social welfare functions enables the social evaluation of policy simulations. Combining welfare functions and labour supply functions, the paper discusses how to model socially optimal income taxation
C50|Data Science for Institutional and Organizational Economics|To which extent can data science methods – such as machine learning, text analysis, or sentiment analysis – push the research frontier in the social sciences? This essay briefly describes the most prominent data science techniques that lend themselves to analyses of institutional and organizational governance structures. We elaborate on several examples applying data science to analyze legal, political, and social institutions and sketch how specific data science techniques can be used to study important research questions that could not (to the same extent) be studied without these techniques. We conclude by comparing the main strengths and limitations of computational social science with traditional empirical research methods and its relation to theory.
C50|Data Science for Institutional and Organizational Economics|To which extent can data science methods – such as machine learning, text analysis, or sentiment analysis – push the research frontier in the social sciences? This essay briefly describes the most prominent data science techniques that lend themselves to analyses of institutional and organizational governance structures. We elaborate on several examples applying data science to analyze legal, political, and social institutions and sketch how specific data science techniques can be used to study important research questions that could not (to the same extent) be studied without these techniques. We conclude by comparing the main strengths and limitations of computational social science with traditional empirical research methods and its relation to theory.
C50|Estimating the Trade and Welfare Effects of Brexit: A Panel Data Structural Gravity Model|This paper proposes a new panel data structural gravity approach for estimating the trade and welfare effects of Brexit. The suggested Constrained Poisson Pseudo Maximum Likelihood Estimator exhibits some useful properties for trade policy analysis and allows to obtain estimates and confidence intervals which are consistent with structural trade theory. Assuming different counterfactual post-Brexit scenarios, our main findings suggest that UKs (EUs) exports of goods to the EU (UK) are likely to decline within a range between 7.2% and 45.7% (5.9% and 38.2%) six years after the Brexit has taken place. For the UK, the negative trade effects are only partially offset by an increase in domestic goods trade and trade with third countries, inducing a decline in UKs real income between 1.4% and 5.7% under the hard Brexit scenario. The estimated welfare effects for the EU are negligible in magnitude and statistically not different from zero.
C50|Combining uncertainty with uncertainty to get certainty? Efficiency analysis for regulation purposes|Data envelopment analysis (DEA) and stochastic frontier analysis (SFA), as well as combinations thereof, are widely applied in incentive regulation practice, where the assessment of efficiency plays a major role in regulation design and benchmarking. Using a Monte Carlo simulation experiment, this paper compares the performance of six alternative methods commonly applied by regulators. Our results demonstrate that combination approaches, such as taking the maximum or the mean over DEA and SFA efficiency scores, have certain practical merits and might offer a useful alternative to strict reliance on a singular method. In particular, the results highlight that taking the maximum not only minimizes the risk of underestimation, but can also improve the precision of efficiency estimation. Based on our results, we give recommendations for the estimation of individual efficiencies for regulation purposes and beyond.
C50|Economic Security and Political Governance Crisis in the Central African Republic|Nowadays the Central African Republic (CAR) is experiencing huge economic insecurity which mostly derives from the political governance crisis that the country has been continuously undergoing since its independence in 1960. This paper examines the relationship between political governance crisis and economic security in the country covering the period of 1996-2015, using two stage instrumental analysis and second order asymptotic tests. The results show that political stability and absence of violence/terrorism ,voice and accountability, proxies of political governance crisis played a different role on national income per capita, agricultural raw materials exports, agriculture value added, external balance on goods and services, food exports, food imports, foreign direct investment, GDP growth, GDP per capita growth, inflation, wage and salaried workers, industry value added, total natural resources rent and trade , proxies of economic security. The importance of sustainable political governance stability and the implementation of appropriate reforms at institutional level are a preconditions to economic security.
C50|Fragility of State in Central African Republic: An Econometric Approach to Efficiency Understanding|A fragile state contributes to the underdevelopment of the nation and its consequences can be very devastating on the stateâ€™s cohesion. Characterized by high level of corruption which lead the country to an incessant political instability and continuous presence of foreign troops . This paper used the vector autoregressive model (VAR) covering the period of 2005-2015 to examine the impact of control of corruption on fragility of state in Central African Republic (CAR). The results show that control of corruption is significant and has negative impact on fragility of state in the short run. The impulse response shows a negative impact of control of corruption in short-run but positive in long-run on fragility of state. The policies implications of this fragility are that the CAR must pursue better governance as well as in the investment choices. Unless CAR leaders and citizens recognize their own fragility, things can only get worse.
C50|A Review on Variable Selection in Regression Analysis|"In this paper, we investigate on 39 Variable Selection procedures to give an overview of the existing literature for practitioners. ""Let the data speak for themselves"" has become the motto of many applied researchers since the amount of data has significantly grew. Automatic model selection have been raised by the search for data-driven theories for quite a long time now. However while great extensions have been made on the theoretical side still basic procedures are used in most empirical work, eg. Stepwise Regression. Some reviews are already available in the literature for variable selection, but always focus on a specific topic like linear regression, groups of variables or smoothly varying coefficients. Here we provide a review of main methods and state-of-the art extensions as well as a topology of them over a wide range of model structures (linear, grouped, additive, partially linear and non-parametric). We provide explanations for which methods to use for different model purposes and what are key differences among them. We also review two methods for improving variable selection in the general sense."
C50|Bank solvency risk and funding cost interactions in a small open economy: evidence from Korea|Using proprietary balance sheet data for Korean banks and a simultaneous equation model, we document that increased marginal funding costs lead to larger solvency risk (as measured by the Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio), which, in turn, leads to larger marginal funding costs. A 100 bp increase in marginal funding costs (solvency risk) is associated with a 155 (77) bp increase in solvency risk (marginal funding costs). The findings of an economically and statistically significant relationship are robust to considering different proxies for solvency risk, types of banks, interest rate regimes, and interest margin management strategies. They also hold irrespective of the funding profile considered. FX-related macroprudential policies can affect the negative feedback loop by muting the effect of marginal funding costs on solvency risk. Our findings can inform the calibration of macroprudential stress tests.
C50|Uncertainty and spillover effects across the Euro area|This paper investigates how macroeconomic uncertainty shocks spillover over four Eurozone countries. It also evaluates their impact on real economic activity. The paper proposes a simple two-country model with a core and a periphery economy, where uncertainty shocks spread from one country to another, with potential feedback fromthe periphery economy to the core one. An empirical analysis is conducted using a Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model with two regimes: pre-crisis period and crisis period. The findings point to uncertainty spillovers among the Eurozone countries, with some feedback from periphery economies to the core economies during the financial crisis period. Further, there is a need to account for spillovers when studying the impact of uncertainty on real economic activity.
C50|Dynamic Effects of Monetary Policy Shocks on Macroeconomic Volatility|We use a simple New Keynesian model, with firm specific capital, non-zero steady-state inflation, long-run risks and Epstein-Zin preferences to study the volatility implications of a monetary policy shock. An unexpected increase in the policy rate by 150 basis points causes output and inflation volatility to rise around 10% above their steady-state standard deviations. VAR based empirical results support the model implications that contractionary shocks increase volatility. The volatility effects of the shock are driven by agents' concern about the (in) ability of the monetary authority to reverse deviations from the policy rule and the results are re-enforced by the presence of non-zero trend inflation.
C50|A Macroeconomic Forecasting Model of the Fixed Exchange Rate Regime for the Oil-Rich Kazakh Economy|This paper presents a semi-structural quarterly projection open-economy model for analyzing monetary policy transmission and macroeconomic developments in Kazakhstan during the period of the fixed exchange rate regime. The model captures key stylized facts of the Kazakh economy, especially the important role of oil prices in influencing the economic cycle in Kazakhstan. The application of the model to observed data provides a reasonable interpretation of Kazakh economic history, including the global crisis, through to late 2015, when the National Bank of Kazakhstan introduced a managed float. The dynamic properties of the model are analyzed using impulse response functions for selected country-specific shocks. The modelâ€™s shock decomposition and in-sample forecasting properties presented in the paper suggest that the model was an applicable tool for monetary policy analysis and practical forecasting at the National Bank of Kazakhstan. In a general sense, the model can be considered an example of a quarterly projection model for oil-rich countries with a fixed exchange rate.
C50|"Fast, ""robust"", and approximately correct: estimating mixed demand systems"|" Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifi cations in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
C50|Consistent Pseudo‐Maximum Likelihood Estimators and Groups of Transformations|In a transformation model yt=c[a(xt,β),ut], where the errors ut are i.i.d. and independent of the explanatory variables xt, the parameters can be estimated by a pseudo‐maximum likelihood (PML) method, that is, by using a misspecified distribution of the errors, but the PML estimator of β is in general not consistent. We explain in this paper how to nest the initial model in an identified augmented model with more parameters in order to derive consistent PML estimators of appropriate functions of parameter β. The usefulness of the consistency result is illustrated by examples of systems of nonlinear equations, conditionally heteroscedastic models, stochastic volatility, or models with spatial interactions.
C50|Econometric Analysis of Productivity: Theory and Implementation in R|Our chapter details a wide variety of approaches used in estimating productivity and efficiency based on methods developed to estimate frontier production using Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA) and Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). The estimators utilize panel, single cross section, and time series data sets. The R programs include such approaches to estimate firm efficiency as the time invariant fixed effects, correlated random effects, and uncorrelated random effects panel stochastic frontier estimators, time varying fixed effects, correlated random effects, and uncorrelated random effects estimators, semi-parametric efficient panel frontier estimators, factor models for cross-sectional and time-varying efficiency, bootstrapping methods to develop confidence intervals for index number-based productivity estimates and their decompositions, DEA and Free Disposable Hull estimators. The chapter provides the professional researcher, analyst, statistician, and regulator with the most up to date efficiency modelling methods in the easily accessible open source programming language R.
C50|Intertemporal Similarity of Economic Time Series|This paper adapts the non-parametric Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) technique in an application to examine the temporal alignment and similarity across economic time series. DTW has important advantages over existing measures in economics as it alleviates concerns regarding a pre-defined fixed temporal alignment of series. For example, in contrast to current methods, DTW can capture alternations between leading and lagging relationships of series. We illustrate DTW in a study of US states’ business cycles around the Great Recession, and find considerable evidence that temporal alignments across states dynamic. Trough cluster analysis, we further document state-varying recoveries from the recession.
C50|Climate Change and Kuznets Curve: Portuguese Experience|The climate change has inspired the interest of the academic community in the most diverse areas of knowledge. This study tests and revisited the environmental Kuznets curve assumptions for Portugal. The econometric strategy used in this research is time series (ARIMA model, OLS estimator, ARCH regression, VAR model, and Granger causality) for the time period 1980-2013.The econometric results show that the income per capita and squared income per capita are according to the expected signs, i.e. a positive impact of income per capita on carbon dioxide emissions, and a negative effect of squared income per capita on carbon dioxide emissions. The empirical study also demonstrates that Portugal presents a dependence on energy consumption. The openness trade and foreign direct investment are negatively correlated with carbon dioxide emissions.
C50|"Fast, ""Robust"", and Approximately Correct: Estimating Mixed Demand Systems"|"Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifications in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
C50|Trade creation and trade diversion of regional trade agreements revisited: A constrained panel pseudo-maximum likelihood approach|For the estimation of structural gravity models using PPML with countrypair, exporter-time and importer-time effects it proves useful to exploit the equilibrium restrictions imposed by the system of multilateral resistances. This yields an iterative projection based PPML estimator that is unaffected by the incidental parameters problem. Further, in this setting it is straight forward to establish the asymptotic distribution of the structural parameters and that of counterfactual predictions. The present contribution applies the constrained panel PPML estimator to reconsider the trade creation and trade diversion effects of regional trade agreements. Results show significant trade creation effects of RTAs ranging in between 8.7 and 21.7 percent in 2012, but also point to substantial trade diversion in the range of -14.4 and -5.8 percent. These counterfactual predictions account for adjustment in multilateral trade resistances. The quite large confidence intervals of counterfactual predictions seem to be an overlooked issue in the literature.
C50|Real estate and land property automated valuations systems: a taxonomy and conceptual model|Purpose - Automated valuation models have been in use at least for the last fifty years in both academia and practice, while a proper definition was coined only in the last decade. Automated valuation models is a very mature topic that has recently reemerged as very important with the rise of digital infrastructure. Therefore, this paper provides needed analysis and synthesis of the accumulated body of knowledge, and proposes a conceptual framework adapted to reemerging trend.Design/methodology/approach - This imply two-sided contribution of this paper, a taxonomy and a conceptual framework. In order to address properly a broad notion of automated valuation models’ use, this paper introduces automated valuation system as a term and its taxonomy based on key facets, properties and measurements. Proposed taxonomy is non-hierarchical because all automated valuation systems have the same importance and each one has these facets. Furthermore, conceptual model represents the relationships between the facets. The conceptual model for automated valuation system is based on the visualized decision support system consisting of decision, end user, interface data and model. Both taxonomy and conceptual model came into being after literature review that included a bit more than one hundred references.Findings - The overview of facets, their properties and their dummy measurement is discussed only with examples that would be sufficient to illustrate their regularities. Examples are selected as the most cited articles for each of the newly introduced automated valuation approaches. As mentioned, all indicated facets are visualized in a conceptual model that is again an adapted version of the most visuals example of a decision support systems.Research limitations/implications – As mentioned, taxonomy and conceptual model are built upon although relatively broad but selective choice on more than one hundred references. Perhaps a systematic literature review process could additional validate the proposed taxonomy and conceptual model.Practical implications - Assuring the credibility of an automated valuation model that is based purely on comparing the predictive accuracy of method ‘a’ versus method ‘b’ has become a common practice. Therefore, discussion of the use of the proposed automated valuation has been push forward. In addition, as a domain of price estimates has been far surpassed any unique discipline, term that is more generic would be appropriate to accommodate future research coming from multitude of disciplines.Originality/value – By knowledge of the authors this is the first paper that develops taxonomy and conceptual model of automated valuation systems.
C50|Assessing Hospital Performance in Indonesia: An Application of Frontier Analysis Techniques|Despite increased national health expenditure in health facilities in Indonesia, health outcomes remain poor. The aim of our study is to examine the factors determining the relative efficiency of hospitals. Using linked national data sources from facility, households, and village-based surveys, we measure the efficiency of 200 hospitals across fifteen provinces in Indonesia with output oriented data envelopment analysis (DEA) and stochastic frontier analysis (SFA). Inputs include the number of doctors, nurses and midwives, other staff, and beds while outputs are the number of outpatient visits and bed-days. We run truncated regression in second stage DEA and one stage SFA analysis to assess contextual characteristics influencing health facilities performance. Our results indicate a wide variation in efficiency between health facilities. High-performing hospitals are in deprived areas. Hospitals located in less concentrated health facilities, in Java and Bali Island, high coverage of insurance scheme for the poor perform better than in other geographical location. We find an inconclusive impact of quality of care, and ownership on efficiency. This paper concludes by highlighting the characteristics of hospitals that have the potential to increase efficiency.
C50|Interest rate reforms and economic growth: the savings and investment channel|The 2008/2009 global financial crisis has re-ignited the debate around financial reforms with contrasting views with regards to the impact of financial reforms on economic growth. This study examines the impact of interest rate reforms on economic growth through savings and investments in SADC countries for the period 1990-2015. Three specifications are used for the analysis; the first one determines the influence of interest rate reforms on savings, the second one analyses the effect of savings on investments while the third one examines whether investments have a positive impact on economic growth. The Pooled Mean Group (PMG) estimation technique is employed for analysis. Furthermore, the ARDL bounds tests are conducted for the individual countries to test for cointegration. The results show that cointegration is detected in most countries for each one of the three specifications. Also, interest rate reforms have a positive impact on economic growth through savings and investments. The study therefore recommends that market forces should be allowed to determine real interest rates and furthermore, real interest rates maintained at artificially low levels may harm economic growth.
C50|Shackling the Identification Police?|This article examines potential tradeoffs between research methods in answering important questions versus providing more cleanly identified estimates on problems that are potentially of lesser interest. The strengths and limitations of experimental and quasi‐experimental methods are discussed and it is postulated that confidence in the results obtained may sometimes be overvalued compared to the importance of the topics addressed. The consequences of this are modeled and several suggestions are provided regarding possible steps to encourage greater focus on questions of fundamental importance.
C50|Microeconomics of tourism among selected CEE countries: What influences profitability in a case of those profitable firms?| The paper has focused on financial management of medium-sized hotels and travel agencies in eight selected Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries. According to a business finance theory, there should be inverse relation between liquidity and profitability of companies. In general, if managers decrease firm's liquidity through investing into the fixed assets they should increase firm's profitability, which is caused by possible higher earnings from those investments. The aim of the study is to estimate how is profitability of those profitable tourism companies affected by selected financial variables, and decide whether the business finance theory is valid also within tourism industry among selected CEE countries. Annual data from Amadeus, the international statistical database are obtained from 1,957 hotels and 785 travel agencies from Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia. General Methods of Moments (GMM) with panel data is used as the main estimation method for period from 2006 to 2015. However, results of the paper have shown that the business finance theory is not valid either within both types of tourism companies nor among all selected CEE countries. Furthermore, it is obvious that a conflict between managers of tourism companies and their owners should have been paid more attention. A creating of retained earnings within the stockholders' funds when owners had reinvested the earnings back to the business had particular significance for tourism companies' profitability within the period affected by the global financial crisis, even in the case of those profitable companies.
C50|An Evaluation of Singular Spectrum Analysis-Based Seasonal Adjustment|In this paper, the Singular Spectrum Analysis (SSA) is presented and applied in the US air traffic emplacements for the period Jan. 1954 – Sept. 2011. I decompose the US air traffic emplacements in trend, cycle, seasonal and noise components. In turn, I apply several spectral criteria in order to evaluate the SSA as a seasonal adjustment filter. SSA detects, beyond trend, strong cycles and seasonal components and leaves as a residual a GARCH process. SSA performs quite well as a seasonal adjustment mechanism in the case of the GARCH process but it performs even better in the case of a simulated white noise process. SSA is a serious candidate in economics in dealing with filtering, denoising, smoothing and seasonal adjustment.
C50|The Relation between Absences and Grades: A Statistical Analysis|The paper investigates the relation between absences and grades by employing statistical modelling and using data from a private hospitality school. The obtained parameters estimates verify the assumption that there exists an inverse relationship between absences and grades. It is shown that one unit increase in normalized absences leads to 0.814 units decrease in the average class grade. Further, a dynamic interaction between absences and grades is examined by means of a VAR model. No evidence that the links between absences and grades are propagated over time is found. The system has no memory: each term and / or course defines its own dynamics which is not spread over other terms and / or other courses.
C50|The Relation between Absences and Grades: A Statistical Analysis|The paper investigates the relation between absences and grades by employing statistical modelling and using data from a private hospitality school. The obtained parameters estimates verify the assumption that there exists an inverse relationship between absences and grades. It is shown that one unit increase in normalized absences leads to 0.814 units decrease in the average class grade. Further, a dynamic interaction between absences and grades is examined by means of a VAR model. No evidence that the links between absences and grades are propagated over time is found. The system has no memory: each term and / or course defines its own dynamics which is not spread over other terms and / or other courses.
C50|The impact of exchange rate on exports in South Africa|The primary objective of this study is to assess the impact of exchange rate on exports in South Africa between the periods 1994 to 2016 and to establish whether a statistically significant relationship exists between exports and exchange rate. The study incorporated real interest rate, investments and inflation as control variables. By applying the Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) approach, this study empirically investigates the impact of real exchange rate on exports in South Africa. In testing for the unit root properties of the time series data, the variables were subjected to the Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and Philips Perron (PP) unit root tests. The results obtained reveal that exchange rate has a significant negative relationship with exports in South Africa.
C50|Interest rate reforms and economic growth: the savings and investment channel|The 2008/2009 global financial crisis has re-ignited the debate around financial reforms with contrasting views with regards to the impact of financial reforms on economic growth. This study examines the impact of interest rate reforms on economic growth through savings and investments in SADC countries for the period 1990-2015. Three specifications are used for the analysis; the first one determines the influence of interest rate reforms on savings, the second one analyses the effect of savings on investments while the third one examines whether investments have a positive impact on economic growth. The Pooled Mean Group (PMG) estimation technique is employed for analysis. Furthermore, the ARDL bounds tests are conducted for the individual countries to test for cointegration. The results show that cointegration is detected in most countries for each one of the three specifications. Also, interest rate reforms have a positive impact on economic growth through savings and investments. The study therefore recommends that market forces should be allowed to determine real interest rates and furthermore, real interest rates maintained at artificially low levels may harm economic growth.
C50|Do Economic Reforms Promote Urbanization in India?|We assess the impact of economic reforms on urbanization in India for the period of 1991 to 2016. It is found that economic reform variables (except import of goods and services as % of GDP) have a positive effect on urbanization. The vector error correction model shows that economic reforms have influenced only on total urban population with a very slower rate with the speed of adjustment of 0.003. The short run effect is also negligible. Granger causality test shows that there is no causal relationship between them. Therefore, we conclude that economic reforms do not promote urbanization in India. Economic reforms for urbanization are required though promotion of small and medium cities, human capital, cultural mobility and formulating proper plans for new green cities.
C50|How do Stocks in BRICS co-move with REITs?|This paper investigates BRIC markets’ integration and segmentation between REITs and stock indices, and the possibility of establishing “wealth” and “credit” effects. The analysis of the relationship is based on updated techniques in time series using the concepts of fractional integration and cointegration and Granger causality. This allows us to look at bi-directional long-run equilibrium relationships between the two variables in the five countries. The results indicate that all the series are highly persistent, with orders of integration around 1. However, we do not find any evidence suggesting long run equilibrium relationships between the REITs and the stocks. Meanwhile, causality is bidirectional in the case of South Africa, thus both “wealth effect” and “credit effect” exist, while only “credit effect” is established in India and Russia.
C50|Ergodicity conditions for a double mixed Poisson autoregression|We propose a double mixed Poisson autoregression in which the intensity, scaled by a unit mean independent and identically distributed (iid) mixing process, has different regime specifications according to the state of a finite unobserved iid chain. Under some contraction in mean conditions, we show that the proposed model is strictly stationary and ergodic with a finite mean. Applications to various count time series models are given.
C50|Income inequality and Economic Development: evidences from Brazilian Municipalities|This note aimed to investigate, within Brazilian municipalities, the relationship between income inequality and economic development. We used data from 5,566 Brazilian municipalities, and parametric and nonparametric tools were used. The results obtained show that there is no inverted-U relationship between these two variables. Our best model (the nonparametric model) suggest an U-shape relationship between income inequality and economic development. This finding differs from previous studies presented in the literature. This results indicates that even in the more developed municipalities, the gap between rich and poor is increasing.
C50|Regime heteroskedasticity in Bitcoin: A comparison of Markov switching models|Markov regime-switching (MRS) models, also known as hidden Markov models (HMM), are used extensively to account for regime heteroskedasticity within the returns of financial assets. However, we believe this paper to be one of the first to apply such methodology to the time series of cryptocurrencies. In light of Molnar and Thies (2018) demonstrating that the price data of Bitcoin contained seven distinct volatility regimes, we will �fit a sample of Bitcoin returns with six m-state MRS estimations, with m between 2 and 7. Our aim is to identify the optimal number of states for modelling the regime heteroskedasticity in the price data of Bitcoin. Goodness-of-�fit will be judged using three information criteria, namely: Bayesian (BIC); Hannan-Quinn (HQ); and Akaike (AIC). We determined that the restricted 5-state model generated the optimal estimation for the sample. In addition, we found evidence of volatility clustering, volatility jumps and asymmetric volatility transitions whilst also inferring the persistence of shocks in the price data of Bitcoin.
C50|A design of experiment of DSLR image clarity: An experimental economic analysis|This research is focused on randomized designs, two-stage experiments that first randomize treatment of a group, then investigate on the significant factors with economic perspective. It is attempted to map the potential outcomes framework with partial interference to a regression model with clustered errors, calculate standard errors of randomized saturation designs. The objective of this study is to assess the clarity of a photographic image produced by a DSLR camera by varying relevant factors such as image distance, shutter speed, aperture etc with on impact financial support. The criterion for assigning the ranking was the ability of clearly seeing the object in the photographs and the sharpness of the object. Design of experiments (DOE)-based approach allows for an efficient estimation of the main effects and the interactions with minimal number of experiments. This study investigates the factors that are mostly responsible for DSLR image clarity. All the six factors are set in two levels to create a full-factorial 2k design. A residual analysis has been done to test for defects such as non-normality, non-independent and non-constant variance. Based upon this evidence, we assert that (DOE)-based approach valuation information has the potential to negatively impact financial support for the exact resources the information is designed to promote and holds considerable potential for experimental economics, deserves greater attention as a methodological tool, and promises important insights on strategic decision making.
C50|International Monetary Policy Spillovers: Evidence from a TVP-VAR|In this study, we examine the transmission of international monetary policy shocks across developed economies based on a time-varying parameter vector autoregressive (TVP-VAR) methodology. Using daily data on shadow short rates over the period of January 2, 1995 to September 22, 2017, we find the following empirical regularities. International monetary policy shocks are an important source of domestic monetary policy fluctuations. Moreover, the magnitude of international monetary policy spillovers behaves heterogeneously overtime, with peaks reached during the “Great Recession”. In addition, the dominant transmitters of international monetary policy shocks are the Euro Area and the US, while Japan and the UK are the dominant receivers of international monetary policy shocks. Interestingly enough, international monetary policy shocks originating from the US are the largest during the zero lower bound and the related unconventional monetary policy actions era, indicating potential gains from monetary policy coordination.
C50|On the transmission mechanism of country-specific and international economic uncertainty spillovers: Evidence from a TVP-VAR connectedness decomposition approach|We investigate the internal and external categorical economic policy uncertainty (EPU) spillovers between the US and Japan using a novel extension of the TVP-VAR connectedness approach of Antonakakis and Gabauer (2017). The decomposition of our approach gives us insights about the dynamics with and without international spillovers which has essential policy implications. Our results suggest that monetary policy uncertainty is the main driver, followed by uncertainties associated with fiscal, currency market and trade policies. Furthermore, we find that the Fukushima Daiichi accident can be interpreted as a negative trade shock that spread internationally.
C50|Greek Economic Policy Uncertainty: Does it Matter for the European Union?|We examine the propagation of economic policy uncertainty shocks within Greece and across Europe. Our analysis reveals that Greek economic policy uncertainty was dominating the European economic policy uncertainty nearly permanently throughout the period of analysis. In particular, uncertainty related to the Greek banking sector (capital controls) and currency issues (Grexit possibility) had a significant impact on European economic policy uncertainty. Further evidence suggests that, within Greece, fiscal policy uncertainty was driven by shocks related to currency, banking and monetary policy uncertainty.
C50|Stochastic Frontier Analysis: Foundations and Advances|This chapter reviews some of the most important developments in the econometric estimation of productivity and efficiency surrounding the stochastic frontier model. We highlight endogeneity issues, recent advances in generalized panel data stochastic frontier models, nonparametric estimation of the frontier, quantile estimation and distribution free methods. An emphasis is placed on highlighting recent research and providing broad coverage, while details are left for further reading in the abundant (although not limited to) list of references provided.
C50|Improving Finite Sample Approximation by Central Limit Theorems for DEA and FDH efficiency scores|We propose an improvement of the finite sample approximation of the central limit theorems (CLTs) that were recently derived for statistics involving production efficiency scores estimated via Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) or Free Disposal Hull (FDH) approaches. The improvement is very easy to implement since it involves a simple correction of the already employed statistics without any additional computational burden and preserves the original asymptotic results such as consistency and asymptotic normality. The proposed approach persistently showed improvement in all the scenarios that we tried in various Monte-Carlo experiments, especially for relatively small samples or relatively large dimensions (measured by total number of inputs and outputs) of the underlying production model. This approach therefore is expected to be valuable (and at almost no additional computational costs) for practitioners wishing to perform statistical inference about production efficiency using DEA or FDH approaches.
C50|Econometric Analysis of Productivity: Theory and Implementation in R|Our chapter details a wide variety of approaches used in estimating productivity and efficiency based on methods developed to estimate frontier production using Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA) and Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). The estimators utilize panel, single cross section, and time series data sets. The R programs include such approaches to estimate firm efficiency as the time invariant fixed effects, correlated random effects, and uncorrelated random effects panel stochastic frontier estimators, time varying fixed effects, correlated random effects, and uncorrelated random effects estimators, semi-parametric efficient panel frontier estimators, factor models for cross-sectional and time-varying efficiency, bootstrapping methods to develop confidence intervals for index number-based productivity estimates and their decompositions, DEA and Free Disposable Hull estimators. The chapter provides the professional researcher, analyst, statistician, and regulator with the most up to date efficiency modeling methods in the easily accessible open source programming language R.
C50|The Implicit Price for Fair Trade Coffee: Does Social Capital Matter?|This study aims to ascertain whether the implicit price paid for Fair Trade coffee in regular supermarkets is influenced by the stock of social capital in the territory where consumers live. A hedonic regression set-up is adopted, based on Italian scanner data taken at NUTS3 level. Regressors include attributes described on the label, which contain separate certifications for Fair Trade and organic/eco-label status, plus various indicators of social capital and their interactions with the Fair Trade and organic/eco-label attributes. The consumers’ implicit price paid for the Fair Trade attribute is significantly and positively affected by a social capital proxy, which is the percentage of co-op members over total employment.
C50|Investigating The Relation Between Technology and Economic Growth with AK Model: An application Swamy?s Random Coefficient Model (RCM)|This study aims to investigate effect of technology on economic growth in thirthty-OECD countries using random coefficient model (RCM) with AK model. We applied cross-sectional dependence test, panel unit-root test and co-integration test. As a result of estimated RCM model, in Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland and Poland, researcher and Business enterprise expenditure on R&D (BERD) as a percentage of GDP have positive and statistically significant effect on economic growth. In Estonia, Iceland and Latvia, researcher variable has positive and statistically significant effect on economic growth. In Turkey, BERD as a percentage of GDP variable has positively impacted on economic growth.
C50|Frequent Use Of Emergency Departments: An Application To The Paediatric Context|Frequent users of Emergency Departments (EDs) represent a particularly interesting category of users since they account to a small percentage of patients but they affect considerably accesses, overcrowding and the overall costs of ED activities. The literature on the topic is vast and it allows to delineate a profile of frequent users identifying socio-demographic (age, gender, nationality) and clinical (chronic diseases, drugs and alcohol abuse; psychic illnesses) risk factors. However, most of the studies on the topic limit the analysis to one-year period or to a single study site and there is no consensus on the definition of frequent use. Frequent users are generally defined as those patients reporting a number of accesses per year beyond a certain threshold. The selection of the threshold is often based on previous literature or on percentiles but the definitions vary considerably and the choice tends to be subjective.In this study, the focus will be placed on paediatric patients, with reference to which the contributions in the literature are still very limited. The objective is to identify the most important drivers of ED frequent use in the 19 EDs of Liguria region (Italy) during a three-year period (2013-2015). The dataset contains 287,242 accesses referred to 144,895 under 14 patients and it includes information on patients? characteristics and on their clinical pathway. To overcome the limitations connected to previous definitions of frequent use, we exploit the availability of data on three years; this allows to define, not only frequent use, but also its duration (i.e. One-shot / Multiple shot frequent use) and intensity (Normal, High, Very high). By the use of logit and multinomial logit regressions we identify a set of risk factors associated to frequent use and to the different forms of frequent use. Results show that even if frequent users represent a small share of patients (9%) they contribute to roughly 25% of accesses. Chronic conditions are the most relevant determinants of frequent use (particularly mental disorders, diseases of the respiratory system) but also foreign nationality turns out to be an important predictor. Differences emerge in the impact of regressors on the different forms of frequent use defined according to its duration and intensity.The study represents an important tool to support policy-making and to discriminate between the potentially preventable frequent use (i.e. inappropriate use) and that associated to complex medical conditions, such as chronic conditions.
C50|Developing a shared environmental responsibility principle for distributing cost of restoring marine habitats destroyed by industrial harbors|For decades, industrial harbor expansion has been destroying coastal marine ecosystems. Many estuaries are sites for industrial harbors and critical fish nursery habitat. Considering fish population decreases and the global biodiversity crisis, restoring these habitats is justified and supported by international institutions. However, restoration programs can be prohibitively costly, particularly when considering the Polluter Pays Principle. While harbors destroy nurseries, at the same time they generate benefits for society and contribute to the public interest. This raises questions of who is responsible for environmental degradation and who can afford environmental restoration costs? One way to allocate restoration costs is in proportion of those who have benefitted from harbor activities. This paper addresses these questions by calculating burden-sharing scenarios with inputoutput matrix equations. These scenarios are based on a shared producer and consumer responsibility approach to distribute restoration costs among stakeholders that use, either directly or indirectly, harbor services. The scenarios are applied to the Seine estuary, France, and calculated as a function of sectorial value-added as well as direct and indirect economic linkages between economic sectors and harbor activities. Economic linkages with final consumers (e.g. households) are also included. The shared environmental responsibility calculation developed in this paper shares restoration costs for previously damaged marine habitats between a wide-range of economic agents, thereby preventing industrial harbors from bearing expensive restoration costs alone, and making restoration more likely.
C50|Upstream Product Market Regulations, ICT, R&D and Productivity|Our study aims to assess the actual importance of the two main channels via which upstream anti-competitive sector regulations are usually considered to impact productivity growth, i.e. by acting as a disincentive to business investments in R&D and in ICT. We estimate the specific impacts of these two channels and their shares in the total impact as opposed to alternative channels of investments in other forms of intangible capital that we cannot explicitly consider for lack of appropriate data such as improvements in skills, management and organization. To achieve this, we specify an extended production function explicitly relating productivity to R&D and ICT capital as well as to upstream regulations, and we specify two factor demand functions relating R&D and ICT capital to upstream regulations. These relations are estimated on the basis of an unbalanced panel of 15 OECD countries and 13 industries over the period 1987-2007. Confirming the results of previous similar studies, our estimates find that the impact of upstream regulations on total factor productivity can be sizeable, and they provide evidence that a good part of the total impact, though not a predominant one, is transmitted through investments in both R&D and ICT, and particularly the former<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C50|Identification and Estimation issues in Exponential Smooth Transition Autoregressive Models|Exponential smooth transition autoregressive (ESTAR) models are widely used in the international finance literature, particularly for the modelling of real exchange rates. We show that the exponential function is ill-suited as a regime weighting function because of two undesirable properties. Firstly, it can be well approximated by a quadratic function in the threshold variable whenever the transition function parameter , which governs the shape of the function, is ‘small’. This leads to an identification problem with respect to the transition function parameter and the slope vector, as both enter as a product into the conditional mean of the model. Secondly, the exponential regime weighting function can behave like an indicator function (or dummy variable) for very large values of the transition function parameter . This has the effect of ‘spuriously overfitting’ a small number of observations around the location parameter µ. We show that both of these effects lead to estimation problems in ESTAR models. We illustrate this by means of an empirical replication of a widely cited study, as well as a simulation exercise.
C50|Heterogeneous Peer Effects and Rank Concerns: Theory and Evidence|Using a theoretical model where students care about achievement rank, I study effort choices in the classroom and show that rank concerns generate peer effects. The model’s key empirical prediction is that the effect on own achievement of increasing the dispersion in peer cost of effort is heterogeneous, depending on a student’s own cost of effort. To test this, I construct a longitudinal multi-cohort dataset of students, with data on the geographic propagation of building damages from the Chilean 2010 earthquake. I find that higher dispersion in home damages among one’s classmates led, on average, to lower own Mathematics and Spanish test scores. To be able to test the theory, I develop a novel nonlinear difference-in-differences model that estimates effect heterogeneity and that relates observed damages to unobserved cost of effort. I find that some students at the tails of the predicted cost of effort distribution benefit from higher dispersion in peer cost of effort, as predicted by the theoretical model. This finding suggests that observed peer effects on test scores are, at least partly, governed by rank concerns.
C50|The Cobb Douglas marriage matching function: Marriage matching with peer and scale effects|This paper proposes an elementary empirical framework to study behavioral marriage matching models, the Cobb Douglas marriage matching function (CD MMF). It accommodates different kinds of relationships, peer and scale effects, changes in population supplies and gains to relationships. The CD MMF encompasses the Choo and Siow (2006a, CS), Dagsvik (2000), Menzel (2015), Chiappori, Salanie and Weiss (1016) MMFs, and CS with peer and scale effects (CSPE). Given population supplies, the CD MMF equilibrium matching always exists and is unique. The CD MMF is estimated on marriage and cohabitation of the white population in US states from 1990 to 2010. Scale effects are present in US marriage markets. CSPE is not rejected by the data. The paper also extends the framework to consider Brock and Durlauf (2001) peer effects specification in marriage matching models.
C50|The systemic risk of central SIFIs|Systemic risk quantification in the current literature is concentrated on market-based methods such as CoVaR(Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016)). Although it is easily implemented, the interactions among the variables of interest and their joint distribution are less addressed. To quantify systemic risk in a system-wide perspective, we propose a network-based factor copula approach to study systemic risk in a network of systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). The factor copula model offers a variety of dependencies/tail dependencies conditional on the chosen factor; thus constructing conditional network. Given the network, we identify the most “connected” SIFI as the central SIFI, and demonstrate that its systemic risk exceeds that of non-central SIFIs. Our identification of central SIFIs shows a coincidence with the bucket approach proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, but places more emphasis on modeling the interplay among SIFIs in order to generate systemwide quantifications. The network defined by the tail dependence matrix is preferable to that defined by the Pearson correlation matrix since it confirms that the identified central SIFI through it severely impacts the system. This study contributes to quantifying and ranking the systemic importance of SIFIs.
C50|Das deutsche Arbeitsmarktwunder: Eine Bilanz|Dem deutschen Arbeitsmarkt ging es noch nie seit der Wiedervereinigung so gut wie heute. Die nachhaltige Entwicklung seit 2005 ist auf einen entscheidenden Treiber zurückzuführen: die Umverteilung eines beinahe gleichbleibenden Arbeitsstundenvolumens auf mehr Beschäftigte durch die massive Ausweitung der Teilzeitarbeit. Die Lohnzurückhaltung der Tarifparteien war dabei eine notwendige, jedoch nicht hinreichende Bedingung für diesen Erfolg. Die Kovarianz von Lohn und Erwerbsindikatoren deutet allerdings darauf hin, dass die Arbeitsmarktreformen der sogenannten Agenda 2010 die erwerbsfähige Bevölkerung ab 2005 zur Teilnahme am Arbeitsmarkt aktiviert haben. Insbesondere die Reform der Arbeitslosenunterstützung hat die Ausweitung des Arbeitsangebots im unteren Lohnsegment ermöglicht und bewerkstelligt, dass die sozialversicherungspflichtige Teil- und Vollzeitarbeit zunahm. Ein Rückbau der Reformen könnte diesen Erfolg gefährden.
C50|A New General Theory of Economic Equilibrium|This paper lays the core foundation for a new general theory of equilibrium; The paper defines and describes macroeconomic concepts of Return on Savings (#RoS), Return on Investment (#RoI) and Return on Innovation (#RoIn) and explains an equilibrium between return on economy (#RoE) or GDP growth and the geometric mean of RoS, RoI and RoIn; The paper then goes on to show why central banks should stay away from interest rate management
C50|Absorptive Capacity and Geographical Distance Two Mediating Factors of FDI Spillovers: a Threshold Regression Analysis for Spanish Firms|Abstract This paper investigates the effect of foreign direct investment on productivity growth in the manufacturing industries of Spain. A theoretical model that includes the effects of technological gaps and absorptive capacity, both presenting nonlinear relationships is proposed. A sample of 2722 Spanish manufacturing firms from 1993 to 2006 was used. Threshold regression made it possible to contrast the non-linear relationship between inward FDI and productivity improvement in domestic firms, which is conditioned by the absorptive capacity and geographical distance. Spanish domestic firms with high absorptive capacities benefit from positive spillovers and have sufficient capability to internalize the more complex knowledge provided by multinational firms. The rest of the firms are negatively affected by the presence of multinational firms.
C50|About attitudes and perceptions: finding the proper way to consider latent variables in discrete choice models|Abstract We provide an in-depth theoretical discussion about the differences between individual-specific latent constructs (representing attitudes, for example, but also other characteristics such as values or personality traits) and alternative-specific latent constructs (that may represent perceptions) affecting the choice-making process of individuals; we also carry out an empirical exercise to analyze their effects. This discussion is of importance, as the majority of papers considering attitudinal latent variables just take these as attributes affecting directly the utility of a certain alternative, while systematic taste variations are rarely considered and perceptions are mostly ignored. The results of our case study show that perceptions may indeed affect the decision making process and that they are able to capture a significant part of the variability that is normally explained by alternative specific constants. Furthermore, our results indicate that attitudes may be a reason for systematic taste variations, and that a proper categorization of latent variables, in accordance with underlying theory, may outperform the customary assumption of linearity.
C50|A Conditionally Beta Distributed Time-Series Model With Application to Monthly US Corporate Default Rates|We consider an observation driven, conditionally Beta distributed model for variables restricted to the unit interval. The model includes both explanatory variables and autoregressive dependence in the mean and precision parameters using the mean-precision parametrization of the beta distribution suggested by Ferrari and Cribari-Neto (2004). Our model is a generalization of the ARMA model proposed in Rocha and Cribari-Neto (2009), which we generalize to allow for covariates and a ARCH type structure in the precision parameter. We also highlight some errors in their derivations of the score and information which has implications for the asymptotic theory. Included simulations suggests that standard asymptotics for estimators and test statistics apply. In an empirical application to Moody’s monthly US 12-month issuer default rates in the period 1972 - 2015, we revisit the results of Agosto et al. (2016) in examining the conditional independence hypothesis of Lando and Nielsen (2010). Empirically we find that; (1) the current default rate influence the default rate of the following periods even when conditioning on explanatory variables. (2) The 12 month lag is highly significant in explaining the monthly default rate. (3) There is evidence for volatility clustering beyond what is accounted for by the inherent mean-precision relationship of the Beta distribution in the default rate data.
C50|The incorporation of data on pre-analytical and analytical factors in model-based Health Technology Assessments(HTAs) of medical tests: a systematic review protocol|Background: Medical tests are becoming increasingly important in modern health care. As the number of tests coming to the global market continues to rise, Health Technology Assessments (HTAs) will play an increasingly important role in directing test adoption decisions. Assessment of health-economic outcomes within HTAs – most often informed via decision model-based evaluations – have not routinely addressed the impact of pre-analytical and analytical factors on test performance, which can have a significant effect on test outcomes. This systematic review will investigate methods utilised in HTA model-based economic evaluations, to identify if and how data on the impact of pre-analytical and analytical factors on test performance is being assessed. Methods: The Cochrane HTA database and key HTA authority websites will be searched to identify published papers and reports relating to HTAs of in-vitro tests including a model-based economic evaluation. Title and abstract screening will be conducted by a primary reviewer and 10% independently screened by a second reviewer. Full text screening and data extraction will be conducted by the primary reviewer, with 10% of data extraction independently conducted by a second reviewer. For all included studies, basic characteristics of the study, disease area and test technology assessed will be extracted. For studies identified as including an assessment of pre-analytical and analytical factors, additional data on the type of factors assessed, methods utilised, impact on the cost-effectiveness results and study quality will be recorded. Discussion: Understanding the methods used in this area will enable identification of key gaps in current methodology and potential avenues for future research. The findings of this work will be disseminated via a peer-reviewed journal publication and at national and international conferences.
C50|Assessing primary care performance in Indonesia: An application of frontier analysis techniques|Despite increased national health expenditure in health facilities in Indonesia, health outcomes remain low. The aim of our study is to examine the factors determining the relative efficiency of public primary care facilities. Using linked national data sources from facility-, households, and village-based surveys, we measure the efficiency of 185 primary care facilities across fifteen provinces in Indonesia with output oriented data envelopment analysis (DEA) and stochastic frontier analysis (SFA). Inputs include the number of doctors, midwife and nurses, and other staff while outputs are the number of outpatients and maternal child health patients. We run truncated regression in second stage DEA and one stage SFA analysis to assess contextual characteristics influencing health facilities performance. Our results indicate a wide variation in efficiency between health facilities. High-performing primary care facilities are in affluent areas. Primary care facilities located in urban areas, in Java and Bali Island, with high coverage of insurance scheme for the poor perform better than other geographical location.We find an inconclusive impact of quality of care, patient mix, and availability of inpatient services on efficiency. This paper concludes by highlighting the characteristics of primary care facilities that have the potential to increase efficiency.
C50|The role of measurement uncertainty in Health Technology Assessments (HTAs) of in-vitro tests|Introduction: Numerous factors contribute to uncertainty in test measurement procedures, and this uncertainty can impact on the downstream clinical utility and cost-effectiveness of testing strategies. Currently however, there is no clear guidance concerning if or how such factors should be considered within Health Technology Assessments (HTAs) of tests. Aim: To provide an introduction to key concepts in measurement uncertainty and explore, via systematic review, current methods utilised within HTAs for the assessment of measurement uncertainty. Methods: HTAs of in-vitro tests including a model-based economic evaluation were identified via the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) HTA database, HTA authority websites and citation checking. Data extraction was conducted to explore the specific components of measurement uncertainty assessed and methods utilised, and results were narratively synthesised.Results: Of 107 identified HTAs, 20 (19%) attempted to assess components of measurement uncertainty: 15 included an ‘intermediate’ assessment (e.g. literature review or laboratory survey); 4 also included components within the economic model; and 1 considered measurement uncertainty within the model only. The specific components assessed and methods adopted differed across studies. In particular, several techniques were employed within the economic models to incorporate data on test agreement, total error or biological and analytical variability. Conclusion: Various approaches have been adopted within a minority of HTAs to attempt to capture the impact of measurement uncertainty on test outcomes; uncertainty remains around when such assessments are required and appropriate methodology for conducting analyses, particular within economic evaluations.
C50|Matching Pennies on the Campaign Trail: An Empirical Study of Senate Elections and Media Coverage|We study the strategic interaction between the media and Senate candidates during elections. While the media is instrumental for candidates to communicate with voters, candidates and media outlets have conflicting preferences over the contents of the reporting. In competitive electoral environments such as most US Senate races, this can lead to a strategic environment resembling a matching pennies game. Based on this observation, we develop a model of bipartisan races where media outlets report about candidates, and candidates make decisions on the type of constituencies to target with their statements along the campaign trail. We develop a methodology to classify news content as suggestive of the target audience of candidate speech, and show how data on media reports and poll results, together with the behavioral implications of the model, can be used to estimate its parameters. We implement this methodology on US Senatorial races for the period 1980-2012, and find that Democratic candidates have stronger incentives to target their messages towards turning out their core supporters than Republicans. We also find that the cost in swing-voter support from targeting core supporters is larger for Democrats than for Republicans. These effects balance each other, making media outlets willing to cover candidates from both parties at similar rates.
C50|Information theory and behavior|"The quantal response behavior widely observed in experiments and observations of human and animal behavior can be derived as expected payoff maximization subject to a constraint on the entropy of the subject's behavior mixed strategy. The Lagrange multiplier corresponding to the entropy constraint is an agent's ""behavior temperature"". Entropy-constrained behavior approximates payoff-maximizing behavior, but in many contexts exhibits qualitatively different outcomes. The ""endowment e ect"" and other instances of ""loss-aversion"", for example, can be seen as a consequence of entropy-constrained behavior. Identical entropy-constrained agents with the same value for a good or asset will exhibit spontaneous ""noise trading"". An entropy-constrained agent with a lower behavior temperature will systematically take economic surplus away from an agent with the same valuation of a good but a higher behavior temperature in bilateral transactions. The equilibrium of a standard supply-demand models with entropy-constrained agents is a non-degenerate frequency distribution of transaction prices rather than a single equilibrium price. Changes in behavior temperature can transorm social interaction games from prisoners' dilemmas to assurance games. Entropy-constrained quantal responses allow quantitative inferences about payoff changes and distribution stronger than qualitative Pareto comparisons."
C50|Empirical Analysis of Islamic Banking and Economic Growth|The last decades have been characterized by sustained economic growth in which the financial system has played a crucial role. Banks have been at the center of this development and have undergone a profound change. Indeed, the emergence of Islamic finance and its place internationally justify the question of its role as a real generator of financial intermediation. In this context, the purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between Islamic financial model evaluated by Banks Islamic and economic growth. Via a study the in a sample of nine countries, the Islamic Bank system was developed during the period (2008-2014), by employing the Panel Model to see the link between financial development and economic growth. We use time series data of Islamic financial expressed by the following independent variables (total Islamic Bank assets, investment accounts and financial assets, Cost to income ratio, Non-financial income ratio, income on asset ratio). Moreover, real GDP per capita as dependent variable has been used. An Econometric Modelling by the Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) of some indicators and the index of economic growth GDP Consequently, our study confirms the existence of a positive correlation but not strong, enough for the size of Islamic banks in this sample, and weight in the financial system that remains average compared to conventional banks.
C50|The unbiased forward rate hypothesis before and after the inflation targeting regime in South Africa: A cointegration Analysis|This paper investigates the relationship between the future spot and forward rates in the South African foreign exchange market to infer whether the unbiased forward rate hypothesis (UFRH) holds in South Africa. More specifically we examine whether the hypothesis holds in the face of the different monetary policy regimes taken by the South African reserve bank. We distinguish between two periods; (1) the period before inflation targeting and (2) the period after inflation targeting from February 2000 to the present. The study applies the autoregressive dynamic lag (ARDL) cointegration technique to test the existence of the long-run relationship between the two variables. The results of this investigation indicate that existence of a long-run relationship between the two variables for all forward rates horizons, especially for the period after inflation targeting. This indicates that an improvement of market efficiency in South Africa during the inflation targeting period.
C50|Refined Measures of Dynamic Connectedness based on TVP-VAR|In this study, we propose refined measures of dynamic connectedness based on a TVP-VAR approach, that overcomes certain shortcomings of the connectedness measures introduced originally by Diebold and Yilmaz (2009, 2012, 2014). We illustrate the advantages of the TVP-VAR-based connectedness approach with an empirical analysis on exchange rate volatility connectedness.
C50|Assessing the Effectiveness of the Monetary Policy Instrument during the Inflation Targeting Period in South Africa|Since the adoption of inflation rate targeting policy, there has been a great concern on the effectiveness of the monetary policy instrument to curb inflation in South Africa. The effectiveness of monetary policy instruments to control the level of inflation has been widely criticised not only in the South African context but also internationally. This paper assesses how inflation react to monetary policy shocks in South Africa during the inflation targeting period by making use of the structural vector error correction model (SVECM). The results of the impulse response function obtained from the SVECM show that, on average, contractionary monetary policy that intends to curb inflationary pressure has been impotent in South Africa. However, the contractionary monetary policy shocks managed to reduce output. The paper suggests that it is time a dual target, inflation and output, be considered in South Africa to avoid the harm caused on output growth from monetary policy actions related to the constraint of inflation targeting
C50|Metamorphosis in Political Economy A new combination of three disparate ideas|Innovation in theory building usually follows the prescription of ‘normal science’ as described by Thomas Kuhn in his account on the history of theoretical physics, see [Kuhn, 1962]. What already had been postulated by Descartes, compare [Descartes, 1637], as a signum of science, namely the systematic advance towards smaller, more specialized, partial problems that are easier to solve, this procedure still prevails in the social sciences till today. Contrary to this piecemeal engineering approach, Joseph Schumpeter made the character mask of the revolutionary entrepreneur to his hero of progress – at least as far as innovation in the production of commodities is concerned, [Schumpeter, 1911]. Of course, history shows that both forms of innovation are alternating: If the slow advance and broadening of a prevailing mainstream gets stuck and the contradictions it produces start to accumulate quickly, then it is time for a revolution – in the material world (compare [Hanappi & Wäckerle, 2016]) as well as in its scientific correlate. It is time for a metamorphosis. In which direction a theoretical innovation in times of metamorphosis shall point clearly has to remain an unanswered question. The best characterization of its general methodological form still seems to be Schumpeter’s dictum. It is a new combination of (existing) elements. The existing elements typically should concern burning problems of the troubled mainstream (compare [Hanappi, 2016]), and the adjective ‘new’ means that they so far are not connected to each other in the stagnating mainstream approach. The global political economy as well as its theoretical reflection in mainstream theory undoubtedly currently is in a state that calls for a revolutionary metamorphosis. This paper therefore sets out to develop a new combination of three seemingly unconnected ideas, which each address a fundamental contradiction. The first idea concerns the contradiction between the rich and the poor parts of the global economy, the second idea concerns the driving force of progress of the human species and its impediments, and the third idea concerns the contradiction between syntax and semantics of the formal representation of the first two contradictions. Contrary to papers in ‘normal science’, which in a conclusion propose a solution for their research question, this paper avoids to pretend a finite horizon of its arguments. As is appropriate for a proposed theoretical innovation it just offers a new open-ended contribution to the rapidly evolving discourse in the middle of metamorphosis.
C50|Mitigating capital flight through military expenditure: Insight from 37 African countries|The purpose of this study is to assess the thresholds at which military expenditure modulates the effect of terrorism on capital flight. We employed a panel data of 37 African countries from 1996 to 2010. The empirical evidence was based on: (i) baseline contemporary and non-contemporary OLS, (ii) contemporary and non-contemporary fixed effects regressions to account for the unobserved heterogeneity, (iii) the Generalised Method of Moments to account for the capital flight trap and (iv) Quantile Regressions (QR) to account for initial levels of capital flight. The study found that the thresholds are apparent exclusively in Quantile Regressions with military expenditure thresholds ranging from: 4.224 to 5.612 for domestic terrorism, 5.734–7.363 for unclear terrorism and 4.710–6.617 for total terrorism. No thresholds are apparent in transnational terrorism related regressions. Depending on the terrorist target, the findings broadly show that a critical mass of between 4.224 and 7.363 of military expenditure as a percentage of GDP is needed to reverse the negative effect of terrorism on capital flight. In spite of the growing consensus of the need to utilise military expenditure to help combat terrorism, our understanding of the threshold at which military expenditure completely dampens the negative effect of terrorism on capital flight remains largely underexplored. We capitalize on panel data of 37 African countries to address this lacuna in our understanding of this important issue.
C50|Renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa|The importance of renewable energy consumption has grown to a large extent over the recent years. The benefits of renewable energy consumption ranging from improved environmental quality to higher economic growth are well documented. However, the impact of renewable energy consumption on unemployment has received relatively less attention. This study examines the relationship between renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa over the period 1990-2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model was employed to test the long-run and short-run impacts of renewable energy consumption on unemployment. The results reveal that renewable energy consumption has a negative and significant effect on unemployment in the long-run. However, in the short-run the variables have an insignificant relationship. The study therefore advocates for an increase in the production and consumption of renewable energy in order to boost employment levels.
C50|Renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa|The importance of renewable energy consumption has grown to a large extent over the recent years. The benefits of renewable energy consumption ranging from improved environmental quality to higher economic growth are well documented. However, the impact of renewable energy consumption on unemployment has received relatively less attention. This study examines the relationship between renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa over the period 1990-2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model was employed to test the long-run and short-run impacts of renewable energy consumption on unemployment. The results reveal that renewable energy consumption has a negative and significant effect on unemployment in the long-run. However, in the short-run the variables have an insignificant relationship. The study therefore advocates for an increase in the production and consumption of renewable energy in order to boost employment levels.
C50|On the Investigation of Factors Effecting International Tourist Arrivals to Cambodian Market: A Static and Dynamic Gravity Approach|The paper investigates factors influencing international tourist arrivals into the Cambodian market during the period of 1995 to 2015, covered 32 cross-sectional countries by adopting a static and dynamic gravity approach with respect to fixed effects (FE) and random effects (RE) and the GMM estimator of Arellano and Bond (1991). Our analysis shows that mostly economic factors such as travel cost, GDP per capita and population size are the main sources in attracting international tourist arrivals. The country specific dummy variables are found to be associated with the respects to its significant level. The empirical results demonstrate that one and two step GMM with robust standard errors produces better outcomes and improves the estimated accuracy over a static approach.
C50|Revisiting the macroeconomic effects of labor reallocation|We revisit the macroeconomic effects of labor reallocation within the framework of Campbell and Kuttner (1996). We re-estimate their model, update the sample, and employ generalized and local impulse response functions. We confirm that total employment responses to reallocation shocks remain significant.
C50|An Investigation of Economic Factors Affecting Output Gap in the Iranian Economy|Due to the importance of production in economy, its volatility affect economic sectors and agents significantly. Therefore, understanding the causes of business cycles is very important. Thus, this study extracted business cycles and investigated the effects of aggregate demand variables cycles in business cycle and the size of this effects in Iran’s economy over 1959-2014. For this purpose, first Hodrick-Prescott filter and then Markov-switching model are used to extract and examine the business cycles. The results showed asymmetry in the production cycles in Iran’s economy. The results of the regime of recession and expansion probability also revealed that although with less intensity, cycles of recession are more probable compared to expansion cycles, and have happened in longer period. Then, using the relevant indicators and Hsiao's causality tests, we focused on the relationship of demand side variables cycle with business cycles. The results indicated that the three variables including consumption, investment and government spending were all leading and coincident to business cycles. There was a two-way causality relationship between all three variables and the business cycles. However, balance of trade was found to be lagging and non-coincident to business cycles. It was also found that the causality runs only from balance of trade to business cycles.
C50|Spatial spillovers in public expenditure on a municipal level in Spain|Abstract A key function of local governments is to provide a wide array of public services. The supply of these services has been found to create spatial spillovers among neighbouring municipalities. Although it is generally agreed that spillovers are present in models that explain government expenditures, their type—whether endogenous, exogenous or residual—and sign—whether positive or negative—remain ambiguous. In most cases, a subjective process is used to select the type of spatial regression model used in analysis, with mixed results. Per capita expenditures of ten subprogrammes (Security, Housing, Welfare, Environment, Social services, Employment promotion, Health, Education, Culture and Sport) are analysed for all Spanish municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants in the 2010–2012 period. A Spatial Seemingly Unrelated Regression methodology in a panel framework is used to incorporate correlation between different subprogrammes and spatial dependence. Our results show that the three types of spatial effects are present. Furthermore, substantive dependence is positive in most cases, while negative residual dependence is observed in some.
C50|Comparative Advantage and Biased Gravity|Gravity estimation based on sector-level trade data is generally misspecified because it ignores the role of product-level comparative advantage in shaping the effects of trade barriers on sector-level trade flows. Using a model that allows for arbitrary patterns of product-level comparative advantage, I show that sector-level trade flows follow a generalized gravity equation that contains an unobservable, bilateral component that is correlated with trade costs and omitted by standard sector-level gravity models. I propose and implement an estimator that uses product-level data to account for patterns of comparative advantage and find the bias in sector-level estimates to be significant. I also find that, when controlling for product-level comparative advantage, estimates are much more robust to distributional assumptions, suggesting that remaining biases due to heteroskedasticity and sample selection are less severe than previously thought.
C50|A Stochastic Recurrence Equation Approach to Stationarity and phi-Mixing of a Class of Nonlinear ARCH Models|This article generalises the results of Saidi and Zakoian (2006) to a considerably larger class of nonlinear ARCH models with discontinuities, leverage effects and robust news impact curves. We propose a new method of proof for the existence of a strictly stationary and phi-mixing solution. Moreover, we show that any path converges to this solution. The proof relies on stochastic recurrence equation theory and builds on the work of Bougerol (1993) and Straumann (2005). The assumptions that we need for this approach are less restrictive than those imposed in Saidi and Zakoian (2006) and typically found in Markov chain theory, as they require very little from the distribution of the underlying process. Furthermore, they can be stated in a general setting for random functions on a separable Banach space as is done in Straumann and Mikosch (2006). Finally, we state sufficient conditions for the existence of moments.
C50|Is potential output growth falling?|We estimate the rate of growth consistent with a stable unemployment rate for four advanced economies (Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States) using a Heckman-type two step estimation procedure that deals with the issue of endogenous regressors in a time-varying parameter model. The results show that this rate of growth of potential output has been falling in the four countries of study, so that these countries have been systematically loosing capacity to grow during the postwar era.
C50|Measuring fiscal spillovers in EMU and beyond: A Global VAR approach|This paper identifies and measures fiscal spillovers in the EU countries empirically using a global vector autoregression (GVAR) model. Our aim was to look at the sign and the absolute values of fiscal spillovers in a countrywise perspective and at the time profile (impulse response) of the impacts of fiscal shocks. We find moderate spillover effects of fiscal policy shocks originating in Germany and France. However, there is significant variation regarding the magnitude of the spillovers on individual destination countries and country clusters. Furthermore, we find some evidence that German or French fiscal spillovers are stronger on EMU than on non‐EMU countries.
C50|Comments on Economic Models, Economics, and Economists: Remarks on Economics Rules by Dani Rodrik|"This essay reviews Dani Rodrik's superb book Economics Rules and argues that it can serve as an ideal platform for discussing what economists can and should accomplish. The essay comments on some of the major issues in contemporary economics examined in the book: whether economics is a science, the meaning of economic models, the nature of ""facts"" in economics, and others. It also touches on issues that the book overlooks, such as the sociology of the profession, the teaching curriculum in economics, and the dismal situation of publishing in economics."
C50|A Counterfactual Valuation of the Stock Index as a Predictor of Crashes|Stock market fundamentals would not seem to meaningfully predict returns over a shorter-term horizon—instead, I shift focus to severe downside risk (i.e., crashes). I use the cointegrating relationship between the log S&P Composite Index and log earnings over 1871 to 2015, combined with smoothed earnings, to first construct a counterfactual valuation benchmark. The price-versus-benchmark residual shows an improved, and economically meaningful, logit estimation of the likelihood of a crash over alternatives such as the dividend yield and price momentum. Rolling out-of-sample estimates highlight the challenges in this task. Nevertheless, the overall results support the common popular belief that a higher stock market valuation in relation to fundamentals entails a higher risk of a crash.
C50|Export Hysteresis, Capacity Constraints, and Uncertainty: A Smooth Transition Analysis for Euro Area Member Countries|We argue that, under certain conditions described by a sunk cost hysteresis model, firms consider exports as a substitute for domestic demand. This is valid also on the macroeconomic level where the switch from the domestic market to the export market and vice versa takes place in a smooth manner. Areas of weak reaction of exports to changes in domestic demand are widened by uncertainty. Our econometric model for six euro area countries suggests domestic demand and capacity constraints as additional variables for export equations. We apply the exponential and logistic variant of a smooth transition regression model and find that domestic demand developments and uncertainty are relevant for short-run export dynamics particularly during more extreme stages of the business cycle. A substitutive relationship between domestic and foreign sales can most clearly be found for France, Greece, and Ireland (exponential smooth transition regression (ESTR) model) and France, Portugal, and Italy (logistic smooth transition regression (LSTR) model), providing evidence of the importance of sunk costs and hysteresis in international trade between the member states of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). What is more, our empirical results are robust to the inclusion of a variable measuring European policy uncertainty. In some cases (Italy, Greece, and Portugal) the results underscore the empirical validity of the export hysteresis under uncertainty model.
C50|Estimating the Trade and Welfare Effects of Brexit. A Panel Data Structural Gravity Model|This paper proposes a new panel data structural gravity approach for estimating the trade and welfare effects of Brexit. The suggested Constrained Poisson Pseudo Maximum Likelihood Estimator exhibits some useful properties for trade policy analysis and allows to obtain estimates and confidence intervals which are consistent with structural trade theory. Assuming different counterfactual post-Brexit scenarios, our main findings suggest that UK's exports of goods to the EU are likely to decline within a range between 7.2 percent and 45.7 percent (EU's exports to UK by 5.9 percent to 38.2 percent) six years after the Brexit has taken place. For the UK, the negative trade effects are only partially offset by an increase in domestic goods trade and trade with third countries, inducing a decline in UK's real income between 1.4 percent and 5.7 percent under the hard Brexit scenario. The estimated welfare effects for the EU are negligible in magnitude and statistically not different from zero.
C50|Revision of the small macro-econometric model of the Nigerian economy|The first operational small-scale macro-econometric model of the Nigerian Economy was developed in 2013. Ever since, the country had witnessed significant changes owing to oil price shock which culminated into internal and external imbalances. To address these challenges among others, informed the revision of the model. Thus, in the revised model, provisions are made for unemployment and the role of expectations and uncertainty surrounding the oil and foreign exchange markets. By simulating three alternative policy scenarios using oil price, monetary policy rate and cash reserve ratio, some striking results are obtained with implications for monetary policy in Nigeria.
C50|Internet and Politics: Evidence from U.K. Local Elections and Local Government Policies|We empirically study the effects of broadband internet diffusion on local election outcomes and on local government policies using rich data from the U.K. Our analysis suggests that the internet has displaced other media with greater news content (i.e., radio and newspapers), thereby decreasing voter turnout, most notably among less-educated and younger individuals. In turn, local government expenditures (and taxes) are lower in areas with greater broadband diffusion, particularly expenditures targeted at less-educated voters. Our findings corroborate the idea that voters' information plays a key role in determining electoral participation, government policies and government size.
C50|A Simple R-Estimation Method for Semiparametric Duration Models|Modeling nonnegative financial variables (e.g. durations between trades, traded volumes or asset volatilities) is central to a number of studies across financial econometrics, and, despite the efforts, still poses several statistical challenges. Among them, the efficiency aspects of semiparametric estimation. In this paper, we concentrate on estimation problems in Autoregressive Conditional Duration (ACD) models with unspecified innovation densities. Exponential quasi-likelihood estimators (QMLE) are the usual practice in that context. The efficiency of those QMLEs (the only Fisher-consistent QMLEs) unfortunately rapidly deteriorates away from the reference exponential density—a phenomenon that has been emphasized earlier by Drost and Werker (2003), who propose various semiparametrically efficient procedures to palliate that phenomenon. Those procedures rely on a general semiparametric approach which typically requires kernel estimation of the underlying innovation density. We propose rank-based estimators (R-estimators) as a substitute. Just as the QMLE, R-estimators remain root-n consistent irrespective of the underlying density, and rely on the choice of a reference density under which they achieve semiparametric efficiency; that density, however, needs not be the exponential one. Contrary to the semiparametric estimators proposed by Drost and Werker (2003), R-estimators neither require tangent space calculations nor kernel-based density estimation. Numerical results moreover indicate that R-estimators based on exponential reference densities uniformly outperform the exponential QMLE under such families of innovations as the Weibull or Burr densities. A real data example about modeling the price range of the Swiss stock market index concludes the paper.
C50|Identification of Global and National Shocks in International Financial Markets via General Dynamic Factor Models|"We employ a two-stage general dynamic factor model method to analyse the co-movements between returns and between volatilities of stocks belonging to the US, European, and Japanese financial markets. We find evidence of two common shocks driving the dynamics of volatilities - one global (worldwide) shock and one US-European shock and four ""national"" shocks in the panel of returns, but no global one. Co-movements in the returns and volatilities panels increased considerably in the period 2007-2012 associated with the Great Financial Crisis and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis. We interpret this finding as the sign of a surge, during crises, of interdependencies across markets, as opposed to contagion. Finally, we show that the global volatility shock, identified via natural timing assumptions, has homogeneous dynamic effects within each individual market but more heterogeneous effects across them, and also has good predictive power on aggregate realised volatilities."
C50|Financial Globalisation, Monetary Policy Spillovers and Macro-modelling: Tales from 1001 Shocks|Financial globalisation and spillovers have gained immense prominence over the last two decades. Yet, powerful cross-border financial spillover channels have not become a standard element of structural monetary models. Against this back- ground, we hypothesise that New Keynesian DSGE models that do not feature powerful financial spillover channels confound the effects of domestic and foreign disturbances when confronted with the data. We derive predictions from this hypothesis and subject them to data on monetary policy shock estimates for 29 economies obtained from more than 280 monetary models in the literature. Consistent with the predictions from our hypothesis we find: Monetary policy shock estimates obtained from New Keynesian DSGE models that do not account for powerful financial spillover channels are contaminated by a common global component; the contamination is more severe for economies that are more susceptible to financial spillovers in the data; and the shock estimates imply implausibly similar estimates of the global output spillovers from monetary policy in the US and the euro area. None of these findings applies to monetary policy shock estimates obtained from VAR and other statistical models, financial market expectations and the narrative approach.
C50|Complement or substitute: Ethanol’s uncertain relationship with gasoline under alternative petroleum price and policy scenarios|Ethanol demand depends on the crude oil price and domestic biofuel mandate, but the aggregate effect on consumer fuel choices and export demand is uncertain. The relationship between crude oil and ethanol price is complex, and the presence of policy driven domestic biofuel use (mandate) make the modeling of the world ethanol market challenging. A structural economic multi-market multi-region partial equilibrium model considering the complementary and substituting effects between gasoline and ethanol demand is developed. In this study, a kinked ethanol demand curve that reflects those relationships is used to depict ethanol demand. We further simulate two forward-looking alternative crude oil price scenarios to identify how the crude oil price interacts with ethanol use mandates and trace the consequences on the U.S. Renewable Identification Number (RIN) market. The study finds that, under high crude oil prices, the substitution effect might trigger a large increase in ethanol demand by the rest of the world and the U.S. and Brazil will be the key ethanol exporting countries. In the U.S., the overall biofuel mandate might become non-binding.
C50|Monetary policy shocks: We got news!|We assess the role of monetary policy news shocks in the context of a medium scale DSGE model estimated on US data. We estimate several versions of the model and find decisive evidence in favour of the inclusion of monetary policy news shocks over a two-quarter horizon. According to our results, monetary policy news shocks account for a non-negligible fraction of the variance of real variables, especially at shorter forecast horizons. Further, we document that the importance of monetary policy news shocks goes beyond what was observed in recent years. The historical importance of monetary policy news shocks dates back to the 1999–2006 period when the official FOMC statements provided information about both the current policy setting and the expected future policy path. We also show that adding monetary policy news shocks to the model does not lead to identification problems.
C50|The performance of tests on endogeneity of subsets of explanatory variables scanned by simulation|Tests for classification as endogenous or predetermined of arbitrary subsets of regressors are formulated as significance tests in auxiliary IV regressions and their relationships with various more classic test procedures are examined and critically compared with statements in the literature. Then simulation experiments are designed by solving the data generating process parameters from salient econometric features, namely: degree of simultaneity and multicollinearity of regressors, and individual and joint strength of external instrumental variables. Next, for various test implementations, a wide class of relevant cases is scanned for flaws in performance regarding type I and II errors. Substantial size distortions occur, but these can be cured remarkably well through bootstrapping, except when instruments are relatively weak. The power of the subset tests is such that they establish an essential addition to the well-known classic full-set DWH tests in a data based classification of individual explanatory variables. This is also illustrated in an empirical example supplemented with hints for practitioners.
C50|How credit ratings affect sovereign credit risk: Cross-border evidence in Latin American emerging markets|This article builds upon previous literature by providing a better understanding of how contagion changes in bordering sovereign CDS emerging markets resulting from credit rating events. To that end, we follow the novel GVAR methodology using data from six Latin American emerging countries during an extensive sample period from 2004 to 2014. Our findings show evidence for the existence of significant and asymmetric cross-border effects. In particular, a competition effect is observed before the event occurs, indicating that non-event countries suffer (benefit) from upgrades (downgrades) in Brazil, Mexico and Chile (in Argentina and Brazil). In contrast, an imitation effect is observed after rating upgrades in Chile, to the benefit of bordering non-event countries.
C50|Conditional convergence in Australia's energy consumption at the sector level|We examine the convergence of energy consumption per capita at the sector level in Australia over the period 1973–74 to 2013–14. To do so, we employ recently developed LM and RALS-LM unit root tests that accommodate up to two endogenously determined structural breaks. We find support for energy consumption per capita convergence for six of seven sectors in Australia.
C50|Real-time nowcasting the US output gap: Singular spectrum analysis at work|We explore a new approach for nowcasting the output gap based on singular spectrum analysis. Resorting to real-time vintages, a recursive exercise is conducted in order to assess the real-time reliability of our approach for nowcasting the US output gap, relative to some well-known benchmark models. For our application of interest, the preferred version of our approach is a multivariate singular spectrum analysis, where we use a Fisher g test to infer which components, within the standard business cycle range, should be included in the grouping step. We find that singular spectrum analysis provides a reliable assessment of the cyclical position of the economy in real time, with the multivariate approach outperforming its univariate counterpart substantially.
C50|Evidence on the Production of Cognitive Achievement from Moving to Opportunity|This paper performs a subgroup analysis on the effect of receiving a Moving to Opportunity (MTO) housing voucher on test scores. I find evidence of heterogeneity by number of children in the household in Boston, gender in Chicago, and race/ethnicity in Los Angeles. To study the mechanisms driving voucher effect heterogeneity, I develop a generalized Rubin Causal Model and propose an estimator to identify transition-specific Local Average Treatment Effects (LATEs) of school and neighborhood quality. Although I cannot identify such LATEs with the MTO data, the analysis demonstrates that membership in a specific demographic group is more predictive of voucher effects than is the group’s average change in school or neighborhood quality. I discuss some possible explanations.
C50|The Canvas Model as a Strategy for Improving Financial Profits: A Casey Study of Online Businesses in Indonesia|"""Objective – The aim of this study is to identify how the strategy of online businesses can be improved to increase financial profits. The focus of this study is on online businesses selling flowers, taking into consideration the fact that the freshness of flowers does not last long, and that the price and quality of flowers fluctuates depending on climatic conditions. Methodology/Technique – The data used in this research is primary data, obtained by distributing questionnaires for market research, tested against 57 respondents. The respondents were selected using non-probability sampling with a purposive sampling technique. The results of the validation test r count > r table, with 5% significance, shows that businesses providing flower arrangements are in high demand. Findings – The results of the model business identification canvas and the profit and loss projections indicate that the choice of the business strategy series for cut flowers on each element is accurate. The results of the analysis of the strengths and threats also identifies that selling price varies depending on the types of flowers used in an arrangement, and accessories used. Novelty – This research studies how the types of flowers used, the design of an arrangement, accessories used, packaging, and family ownership of a business can effect the interest of potential customers in the Fiore shop in Afrodite. """
C50|Edmond Malinvaud and the Problem of Statistical Induction|"In this article we follow, over his long career, the evolution of the reflections of Edmond Malinvaud on economic ?science? and its relationship with the ?problem? of statistical induction. To do so we largely rely on his own words by quoting his many articles addressing these issues. We consider in turn his views on statistical methods and structural econometrics, on apriorism versus empiricism, the Koopmans-Vining controversy on measurement with or without theory, econometric methods and the challenge of modelling, the Popperian temptation of a falsifiable economic science, the uneasy alliance between induction and expertise, understanding and advising. We conclude with Malinvaud's views on eclecticism, which he deems to be the only position able to meet, despite its rapid progress, the ""advisory imperative"" characterizing economics."
C50|Military expenditure, terrorism and capital flight: Insights from Africa|In spite of the growing consensus of the need to utilise military expenditure to help combat terrorism, our understanding of the threshold at which military expenditure reduces the effect of terrorism stemming from capital flight remains largely underexplored. We employed a panel data of 37 African countries from 1996-2010 and determined that the thresholds are apparent exclusively in Quantile Regressions with military expenditure thresholds ranging from: 4.224 to 5.612 for domestic terrorism, 5.734 to 7.363 for unclear terrorism and 4.710 to 6.617 for total terrorism. No thresholds are apparent in transnational terrorism related regressions. Depending on the terrorist target, the findings broadly show that a critical mass of between 4.224 and 7.363 of military expenditure as a percentage of GDP is needed to reverse the effects of terrorism stemming from capital flight. Implications for public policy are discussed.
C50|Terrorism and capital flight from Africa|We assess the effects of terrorism on capital flight in a panel of 29 African countries for which data is available for the period 1987–2008. The terrorism dynamics entail domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorisms. The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) with forward orthogonal deviations and Quantile regressions (QR). The following findings are established. First, for GMM, domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorisms consistently increase capital flight. Second, for QR, with the exception of transnational terrorism for which a positive effect on capital flight is apparent in the 0.90th quintile, terrorism dynamics affect capital flight in low quintiles of the capital flight distribution. In other words, terrorism increases capital flight for the most part when initial levels of capital flight are low. Policy implications are discussed.
C50|Terrorism and capital flight from Africa|We assess the effects of terrorism on capital flight in a panel of 29 African countries for which data is available for the period 1987–2008. The terrorism dynamics entail domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorisms. The empirical evidence is based on Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) with forward orthogonal deviations and Quantile regressions (QR). The following findings are established. First, for GMM, domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorisms consistently increase capital flight. Second, for QR, with the exception of transnational terrorism for which a positive effect on capital flight is apparent in the 0.90th quintile, terrorism dynamics affect capital flight in low quintiles of the capital flight distribution. In other words, terrorism increases capital flight for the most part when initial levels of capital flight are low. Policy implications are discussed.
C50|Fighting Capital Flight in Africa: Evidence from Bundling and Unbundling Governance|Abstract This study investigates the effect of governance on capital flight by bundling and unbundling governance. The empirical evidence is based on 37 African countries for the period 1996–2010 and the Generalised Method of Moments. Governance is bundled by principal component analysis, namely: (i) political governance from political stability and ‘voice and accountability’; (ii) economic governance from government effectiveness and regulation quality and (iii) institutional governance from corruption-control and the rule of law. The following findings are established. (i) Political stability and ‘voice and accountability’ reduce capital flight while the collective effect of political governance is not significant. (ii) Economic governance increases capital flight whereas the individual effects of regulation quality and government effectiveness are not significant. (iii) Corruption-control and institutional governance negatively affect capital flight whereas the impact of the rule of law is not significant. (iv) Taken together, Corruption-control is the most effective governance weapon in the fight against capital flight. (v) Priority in the Washington Consensus is more effective at fighting capital flight compared to the Beijing Model. Policy implications are discussed.
C50|Verification of the Relationship between FDI and GDP in Poland|The paper analyses the impact of the factors of production on economic growth in Poland in the years 1992–2012, with particular focus on the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI), and strives to verify whether a causality relationship occurred between GDP and FDI, i.e. whether high GDP dynamics attracted FDI inflows and whether this investment contributed to GDP growth. The Vector Error Correction Method impulse responses and variance decomposition analysis confirmed the bi-directional relationships between FDI and GDP in Poland. However, the impact of GDP on attracting FDI inflows to Poland is stronger than that of FDI on GDP growth. Polish developmental policy should concentrate on three essential determinants (pillars) of growth, namely employment growth, attracting FDI (with emphasis on improvement in the type of inflowing investment), and increasing the value and productivity of domestic investment.
C50|Non-Maturity Deposit Modeling in the Framework of Asset Liability Management|Liquidity risk is one of the major risks inherent in the banking business. It occurs when the bank does not have sufficient liquid assets to meet its commitments at the time of their occurrence. The most critical challenges confronting financial institutions when managing liquidity risk is so-called non-maturity accounts. These accounts are characterized by the fact that they have no specific contractual maturity, and their risk management is complicated by the embedded options that depositors may exercise. As part of an asset-liability management and for the purpose of healthy and prudential management of a liquidity risk, each bank must properly assess the deposits of its customers. Liquidity risk is not the risk that there are massive withdrawals, but the risk they are unanticipated. In this paper, we apply two methods to model non-maturity deposits of a Moroccan commercial bank. Â We treat separately individual deposits and enterprise deposits aiming an accurate analysis. We then select between the models by means of a selection criteria. Furthermore, we back-test and forecast future deposits using the selected model. Finally, we model the decay rates of non-maturity deposits by elaborating a flowing function of these latter.
C50|The State of Applied Econometrics: Causality and Policy Evaluation|In this paper, we discuss recent developments in econometrics that we view as important for empirical researchers working on policy evaluation questions. We focus on three main areas, in each case, highlighting recommendations for applied work. First, we discuss new research on identification strategies in program evaluation, with particular focus on synthetic control methods, regression discontinuity, external validity, and the causal interpretation of regression methods. Second, we discuss various forms of supplementary analyses, including placebo analyses as well as sensitivity and robustness analyses, intended to make the identification strategies more credible. Third, we discuss some implications of recent advances in machine learning methods for causal effects, including methods to adjust for differences between treated and control units in high-dimensional settings, and methods for identifying and estimating heterogenous treatment effects.
C50|A Potential Contradiction Between Economic Theory and Applied Finance|One of the basic premises that underlies economic theory in Finance is the assumption of declining marginal utility of income. This assumption imposes risk-aversion on the investors and is necessary requirement to an equilibrium capital markets. A popular method of analyzing empirical evidence among financial analysts is the Ordinary Least Squares Regression. This paper argues that in certain cases involving violation of the linearity assumption by the data, there may be a contradiction between the two approaches. In order to resolve the possibility of a contradiction one has to impose economic theory on the regression. The paper proposes the use of the Gini regression to bridge the gap between economic theory and regression.
C50|¿Están ancladas las expectativas de inflación en Colombia?|En este estudio se determina si las expectativas de inflación en Colombia están ancladas a partir de una metodología que permite simultáneamente estimar el ancla de las expectativas y la fuerza de anclaje. Esta técnica propone expresar las expectativas como un promedio ponderado entre el ancla, no observable, y la inflación observada al momento de generar los pronósticos. La ponderación correspondiente al ancla está dada por una función del horizonte de pronóstico y se puede asociar con la fuerza de anclaje. Los datos utilizados corresponden a un panel de expectativas para diciembre de cada año entre 2002 y 2017 con horizonte de 0 a 24 meses, provenientes de la fuente Consensus Economics. Los resultados indican que el ancla de las expectativas de inflación ha disminuido a través del tiempo, siguiendo la tendencia de la meta anual de inflación fijada por el Banco Central y acercándose a la meta de inflación de largo plazo. Por otro lado, se encuentra que la fuerza de anclaje varía en el tiempo. En particular, en la parte final de muestra, ésta presenta una disminución; sin embargo, para horizontes alrededor de dos años la ponderación del ancla en la formación de expectativas se mantiene cerca a uno.
C50|Impactos de los fenómenos climáticos sobre el precio de los alimentos en Colombia|En este documento se estima el impacto de los fenómenos climáticos sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos. Para ello se utilizan funciones de impulso-respuesta generalizadas de un modelo no lineal de transición suave para la inflación de alimentos y las anomalías del índice de la temperatura superficial del mar 3,4 (ENSO). Este análisis se realiza para el periodo mensual comprendido entre junio de 1955 y mayo del 2015. Los resultados obtenidos indican que estos choques son transitorios y asimétricos. En particular, un choque positivo y fuerte sobre ENSO tiene un efecto significativo sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos y la incrementa en 72,5 y 100 puntos básicos en el cuarto y quinto mes después de la perturbación, respectivamente.******This paper estimates the impacts of weather conditions on Colombian food inflation growth. Generalized impulse response functions were used for a smooth transition non-linear model that includes food inflation and the sea surface temperature index (SST v3.4). In this study, data were obtained from the monthly period between June 1995 and May 2015. Results suggest that the weather shocks are transitory and asymmetric. In particular, a strong and positive shock has a significant effect on the food inflation growth and produces a 72,5 and 100 bases points increment four and five months later, respectively.
C50|Impactos de los fenómenos climáticos sobre el precio de los alimentos en Colombia|En este documento se estima el impacto de los fenómenos climáticos sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos. Para ello se utilizan funciones de impulso-respuesta generalizadas de un modelo no lineal de transición suave para la inflación de alimentos y las anomalías del índice de la temperatura superficial del mar 3,4 (ENSO). Este análisis se realiza para el periodo mensual comprendido entre junio de 1955 y mayo del 2015. Los resultados obtenidos indican que estos choques son transitorios y asimétricos. En particular, un choque positivo y fuerte sobre ENSO tiene un efecto significativo sobre el crecimiento de la inflación de alimentos y la incrementa en 72,5 y 100 puntos básicos en el cuarto y quinto mes después de la perturbación, respectivamente.
C50|Kriza Ekonomske Nauke I Problemi Visokog Obrazovanja|U radu se analiziraju razne pojave, koje uzrokuju krizu ekonomske nauke. Kritikuju se forsirana, dominantna, orkestrirana i selektivna teorijska modeliranja ekonomske stvarnosti, koja su monističkog (kvazi-neoliberalnog) i matematičko-statističkog karaktera. S tim u vezi, objašnjava se i paralelna kriza visokog obrazovanja u državama Jugoistočne Evrope (JIE), koja se pokušava neuspješno fingirati palijativnim reformama. Ukazuje se na pad akademskih etičkih standarda i manipulativna univerzitetska prilagođavanja svjetskim naučnim standardima. Polazi se od hipoteze da dugoročna istraživačka marginalizacija osnovnih ekonomskih problema i metodološka improvizacija vode ekonomsku nauku u ćorsokak. Zaključuje se da su mitologizacija nauke i fingiranje reformi visokog obrazovanja rezultat malih ulaganja u nju i institucionalne nebrige za društveni razvoj.
C50|The Analysis Of The Factors That Influence The Turnover In The Romanian Footwear Industry|Knowing the factors that influence the turnover in the Romanian footwear industry allows the evaluation of the impact that any change of one or many factors will have on it. This article describes the results of the research of the authors on the influencing factors of the turnover from the Romanian footwear industry in the period 2004-2013, establishing an econometric model of analysis between the turnover, on one hand, and the number of entities, the number of employees, the payroll expenses, the net investments realized, the average gross salary and labor productivity on the other hand.
C50|How do hospital‐specialty characteristics influence health system responsiveness? An empirical evaluation of in‐patient care in the Italian region of Emilia‐Romagna|Studies of health system responsiveness mostly focus on the demand side by investigating the association between sociodemographic characteristics of patients and their reported level of responsiveness. However, little is known about the influence of supply‐side factors. This paper addresses that research gap by analysing the role of hospital‐specialty characteristics in explaining variations in patients' evaluation of responsiveness from a sample of about 38,700 in‐patients treated in public hospitals within the Italian Region of Emilia‐Romagna. The analysis is carried out by adopting a 2‐step procedure. First, we use patients' self‐reported data to derive 5 measures of responsiveness at the hospital‐specialty level. By estimating a generalised ordered probit model, we are able to correct for variations in individual reporting behaviour due to the health status of patients and their experience of being in pain. Second, we run cross‐sectional regressions to investigate the association between patients' responsiveness and potential supply‐side drivers, including waiting times, staff workload, the level of spending on non‐clinical facilities, the level of spending on staff education and training, and the proportion of staff expenditure between nursing and administrative staff. Results suggest that responsiveness is to some extent influenced by the supply‐side drivers considered.
C50|Modèle D’Analyse Économétrique De La Relation Entre La Productivité Du Travail Et Le Salaire Moyen Brut Dans L’Industrie Roumaine De La Chaussure|Le but de ce travail est de déterminer l'influence exercée par la productivité du travail sur le salaire moyen brut dans l'industrie roumaine de la chaussure. L'analyse effectuée s'étend sur une période de 10 ans, à partir de 2004 jusqu'à 2013, étant établi un modèle économétrique d'analyse de la relation entre la productivité du travail et le salaire moyen brut dans l'industrie de la chaussure de Roumanie. À partir des données empiriques analysées, ce travail répond à la question « Quelle influence exerce la productivité du travail de l'industrie roumaine de la chaussure sur le salaire moyen brut du secteur? » En plus de la spécification du modèle économétrique décrivant la relation entre les deux variables, dans ce travail est testée la validité du modèle et de l'intensité de la relation entre les deux variables.
C50|Stock Market Response To Fiscal Policy Shocks: Evidence From Eu Countries From Central And Eastern Europe|Expanding the existing literature regarding the relationship between fiscal policy and sock market, this paper will analyse the response of stock markets from Central and Eastern Europe (Bulgaria, Check Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Romania), to a deviation in fiscal policy by using a Vector Autoregressive model (VAR) for quarterly data, for the period 2004-2015. The effect of crisis over stock market performance is significantly negative for all analysed countries, while governmental expenditure increased in Bulgaria, Check Republic, Slovakia and Romania, and governmental revenues increased only in Check Republic, Hungary and Slovakia. The paper highlights that an increase of stock market performance leads to a decrease of governmental expenditure in Slovakia, Romania, Check Republic and Bulgaria, due to the existence of a performant private sector which comes and compensates the investments. The Romanian’s governmental expenditure decreased considerably in comparison with other countries. Also, in Poland case, there is no relation between stock market performance and governmental expenditure.
C50|Macroeconomic Effects of Oil Price Fluctuations in Colombia|This research aims to study the effects of oil price changes on the Colombian economy during 2001:Q1 to 2016:Q2. A structural vector auto-regression model in the spirit of Blanchard and Galí (2010) is estimated under a recursive identification scheme, where unexpected oil price variations are exogenous relative to the contemporaneous values of the remaining variables. Drawing on impulse-response estimates, a 10% increase in the oil price generates the following accumulated orthogonalized responses: i) a contemporaneous 0.4% increase in GDP growth, later on the effect reaches its maximum in the first quarter (1.7% increase) and starts to decay after two quarters; ii) a contemporaneous 1.2% decrease in unemployment, then the effect remains slightly negative and reaches its maximum after ten quarters (5.1% decrease); iii) a contemporaneous 0.9% decrease in inflation, followed by an 0.2% increase by quarter three, and thereafter the effect remains slightly negative
C50|Impacto de la semana santa sobre los índices de produccion sectoriales de la industria colombiana|Existen efectos calendario definidos como patrones estacionales irregulares que afectan el comportamiento de las series económicas. En este documento se utilizaron las metodologías de Tramo-Seats propuesta por Gómez y Maravall (1994, 1996) y de tbats planteada por De-Livera et al. (2011) para ajustar estacionalmente los índices de producción industrial sectoriales en Colombia para el período comprendido entre enero de 1990 y septiembre de 2014, teniendo en cuenta efectos calendario como la Semana Santa y los días feriados. Se encontró que la mayoría de actividades que componen la industria se ven afectadas negativamente en su producción por dichos efectos, excepto por la refinación de petróleo, las sustancias químicas y vidrio, donde el impacto no es significativo. Los coeficientes estimados asociados a la Semana Santa presentan una magnitud mayor que la de días feriados y existe alta heterogeneidad en los resultados por actividad industrial. Por último, el impacto más significativo sobre la producción industrial sectorial se presenta cuando irregularmente la Semana Santa cambia de mes de un año a otro (de marzo a abril y viceversa). Allí, se estima que el efecto sobre las expansiones anuales es del 4,924 % y del 7,752 % para tbats y Tramo-Seats, respectivamente.
C50|Looking Backward and Looking Forward|Filtering has had a profound impact as a device of perceiving information and deriving agent expectations in dynamic economic models. For an abstract economic system, this paper shows that the foundation of applying the filtering method corresponds to the existence of a conditional expectation as an equilibrium process. Agent-based rational behavior of looking backward and looking forward is generalized to a conditional expectation process where the economic system is approximated by a class of models, which can be represented and estimated without information loss. The proposed framework elucidates the range of applications of a general filtering device and is not limited to a particular model class such as rational expectations.
C50|Building a Structural Model: Parameterization and Structurality|A specific concept of structural model is used as a background for discussing the structurality of its parameterization. Conditions for a structural model to be also causal are examined. Difficulties and pitfalls arising from the parameterization are analyzed. In particular, pitfalls when considering alternative parameterizations of a same model are shown to have lead to ungrounded conclusions in the literature. Discussions of observationally equivalent models related to different economic mechanisms are used to make clear the connection between an economically meaningful parameterization and an economically meaningful decomposition of a complex model. The design of economic policy is used for drawing some practical implications of the proposed analysis.
C50|The post-crisis slump in the Euro Area and the US: Evidence from an estimated three-region DSGE model|The global financial crisis (2008–09) led to a sharp contraction in both Euro Area (EA) and US real activity, and was followed by a long-lasting slump. However, the post-crisis adjustment in the EA and the US shows striking differences—in particular, the EA slump has been markedly more protracted. We estimate a three-region (EA, US and Rest of World) New Keynesian DSGE model (using quarterly data for 1999–2014) to quantify the drivers of the divergent EA and US adjustment paths. Our results suggest that financial shocks were key drivers of the 2008–09 Great Recession, for both the EA and the US. The post-2009 slump in the EA mainly reflects a combination of adverse aggregate demand and supply shocks, in particular lower productivity growth, and persistent adverse shocks to capital investment, linked to the continuing poor health of the EA financial system. Adverse financial shocks were less persistent for the US. The financial shocks identified by the model are consistent with observed performance indicators of the EA and US banking systems.
C50|Bankruptcy Profile of Foreign versus Domestic Islamic Banks of Malaysia: A Post Crisis Period Analysis|After the 2007-2008 subprime financial crisis considering bankruptcy evaluation for the banking industry becomes vital. In line of that, this study aims to analyze the bankruptcy profile of foreign versus domestic Islamic banks operating in Malaysia. This study predicted 40% and 75% bankruptcy in the subjected samples of foreign and domestic Islamic banks of Malaysia respectively. However, the specific reason behind this variation in their bankruptcy rates is tagged with the significant difference in their liquidity ratio that is, 1.59 by foreign and 0.41 by the domestic Islamic banks sample. The ANOVA results revealed that, the sample of foreign and domestic Islamic banks of Malaysia do differ significantly on bankruptcy rates as well as on the top bankruptcy’s predictors namely liquidity, profitability, and insolvency. However, the sample does not vary on productivity with regards to bankruptcy exposure. Furthermore, the regression results revealed that, liquidity, profitability, and insolvency ratios in the sample of domestic Islamic banks, while only insolvency ratio in the sample of foreign Islamic banks have a significant positive relationship with bankruptcy in Islamic banking industry of Malaysia. Moreover, in the context of identified bankruptcy rates, the analysis here is viable to witness the sustainability ratings possessed by the sample of foreign and domestic Islamic banks of Malaysia.
C50|Mean lag in general error correction models|Most of the empirical literature inappropriately applies Hendry’s (1995) mean lag formula–which he derived for first order autoregressive distributed lag models under the assumption of a homogeneous long-run equilibrium–to error correction models that have complex lag structures and lack long-run homogeneity. We derive an expression for the mean lag in general error correction models without imposing the assumption of a homogeneous equilibrium. In addition, we quantify the bias due to the incorrect use of Hendry’s (1995) formula.
C50|Energy, human capital and economic growth in Asia Pacific countries — Evidence from a panel cointegration and causality analysis|This paper examines the cointegration and causal relationship between energy consumption and economic development in 16 Asia Pacific countries over the period 1970–2011 using the augmented production function which considers not only physical capital and labor but also human capital. This is likely among the first of the energy–growth nexus literature to include human capital in the multivariate framework. Using recently developed panel unit root test and cointegration test that allow for cross-sectional dependence, this paper finds a long-run cointegrating relationship between these variables. Continuously-updated fully modified (Cup-FM) estimates are subsequently compared with panel heterogeneous fully modified ordinary least squares (FMOLS) results to confirm the importance of accounting for interdependence across countries. The bootstrap panel Granger causality test results find economic growth Granger cause energy use in the region but the relationship varies for individual countries.
C50|Impacts of OPEC's political risk on the international crude oil prices: An empirical analysis based on the SVAR models|The impacts of OPEC's political risk on the fluctuations of international crude oil prices have caused widespread concern and analyzing the impacts is of great significance to the investment decisions and risk aversion strategies in the crude oil markets. Therefore, using the International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) index as a proxy for the countries' political risk situation, we empirically investigate the impacts of OPEC's political risk on the Brent crude oil prices, based on several Structural Vector Autoregression (SVAR) models. The main empirical results indicate that: (1) The political risk of OPEC countries does have a significant and positive influence on Brent crude oil prices in the sample period from January 1998 to September 2014, and the most significant positive influences appear in about one and a half year and last about a year. (2) OPEC's integrated political risk contributes to 17.58% of the oil price fluctuations in the sample period, which is only lesser than that of the oil demand shocks (34.64%). (3) Compared with the political risk of OPEC countries in North Africa and South America, the political risk of OPEC countries in the Middle East contributes most to the oil price fluctuations. (4) Among the eight components of the political risk in OPEC, the internal conflicts contribute most to the oil price fluctuations in the sample period.
C50|On Economic Space notion|This paper introduces Economic Space notion to expand capacity for economic and financial modeling. Introduction of Economic Space allows defining economic variables as functions of time and coordinates and opens the way for treating economic and financial relations similar to mathematical physics equations. Economic Space allows study of economic models on discreet and continuous spaces with different dimensions. The number of risks measured simultaneously determines Economic Space dimension. We present examples of modeling on Economic Space: option pricing and derivation of Black–Scholes–Merton equation on n-dimensional Economic Space; Markov processes and derivation of Fokker–Plank Equations. Usage of Economic Space allows construing approximations of Economics and Finance similar to physical kinetics and hydrodynamics and derives Wave Equations for Economic and Financial variables.
C50|Intra-day realized volatility for European and USA stock indices|The paper constructs measures of intra-day realized volatility for 17 European and USA stock indices. We utilize a model-free de-noising method by assembling the realized volatility in sampling frequency selected according to the volatility signature plot, which minimizes the microstructure effects. Having verified the stylized facts of realized volatility, the dynamic behavior of correlation between realized volatilities is investigated. The correlation among realized volatilities is positive and extremely high, although for some periods, it decreases dramatically. The correlation of volatilities within USA (or Europe) is much higher than the correlation of volatilities across USA and Europe. Moreover, we provide evidence that the inter-day adjusted realized volatility reduces significantly the underestimation of the true variability.
C50|Housing markets and unconventional monetary policy|While the role of housing markets in the run up to the recent financial crisis is well documented, we consider how housing markets have since responded to unconventional monetary policy shocks in the form of innovations in total assets and the monetary base. We build quarterly and monthly housing market datasets for eight OECD countries, estimating a range of specifications in panel vector autoregressions identified through a combination of zero and sign restrictions across both frequencies. Despite a minor amount of individual cross-country heterogeneity, our mean group panel estimators show a positive, persistent response of house prices which peaks at between one and two years following a policy shock. Residential investment responds more strongly than house prices, but takes longer to peak, consistent with the conveyancing procedures involved in construction. Mortgage rates are shown to initially decrease by between five and six basis points following a 3% balance sheet shock.
C50|Volatility persistence and returns spillovers between oil and gold prices: Analysis before and after the global financial crisis|This paper investigated volatility persistence and returns spillovers between oil and gold markets using daily historical data from 1986 to 2015 partitioned into periods before the global crisis and after the crisis. The log-returns, absolute and squared log-returns series of these asset prices were used as proxy variables to investigate volatility persistence using the fractional persistence approach. The Constant Conditional Correlation (CCC) modelling framework was applied to investigate the spillover effects between the asset returns. The volatility in the gold market was found to be less than that at the oil market before and after the crisis periods. The returns spillover effect was bidirectional before the crisis period, while it was unidirectional from gold to oil market after the crisis. The fact that there was no returns spillover running from oil to gold after the crisis suggested a measure of optimum allocation weights and hedge ratio. The results obtained are of practical implications for portfolio managers and decision managers in these two ways: gold market should be used as a hedge against oil price inflationary shocks; and the volatility at the oil market can be used to determine the behaviour of gold market.
C50|Estimation of travel time variability for cars, buses, metro and door-to-door public transport trips in Santiago, Chile|The analysis of travel time variability (TTV) is attracting attention among policy makers due to the increasing awareness that users assign a high value to level-of-service attributes. In this paper, the TTV of cars and public transport trips is analysed. We estimate the effect of each trip stage on the TTV for complete door-to-door public transport trips, including access, waiting, transfer and in-vehicle time. We employ data from Santiago, Chile, in which surveyors performed predetermined trips and recorded each stage on several days between 2007 and 2011, which were complemented by recorded bus GPS data. We found that (i) bus waiting and in-vehicle times are highly significant in explaining total (door-to-door) TTV relative to metro (subway) travel times, whereas walking time is not significant; (ii) metro travel time is generally more stable but may be more skewed compared with the travel time of buses on a segregated right-of-way; and (iii) buses that travel in mixed traffic have not only a larger mean travel time but also a larger variability than buses that travel in bus lanes and segregated busways. Formal cost-benefit analysis should consider the effect of (total or partial) segregation of public transport operation on reducing travel time variability.
C50|Analyzing an elder’s desire for a reverse mortgage using an economic model that considers house bequest motivation, random death time and stochastic house price|In recent decades, the aging of the population and the lengthening of life expectancy have caused seniors to need more retirement income over a longer time period. Because the reverse mortgage (RM) can fulfill this requirement, it has become increasingly popular among elderly homeowners. Based on the assumption that seniors seek maximum utility, this article presents a theoretical economic model that derives a decision rule for participating in the RM program. The model takes account of the influences of bequest motivation, random death times and stochastic house prices. A critical value for the intensity of house bequest motivation is also derived from our formula for the decision rule. We then use this value to show how the elder's desire to participate in the RM program is influenced by three sets of factors: the elder's personal characteristics and circumstances, the content of the RM contract, and the current economic situation. Elders' desire to participate in the RM program is found to be negatively correlated with the fixed cost of applying for an RM, the RM contract rate, and the cash income from the elder's retirement plan; on the contrary, the desire to participate is positively correlated with the RM principle limit factors, the elder's age at the time of joining the RM program, the elder's time preference, the elder's initial cash wealth, the elder's initial house price, the current interest rate, and the volatility of the house return. These analyses should help RM policy executors and providers understand the RM borrower's decision-making process and how the factors mentioned above influence an elder's desire to apply for an RM.
C50|Un análisis econométrico del ahorro y seguros formales en la población urbana y rural en México.An econometric analysis of savings and formal insurance in urban and rural population in Mexico|Savings and insurance are important variables so that families can protect themselves against periods of uncertainty. The development of policies to increase savings and formal insurance should take into account the differences between the rural and urban population, because although these populations have similarities as the importance of income in determining the formal savings, also face realities very different, as the forms that the same savings, transaction costs they face, the kind of goods or events that require secure. Determine which variables influence the savings and insurance are in a different location and can help develop more accurate and have greater impact policies.
C50|What does it take to grow out of recession? An error-correction approach towards growth convergence of European and transition countries|Consequences from the subsiding 2008 financial crisis on long-run economic growth are widely debated. Existing literature on previous recessions, such as Cerra and Saxena (2008), emphasizes the long-term loss inflicted on per capita GDP levels. This paper concentrates on typical business cycles in advanced European and transition countries and assumes that lower than normal growth during recessions is followed by a recovery period with above normal growth until the economy reaches its pre-crisis level. The objective is to assess the capacity to rebound, the speed of convergence towards a normal growth path as well as potential nonlinearities. Through exploiting the cointegration relationships among variables in long-run growth regressions and by employing a variety of panel error-correction models, results show a strong evidence of error-correction and different linear speed in the convergence process with the transition economies outpacing Western European countries. Our analysis is further extended into a Panel Smooth Transition Error-Correction Model (PSTR-ECM) to account for different regimes in convergence patterns according to a selection of transition variables. Whereas the velocity of convergence for European core countries exhibits a nonlinear pattern and differs with respect to price and flexibility, transition countries remain linear in their return to the growth trend. Ultimately, our results suggest that internal adjustments remain the key factors for both European and transition countries to recover from negative economic growth shocks
C50|Leveraged ETF options implied volatility paradox: a statistical study|"In this paper, we study the statistical properties of the moneyness scaling transformation by Leung and Sircar (2015). This transformation adjusts the moneyness coordinate of the implied volatility smile in an attempt to remove the discrepancy between the IV smiles for levered and unlevered ETF options. We construct bootstrap uniform confidence bands which indicate that in a statistical sense there remains a possibility that the implied volatility smiles are still not the same, even after moneyness scaling has been performed. This presents possible arbitrage opportunities on the (L)ETF market which can be exploited by traders. We build possible arbitrage strategies by constructing portfolios with LETF shares and options which possibly have a positive value at the point of creation and non-negative value at the expiration time. An empirical data application shows that there are indeed such opportunities in the market which result in risk-free gains for the investor. A dynamic ""trade-with-the-smile"" strategy based on a dynamic semiparametric factor model is presented. This strategy utilizes the dynamic structure of implied volatility surface allowing out-of-sample forecasting and information on unleveraged ETF options to construct theoretical one-step-ahead implied volatility surfaces. The codes used to obtain the results in this paper, are available on www.quantlet.de."
C50|Gimme a break! Identification and estimation of the macroeconomic effects of monetary policy shocks in the U.S|We employ a novel identification scheme to quantify the macroeconomic effects of monetary policy shocks in the United States. The identification of the shocks is achieved by exploiting the instabilities in the contemporaneous coefficients of the structural VAR (SVAR) and in the covariance matrix of the reduced-form residuals. Different volatility regimes can be associated with different transmission mechanisms of the identified structural shocks. We formally test and reject the stability of our impulse responses estimated with post-WWII U.S. data by working with a break in macroeconomic volatilities occurred in the mid-1980s. We show that the impulse responses obtained with our non-recursive identification scheme are quite similar to those conditional on a standard Cholesky-SVARs estimated with pre-1984 data. In contrast, recursive vs. non-recursive identification schemes return substantially different macroeconomic reactions conditional on Great Moderation data, in particular as for inflation and a long-term interest rate. Using our non-recursive SVARs as auxiliary models to estimate a small-scale new-Keynesian model of the business cycle with an impulse response function matching approach, we show that the instabilities in the estimated VAR impulse responses are informative as for the calibration of some key-structural parameters.
C50|Searching high and low: Extremal dependence of international sovereign bond markets|This paper examines the degree of interdependence among sovereign bond markets in 24 developed and developing countries during times of stress or crisis using extreme value theory. We discuss the tail behavior of individual sovereign bond spreads and compare the shape of that tail to exponential and power-law distributions. We proceed by estimating bivariate tail dependence index ? and search for evidence of asymptotic tail dependence in sovereign bond spreads series. In order to establish the statistical significance of estimated bivariate tail dependence indices, we construct a bootstrap-based approach to searching for the presence of asymptotic tail dependence derived on the basis of Davis et al. (2012). Our empirical findings suggest that the US bond market does not exhibit extreme right-tail co-movements with European sovereign bond market turbulence. Even though the UK did not adopt the euro, its sovereign bond market exhibits statistically significant right-tail dependencies with a number of euro zone bond markets, possibly indicating that it is not immune to financial distress originating from the EMU. New EU member states exhibit more frequent right-tail dependencies with other new EU member states when compared to old EU members.
C50|Partial Identification in Applied Research: Benefits and Challenges|Advances in the study of partial identification allow applied researchers to learn about parameters of interest without making assumptions needed to guarantee point identification. We discuss the roles that assumptions and data play in partial identification analysis, with the goal of providing information to applied researchers that can help them employ these methods in practice. To this end, we present a sample of econometric models that have been used in a variety of recent applications where parameters of interest are partially identified, highlighting common features and themes across these papers. In addition, in order to help illustrate the combined roles of data and assumptions, we present numerical illustrations for a particular application, the joint determination of wages and labor supply. Finally we discuss the benefits and challenges of using partially identifying models in empirical work and point to possible avenues of future research.
C50|Viewpoint: Estimating the causal effects of policies and programs|Estimation, inference and interpretation of the causal effects of programs and policies have all advanced dramatically over the past 25 years. We highlight three particularly important intellectual trends: an improved appreciation of the substantive importance of heterogeneous responses and of their methodological implications, a stronger focus on internal validity brought about by the credibility revolution, and the scientific value that follows from grounding estimation and interpretation in economic theory. We discuss a menu of commonly employed partial equilibrium approaches to the identification of causal effects, emphasizing that the researcher's central intellectual contribution always consists of making an explicit case for a specific causal interpretation given the relevant economic theory, the data, the institutional context and the economic question of interest. We also touch on the importance of general equilibrium effects and full costbenefit analyses.
C50|Meta-regression analysis: Producing credible estimates from diverse evidence|Good policy requires reliable scientific knowledge, but there are many obstacles. Most econometric estimates lack adequate statistical power; some estimates cannot be replicated; publication selection bias (the selective reporting of results) is common; and there is wide variation in the evidence base on most policy issues. Meta-regression analysis offers a way to increase statistical power, correct the evidence base for a range of biases, and make sense of the unceasing flow of contradictory econometric estimates. It enables policymakers to develop evidence-based policies even when the initial evidence base lacks credibility.
C50|Determinants of Internet Financial Communication: Evidence from AIM Italia|No abstract is available for this item.
C50|Algebra of Integrated Time Series: Evidence from Unit Root Analysis|Abstract It is argued if xt ~ I(1) and yt ~ I(1), then running a regression xt on yt would produce spurious results because e t would generally be I(1). However, there may exist a ‘b’ such that e t = x t - by t is I(0), then running a regression x t on y t would not produce spurious results. This special case of two integrated time series is known in the literature as cointegration. In this particular case, x t and y t are said to be cointegrated. In our review of the development of the concept of cointegration, we identified that the underlying reason for this special case to arise is the proposition that if x t ~ I(d x ), y t ~ I(d y ), then z t = bx t + cy t ~ I(max(d x ,d y )). In this research, we offer evidence against this proposition.
C50|Identification and semiparametric estimation of a finite horizon dynamic discrete choice model with a terminating action|Abstract We study identification and estimation of finite-horizon dynamic discrete choice models with a terminal action. We first demonstrate a new set of conditions for the identification of agents’ time preferences. Then we prove conditions under which the per-period utilities are identified for all actions in the agent’s choice-set, without having to normalize the utility for one of the actions. Finally, we develop a computationally tractable semiparametric estimator. The estimator uses a two-step approach that does not use either backward induction or forward simulation. Our methodology can be implemented using standard statistical packages without the need to write specialized computational routines, as it involves linear (or nonlinear) projections only. Monte Carlo studies demonstrate the superior performance of our estimator compared with existing two-step estimation methods. Monte Carlo studies further demonstrate that the ability to identify the per-period utilities for all actions is crucial for counterfactual predictions. As an empirical illustration, we apply the estimator to the optimal default behavior of subprime mortgage borrowers, and the results show that the ability to identify the discount factor, rather than assuming an arbitrary number as typically done in the literature, is also crucial for obtaining correct counterfactual predictions. These findings highlight the empirical relevance of key identification results of the paper.
C50|Demographic Transition Theory and Its Link to the Historical Economic Growth|In the absence of convincing evidence, data for Sweden and Mauritius are used in academic publications to illustrate the Demographic Transition Theory. These data are closely examined and found to be in clear contradiction of this theory. Demographic Transition Theory is also contradicted by the best available data for England. Other examples of contradicting evidence are also discussed.
C50|Unified Growth Theory Contradicted by the Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Growth of Human Population|Data describing historical growth of human population, global and regional (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America), are analysed. Results are in harmony with the earlier analysis of the historical growth of the world population in the past 12,000 years and with other independent studies. This analysis is also in harmony with the study of the historical economic growth. Within the range of analysable data, there was no Malthusian stagnation. Takeoffs from stagnation to growth, postulated by the Unified Growth Theory never happened. There were no escapes from the Malthusian trap because there was no trap in the growth of population. This analysis and the earlier studies of the Gross Domestic Product lead to the conclusion that there were also no takeoffs in the income per capita distributions, claimed by the Unified Growth Theory. Consequently, the claimed differential timing in takeoffs never happened. Unified Growth Theory is contradicted yet again by the mathematical analysis of the same data, which were used, but never analysed, during the formulation of this theory. The study presented here, as well as earlier publications on the related topics, shows also that certain fundamental postulates used in the economic and demographic research are repeatedly contradicted by the mathematical analysis of data.
C50|Interpretations of Hyperbolic Growth|Hyperbolic growth describes the historical economic growth and historical growth of population, but their mechanism remains unexplained. Presented here is a brief survey of attempts to understand hyperbolic growth. Mathematical formulations are in general complicated and there is no clear advantage in using them because they do not give better description of data than the simple, two-parameter hyperbolic formula. They also do not explain the mechanism of growth. The well-known simple formula suggests a simple explanation. Two examples show how two independent investigations were on a brink of making an important and breakthrough discovery and how their potential discovery was thwarted by the established knowledge in demography and in economic research. Researchers who could have used their expertise to suggests new research directions and to advance science were constrained by doctrines, which are widely accepted by faith.
C50|Mathematical Analysis of Historical Income Per Capita Distributions|Data describing historical growth of income per capita [Gross Domestic Product per capita (GDP/cap)] for the world economic growth and for the growth in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America are analysed. They follow closely the linearly-modulated hyperbolic distributions represented by the ratios of hyperbolic distributions obtained by fitting the GDP and population data. Results of this analysis demonstrate that income per capita was increasing monotonically. There was no stagnation and there were no transitions from stagnation to growth. The usually postulated dramatic escapes from the Malthusian trap never happened because there was no trap in the economic growth. Unified Growth Theory is fundamentally incorrect because its central postulates are contradicted repeatedly by data, which were used but never analysed during the formulation of this theory. The large body of readily-available data opens new avenues for the economic and demographic research. They show that certain fundamental postulates revolving around the concept of Malthusian stagnation need to be replaced by the evidence-based interpretations. Within the range of analysable data, which for the growth of population extends down to 10,000 BC, growth of human population and economic growth were hyperbolic. There was no Malthusian stagnation and there were no transitions to distinctly faster trajectories. Industrial Revolution had no impact on changing growth trajectories.
C50|Mathematical Analysis of Income Per Capita in the United Kingdom|Industrial Revolution did not boost economic growth and the growth of population even in the United Kingdom, the centre of this revolution. On the contrary, from around 1850, economic growth and the growth of population started to be diverted to slower trajectories. The new trend describing the growth of income per capita (Gross Domestic Product per capita, i.e. GDP/cap) is now analysed using Maddison’s data. Two numerical solutions and two analytical solutions of the differential equation describing the growth rate of income per capita are presented. It is demonstrated yet again that even strong fluctuations in the growth rate do not change the shape of growth trajectories. Thus, contrary to the common misconception, even strong fluctuations in the growth rate cannot be used as the evidence of the existence of Malthusian stagnation because they do not change the mechanism of growth. Such strong fluctuations can at best produce only small and negligible ripples in growth trajectories. Our analysis shows also that the current growth of income per capita in the UK follows an unsustainable trajectory.
C50|The Unresolved Mystery of the Great Divergence is Solved|The so-called great divergence in the income per capita is described in the Unified Growth Theory as the mind-boggling and unresolved mystery about the growth process. This mystery has now been solved: the great divergence never happened. It was created by the manipulation of data. Economic growth in various regions is at different levels of development but it follows similar, non-divergent trajectories. Unified Growth Theory is shown yet again to be incorrect and scientifically unacceptable. It promotes incorrect and even potentially dangerous concepts. The distorted presentation of data supporting the concept of the great divergence shows that economic growth is now developing along moderately-increasing trajectories but mathematical analysis of the same data and even their undistorted presentation shows that these trajectories are now increasing approximately vertically with time. So, while the distorted presentation of data used in the Unified Growth Theory and the spuriously-created great divergence suggest the generally sustainable and secure economic growth, the undistorted presentation of data demonstrates that the growth is unsustainable and insecure. Similar dangerously incorrect concept promoted by the Unified Growth Theory is the repeated doctrine of takeoffs from the hypothetical but non-existent stagnation to growth. They also suggest prosperous and secure future. Such takeoffs never happened but even without them the current economic growth is insecure.
C50|The Law of Growth|A simple law of growth is formulated. It links growth trajectories with the driving force and thus furnished an easy way to study and interpret the mechanisms of growth. The application of this law is illustrated by examples.
C50|The Effectiveness of Fiscal Rules - The Case of Switzerland|This paper aims to measure the effectiveness of fiscal rules. Fiscal rules are constraints on fiscal policy that limit budgetary outcomes. Some studies in the literature have examined their effectiveness using a stringency index. Arguing this index possesses some arbitrariness, this study measured the effectiveness of fiscal rules using cluster analysis. This cluster analysis resulted in dividing the data into two clusters. Using panel data of 26 Swiss cantons plus the Swiss federation over the period 1990 - 2012, a Least Squares Dummy Variable econometric model was conducted. The findings indicate that fiscal rules have a favorable effect. It was found that the frameworks of cantons in cluster 1 are more effective in decreasing cantonal deficits than those of cluster 2. Furthermore, it was found that cantons in cluster 1 have lower debt levels in comparison to cantons in cluster 2.
C50|Puzzling Properties of the Historical Growth Rate of Income Per Capita Explained|Galor discovered many mysteries of the growth process. He lists them in his Unified Growth Theory and wonders how they can be explained. Close inspection of his mysteries reveals that they are of his own creation. They do not exist. One of his claimed mysteries is the mystery of the alleged sudden spurt in the growth rate of income per capita and in the growth of population. This sudden spurt never happened. Precisely the same data, which were used in support of the Unified Growth Theory are in fact in its direct contradiction. They show that the created mysteries of growth do not exist. The difference between the diametrically opposite conclusions is that in order to support the Unified Growth Theory and to create the mysteries of growth data were appropriately manipulated and distorted but the contradicting evidence is based on their rigorous analysis. The mechanism of the historical economic growth and of the growth of human population is yet to be explained but it would be unproductive to try to look for explanations in the Unified Growth Theory. However, the problem is much deeper than just the examination of this theory. Demographic Growth Theory is based on the incorrect but deeply entrenched postulates developed by accretion over many years and now generally accepted in the economic and demographic research, postulates revolving around the concept of Malthusian stagnation and around a transition from stagnation to growth. The study presented here and earlier similar publications show that these postulates need to be replaced by interpretations based on the mathematical analysis of data and on the correct understanding of hyperbolic distributions.
C50|Mexican Hat Wavelet Mathematical Formula Applied to Business and Economics|The Mexican hat wavelet mathematical formula is used in physics, music, and earthquake prediction to allow different equations to equal because the wavelet can approximate the exogenous and the endogenous variables. This spontaneous symmetry breaking equation can have applications to business and economics akin to the game theory Nash equation that enabled companies to provide yields to financial instruments without necessarily go through a zero sum equation scenario. This research will allow the economics and finance practioners to apply the model to their respective disciplines to be able to draw the different uses in business and economics in particular risk analysis.
C50|What DCC-GARCH model tell us about the effect of the gold price’s volatility on south african exchange rate?|The aim of this paper is to study through a model rarely used and little known, the effect of the gold price’s volatility on the south african real exchange rate. More precisely, it is to show that, through the dynamic conditional correlation (DCC) GARCH model; we get results that are consistent with economic works (Frankel, 2007) on the relationship between gold price’s volatility and the real exchange rate. The period retained in this research paper going from May 1995 to April 2014 and the frequency of the data is monthly. After analysis, we find that in the short term, the real exchange rate is more sensitive to its own volatility, compared to the effect of the volatility of gold price. This last effect, although high, is less persistent on the real exchange rate.
C50|Mechanism of Hyperbolic Growth Explained|Fundamental law of growth is used to explain the mechanism of hyperbolic growth of human population and of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Hyperbolic growth is described by a simple mathematical formula and the explanation of its mechanism turns out to be also simple. Historical economic growth was prompted by the familiar net market force, which was on average directly proportional to the existing wealthexpressed usually as the GDP. The larger was the GDP, the stronger was the driving force and the faster was the economic growth. It is shown that this simple force generates hyperbolic growth. No other force is required. Hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force. Historical growth of population was prompted by thebiologically driven force of procreation, which was on average approximately constant per person. This force includes the natural, familiar, biologically controlled process of births, aging and dying. Here again, hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force.Explanation of two demographic transitions in the past 12,000 years in the growth of population and of the currently experienced transition is also proposed. Currently, economic growth and the growth of population are no longer unconstrained. Other additional forces contribute significantly to the growth process and the growth is no longer hyperbolic.
C50|Real wages, inflation, and labor productivity: Evidences from Bulgaria and Romania|This study examines the effect of inflation and real wages on labor productivity for two European Union(EU) countries: Bulgaria and Romania using cointegration Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) test and causality test of Toda and Yamamoto (1995). Results suggest that inflation reduces labor productivity. Moreover, the impact of wages on labor productivity is far greater the impact of inflation. Additionally, there exists unidirectional relation between inflation and real wages for Bulgaria, and real wages and labor productivity for Romania.
C50|Policy Measurement and Multilateral Resistance in Gravity Models|Over the past decade, the gravity equation has emerged as the empirical workhorse in international trade to study the ex-post effects of trade policies on bilateral trade. In this paper we are concerned with the issue of how the econometric specification and the policy measurement choices can affect the goal to obtain accurate estimates of the coefficient associated with bilateral trade policies within a theoretically-consistent model. The problem is even more serious when the policy treatment is approximated through dummies as it is still often the case in the literature. Using a Monte Carlo simulation analysis, this paper shows that the use of fixed effects to control for unobserved heterogeneity leads to biased estimates of the policy impact even when the policy is measured through a continuous variable. The bias highlighted by our results is the combination of measurement error about bilateral trade costs (or preferences) and the specification used to proxy multilateral resistance terms.
C50|What does it take to grow out of recession? An error-correction approach towards growth convergence of European and transition countries|Consequences from the subsiding 2008 financial crisis on long-run economic growth are widely debated. Existing literature on previous recessions, such as Cerra and Saxena (2008), emphasizes the long-term loss inflicted on per capita GDP levels. This paper concentrates on typical business cycles in advanced European and transition countries and assumes that lower than normal growth during recessions is followed by a recovery period with above normal growth until the economy reaches its pre-crisis level. The objective is to assess the capacity to rebound, the speed of convergence towards a normal growth path as well as potential nonlinearities. Through exploiting the cointegration relationships among variables in long-run growth regressions and by employing a variety of panel error-correction models, results show a strong evidence of error-correction and different linear speed in the convergence process with the transition economies outpacing Western European countries. Our analysis is further extended into a Panel Smooth Transition Error-Correction Model (PSTR-ECM) to account for different regimes in convergence patterns according to a selection of transition variables. Whereas the velocity of convergence for European core countries exhibits a nonlinear pattern and differs with respect to price and flexibility, transition countries remain linear in their return to the growth trend. Ultimately, our results suggest that internal adjustments remain the key factors for both European and transition countries to recover from negative economic growth shocks.
C50|The Evolution of the Turnover From the Point of View of the Number of Employees, the Net Realized Investments and the Average Gross Salary in the Romanian Footwear Industry|The turnover of the Romanian footwear industry had an ascending evolution going up to 4.138.309.513 lei in 2013 compared to 2.560.545.075 in 2004 (an increase of 61,62%). Maintaining this positive evolution depends also on knowing and uderstanding the factors that influence the turnover, some of them being the number of employees, the net realized investment and the average gross salary. The aim of this article is to determine an econometrical model between the turnover (dependent variable) and the number of employees, the net realized investment and the average gross salary (independent variables) in the Romanian footwear industry in the period 2004-2013.
C50|General-to-Specific (GETS) Modelling And Indicator Saturation With The R Package Gets|Abstract: This paper provides an overview of the R-package 'gets’, which contains facilities for General-to-Specific (GETS) modelling of the mean and variance of a regression, and Indicator Saturation (IS) methods for the detection and modelling of structural breaks and outliers. The mean can be specified as an autoregressive model with covariates (an 'AR-X' model), and the variance can be specified as an autoregressive log-variance model with covariates (a 'log-ARCH-X' model). The covariates in the two specifications need not be the same, and the classical regression model is obtained as a special case when there is no dynamics, and when there are no covariates in the variance equation. The four main functions of the package are arx, getsm, getsv and isat. The first function estimates an AR-X model with log-ARCH-X errors. The second function undertakes GETS model selection of the mean specification of an arx object. The third function undertakes GETS model selection of the log-variance specification of an arx object. The fourth function undertakes GETS model selection of an indicator saturated mean specification allowing for the detection of structural breaks and outliers. Examples of how LaTeX code of the estimation output can be generated is given, and the usage of two convenience functions for export of results to EViews and STATA are illustrated.
C50|Improved Targeting of Social Programs: An Application to a State Job Coaching Program for Adults with Intellectual Disabilities|In a climate of flat or shrinking budgets, can programs reallocate existing resources to improve efficiency? We illustrate the potential for gains from redirecting resources using data from a state job coaching program that is designed to increase employment among adults with intellectual disabilities (IDs). We model selection into the program and employment outcomes for participants and non-participants allowing for potentially heterogeneous response among observationally equivalent individuals. In our simulations, we find that state ID population employment can be increased from 10.7 percent to an upper bound of 16.7 percent by a program administrator who can allocate the job coaches to those with the most to gain. This is a 56 percent increase in the overall employment rate. While we assume that program administrators know more about individual program participants than we do, we can consider an administrator who has only the information available to the econometrician. In this case, targeting gains based only on observable characteristics would lead to 11.8 percent employment, which is an 11 percent increase in the overall employment rate. Surprisingly, a simple rule that only requires administrators to predict employment success when treated (based on observables) will achieve almost the same results.
C50|On the reactions of sectoral equity returns to oil price in France: Implications for portfolio allocation|Instead of conducting overall stock market index analysis, this paper focuses on the reactions of sectoral equity returns (Industrials, Financials and Banks, Health care, Information Technology, Consumer goods, Materials, Oil and Gas, Telecommunications) to oil price changes in France. From a methodological perspective, this study uses a new method, called the quantile-on-quantile (QQ) approach. Even though this technique is based on the quantile regression paradigm, it departs from the conventional framework as the exogenous variable may be itself a quantile. It allows looking further into hidden factors driving the link between oil price and stock returns which the standard econometric methods are unsuitable to accommodate. QQ views the nature and sensitivity of the stock returns responses to oil price shocks change greatly across sectors of activity and tail distributions. Specifically, Industrials, Materials, and Oil and Gas equities are typically more reactive towards oil price shocks. The response of Financials and Banks is relatively weak, while it appears negligible for Health care, Information Technology, Consumer goods and Telecommunications. The frequency domain causality test (relying on signal theory) has demonstrated its functionality and adequacy in this exercise. On the basis of this article’ outcomes, market participants could enhance the risk-adjusted return of their portfolios by pursuing a sector-based portfolio investment strategy. Also, introducing oil asset into a diversified portfolio of stocks enables to invigorate its risk-return features.
C50|Optimization of government trade behavior and its implication for small developing economy (the case of Ukraine)|The article deals with problem of optimization of government behavior in trade policy decision-making in small open developing economy. Based on conceptual model of government behavior we define main elements of effective trade policy. We found both their conformity to certain economic framework and conditions of their changes with each other. The analysis of advantages and disadvantages of government patterns of trade behavior showed that in order to regulate the small open developing economy its government should provide policy, based on applying of tax instruments, notably, tariffs; non-tariff measures in such conditions are as auxiliary tools. Systemic non-tariff restrictions could be regarded as an effective tool for developed innovative economies. The originality of the paper consists in developing of model of efficient government behavior in trade policy decision-making depending on the framework of national economy; also both conditions of untimely changes of government behavior patterns and ineffective frameworks appeared as consequence of these changes, were defined. We provide an econometric analysis in order to determine whether commodity exports are sensitive to reduction or elimination of tariffs (as in the case of Ukrainian exports and EU import duties). This analysis showed that now in Ukrainian economy there are commodities which are both sensitive and resistant to tariff changes.
C50|Military expenditure, terrorism and capital flight: Insights from Africa|In spite of the growing consensus of the need to utilise military expenditure to help combat terrorism, our understanding of the threshold at which military expenditure reduces the effect of terrorism stemming from capital flight remains largely underexplored. We employed a panel data of 37 African countries from 1996-2010 and determined that the thresholds are apparent exclusively in Quantile Regressions with military expenditure thresholds ranging from: 4.224 to 5.612 for domestic terrorism, 5.734 to 7.363 for unclear terrorism and 4.710 to 6.617 for total terrorism. No thresholds are apparent in transnational terrorism related regressions. Depending on the terrorist target, the findings broadly show that a critical mass of between 4.224 and 7.363 of military expenditure as a percentage of GDP is needed to reverse the effects of terrorism stemming from capital flight. Implications for public policy are discussed.
C50|Policy Measurement And Multilateral Resistance In Gravity Models|Over the past decade, the gravity equation has emerged as the empirical workhorse in international trade to study the ex-post effects of trade policies on bilateral trade. In this paper we are concerned with the issue of how the econometric specification and the policy measurement choices can affect the goal to obtain accurate estimates of the coefficient associated with bilateral trade policies within a theoretically-consistent model. The problem is even more serious when the policy treatment is approximated through dummies as it is still often the case in the literature. Using a Monte Carlo simulation analysis, this paper shows that the use of fixed effects to control for unobserved heterogeneity leads to biased estimates of the policy impact even when the policy is measured through a continuous variable. The bias highlighted by our results is the combination of measurement error about bilateral trade costs (or preferences) and the specification used to proxy multilateral resistance terms.
C50|The one-trading-day-ahead forecast errors of intra-day realized volatility|Two volatility forecasting evaluation measures are considered; the squared one-day-ahead forecast error and its standardized version. The mean squared forecast error is the widely accepted evaluation function for the realized volatility forecasting accuracy. Additionally, we explore the forecasting accuracy based on the squared distance of the forecast error standardized with its volatility. The statistical properties of the forecast errors point the standardized version as a more appropriate metric for evaluating volatility forecasts.
C50|The New Concept of Money: From Record-Of-Value (RoV) To Record-Of-Entropy (RoE)|In this paper, we shall analyse the concept of Money. Presently money is viewed as Record-of-Value i.e. money is used to capture value created in any activity. We start by defining money. Then we discuss the way energy is spent in creating value is measured using money. We also assess the uses of money by viewing it as a Record-of-Value entity. We discuss about the parallel economy which impacts mainstream economy in various ways. Economic Entropy is then defined and discussed. An equation that relates Economic Entropy, value based money and other economic parameters is proposed. The various advantages of viewing money as a Record-of-Entropy are debated. Finally, the paper concludes as to which concept is best suited to present day and future economic scenarios.
C50|A Macroeconomic Model of the Russian Economy|The constructed macroeconomic model of Russian economy is presented. The model takes into account the key features of behavioral mechanism, economic policy mechanism, and key structural features of the economy for medium and short periods. We model the budget rule mechanism, consider interaction between the Central Bank and the budget in the context of monetary and budget reserves accumulation, including the process of gold-currency reserves’ accumulation as well as the sterilizing mechanism for state funds formation. Include two different monetary policy rules in the model: domestic credit rule and exchange rate rule. The exchange rate sub-model describes a Balassa—Samuelson effect and terms of trade effect. Our model demonstrates high prognostic power: its model prognostic quality is higher than of the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the majority of macroeconomic indicators.
C50|The Impact of a Loss of Confidence in Emerging Market Economies to the World Economy: A Simulation with the G-Cubed Model|Risks in emerging market economies have considerably gone up as capital inflows have soared since the global financial crises in 2008. Once the advanced economies recover, especially in the US where its monetary stimulus ends, market expectations change. It may then potentially lead to sudden capital outflows from emerging economies which could lead to loss of confidence in the emerging market economies. To study the impacts of such event, this paper simulates with the G-Cubed Model. The results show that once financial shocks hit emerging market economies, it can produce critical real effects in the economic downturn which will last for a long period. The simulation also shows the strong interdependence between financial and real economies. In the emerging economies, expected future incomes and wealth fall, while the developed economies gain through the reallocation of investment. Another important channel of the shocks is through trade channel as most emerging market economies rely on imports for their production inputs.
C50|Time-Varying Correlations between Inflation and Stock Prices in the United States over the Last Two Centuries|The relationship between stock prices and the inflation can be either negative or positive, depending on the strengths of various theoretical channels at work. While previous studies have primarily examined this relationship in a time-invariant framework, and if at all a time-varying framework is used, it has been restricted to the post World War II period. Given this, we employ a time-varying approach to examine the dynamic correlations of inflation and stock prices in the United States over the period of 1791 to 2015. The results of our empirical analysis reveal that correlations between the inflation and stock prices in the United States evolve heterogeneously overtime. In particular, the correlations are significantly positive in the 1840s, 1860s, 1930s and 2011, and significantly negative otherwise. The policy implications of these findings are then discussed.
C50|Vliv nepřímých daní na dlouhodobý ekonomický růst<BR>[The Impact of Indirect Taxes on Economic Growth]|The Impact of Indirect Taxes on Economic Growth The main purpose of this article is to investigate the impact of indirect taxes on economic growth in a long term. The dynamic and static panel regression analysis methods were used to explore the relationship between observed variables. The models are based on neoclassical growth model extended by human capital. The models are verified using data on chosen European countries from time period 1970 to 2011 and from time period 2000 to 2011. Taxes are included into models by indicators of tax burden. It was used TQ, ITR and WTI. The results of empirical analysis revealed that impact of taxes on economic growth is negative in a long term. The most negative impact on economic growth was proven in case of direct taxes. Economic growth is influenced positively by indirect taxes. The statistical significance of corporate tax and property taxes were not proven.
C50|Market integration and the persistence of electricity prices|There is an ongoing trend of deregulation and integration of electricity markets in Europe and North America. This change in market structure has naturally affected the interaction between agents and has contributed to an increasing commoditization of electric power. This paper focuses on one specific market, the Iberian Electricity Market (MIBEL). In particular, we assess the persistence of electricity prices in the Iberian market and test whether it has changed over time. We consider each hour of the day separately, that is, we analyze 24 time-series of day-ahead hourly prices for Portugal and another 24 series for Spain. We find results consistent with the hypothesis that market integration leads to a decrease in the persistence of the price process. More precisely, the tests detect a break in the memory parameter of most price series around the year 2009, which coincides with a significant increase in the integration of Portuguese and Spanish markets. The results reinforce the view that market integration has an impact on the dynamics of electricity prices.
C50|Un análisis de la efectividad de las intervenciones cambiarias en el Perú|Más allá de su papel como operaciones de acumulación de reservas internaciones, las intervenciones oficiales del mercado cambiario cada vez son menos frecuentes como herramientas de política macroeconómica. En el caso peruano, sin embargo, las autoridades económicas han realizado este tipo de intervenciones activamente a lo largo de los últimos años. Este artículo explora la efectividad de las intervenciones cambiarias del Banco Central de la Reserva del Perú (BCRP) en el mercado cambiario spot durante el período 2003-2015 a través de un estudio de eventos y la estimación de un modelo econométrico de umbrales. La evidencia sugiere que las intervenciones del BCRP fueron efectivas para suavizar la volatilidad de la tasa de cambio y generar movimientos opuestos a su tendencia en períodos de extrema volatilidad en el mercado cambiario.
C50|Estimates of Trade Costs using Gravity Equation in Mixed Effects Model|By using a log-linear Taylor-series expansion to linearize the multilateral resistance terms, this study aims to estimate the theory-based gravity equation in mixed effects model to obtain not only unbiased and consistent but also efficient coefficient estimates of trade cost variables. We show that coefficient estimates of trade cost variables estimated using mixed effects model are close to those found by the existing literature; however, only those in this paper are efficient as a result of accounting for unobserved country heterogeneity and approximation errors.
C50|Bayesian binomial zero-coupon bonds model|The article is devoted to construction of stochastic one-factor evolutional model for zero-coupon bond in discrete time. As the base sequence it was used an asymmetric geometric random walk. It is shown that in case of observing not only the previous values of wandering, but his condition the last time it is Markov. In this case derived formulas for the transition probability in one step, as well as for the conditional mean and variance. Based on these facts, the article describes a stochastic model of zero-coupon bonds. For this model of bond were also find explicit formulas of its volatility, risk-neutral price, temporal structure of interest rates. Results of simulation display good match with real data.
C50|Do secrets come out? Statistical evaluation of student cheating|We suggest an original method of student cheating evaluation based on the comparison of students’ grades in exams in class, home assignments and experimental homework. The data for the study is collected from the survey of 2012–2013 sophomores of the International College of Economics and Finance at the National Research University Higher School of Economics in Moscow, Russia. At the end of the course in Statistics in addition to standard assignments (homework and exams) students were given experimental homework with a ban on cooperation among them. The violation of this rule was qualified as cheating. The scale of cooperation is measured and then tested through the stochastic frontier technique; it reveals connection with the GPA level, students’ expectations of the cheaters’ share and students’ moral norms. We also find different behavioral patterns for high and low performing students as well as country specific context of student cheating behavior.
C50|Currency integration of Russia and other CIS countries: what is changing in a crisis?<BR>[Валютная Интеграция России И Других Стран Снг: Что Меняется В Кризис?]|The work carried out assessment of the level of monetary integration of Russia with other CIS member states, and examines the impact of economic crises on it and verified the presence of spillover effects for the currency channel. The methodology used includes correlation analysis of relative changes in nominal exchange rate of the national currencies of owls and econometric modeling Pressure index EMPI currency market using vector autoregression model with Markov switching mode MRS-VAR (Markov regimeswitching vector auto regression). On the basis of the study revealed that the integration into the stable periods of operation of the CIS economies is relatively weak, with the exception of Kazakhstan. At the same time, Belarus and Ukraine, it was found a significant increase in periods of financial instability.
C50|Inflation Dynamics in a Dollarised Economy: The Case of Zimbabwe|This paper explores the dynamics of inflation in the dollarised Zimbabwean economy using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag Model (ARDL) with monthly data from 2009:1 to 2012:12. The main determinants of inflation were found to be the US dollar/South African rand exchange rate, international oil prices, inflation expectations and South African inflation rate. During the local currency era, inflation dynamics in Zimbabwe were explained by excess growth in money supply, changes in import and administered prices, unit labour costs and output (Chhibber, Cottani, Firuzabadi and Walton, 1989). According to Makochekanwa (2007), hyperinflation during the same era was attributed to excess money supply growth, lagged inflation and political factors. Coorey, Clausen, Funke, Munoz and Ould-Abdallah (2007) affirmed these findings by identifying excess money supply growth as a source of high inflation in Zimbabwe during the local currency era. In essence, the findings of this study point to a shift in inflation dynamics in Zimbabwe. This shift in inflation dynamics means that policies, which were used to respond to both internal and external shocks that have an impact on price formation, might not be applicable in a dollarised economy.
C50|Assessing Monetary Policy Effectiveness in Rich Data Environment|We assess impact of monetary policy actions upon inflation in a country while considering changes in global commodity prices in rich data environment. We apply Factor Augmented Bayesian Structural Vector Autoregression (FABSVAR) methodology of Bernanke et al (2005) upon Pakistan’s monthly data for July 1992-June 2015. Unlike Bernanke et al (2005), we combine variables of similar nature in groups to extract factors. We think putting all sorts of variables in one group impairs the factor extraction. Moreover, rather than working only with the response of variable of interest (inflation in this study) to shocks in factors under consideration (which, consist of different interest rates, monetary aggregates, exchange rates in this study) we propose use of eigenvector to obtain Impulse Response Functions (IRFs) of shock to individual variables in a factor. We find significant and desired impact of monetary policy decisions upon inflation in Pakistan. Administered prices, however, are found to have no response to interest rate changes in the country, which is understandable. By analyzing IRFs of inflation in Pakistan to shocks in interest rate we do not observe any price puzzle. It is simply because we consider the relevant variables omitted in previous studies reporting price puzzle in Pakistan.
C50|The Real Influences Of Oil Price Changes On The Growth Of Real Gdp: The Case Of South Africa|Oil price fluctuation is a cause of concern for most of the economies of the world including South Africa. The premise is that since oil consumption is regarded as one of the major determinants of the economic activities in any country, therefore the price fluctuations have a potential of slowing down the economic growth. The purpose of this study is to analyse the influences of oil price changes on economic growth in South Africa. Determining such a relationship will not only be helpful to the academic community, but also to the policy makers and the international community. The study utilises secondary data to examine quarterly time series data from the year 1990Q1-2014Q1. Several sources of data (websites) like SARB, Quantec, and International Monetary Funds, among others, were considered to find the most relevant data. The model was estimated by using a cointegrating vector autoregressive frame work and it was passed through a battery of diagnostic and stability test. The Generalised Impulse Response Function was employed to examine the dynamic relations among the variables under study. The results show that there is a positive relationship between economic growth and oil prices fluctuations.
