C54|Transition from the Taylor rule to the zero lower bound|This paper examines the Taylor rule in the context of United States monetary policy since 1965, particularly with respect to the zero-lower-bound era of the federal funds rate from 2009 to 2016. A nonlinear Taylor rule is developed which features smooth transitions in the first two moments of the federal funds rate. This exible specification is found to usefully capture observed nonlinearity, while accounting for the well-documented structural changes in monetary policy formation at the Federal Reserve in the last fifty years, and especially in the recent zero-lower-bound era.
C54|The direction and intensity of China’s monetary policy conduct : A dynamic factor modelling approach|The recent upgrade of the People’s Bank of China’s monetary policy framework establishes a corridor system of interest rates. As the revamped policy arrangement now features a multiple-instrument mix of liquidity tools and pricing signals, we employ a dynamic factor modelling approach to derive an indicator of China’s monetary policy stance. The approach is based on the notion that comovements in several monetary policy instruments have a common element that can be captured by a single underlying, unobserved component. To clarify and interpret the derived index, we employ a baseline DSGE model that can be solved analytically and allows tracing of the expansionary and contractionary on-and-off phases of Chinese monetary policy.
C54|A Structural Analysis of Vacancy Referrals with Imperfect Monitoring and Sickness Absence|In many OECD countries unemployment insurance agencies send out job vacancy referrals (VRs) to unemployment benefit recipients. Refusals to apply for VRs are sanctioned with temporary benefit reductions. In this paper we study the impact of VRs and sanctions on unemployed workers’ job search behavior, accounting for the possibility that workers may report sick to avoid sanctions. We develop a structural job search model that incorporates VRs, sanctions and sick reporting. We estimate our model using German administrative data from social security records that are linked to caseworker records on VRs, sick reporting and sanctions. Based on the estimated model we study a range of counterfactual policy scenarios. We find that increasing sanction enforcement reduces reservation wages, thereby leading to a higher job finding rate. Increasing the VR rate, in contrast, leads to higher reservation wages by raising the option value of search, but nevertheless elevates the job finding rate by increasing the job offer frequency. According to our estimates 9.2% of sick reports among unemployed workers are induced by VRs. We find substantial heterogeneity in the effects of eliminating VR induced sick reporting on job search outcomes. Effects are modest for around 75% of the population. For the remaining 25% of unemployed workers shutting down VR induced sick reporting reduces the mean unemployment duration by one week and a day.
C54|A Dynamic Model of Personality, Schooling, and Occupational Choice|This paper develops a dynamic model of schooling and occupational choices that incorporates personality traits, as measured by the so-called “big five” traits. The model is estimated using the HILDA dataset from Australia. Personality traits are found to play an important role in explaining education and occupation choices over the lifecycle. Results show that individuals with a comparative advantage in schooling and white-collar work have, on average, higher cognitive skills and higher personality trait scores. Allowing personality traits to evolve with age and with schooling proves to be important to capturing the heterogeneity in how people respond to educational policies. The estimated model is used to evaluate two education policies: compulsory senior secondary school and a 50% college tuition subsidy. Both policies are effective in increasing educational attainment. They also affect personality traits.
C54|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|Interconnectors have value for Britain, providing access to cheaper Continental power, security of supply, and managing increased renewables, prompting proposals for substantial new interconnectors. The EU Target Electricity Model requires interconnector market coupling via Day Ahead and IntraDay Markets. We examine the efficiency and value of uncoupled and coupled trading for the four DC interconnectors to GB, over different timescales from year ahead to intraday, and the social costs and benefits not reflected in the private benefits. IFA and BritNed have a commercial value of about €500 million/yr and create additional surplus of €25 m./yr. The island of Ireland coupled on 1 Oct 2018, dramatically reducing trading inefficiency. Because the GB carbon tax is not replicated abroad it transfers some €40 m./yr to the foreign share of IFA and BritNed as well as adding distortionary costs when trade flows change. The policy implication is that while further investment in interconnectors appears socially profitable, it is important to harmonise carbon taxes across the EU. If GB leaves the EU and is uncoupled, some of these trading gains would be sacrificed, but other financial markets may alleviate the cost of Brexit, making policies to enhance liquidity desirable.
C54|Financing low-carbon generation in the UK: The hybrid RAB model|Decarbonising electricity is a critical first step in mitigating climate damage but low/zero-carbon generation is very capital intensive. Its cost depends critically on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Three factors combine to make a low WACC both desirable and feasible in the UK. First, the Stern Report argues for a low social discount rate (1.4% real) for investments in climate mitigation. Second, global and UK real interest rates have been falling steadily - UK gilt index-linked 20-year rates have fallen from +4% in 1995 to -2% (negative) in 2019. CCS and nuclear have long lifetimes over which to recover their capital cost, longer than commercial finance would accept without guarantees, in contrast to renewables where off-take contracts have proven sufficient. Nuclear power faces the additional investment challenge of lengthy uncertain construction. No nuclear plant has ever been built privately without substantial regulatory guarantees. The Regulated Asset Base (RAB) model can address these financing problems for long-lived low-carbon assets. The benefits of placing risk on developers to motivate cost control are small compared to the extra costs of a higher weighted average cost of capital (WACC). A hybrid RAB model (like that used for the Thames Tideway Tunnel)—with excess cost sharing and a cost cap—can reduce risk to deliver an adequately low WACC by accessing infrastructure funds that do not require extensive specialised project knowledge. If the risk of excess costs is spread over the 27 million households and other customers taking two-thirds of electricity, each would bear minimal risk and the cumulative cost would be significantly lower. The levelized cost at the WACC (3.5% real) is £53/MWh if on time and budget, which should be compared with a counterfactual in which all the risk is placed on the company requiring a contract-for-difference with a strike price of £96/MWh for the life of the project (equal to the levelized cost). The levelised cost to consumers if on time and budget would be £50/MWh and in the worst case with a 48% cost over-run, £64/MWh.
C54|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role and increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
C54|Makroökonomie: Blind Spot Gender: Erweiterung makroökonomischer Indikatoren durch eine Gender-Komponente am Beispiel der empirischen Phillips-Kurve|Dieser Beitrag möchte einen Impuls zur stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen geben. Am Beispiel der Philipps-Kurve geht es um die Frage, ob sich das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern so stark voneinander unterscheidet, dass sich dies im Verlauf des Zusammenhangs von Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit niederschlägt. Erste Hinweise dafür werden in deskriptiven Analysen für die Beobachtungszeiträume 1971 bis 1990 und 1991 bis 2017 gefunden. Die Studie bezieht sich auf die klassische Phillips-Kurve, die den empirischen Zusammenhang zwischen Inflation und Arbeitslosigkeit untersucht. Von einer Modellierung nach neukeynesianschem Vorbild wird zunächst abgesehen. Die Phillips-Kurve büßte in dieser Zeit erheblich an Erklärungskraft ein. Aus dem teilweise gegensätzlichen Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve unter Verwendung geschlechterspezifischer Erwerbslosenquoten wird abgeleitet, dass sich diese Entwicklung im Zuge der stark gestiegenen Erwerbsbeteiligung von Frauen noch beschleunigt hat. Die geschlechterspezifischen Unterschiede im Verlauf der Philipps-Kurve werden besonders deutlich unter Verwendung der von konjunkturellen Schwankungen weitgehend befreiten Erwerbslosenquote. Dies wird als Indiz für strukturelle Unterschiede im Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen und Männern gewertet. Das Ergebnis stärkt damit die Argumentation nach einer stärkeren Berücksichtigung von Genderaspekten in makroökonomischen Modellen. Weitere Forschungsarbeiten sind notwendig, um Aussagen über kausale Zusammenhänge treffen zu können.
C54|Anticipating the bust: a new cyclical systemic risk indicator to assess the likelihood and severity of financial crises|This paper presents a tractable, transparent and broad-based domestic cyclical systemic risk indicator (d-SRI) that captures risks stemming from domestic credit, real estate markets, asset prices, and external imbalances. The d-SRI increases on average several years before the onset of systemic financial crises, and its early warning properties for euro area countries are superior to those of the total credit-to-GDP gap. In addition, the level of the d-SRI around the start of financial crises is highly correlated with measures of subsequent crisis severity, such as GDP declines. Model estimates suggest that the d-SRI has significant predictive power for large declines in real GDP growth three to four years down the line, as it precedes shifts in the entire distribution of future real GDP growth and especially of its left tail. The d-SRI therefore provides useful information about both the probability and the likely cost of systemic financial crises many years in advance. Given its timely signals, the d-SRI is a useful analytical tool for macroprudential policymakers. JEL Classification: G01, G17, C22, C54
C54|Global economic and environmental outcomes of the Paris Agreement|In this paper, we use a multi-region model of the world economy to analyze the economic and environmental outcomes that are likely to result from Paris Climate Agreement. To construct the modeling scenario, we convert the disparate emission targets for each country or region in their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) formulations into estimated reductions in CO2 emissions relative to a baseline scenario with no new climate policies. We then solve for the tax rate path on CO2 in each region that achieves the NDC-consistent emissions reductions in the target year, 2030 for most regions. We find that if all regions achieve their NDCs, the Paris Agreement significantly reduces CO2 emissions relative to baseline. However, the Paris policy scenario suggests that global CO2 emissions would not decline in absolute terms relative to 2015 levels, let alone follow a path consistent with a 2°C stabilization scenario. Comparing projected 2030 CO2 tax rates to the same year’s percent emissions abatement relative to baseline, we find that declines in CO2 emissions do not necessarily correlate with the CO2 tax rate. We find the climate policies result in significant macroeconomic spillovers across the global economy, meaning that macroeconomic outcomes across countries depend not only on their own commitments but also on those of the rest of the world. We also explore how outcomes could change if select countries (United States, China and Australia) unilaterally withdraw from the agreement and undertake no new climate policies. We find that non-participation leads to economic gains (in terms of GDP) for these countries relative to participating, illustrating the challenge of forging an international agreement with participation by all major emitters and fossil fuel producers. However, we also find that if we account for the monetized climate and domestic cobenefits of emissions reductions, those countries, including Australia, are worse off if they unilaterally withdraw from the Paris Agreement than if they participate. Thus, although we find there are gross costs to participating, doing so generates net benefits for the individual country participants.
C54|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|No abstract is available for this item.
C54|How Effective Was the UK Carbon Tax? — A Machine Learning Approach to Policy Evaluation|Carbon taxes are commonly seen as a rational policy response to climate change, but little is known about their performance from an ex-post perspective. This paper analyzes the emissions and cost impacts of the UK CPS, a carbon tax levied on all fossil-fired power plants. To overcome the problem of a missing control group, we propose a novel approach for policy evaluation which leverages economic theory and machine learning techniques for counterfactual prediction. Our results indicate that in the period 2013-2016 the CPS lowered emissions by 6.2 percent at an average cost of € 18 per ton. We find substantial temporal heterogeneity in tax-induced impacts which stems from variation in relative fuel prices. An important implication for climate policy is that a higher carbon tax does not necessarily lead to higher emissions reductions or higher costs.
C54|An Empirical Analysis of the Impact of Total Debt on the Economic Growth of Sri Lanka|No abstract is available for this item.
C54|Revenue Based Fiscal Consolidation and Economic Growth in Sri Lanka|No abstract is available for this item.
C54|Opting out of Workers' Compensation: Non-Subscription in Texas and Its Effects|Texas is the only state that does not mandate that employers carry workers' compensation insurance (WC) coverage. We employ a quasi-experimental design paired with a novel machine learning approach to examine the effects of switching from traditional workers' compensation to a so-called non-subscription program in Texas. Specifically, we compare before and after effects of switching to non-subscription for employees in Texas to contemporaneously measured before and after differences for non-Texas-based employees. Importantly, we study large self-insured companies operating the same business in multiple states in the US; hence the non-Texas operations represent the control sites for the Texas treatment sites. The resulting difference-in-differences estimation technique allows us to control for any companywide factors that might be confounded with switching to non-subscription. Our empirical approach also controls for injury characteristics, employment characteristics, industry, and individual characteristics such as gender, age, number of dependents, and marital status. Outcomes include number of claims reported, medical expenditures, indemnity payments, time to return to work, likelihood of having permanent disability, likelihood of claim denial, and likelihood of litigation. The data include 25 switcher companies between the years 2004 and 2016, yielding 846,376 injury incidents. Regression findings suggest that indemnity, medical payments, and work-loss fall substantially. Claim denials increase and litigation falls.
C54|Does It Matter When Labor Market Reforms Are Implemented? The Role of the Monetary Policy Environment|Do labor market reforms initiated in periods of loose monetary policy yield different outcomes from those that were introduced in periods when monetary tightening prevailed? Since economic theory usually pays attention to the steady state change and ignores business cycle interactions of structural reforms, we connect local projection methodology with the Mallow’s Cp averaging criterion to arrive at an inference that does not require knowledge of the exact functional form, is robust to mis-specification, admits non-linearities, and cross-sectional dependence and addresses uncertainty regarding interactions between labor reforms and macroeconomy. We also develop a test to check the importance of monetary policy for any horizon and the entire impulse response function, taking the multiple testing problem into account. We document that replacement rates deliver substantially different outcomes on real GDP, inflation and real effective exchange rate, whereas labor activation schemes bear different effects on unemployment in low- and high-interest rate environments. There is also evidence of monetary policy trend playing an important role as well as increasing synchronized monetary and labor market policies across European countries.
C54|Simplicity Creates Inequity: Implications for Fairness, Stereotypes, and Interpretability|Algorithms are increasingly used to aid, or in some cases supplant, human decision-making, particularly for decisions that hinge on predictions. As a result, two additional features in addition to prediction quality have generated interest: (i) to facilitate human interaction and understanding with these algorithms, we desire prediction functions that are in some fashion simple or interpretable; and (ii) because they influence consequential decisions, we also want them to produce equitable allocations. We develop a formal model to explore the relationship between the demands of simplicity and equity. Although the two concepts appear to be motivated by qualitatively distinct goals, we show a fundamental inconsistency between them. Specifically, we formalize a general framework for producing simple prediction functions, and in this framework we establish two basic results. First, every simple prediction function is strictly improvable: there exists a more complex prediction function that is both strictly more efficient and also strictly more equitable. Put another way, using a simple prediction function both reduces utility for disadvantaged groups and reduces overall welfare relative to other options. Second, we show that simple prediction functions necessarily create incentives to use information about individuals' membership in a disadvantaged group—incentives that weren't present before simplification, and that work against these individuals. Thus, simplicity transforms disadvantage into bias against the disadvantaged group. Our results are not only about algorithms but about any process that produces simple models, and as such they connect to the psychology of stereotypes and to an earlier economics literature on statistical discrimination.
C54|Trade and Economic Effects of IRC: Further Empirical Evidence from SPS and TBT Provisions|Cutting trade costs, especially those stemming from non-tariff measures, is a growing priority for policy makers. One way to achieve this is for countries to improve their co-operation on regulatory matters. An avenue open to governments is to include provisions related to international regulatory co-operation (IRC) into preferential trade agreements (PTAs). However, there exists little empirical evidence of the benefits of these co-operative mechanisms. This paper provides this evidence, in the context of Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) and Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) provisions. It measures the effect of IRC mechanisms on trade flows using the latest developments in the gravity literature and the most recent data sources. The work distinguishes between different forms of co-operation implemented between countries within PTAs while also accounting for the level of commitment between partners. The estimation results suggest that PTAs including SPS and TBT measures have a significant and positive effect on trade flows, with the legal enforceability of IRC mechanisms having the strongest and most robust impact on trade flows. This result holds even when WTO-related provisions and dispute settlement procedures are controlled for, implying that binding commitments are important in maximizing post-PTA trade flows. The work shows that transparency and co-operation are significant and robust factors in increasing trade. It also reinforces the view that the impact takes some time to materialise, which is important when evaluating the effectiveness of deep IRC mechanisms.
C54|Monotonic Estimation for Probability Distribution and Multivariate Risk Scales by Constrained Minimum Generalized Cross-Entropy|Minimum cross-entropy estimation is an extension to the maximum likelihood estimation for multinomial probabilities. Given a probability distribution {r_i }_(i=1)^k, we show in this paper that the monotonic estimates {p_i }_(i=1)^k for the probability distribution by minimum cross-entropy are each given by the simple average of the given distribution values over some consecutive indexes. Results extend to the monotonic estimation for multivariate outcomes by generalized cross-entropy. These estimates are the exact solution for the corresponding constrained optimization and coincide with the monotonic estimates by least squares. A non-parametric algorithm for the exact solution is proposed. The algorithm is compared to the “pool adjacent violators” algorithm in least squares case for the isotonic regression problem. Applications to monotonic estimation of migration matrices and risk scales for multivariate outcomes are discussed.
C54|Superkurtosis|Very little is known on how traditional risk metrics behave in ultra high frequency trading (UHFT). We fi�ll this void �firstly by examining the existence of the intraday returns moments, and secondly by assessing the impact of their (non)existence in a risk management framework. We show that in the case of UHFT, the returns' third and fourth moments do not exist, which entails that traditional risk metrics are unable to judge capital adequacy adequately. Hence, the use of risk management techniques, such as VaR, by market participants who engage with UHFT impose serious threats to the stability of fi�nancial markets, given that capital ratios may be severely underestimated.
C54|Modeling temporal treatment effects with zero inflated semi-parametric regression models: the case of local development policies in France|A semi-parametric approach is proposed to estimate the variation along time of the effects of two distinct public policies that were devoted to boost rural development in France over a similar period of time. At a micro data level, it is often observed that the dependent variable, such as local employment, does not vary along time, so that we face a kind of zero inflated phenomenon that cannot be dealt with a continuous response model. We introduce a conditional mixture model which combines a mass at zero and a continuous response. The suggested zero inflated semi-parametric statistical approach relies on the flexibility and modularity of additive models with the ability of panel data to deal with selection bias and to allow for the estimation of dynamic treatment effects. In this multiple treatment analysis, we find evidence of interesting patterns of temporal treatment effects with relevant nonlinear policy effects. The adopted semi-parametric modeling also offers the possibility of making a counterfactual analysis at an individual level. The methodology is illustrated and compared with parametric linear approaches on a few municipalities for which the mean evolution of the potential outcomes is estimated under the different possible treatments.
C54|Mitigating the Cost of Stricter Macroprudential Policies|We examine how to implement macroprudential policies – stricter capital requirements and loan-tovalue limits – in order to mitigate the output loss of corporate debt deleveraging. The analysis is performed in a dynamic general equilibrium model calibrated to fit the U.S. economy. Stricter capital requirements are generally costlier in terms of output losses than stricter loan-to-value limits. For both instruments, the output loss is a convex function of the debt-to-GDP ratio. Finally, the output loss can be significantly reduced by implementing the requirements gradually, and by activating a countercyclical capital buffer.
C54|Research for REGI Committee – Externalities of Cohesion Policy|The study investigates the effects of Cohesion Policy (CP) which occur in a country other than the one in which CP resources were actually spent. The study estimates that macroeconomic spillovers significantly contribute to the impact of CP. Spillovers directed to EU countries represent around 9% of the total annual CP expenditure. Other spillovers to Non-EU countries are around 8% of the CP expenditure. Macro and micro spillovers together arrive at 21% of the annual CP expenditure, 67% of which is distributed among EU countries. Around 20% of the CP expenditure can trigger sectoral spillover effects in the environment, transport and higher education sectors. The analysis demonstrates that externalities reinforce EU growth and competitiveness without CP deserting its convergence objective.
C54|The Impact of Labour Market Institutions and Capital Accumulation on Unemployment: Evidence for the OECD, 1985-2013|This paper provides econometric evidence on the impact of labour market regulations on (‘structural’) unemployment rates. Based on a data set for 23 OECD countries over the time period 1985‑2013, the panel regression results suggest that standard institutional labour market indicators – such as employment protection legislation, trade union density, tax wedge, minimum wages – largely underperform in explaining (medium-term) unemployment, while cyclical macroeconomic factors – in particular capital accumulation, but also the long-term real interest rate – are essential determinants. These results underscore that the existing macroeconometric evidence in favour of the view that labour market rigidities are at the heart of increased ‘structural’ unemployment in advanced economies is modest at best. Some labour market variables do have an impact on unemployment, but it is in general smaller than the impact of relevant macroeconomic variables. To understand the development of unemployment in OECD countries, researchers and policy-makers therefore should consider aggregate demand dynamics and focus on capital accumulation.
C54|Commodity Prices and Inflation Risk|This paper investigates the role of commodity price information when evaluating inflation risk. Using a model averaging approach, we provide strong evidence of in-sample and out-of-sample predictive ability from commodity prices and convenience yields to inflation, establishing clear point and density forecast performance gains when incorporating disaggregated commodities price information. The resulting forecast densities are used to calculate the (ex-ante) risk of inflation breaching deﬁned thresholds that broadly characterise periods of high and low inflation. We find that information in commodity prices significantly enhances our ability to pick out tail inflation events and to characterise the level of risks associated with periods of high volatility in commodity prices.
C54|Optimal Cash Transfers with Distribution Regressions: An Application to Egypt at the Dawn of the XXIst Century|Social programmes for poverty alleviation involve eligibility rules and transfer rules that often proxy-means tests. We propose to specify the estimator in connection with the poverty alleviation problem. Three distinct stages emerge from the optimization analysis: the identification of the poor, the ranking of their priorities and the calculus of the optimal transfer amount. These stages are implemented simultaneous by using diverse distribution regression methods to generate fitted-values of living standards plugged into the poverty minimization programme to obtain the transfer amounts. We apply these methods to Egypt in 2013. Recentered Influence Function (RIF) regressions focusing on the poor correspond to the most efficient transfer scheme. Most of the efficiency gain is obtained by making transfer amounts varying across beneficiaries rather than by varying estimation methods. Using RIF regressions instead of quantile regressions delivers only marginal poverty alleviation, although it allows for substantial reduction of the exclusion of the poor.
C54|Evaluating regulatory reform of network industries: a survey of empirical models based on categorical proxies|Proxies for regulatory reforms based on categorical variables are increasingly used in empirical evaluation models. We surveyed 63 studies that rely on such indices to analyze the effects of entry liberalization, privatization, unbundling, and independent regulation of the electricity, natural gas, and telecommunications sectors. We highlight methodological issues related to the use of these proxies. Next, taking stock of the literature, we provide practical advice for the design of the empirical strategy and discuss the selection of control and instrumental variables to attenuate endogeneity problems undermining identification of the effects of regulatory reforms.
C54|LU-EAGLE: A DSGE model for Luxembourg within the euro area and global economy|We describe LU-EAGLE, a DSGE model developed at the Banque centrale du Luxembourg. LU-EAGLE borrows its general structure from the Euro Area and GLobal Economy (EAGLE) model developed by the European System of Central Banks and also embeds specific features to capture some important characteristics of Luxembourg's economy. In particular, the model reproduces the high levels of exports and imports relative to GDP, as well as the significant share of cross-border workers in Luxembourg's labor market. We calibrate LU-EAGLE and discuss simulation results describing the effects of a set of standard shocks, originating both in Luxembourg and abroad. The model suggests that international spillovers make Luxembourg more responsive to monetary policy shocks and less responsive to fiscal policy shocks. Moreover, it highlights how fluctuations in foreign demand have a significant impact on domestic developments.
C54|Extraction of inflation expectations from financial instruments in Latin America|In this paper we estimate inflation expectations for several Latin American countries using an affine model that takes as factors the observed inflation and the parameters generated from zero-coupon yield curves of nominal bonds. By implementing this approach, we avoid the use of inflation-linked securities, which are scarce in many of these markets, and obtain market measures of inflation expectations free of any risk premium, eliminating potential biases included in other measures such as breakeven rates. Our method provides several advantages, as we can compute inflation expectations at any horizon and forward rates such as the expected inflation over the five year period that begins five years from today. We find that inflation expectations in the long-run are fairly anchored in Chile and Mexico, while those in Brazil and Colombia are more volatile and less anchored. We also find that expected inflation increases at longer horizons in Brazil and Chile, while it is decreasing in Colombia and Mexico.
C54|What will Brexit mean for the British and euro-area economies? A model-based assessment of trade regimes|This paper evaluates the macroeconomic effects on the UK and the euro area of an increase in trade tariffs associated with Brexit, by simulating a dynamic general equilibrium model of the UK, the euro area, and the rest of the world (RW). Our results are as follows: first, the imposition of tariffs reduces UK exports and economic activity by a non-negligible amount; second, the macroeconomic costs for the UK are reduced if it decides unilaterally not to increase tariffs on imports from the euro area and to reduce those on imports from the RW; third, the macroeconomic costs are particularly high if the lower UK trade openness resulting from the imposition of tariffs reduces the UK’s total factor productivity; and fourth, Brexit has negative, but quite limited, effects on euro-area economic activity.
C54|How do shocks to bank capital affect lending and growth?|We examine bank capital shocks using a recent new approach based on non-normal errors in vector autoregressive models. Using a sample of 14 European economies over January 2004 through March 2018 we identify two distinct classes of bank capital shocks, capital tightening shocks, and bank profitability shocks. We find that both bank capital shocks frequently lead to changes in lending volume and interest rates for new loans. In contrast to some recent similar studies, we find less evidence for impact on production. Bank capital shocks have further effects on the substitution between the bank and market-based financing and on credit allocation across different borrower sectors. Policymakers may find these results useful when considering counter-cyclical adjustments to the bank capital requirements.
C54|Do Market Segmentation and Preferred Habitat Theories Hold in Japan? : Quantifying Stock and Flow Effects of Bond Purchases|While major central banks confronting the global financial crisis conducted government bond purchases on an unprecedented scale, macroeconomists began re-examining carefully the once-accepted wisdom that long-term government bond purchases by the central bank reduce long-term yields. This paper follows this shift in economic thought and examines if the wisdom holds in Japan by estimating a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model that features imperfect substitutability of bonds with different maturities, due to market segmentation and preferred habitats, using Japan's data from the 1980s to 2017. We focus specifically on the transmission mechanism, to determine which matters most: the size of the bond purchases at each period (flow effects), or the total amount of bonds taken away from the private sectors (stock effects). We find that, (i) Japan's data accords well with market segmentation and preferred habitat theories, which implies that government bond purchases conducted by the Bank of Japan have compressed the term premium, exerting an expansionary effect on economic activity and prices; (ii) the effect of bond purchases has been most pronounced since Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing was introduced, compressing the term premium about 50 to 100 basis points as of the end of 2017; and (iii) the compression of the term premium has been mainly driven by stock effects, which underscores the importance of the amount outstanding of the Bank's government bond holdings in determining the term premium.
C54|A comparison of public preferences for different low-carbon energy technologies: Support for CCS, nuclear and wind energy in the United Kingdom|Using a representative national survey in the United Kingdom, we investigated public attitudes towards different low-carbon technologies (carbon capture and storage (CCS), wind and nuclear power) and the factors influencing public support. Overall, we found that respondents were far more likely to support wind energy as their preferred means of mitigating climate change. Older people and those of a higher social grade are more supportive of nuclear power, while age and social grade do not significantly affect support for wind energy. Supporters of the Conservative Party were more likely to oppose wind power. Neither attitudes towards climate change nor environmental attitudes were found to influence public support for wind power or nuclear. Trust in information from environmental groups was associated with greater support for wind energy but lower support for nuclear power. Perceived cost and objective knowledge significantly influenced public support for all three technology types, that is, higher perceived costs and the poorer objective knowledge lead to lower public support. However, self-assessed knowledge did not influence public support. Many factors, including most of the tested demographic factors, did not affect support for any of the three technologies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C54|How the Economics Profession Got It Wrong on Brexit|A wide range of reports from official bodies and academics have estimated the impact of Brexit. These influenced the outcome of the Brexit referendum and remain influential in informing views on the potential long-term consequences of a range of Brexit trade arrangements. This paper builds on a previous CBR working paper in examining the most influential of these reports, from HM Treasury, and the OECD. In this paper the work of the LSE’s Centre for Economic Performance is also included. Each of these reports base their analyses either on gravity models or a computable general equilibrium models. The addition in this paper a review of the link between trade and productivity, which plays an important role in these reports. We also examine three reports which take a direct approach to measuring the impact by assessing the likely prices increases across a large range of commodities due to the imposition of tariff and non-tariff barriers, and using elasticities to estimate the potential changes in the volume of trade. We find important flaws in both the application of gravity model results to a Brexit context, and in the knock-on impacts from trade to productivity. The flaws always have the result of exaggerating the negative impact of Brexit. The direct approaches involve partial rather than full equilibrium models but provide an important check on results from more complex models. However, the choice of elasticities can result in widely different results from ostensibly similar approaches. The paper starts by looking at the view, supported in the academic literature and widely repeated in the financial media, that accession to the EEC in 1973 improved the economic growth performance of the UK. The evidence suggests that this view is incorrect.
C54|Social Interactions, Mechanisms, and Equilibrium: Evidence from a Model of Study Time and Academic Achievement|We develop and estimate a model of student study time on a social network. The model is designed to exploit unique data collected in the Berea Panel Study. Study time data allow us to quantify an intuitive mechanism for academic social interactions: own study time may depend on friend study time in a heterogeneous manner. Social network data allow us to embed study time and resulting academic achievement in an estimable equilibrium framework. We develop a specification test that exploits the equilibrium nature of social interactions and use it to show that novel study propensity measures mitigate econometric endogeneity concerns.
C54|The Estimation of Reaction Functions under Tax Competition|Tax competition has long been studied using panel models. According to this approach, each country’s tax rate is assumed to depend on a weighted average of the tax rates applied in the rest of the world, where weights are exogenous. As a consequence, the estimated reaction functions of countries throughout the world have the same sign. This means that all tax rates are either strategic complements or strategic substitutes. Moreover, the intensity of a country’s reaction depends on certain exogenous weights, with a unique proportional factor common across all countries. Our article departs from this standard approach and proposes a VAR model as an alternative estimation strategy. Accordingly, weights are no longer determined exogenously but rather endogenously. As such, we compare and explore the implications of the panel versus the VAR model in terms of structural contemporaneous parameters and impulse response functions. We show that results obtained with a VAR model differ from those obtained from a panel approach. In particular, we find that strategic complementarity between certain countries (with a positive slope of reaction functions) may co-exist with strategic substitutability between other countries (negative slope). Given these results, we can say that a standard panel approach is relatively restrictive and therefore can lead to unreliable estimates, and fail to provide helpful policy recommendations.
C54|Alternative Values-Based 'Recipes' for Life Satisfaction: German Results with an Australian Replication|In most research on Life Satisfaction (LS), it is assumed that the covariates of high and low LS are the same for everyone, or at least everyone in the West. In this paper, analysing data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, with a limited replication based on Australian panel data, we estimate models of alternative 'recipes' for LS. There appear to be at least four distinct 'recipes', which are primarily based on the values of different population sub-sets. These values are: altruistic values, family values, materialistic values and religious values. By a 'recipe' for LS we mean a linked set of values, behavioural choices and domain satisfactions, which appear to be held together by a person's values, and which prove to have substantial effects on LS. Our German and Australian evidence indicates that individuals who follow recipes based on altruistic, family or religious values record above average long term LS, whereas the materialistic values 'recipe' is associated with below average LS.
C54|Financial and Fiscal Interaction in the Euro Area Crisis : This Time was Different|This paper highlights the anomalous characteristics of the Euro Area `twin crises' by contrasting the aggregate macroeconomic dynamics in the period 2009-2013 with the business cycle fluctuations of the previous decades. We report three stylised facts. First, the contraction in output was marked by an anomalous downfall in investment, while consumption, savings and unemployment followed their historical relation with GDP. Second, households and financial corporations debts, and house prices deviated from their pre-crisis trends. Third, the jump in the public deficit GDP ratio in 2008-2009 was unprecedented and so was the fiscal consolidation that followed. Our analysis points to the financial nature of the crisis as a likely explanation for these facts. Importantly, the `anomaly' in public deficit is in large part explained by extraordinary measures in support of the financial sector, which show up in the stockflow adjustments and reveal a key interaction between the fiscal and the financial sectors.
C54|Alternative Values-Based 'Recipes' for Life Satisfaction: German Results with an Australian Replication|In most research on Life Satisfaction (LS), it is assumed that the covariates of high and low LS are the same for everyone, or at least everyone in the West. In this paper, analysing data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, with a limited replication based on Australian panel data, we estimate models of alternative ‘recipes’ for LS. There appear to be at least four distinct ‘recipes’, which are primarily based on the values of different population sub-sets. These values are: altruistic values, family values, materialistic values and religious values. By a ‘recipe’ for LS we mean a linked set of values, behavioural choices and domain satisfactions, which appear to be held together by a person’s values, and which prove to have substantial effects on LS. Our German and Australian evidence indicates that individuals who follow recipes based on altruistic, family or religious values record above average long term LS, whereas the materialistic values ‘recipe’ is associated with below average LS.
C54|A framework for early-warning modeling with an application to banks|This paper proposes a framework for deriving early-warning models with optimal out-of-sample forecasting properties and applies it to predicting distress in European banks. The main contributions of the paper are threefold. First, the paper introduces a conceptual framework to guide the process of building early-warning models, which highlights and structures the numerous complex choices that the modeler needs to make. Second, the paper proposes a flexible modeling solution to the conceptual framework that supports model selection in real-time. Specifically, our proposed solution is to combine the loss function approach to evaluate early-warning models with regularized logistic regression and cross-validation to find a model specification with optimal real-time out-of-sample forecasting properties. Third, the paper illustrates how the modeling framework can be used in analysis supporting both microand macro-prudential policy by applying it to a large dataset of EU banks and showing some examples of early-warning model visualizations. JEL Classification: G01, G17, G21, G33, C52, C54
C54|A comparison of public preferences for different low-carbon energy technologies: Support for CCS, nuclear and wind energy in the United Kingdom|Using a representative national survey in the United Kingdom, we investigated public attitudes towards different low-carbon technologies (carbon capture and storage (CCS), wind and nuclear power) and the factors influencing public support. Overall, we found that respondents were far more likely to support wind energy as their preferred means of mitigating climate change. Older people and those of a higher social grade are more supportive of nuclear power, while age and social grade do not significantly affect support for wind energy. Supporters of the Conservative Party were more likely to oppose wind power. Neither attitudes towards climate change nor environmental attitudes were found to influence public support for wind power or nuclear. Trust in information from environmental groups was associated with greater support for wind energy but lower support for nuclear power. Perceived cost and objective knowledge significantly influenced public support for all three technology types, that is, higher perceived costs and the poorer objective knowledge lead to lower public support. However, self-assessed knowledge did not influence public support. Many factors, including most of the tested demographic factors, did not affect support for any of the three technologies.
C54|Was Pierson right? A synthetic control analysis of Reagan and Thatcher’s welfare state retrenchments|Pierson’s highly-regarded book, Dismantling the Welfare State? Reagan, Thatcher, and the Politics of Retrenchment suffers from a serious methodological drawback. The author draws his conclusions about welfare state resilience by scrutinizing what happened to social policy structure during and at the end of the two governments selected, ending up by falling into the well-known ‘post hoc ergo propter hoc’ fallacy. The present paper sets out to replicate Pierson’s analysis in a counterfactual framework of causal inference. Adopting the synthetic control method, the trajectories of several UK and US welfare-state measures, observed in the presence of Thatcher and Reagan’s administration, were contrasted with corresponding trajectories reconstructed in the absence of neo-conservative governments. This exercise confirmed Pierson’s substantive conclusion: the neo-conservative revolution of the 1980s did not significantly alter the UK or USA welfare state.
C54|Assessing the Productivity Consequences of Agri-Environmental Practices When Adoption Is Endogenous| We address the general problem of selection bias, endemic to analyzing the effects of any policy where adoption is voluntary, with empirical application to environmental policies for agriculture. Many voluntary practices for mitigating the environmental impacts of agriculture provide external benefits while lowering productivity. Policy analysis of the productivity consequences is complicated by the fact that decision-makers can choose their own policy levers, an action that ruins any notion of random assignment. We introduce an identification strategy to correct this kind of endogeneity, combining classic methods from stochastic frontier analysis and selection models. Applying it to micro-level data from Finnish grain farms, we find that more efficient producers are more likely to enroll in subsidized practices. And, because these practices tend to reduce yield, frontier analysis without the endogeneity correction greatly understates productivity losses. In other words, naively basing the frontier estimator on the subset of less productive farms leads to downward bias in the resulting frontier estimates. In fact, average inefficiency more than doubles after the correction in this case. An outlier investigation also suggests that the lowest decile of farms are responsible for most of the selection bias in the uncorrected model.
C54|DSGE forecasts of the lost recovery|The years following the Great Recession were challenging for forecasters. Unlike other deep downturns, this recession was not followed by a swift recovery, but generated a sizable and persistent output gap that was not accompanied by deflation as a traditional Phillips curve relationship would have predicted. Moreover, the zero lower bound and unconventional monetary policy generated an unprecedented policy environment. We document the real real-time forecasting performance of the New York Fed dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model during this period and explain the results using the pseudo real-time forecasting performance results from a battery of DSGE models. We find the New York Fed DSGE model's forecasting accuracy to be comparable to that of private forecasters and notably better, for output growth, than the median forecasts from the Federal Open Market Committee’s Summary of Economic Projections. The model’s financial frictions were key in obtaining these results, as they implied a slow recovery following the financial crisis.
C54|Monetary Policy across Space and Time|In this paper we ask two questions: (i) is the conduct of monetary policy stable across time and similar across major economies, and (ii) do policy decisions of major central banks have international spillover effects. To address these questions, we build on recent semi-parametric advances in time-varying parameter models that allow us to increase the VAR dimension and to jointly model three advanced economies (US, UK, and the Euro Area). In order to study policy spillovers, we jointly identify three economy-specific monetary policy shocks using a combination of sign and magnitude restrictions.
C54|Optimal Cash Transfers with Distribution Regressions: An Application to Egypt at the Dawn of the XXIst Century|Social programmes for poverty alleviation involve eligibility rules and transfer rules that often proxy-means tests. We propose to specify the estimator in connection with the poverty alleviation problem. Three distinct stages emerge from the optimization analysis: the identification of the poor, the ranking of their priorities and the calculus of the optimal transfer amount. These stages are implemented simultaneous by using diverse distribution regression methods to generate fitted-values of living standards plugged into the poverty minimization programme to obtain the transfer amounts. We apply these methods to Egypt in 2013. Recentered Influence Function (RIF) regressions focusing on the poor correspond to the most efficient transfer scheme. Most of the efficiency gain is obtained by making transfer amounts varying across beneficiaries rather than by varying estimation methods. Using RIF regressions instead of quantile regressions delivers only marginal poverty alleviation, although it allows for substantial reduction of the exclusion of the poor.
C54|A Principal Component Simulation of Age-Specific Fertility - Impacts of Family and Social Policy on Reproductive Behavior in Germany|This contribution proposes a simulation approach for the indirect estimation of age-specific fertility rates (ASFRs) and the total fertility rate (TFR) for Germany via time series modeling of the principal components of the ASFRs. The model accounts for cross-correlation and autocorrelation among the ASFR time series. The effects of certain measures are also quantified through the introduction of policy variables. Our approach is applicable to probabilistic sensitivity analyses investigating the potential outcome of political intervention. A slight increase in the TFR is probable until 2040. In the median scenario, the TFR will increase from 1.6 in 2016 to 1.68 in 2040 and will be between 1.46 and 1.92 with a probability of 75 percent. Based on this result, it is unlikely that the fertility level will fall back to its extremely low levels of the mid-1990s. Two simple alternate scenarios are used to illustrate the estimated ceteris paribus effect of changes in our policy variables on the TFR.
C54|The Role of Public Pensions in Income Inequality among Elderly Households in China 1988–2013|Using data from the Chinese Household Income Project surveys for 1988, 1995, 2002 and 2013, we investigate the role of public pensions in income inequality among households with elderly members across two decades of pension policy reforms. We examine the distribution and role of public pensions at a national level. We analyse the evolution of the contribution of public pensions to national income inequality across a much more extended time period than earlier studies, which have generally focused on regional changes over short periods. Our findings suggest that public pensions have become the most important source of income for households with elderly members on average in China, but the distribution of pension income is highly unequal, with a Gini coefficient of 0.74 in 2013. Public pension income has been the largest source of income inequality for elderly households since 2002 and contributed to more than half of total income inequality in the most recent year of the survey. This finding is robust against variations in the income inequality measures used. Additionally, our analysis suggests unequal distribution of pension benefits is the primary driver of pensioners’ income inequality. Among several hypothetical policy changes, ensuring a minimum pension benefit for all existing pensioners seems to be the most fiscally effective option in reducing income inequality, with a 0.8% reduction in the Gini coefficient for a 1% increase in public pension expenditure.
C54|Working Longer in China: Implicit Tax or Subsidy?|Using the conventional concept of implicit tax, we investigate pension incentives to retire for private sector employees in China. The social security pension consists of pay-as-you-go defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC) systems. Based on Chinese official parameters and the revised OECD models, our studies conclude that the DB system discourages people from working more, but the DC system offers considerably greater incentives at the expense of financial sustainability. If the annuity factors in the DC scheme were linked to the probability of retirees’ mortality, then both constant incentives to work longer and financial sustainability could be achieved.
C54|Extraction of Inflation Expectations from Financial Instruments|In this paper we estimate inflation expectations for several Latin American countries using an affine model that takes as factors the observed inflation and the parameters generated from zero-coupon yield curves of nominal bonds. By implementing this approach, we avoid the use of inflation-linked securities, which are scarce in many of these markets, and obtain market measures of inflation expectations free of any risk premium, eliminating potential biases included in other measures such as breakeven rates. Our method provides several advantages, as we can compute inflation expectations at any horizon and forward rates such as the expected inflation over the five year period that begins five years from today. We find that inflation expectations in the long-run are fairly anchored in Chile and Mexico, while those in Brazil and Colombia are more volatile and less anchored. We also find that expected inflation increases at longer horizons in Brazil and Chile, while it is decreasing in Colombia and Mexico.
C54|Scarcity and Spotlight Effects on Liquidity and Yield: Quantitative Easing in Japan|We investigate the determinants of the term structures of market liquidity and bond yield in the case of the Quantitative Easing ( QE) programs implemented by the Bank of Japan (BoJ). We distinguish between two opposing effects of QE on the liquidity of Japanese Government Bonds, the gscarcity effect, h which is gradually manifested as a negative impact on liquidity, due to the shrinkage in the available supply of bonds; and the gspotlight effect, h which induces an immediate improvement in liquidity, reflecting BOJ fs massive demand. Between 2011 and 2016, we find that government bonds show an improvement in liquidity through the spotlight effect, but also experience a deterioration in liquidity through the scarcity effect. As for the yield, both the spotlight and scarcity effects work in the same direction (i.e., they raise bond prices) against theoretical expectation. Illiquidity caused by scarcity amplifies the yield decline rather than adding to the illiquidity premium.
C54|The third pillar of the Investment Plan for Europe: The RHOMOLO assessment|The Investment Plan for Europe aims at removing obstacles to investment, providing visibility and technical assistance to investment projects, and at making smarter use of financial resources. The Investment Plan is made up of three pillars: the European Fund for Strategic Investment (EFSI); the European Investment Advisory Hub and the European Investment Project Portal; and the removal of regulatory barriers to investment. Policy simulations using the RHOMOLO dynamic CGE model show positive aggregate macro-economic effects of the EFSI. This Policy Insight contains the result of an additional set of RHOMOLO simulations aimed at quantifying the macroeconomic impact of the legislative proposals contained in the third pillar of the Investment Plan. The EU GDP is expected to be 1.5% higher by 2030 thanks to the removal of barriers to investment in the areas of the Capital Markets Union, the Single Market Strategy, the Digital Single Market, and the Energy Union. This entails the creation of about one million of jobs across the entire EU.
C54|Cohesion Policy 2007-2015: The RHOMOLO assessment|The European Cohesion Policy 2007-2015 was implemented in challenging times due to the economic and financial crisis and widespread cuts to public investment. Cohesion Policy has been used to reach objectives related to employment, R&D, energy sustainability, education, and poverty and social exclusion. Policy simulations using the RHOMOLO dynamic CGE model show positive macro-economic effects of the policy at the EU level, with significant differences between less developed regions, transition regions, and more developed ones. Cohesion Policy funds mainly targeted the less developed regions which received 60% of the total investments, while transition regions and more developed ones received 24% and 16% of the total, respectively. RHOMOLO simulations estimate the long-run GDP impact of Cohesion Policy to be equal to +0.7% at the EU level, with peaks in some less developed regions above +5%. The cumulative multipliers associated with the Cohesion Policy funds are above one in most EU regions by 2030.
C54|R&I and Low-carbon investment in Apulia, Italy: The RHOMOLO assessment|The European Cohesion Policy supports eleven thematic objectives. Four of these are key priorities for the European Regional Development Fund: Research and Innovation (R&I), Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), SME competitiveness, and Low-carbon economy. The European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) is supporting Apulia, Italy, with the design and implementation of Regional Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialisation (RIS3). Quantitative tools such as the RHOMOLO model could help evaluate the impact of funding programmes in different policy areas across European regions. R&I and Low-Carbon ERDF Investments aim at generating sustainable growth and supporting the capacity of regional economies to innovate in line with the Energy Union strategy and the EU's transition to a low-carbon economy. Policy simulations using the RHOMOLO dynamic CGE model show positive macro-economic effects of the ERDF investments related to the R&I and Low-carbon thematic objectives in Apulia both within the region and in its neighbouring regions.
C54|The third pillar of the Investment Plan for Europe: An impact assessment using the RHOMOLO model|We evaluate the macroeconomic impact of the legislative proposals contained in the third pillar of the Investment Plan for Europe using the RHOMOLO modelling framework. In particular, we study a number of proposals related to the Capital Markets Union, the Single Market Strategy, the Digital Single Market, and the Energy Union. The likely economic effects of the removal of cross-country barriers to investment related to these four initiatives are positive and quantified to be on average equal to an increase of 1.5% of EU GDP by 2030. Such an impact would also entail the creation of about 1 million jobs.
C54|The impact of Cohesion Policy 2007-2015 in EU regions: Simulations with the RHOMOLO Interregional Dynamic General Equilibrium Model|In this paper we assess the system-wide economic impact of the key financial instruments adopted by the European Union for the implementation of the regional policy: The Structural funds and The Cohesion Funds. We take a bottom-up approach by aggregating the 86 categories of expenditures defined in the Structural and Cohesion Funds into six main policy variables. The outcomes of the simulations are the results of a combination of demand-and-supply-side shocks that are implemented into the RHOMOLO spatial and dynamic general equilibrium model calibrated on a set of inter-regional Social Accounting Matrices for the year 2010. In our analysis we document the direct, indirect, and general equilibrium effects of the EU regional policy at the regional, national, and EU level. In the short-run, our simulation exercise suggests a pronounced variegate patters across EU regions. In the long-run, a more homogenous spatial distribution is detected. Moreover, we identify and quantify the interregional spillover effects arising from trade links and capital mobility.
C54|The RHOMOLO economic impact assessment of the R&I and Low-Carbon ERDF Investment programme in Apulia, Italy|"In this note we present the economic impact assessment of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for thematic objectives TO1 ""Research and innovation"" and TO4 ""Low-carbon economy"" in the region of Apulia, Italy. The results are based on the RHOMOLO-IO demand multiplier analysis and on computer simulations with the multi-regional dynamic computable general equilibrium (CGE) model RHOMOLO. The former approach is used to calculate the sector-specific output multipliers following a demand-side shock, while the CGE simulations provide evidence of significant spillover effects spreading beyond the Apulian borders and stimulating economic growth in other regions with significant trade links with Apulia. Our results suggest that a â‚¬536 million increase in demand for the Manufacturing & Construction sector would entail an increase in total value added of â‚¬329 million, which is roughly 0.46% of the regional GDP. The RHOMOLO simulations show that the effects of policy interventions reach their peak in the last years of ERDF programming period (2020-2022), when the absorption of investment funding is at its full potential. In 2022, T01 and T04 investments of the ERDF increase Apulian by 0.2% above the baseline GDP projections. Given the high import intensity of the region, only one fourth of the overall effect is driven by the direct investments and three fourths depend on the productivity improvements achieved as a result of the specific policy design. This demonstrates that the implementation of policies that are effective in raising productivity ensures long term economic benefits even in the absence of continuous funding."
C54|Méthodologie de l’évaluation d’impact de l’expérimentation Parcours santé des aînés (Paerpa)|L’expérimentation sur les Parcours santé des aînés (Paerpa), lancée en 2014 dans neuf territoires pilotes, avec l’objectif d’améliorer la prise en charge et la qualité de vie des personnes âgées de 75 ans et plus, est un exemple d'expérimentation complexe. Elle combine une série de dispositifs nationaux implémentés de façon hétérogène d’un territoire à l’autre. L’évaluation d’expérimentations territoriales comme Paerpa renvoie à des enjeux méthodologiques importants car le traitement de ces expérimentations est hétérogène et l'effet de ce traitement peut varier selon les contextes territoriaux. Dans cet article, nous présentons la méthode du contrôle synthétique (CS) comme une méthode pertinente pour l’évaluation d’impact des politiques territoriales et nous testons sa robustesse comparativement aux méthodes alternatives plus classiques. L’évaluation s’appuie principalement sur les données du Système national des données de santé (SNDS) de 12 régions françaises de 2010 à 2016. Les contextes socio­-économiques et l’offre sanitaire et médico-sociale des territoires sont appréhendés à partir de nombreuses sources de données, à un niveau communal ou départemental. Les analyses exploratoires mettent en évidence un biais de sélection pour certains territoires et suggèrent que les méthodes de régressions classiques peuvent être inappropriées. La méthode du CS permet de faire varier la composition des témoins selon le territoire et l’indicateur de résultat, et d’établir l’impact des dispositifs de façon robuste. Elle fournit un moyen systématique pour identifier les unités de contrôle, donne la possibilité d’explorer de façon approfondie les résultats par territoire et d’être totalement objectifs dans le choix des territoires témoins en les sélectionnant selon des critères statistiques. Complétée par des analyses qualitatives, la méthode offre des clés de compréhension utiles pour l’interprétation des résultats.
C54|Distributional impact analysis: toolkit and illustrations of impacts beyond the average treatment effect|Program evaluations often focus on average treatment effects. However, average treatment effects miss important aspects of policy evaluation, such as the impact on inequality and whether treatment harms some individuals. A growing literature develops methods to evaluate such issues by examining the distributional impacts of programs and policies. This toolkit reviews methods to do so, focusing on their application to randomized control trials. The paper emphasizes two strands of the literature: estimation of impacts on outcome distributions and estimation of the distribution of treatment impacts. The article then discusses extensions to conditional treatment effect heterogeneity, that is, to analyses of how treatment impacts vary with observed characteristics. The paper offers advice on inference, testing, and power calculations, which are important when implementing distributional analyses in practice. Finally, the paper illustrates select methods using data from two randomized evaluations.
C54|How Important Are Fixed Effects and Time Trends in Estimating Returns to Schooling? Evidence from a Replication of Jacobson, Lalonde and Sullivan, 2005|A substantial and rapidly growing literature has developed around estimating earnings gains from two-year college degrees using administrative data. These papers almost universally employ a person-level fixed effects strategy to estimate earnings premia net of fixed attributes. We note that the seminal piece on which these papers build, Jacobson, Lalonde and Sullivan (Journal of Econometrics, 2005), provides theoretical and empirical evidence for the importance of additionally differencing out individual time-trends. The subsequent literature has not followed suit. Through replication we ask whether this matters. We show that it does, and further that these person-level time-trends need not be computationally burdensome in large administrative data. We recommend them as a unifying econometric standard for future work.
C54|A global multi-sectoral model in local currencies|Economic agents make their decisions by focusing on the economic performance of their economies in their currencies rather than in a foreign currency. This shows that a multi-country economic model in local currencies is suitable to analyze global economic issues. However, international input-output tables are denominated in a specific currency such as the US dollar. Employing the OECD Intercountry Input-Output Tables, this paper presents a method to convert the international input-output tables in U.S. dollars and current prices to those in local currencies and constant prices. In addition, the structure of a global model with economies of scale and imperfect competition is illustrated. A numerical example is also demonstrated in order to show the applicability of the model.
C54|Public Funding and Corporate Innovation|We review and condense the body of literature on the economic returns of public R&D on private R&D and find that: (i) private returns to R&D appear to be large and larger than the returns to alternative investments; (ii) private R&D and R&D subsidies are positively correlated and there is no evidence for crowding out; (iii) R&D cooperation increases private R&D; (iv) there appear to exist complementarities between alternative sources of funding; (v) the mobility of R&D workers, particularly of university scientists, is positively related to innovation; (vi) there are many university spin-offs but these are no more successful than non-university spin-offs; (vii) universities constitute important collaboration partners and (viii) clusters enhance collaboration, patents and productivity. Key problems for economic policy advice are that the identification of causal effects is problematic in most studies and that little is known about the optimal design of policy measures.
C54|Quantile-based Inﬂation Risk Models|This paper proposes a new approach to extract quantile-based in ation risk mea- sures using Quantile Autoregressive Distributed Lag Mixed-Frequency Data Sampling (QADL-MIDAS) regression models. We compare our models to a standard Quantile Auto-Regression (QAR) model and show that it delivers better quantile forecasts at several forecasting horizons. We use the QADL-MIDAS model to construct in ation risk measures proxying for uncertainty, third-moment dynamics and the risk of ex- treme in ation realizations. We nd that these risk measures are linked to the future evolution of in ation and changes in the e ective federal funds rate.
C54|Endogenous and Selective Service Choices After Airline Mergers|We estimate a model of service choice and price competition in airline markets, allowing for the carriers that provide nonstop service to be a selected subset of the carriers competing in the market. Our model can be estimated without an excessive computational burden and we use the estimated model to illustrate the effects of selection on equilibrium market structure and to show how accounting for selection can change predictions about post-merger market power and repositioning, in ways that are consistent with what has been observed after actual mergers, and possible merger remedies.
C54|Market Opening, Growth and Employment|What can further market integration contribute to growth and employment? A series of hypothetical trade reform scenarios explores what countries at different levels of development can expect to gain from reforming tariffs, non-tariff barriers, trade facilitation and domestic support to agriculture. Simulations of multilateral and regional trade agreements with the OECD METRO model show that positive effects are higher when more countries participate in trade integration because it broadens market opportunities, widens the range of products at lower prices, and reduces trade diversion. Smaller economies especially benefit. Firms in these economies can better specialise in international production networks as they have access to larger and more differentiated markets and also benefit from enhanced market access on the products they already produce. While trade integration boosts demand and lifts wages and factor returns, the required production adjustments also leads to reallocation of workers between sectors. The analysis highlights some of the distributional implications and emphasises the need for labour force adjustment policies to accompany trade integration.
C54|Estimation of competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity using hsmlogit|This article presents hsmlogit, a new Stata command that estimates multispells discrete time competing risks duration models with unobserved heterogeneity. hsmlogit allows for the estimation of one, two and up to three competing risks, as well as a maximum of ve points of support for the identication of unobserved heterogeneity distribution (Heckman and Singer, 1984). The main contribution of hsmlogit is that allows for exploiting the richness of large longitudinal micro datasets, by estimating competing risks duration models, instead of one-risk models (such as hshaz and hshaz2), as well as it takes into account the presence of unobserved heterogeneity affecting transition rates. In addition to this, and taking into account the larger size of longitudinal micro datasets used for the estimation of discrete time duration models, hsmlogit also provides the algebraic expressions of both rst and second order derivatives that, respectively, dene the gradient vector and Hessian matrix, which signicantly reduce time required to achieve model convergence.
C54|Social Investment and youth labour market participation: a EU regional analysis|"In this paper, we first rely on small area techniques to derive from EU-SILC survey new indicators of compensatory and investment policies at regional level. While compensatory policies have mainly the goal of protecting individuals from “old” risks (e.g. old-age), investment-related social policies tend to focus more on ""new social risks"" (i.e. skill deficits). We rely on these new indicators to perform a data-driven SVAR analysis to investigate the casual relationships between youth labour market outcomes and these two types of spending. Our results support the view that investment policies are more effective for tackling new social challenges."
C54|US international economic policy in the Trump administration|President Donald Trump has emphasized three recurring themes regarding trade policy: the importance of trade balances, including bilateral trade balances, currency manipulation to gain unfair advantage in trade, and “disastrous” trade agreements. Asia figures prominently in these concerns. Trump withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, is increasing contingent or process protection, demanding the renegotiation under duress of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement. These policies are modeled quantitatively and results generated for sectoral output and employment at the state and metropolitan area level.
C54|Количественное Смягчение По-Русски<BR>[Quantitative Easing, Russian Style]|In March 2018, President of Russia Vladimir Putin designated the target of increasing per capita GDP of the Russian population 1.5 times by 2024. In order to meet this target, GDP would be required to grow by 6% a year between 2018 and 2024. This is a challenging task as the last time growth rate ever reached the 6% bar was in the far off 2008. However, this can be done with the help of “quantitative easing, Russian way”. For that purpose, the commonly used “technology” of quantitative easing has to be adapted to the Russian environment. В марте 2018 года президент России Владимир Путин обозначил цель увеличить ВВП на душу населения в России в 1,5 раза к 2024 году. Для выполнения этой задачи требуется рост ВВП в 2018-2024 годах на 6% в год. Задача сложная, так как последний раз рост достигал 6% в далёком 2008 году. Но эту задачу можно решить с помощью «количественного смягчения по-русски». Для этого надо общепринятую «технологию» количественного смягчения приспособить (адаптировать) к российским условиям.
C54|Measuring the Signaling Effect of the ECB’s Asset Purchase Programme at the Effective Lower Bound|This paper analyses the signaling effect of the European Central Bank’s (ECB) statements related to its asset purchase programme (APP) on market expectations for the future path of short-term interest rates in the euro area. Considering a broad set of event days and daily changes in euro area stock indices as surprise reactions to the statements, an event-study analysis is employed to capture the changes in country-specific short-term interest rate expectations, as extracted from an effective lower bound (ELB) consistent shadow-rate term structure model. The empirical results generally support the presence of signaling effects in the euro area, but the estimated effectiveness of the channel has a considerable degree of uncertainty. Regarding country-specific differences, the reaction of interest rate expectations in the periphery countries tends to be stronger for dovish APP statement surprises, and thus these countries may benefit more from the signaling channel. Lastly, the responses of interest rate expectations to APP statement surprises are found to vary considerably depending on the identification strategy of the APP statements, which ultimately shows that these conclusions based on the empirical results are likely to be fragile.
C54|The impact of Chinese textile imports on employment and value added in the manufacturing sector of the South African economy|With the increased trade linkage between China and African economies, this paper endeavours to assess the dynamic impacts of Chinese textile imports on the employment and value added in the manufacturing sector of the South African economy. The paper makes use of the structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) methodology with sign restrictions. Moreover, based on this methodology, the paper conducts a counterfactual analysis to uncover what would have happened to employment and value added trends in the manufacturing sector in South African textile in the absence of trade with china. The results of the empirical analysis show that total employment responds negatively to shocks to import from China. Moreover, total value added in the manufacturing sector reacts negatively to positive shocks to textile imports from China.
C54|Exploring the Determinacy Dynamics in an Open Economy|A crucial theme in macroeconomic dynamics concerns the issue of determinacy, that is, the question of uniqueness or multiplicity of admissible dynamic trajectories. Unlike previous studies which economy addressed this question in a closed, we explore the determinacy dynamics in a small open economy. The structure of the model set forth, is such that it leads to a higher degree characteristic equation which cannot be handled analytically. By using a specific algorithm developed, we solve it and show that a form of a Taylor rule implies, for the parameter space examined, determinate equilibrium dynamics. In line with previous findings on determinacy, the case for a form of flexible Price Level Targeting (PLT), does not only hold in a closed economy but, also, extends with some modification, to a small open economy as well.
C54|L’impact De L’investissement Des Revenus Pétroliers Sur La Croissance, L’inflation Et Le Chômage : Cas D’Algérie (2000-2015)<BR>[The Impact of Oil Revenue Investment on Growth, Inflation and Unemployment: The Case of Algeria (2000-2015)]|This paper investigates the short-run and long-run relationships between four main Algerian macroeconomic variables, the investment of oil revenues, economic growth, unemployment rate, inflation rate, using the Johansen multivariate cointegration techniques as well as VAR model for the period 2000-2015. The results indicate that there is not a long relationship between these four macroeconomic variables. The impulse functions and the variance decomposition from the stationary VAR show that the investment of oil revenues is very important to short run dynamics of the Algerian economy, when there is a shock in investment of oil revenues, GDP responds positively (13%) while the unemployment rate responds negatively (11%), in the long term. This is in line with the Algerian government's investment strategy, increasing GDP and reducing the unemployment rate.
C54|Climate Friendly Goods and Technology Trade: Climate Mitigation Strategy of India|This study focuses on India’s climate change mitigation strategy through trade and how India gradually moves forward towards the goal of sustainable development path. The paper highlights trade performances of climate friendly goods and technology (CFGT) in India during 2002-20017 and suggests possible solution through trade channels that might mitigate climate change through disseminating and exchanging the low carbon and clean technologies, which improve energy efficiency and minimizes environmental impacts. The products associated with clean technologies which have relatively less adverse impact on the environment. This paper attempts to realize India’s CFGT export and import, and quantify trade opportunities of CFGT in India. With these it also identifies constrains and helps to widen capacity and strengthen its capability in the advancement of capturing new opportunities in production and trade in CFGT. India should adopt few policies to improve and raise CFGT production while trade ensures availability of technologies
C54|Growing Potential Business opportunity for Climate Friendly Goods and Technologies in Asia since 1997|This paper examines empirical relationships, analyses determinants of CFGT trade in the pre-crisis period and predict bilateral trade flows using the gravity model in Asia. Income level, geographical distance, and developmental position of both trading partners, and country characteristics, economic policy reforms and available infrastructure are important determinants of CFGT trade and its sub-categories. Through trade gap, this paper estimates the value of trade opportunity of CFGT in Asia, identifies potential trading partners, and also suggests CFGT trade among the trade partners.
C54|Long-Memory Modeling and Forecasting: Evidence from the U.S. Historical Series of Inflation|We report the results of applying semi-parametric long-memory estimators to the historical monthly series of U.S. inflation, and analyze their empirical forecasting performance over 1, 6, 12, and 24 months using in-sample and out-of-sample procedures. For comparison purposes, we also apply two parametric estimators, the naive AR(1) and the ARFIMA(1, d, 1) models. We evaluate the forecasting accuracy of the competing methods using the mean square error (MSE) and mean absolute error (MAE) criteria. We evaluate the statistical significance of forecasting accuracy of competing forecasts using the Diebold-Mariano (1995) test. Overall, our results preforms slightly better than the Lahiani and Scaillet (2009) threshold estimator based on the MSE and MAE criteria. This improvement in performance does not prove significant enough to cause a rejection of the null hypothesis of equality of predictive accuracy. The Boubaker (2017) estimator, on the other hand, significantly outperforms the time-invariant estimators over longer horizons. Over shorter horizons, however, the Boubaker (2017) estimator does not exhibit a significantly better predictive performance than the time-invariant long-memory estimators with the exception of the naive AR(1) model.
C54|Integrating Monetary Policy and Financial Stability: A New Framework|Since the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis during 2007-2008, financial stability (FS) has become top priority for central banks around the world. The conduct of monetary policy (MP) sees no exception. By leveraging on the existing literature, we propose a systematic approach to incorporate FS considerations into MP framework. This starts with calculating a financial cycle (FC) which is a measure of financial imbalances and a predictor of financial crises. We then look at an FS dashboard which consolidates pockets of risks facing the financial sector, and show how it may be used in FS surveillance. Next, we discuss the concept of model development and introduce an example of a model platform to facilitate MP formulation. Nevertheless, when implementing MP to address FS risks, policymakers encounter an inter-temporal trade-off between financial and price stability. A key challenge towards MP decision-making is, therefore, to strike a balance between both mandates by designing the appropriate policy mix between monetary and macroprudential policies. As a demonstration of our approach, we discuss, in each section, an on-going attempt at the Bank of Thailand to systematically incorporate FS into flexible inflation targeting.
C54|Corporate Income Tax, Legal Form of Organization, and Employment|A dynamic stochastic occupational choice model with heterogeneous agents is developed to evaluate the impact of a corporate income tax reduction on employment. In this framework, the key margin is the endogenous entrepreneurial choice of legal form of organization. A reduction in the corporate income tax burden encourages adoption of the C corporation legal form, which reduces capital constraints on firms. Improved capital reallocation increases overall productive efficiency in the economy and therefore expands the labor market. Relative to the benchmark economy, a corporate income tax cut can reduce the non-employment rate by up to 7 percent.
C54|Evaluating the implicit cost of CO2 abatement with renewable energy incentives in Pakistan|The use of renewable energy (RE) sources contributes to the sustainable development goals of climate change mitigation and access to clean and affordable energy. To diversify the electricity mix, reduce reliance on fossil-fuels and abate powers sector CO2 emissions, the Government of Pakistan developed a policy to incentivize RE deployment by offering upfront feed-in tariffs (FIT). This paper attempts to estimate the cost of CO2 emission abatement with RE incentives for solar and wind power plants for the period 2015-2020. The implicit cost of CO2 abatement defined as the ratio of net cost of RE to CO2 emissions avoided is estimated to be $116/tCO2 for wind and $78/tCO2 for solar power. The payment to generators guaranteed by FITs is a major determinant and explains the difference between the implicit abatement costs of solar and wind power. These estimates, however, are sensitive to the resources displaced by RE and the fuel prices. This study provides a framework to the policymakers for analysis of RE incentives recognizing the dynamic nature of the abatement cost metric and discusses policy implications in the light of the results.
C54|Does a bank levy increase frictions on the interbank market?|The crisis has shown that a drop in liquidity, as well as the shortened maturity of interbank transactions, has caused many problems for banks. We analyze how the introduction of a bank levy on bank assets in Poland has affected the interbank market, as well as money market pricing. Analyzing daily volume and number of interbank transactions, along with daily bank quotes, we document that the bank levy has significantly reduced trading intensity on the market, shortening the maturity of transactions. We also find that it has increased the dispersion of bank quotes for short-term transactions, while at the same time ''killing'' interbank long-term transactions, including the pricing for this market. The regulators should re-think the nature of bank levies in several countries, as they negatively affect the functioning of the interbank market and brings intoquestion the credibility of interbank benchmarks.
C54|Modeling temporal treatment effects with zero inflated semi-parametric regression models: the case of local development policies in France|A semi-parametric approach is proposed to estimate the variation along time of the effects of two distinct public policies that were devoted to boost rural development in France over the same period of time. At a micro data level, it is often observed that the dependent variable, such as local employment, does not vary along time, so that we face a kind of zero inflated phenomenon that cannot be dealt with a continuous response model. We introduce a mixture model which combines a mass at zero and a continuous response. The suggested zero inflated semi-parametric statistical approach relies on the flexibility and modularity of additive models with the ability of panel data to deal with selection bias and to allow for the estimation of dynamic treatment effects. In this multiple treatment analysis, we find evidence of interesting patterns of temporal treatment effects with relevant nonlinear policy effects. The adopted semi-parametric modeling also offers the possibility of making a counterfactual analysis at an individual level. The methodology is illustrated and compared with parametric linear approaches on a few municipalities for which the mean evolution of the potential outcomes is estimated under the different possible treatments.
C54|The Impact of Climate Change on U.S. Agriculture: The Roles of Adaptation Techniques and Emissions Reductions|We investigate the impact of climate change on U.S. agricultural productivity using county-level yield and weather data from 1950 to 2015. We present two new methods of modelling how producers adapt agricultural techniques to harsh temperatures, including a new panel data estimator that allows for two-dimensional fixed-effects in slopes. We find evidence of adaptation to geographic and temporal variation in climate, but it has stalled since 1989. We show that adaptation implies fixed-effects slope heterogeneity in the relationship between crop yield and temperature, and ignoring this leads to biased estimates of temperature sensitivity. We use our estimates to project corn yields to 2100 using a variety of climate models and emission scenarios, and find that unmitigated climate change will have severe effects on yields. Our models indicate that adaptation techniques can mitigate 10 to 45% of the damage, but significant emissions reductions can mitigate far more (i.e., 42 to 91%).
C54|Political economic uncertainty in a small & open economy: the case of Uruguay|It has been well documented by the macroeconomic literature the negative effects of economic policy instability on economic uncertainty and investment decisions. In changing environments, agents prefer to delay investment decisions in fixed capital, ultimately leading to the depression of economic activity. Uruguay, as a small and open economy of South America, has historically faced strong external shocks. Therefore, not only local instability of economic policy affects, also international and regional ones affect macroeconomic volatility and growth. With the objective of quantifying and analyzing uncertainty and volatility in the Uruguayan economy, we built an uncertainty composite index adapting the methodology proposed by Baker, Bloom & Davis (2015). In order to address how local and global economic policy uncertainty affects the volatility of the Uruguayan economy we include in the composite index, local and external uncertainty indicators. We represent local uncertainty by agent's divergence on expectations about the future of the exchange rate. In order to account for both, regional and global shocks, we include uncertainty indicators of the relevant economic-world for Uruguay. Empirical strategy is based on a combination of statistical methods of principal components analysis and time series techniques. We test two alternative indexes, both of them starting in January 2004. Our results show that although both uncertainty indexes seem to be good predictors of the volatility for the whole period, they losses predictability power in the last years.
C54|Trade Policies and Integration of the Western Balkans|Based on a newly constructed multi-country input-output table including all European countries, we estimate the economic effects of the EU accession countries entering the ‘Stabilisation and Association Agreement’ (SAA) with the EU and the potential effects of joining the European Single Market applying a structural gravity framework. The results point towards strong positive effects on trade for the SAA countries, but only small effects for the EU Member States. Conducting a counterfactual analysis, the paper gives an indication of the magnitude of the positive impacts on GDP for these countries. In addition, a detailed industry breakdown of these effects is provided.
C54|Financial and Fiscal Interaction in the Euro Area Crisis: This Time was Different|This paper highlights the anomalous characteristics of the Euro Area `twin crises' by contrasting the aggregate macroeconomic dynamics in the period 2009-2013 with the business cycle fluctuations of the previous decades. We report three stylised facts. First, the contraction in output was marked by an anomalous downfall in investment, while consumption, savings and unemployment followed their historical relation with GDP. Second, households' and financial corporations' debts, and house prices deviated from their pre-crisis trends. Third, the jump in the public deficit-GDP ratio in 2008-2009 was unprecedented and so was the fiscal consolidation that followed. Our analysis points to the financial nature of the crisis as a likely explanation for these facts. Importantly, the `anomaly' in public deficit is in large part explained by extraordinary measures in support of the financial sector, which show up in the stock-flow adjustments and reveal a key interaction between the fiscal and the financial sectors.
C54|How the baby boomers' retirement wave distorts model‐based output gap estimates|This paper illustrates, based on an example, the importance of consistency between empirical measurement and the concept of variables in estimated macroeconomic models. Since standard New Keynesian models do not account for demographic trends and sectoral shifts, I propose adjusting hours worked per capita used to estimate such models accordingly to enhance the consistency between the data and the model. Without this adjustment, low‐frequency shifts in hours lead to unreasonable trends in the output gap, caused by the close link between hours and the output gap in such models. The retirement wave of baby boomers, for example, lowers US aggregate hours per capita, which leads to erroneous permanently negative output gap estimates following the Great Recession. After correcting hours for changes in the age composition, the estimated output gap closes gradually instead following the years after the Great Recession.
C54|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues|Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
C54|Tests of Policy Interventions in DSGE Models|This paper considers tests of the effectiveness of a policy intervention, defined as a change in the parameters of a policy rule, in the context of a macroeconometric dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model. We consider two types of intervention, first the standard case of a parameter change that does not alter the steady state, and second one that does alter the steady state, e.g. the target rate of inflation. We consider two types of test, one a multi‐horizon test, where the postintervention policy horizon, H, is small and fixed, and a mean policy effect test where H is allowed to increase without bounds. The multi‐horizon test requires Gaussian errors, but the mean policy effect test does not. It is shown that neither of these two tests are consistent, in the sense that the power of the tests does not tend to unity as H→∞, unless the intervention alters the steady state. This follows directly from the fact that DSGE variables are measured as deviations from the steady state, and the effects of policy change on target variables decay exponentially fast. We investigate the size and power of the proposed mean effect test by simulating a standard three equation New Keynesian DSGE model. The simulation results are in line with our theoretical findings and show that in all applications the tests have the correct size; but unless the intervention alters the steady state, their power does not go to unity with H.
C54|How to predict financial stress? An assessment of Markov switching models|This paper predicts phases of the financial cycle by combining a continuous ﬁnancial stress measure in a Markov switching framework. The debt service ratio and property market variables signal a transition to a high ﬁnancial stress regime, while economic sentiment indicators provide signals for a transition to a tranquil state. Whereas the in-sample analysis suggests that these indicators can provide an early warning signal up to several quarters prior to the respective regime change, the out-of-sample ﬁndings indicate that most of this performance is due to the data gathered during the global ﬁnancial crisis. Comparing the prediction performance with a standard binary early warning model reveals that the MS model is outperforming in the vast majority of model speciﬁcations for a horizon up to three quarters prior to the onset of ﬁnancial stress. JEL Classification: C54, G01, G15
C54|Machine learning at central banks|We introduce machine learning in the context of central banking and policy analyses. Our aim is to give an overview broad enough to allow the reader to place machine learning within the wider range of statistical modelling and computational analyses, and provide an idea of its scope and limitations. We review the underlying technical sources and the nascent literature applying machine learning to economic and policy problems. We present popular modelling approaches, such as artificial neural networks, tree-based models, support vector machines, recommender systems and different clustering techniques. Important concepts like the bias-variance trade-off, optimal model complexity, regularisation and cross-validation are discussed to enrich the econometrics toolbox in their own right. We present three case studies relevant to central bank policy, financial regulation and economic modelling more widely. First, we model the detection of alerts on the balance sheets of financial institutions in the context of banking supervision. Second, we perform a projection exercise for UK CPI inflation on a medium-term horizon of two years. Here, we introduce a simple training-testing framework for time series analyses. Third, we investigate the funding patterns of technology start-ups with the aim to detect potentially disruptive innovators in financial technology. Machine learning models generally outperform traditional modelling approaches in prediction tasks, while open research questions remain with regard to their causal inference properties.
C54|A financial stress index for the United Kingdom|In this paper we develop an index to monitor the intensity of financial stress in the UK over a period of 45 years. By aggregating various market-based indicators of financial stress from six major markets, we allow each indicator to be assessed in terms of its systemic importance. This enables the index to capture the interconnectedness of financial markets. The index successfully captures three episodes of heightened stress in UK financial history. We also attempt to determine how much a financial shock to the UK economy is amplified in a period of stress vis-à-vis a tranquil period. It involves exploring the dynamic relationship of the index with the UK real economy by two specifications of threshold vector auto-regression models. We find empirical evidence for the existence of feedback loops in the shock propagation between the real and the financial sector in the United Kingdom.
C54|Quantifying the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions|Recent years have witnessed an increased interest, by competition agencies, in assessing the competitive effects of partial acquisitions. We propose an empirical structural methodology, which can deal with settings involving all types of owners and ownership rights, to quantify the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions on differentiated products industries, by evaluating the impact of such acquisitions on the minimum discount factors for which coordination can be sustained. We also provide an empirical application of the methodology to several acquisitions in the wet shaving industry that give rise to cross- and common-ownership structures. The results are as follows (i) the incentives to coordinate of the firms that the acquiring party is – pre-acquisition – able to influence are non-decreasing with any acquisition; (ii) the incentives to coordinate of the acquired firm are non-decreasing with acquisitions involving full or partial both financial and corporate control rights, but non-increasing with acquisitions involving full or partial solely financial rights; and (iii) the incentives to coordinate of the remaining firms in the industry are non-increasing with any acquisition. This implies that the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions are, in general, ambiguous, which illustrates the importance of an empirical structural methodology.
C54|The Role of Gravity Models in Estimating the Economic Impact of Brexit|The predictions of the Treasury, OECD and IMF for the long-term impact of Brexit remain influential. They provide an important context for the Brexit negotiations and underpin the belief of Scottish and Irish nationalists that Brexit strengthens their case for independence or Irish unity. Because these predictions have received limited scrutiny they are examined in detail in this paper. The bases of the predictions are similar for each of the three organisations. In each case estimates are made of the impact of Brexit on trade and on foreign direct investment. This is followed by an estimate of the knock-on effect on productivity. The OECD and IMF also include an assessment of the impact of lower migration. The aggregate impact of these factors is then fed into a macro-economic model to obtain a forecast for GDP. Much of the final impact depends on the estimate for trade which, in each case, is assessed using a ‘gravity model’. Because gravity models are inaccessible to the general public, they are explained here in comprehensible terms. In addition the Treasury’s gravity model results are replicated and examined in detail. Our conclusion is that different versions of the model give a range of results and that most versions give a smaller trade impact than that reported by the Treasury, OECD or IMF. In particular, equations which estimate the average impact of EU membership on exports of goods tend to over-predict UK exports to the EU. This implies that the average impact of EU membership applies less to the UK than to the other EU member states. The further implication is that these official predictions of the impact of Brexit are overly pessimistic.
C54|Fertility effects of child benefits|Abstract We exploit the 1996 reform of the German child benefit program to identify the causal effect of heterogeneous child benefits on fertility. While generally the reform increased child benefits, the exact amount of the increase varied by household income and the number of children. We use these heterogeneities to identify their causal effects on fertility in a difference-in-difference setting. We apply the large samples of the German Mikrozensus and the rich data of the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). The reform effects on low-income couples are not statistically significant. We find some support for positive fertility effects for higher as opposed to lower income couples deciding on a second birth.
C54|Five Essays on International Trade, Factor Flows and the Gains from Globalization|Diese Arbeit wurde von Inga Heiland während ihrer Tätigkeit am ifo Institut verfasst. Sie wurde 2016 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München als Dissertation angenommen. Sie besteht aus fünf Kapiteln die sich mit einem oder mehreren Aspekten des internationalen Handels und der Bewegungen von Produktionsfaktoren beschäftigen, einschließlich des Handels mit Gütern und ihren Wertschöpfungsanteilen, internationaler Kapital- und Migrationsbewegungen und des Handels von Risiken. Alle Kapitel haben zum Ziel ein vertieftes Verständnis der ökonomischen Gewinne von unterschiedlichen Formen der Globalisierung zu schaffen. Dabei werden mehr oder weniger explizit die Determinanten internationaler Handelsströme, Faktorbewegungen und Produktionsstrukturen betrachtet, sowie die Rolle von Barrieren, die den internationalen Austausch von Gütern und Produktionsfaktoren hemmen. In methodischer Hinsicht haben alle Kapitel den Fokus auf allgemeine Gleichgewichtsanalyse gemeinsam. Empirische Analysen beruhen überwiegend auf dem Konzept struktureller Schätzung.
C54|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
C54|The British Pound on Brexit night: a natural experiment of market efficiency and real-time predictability|Exploiting the near-experimental conditions provided by the British Pound market in US Dollars during the Brexit vote of June 23rd, 2016, we unearth a major challenge to the Efficient Market Hypothesis. With a single factor of prior polling information, we show that the Brexit result could have been predicted with high confidence under realistic conditions, knowing only the first 20 of all 382 local voting results. However, the market was severely delayed in re flecting this fundamental information. This collective failure indicates both generic inefficiency and a specific inertia/durable bias in the market similar to herding during bubbles.
C54|Distinguishing Constraints on Financial Inclusion and Their Impact on GDP and Inequality|We develop a micro-founded general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents and three dimensions of financial inclusion: access (determined by a participation cost), depth (determined by a borrowing constraint), and intermediation efficiency (determined by a monitoring cost). We find that the economic implications of financial inclusion policies vary with the source of frictions. In partial equilibrium, we show analytically that relaxing each of these constraints separately increases GDP. However, when constraints are relaxed jointly, the impacts on the intensive margin (increasing output per entrepreneur with access to credit) are amplified, while the impacts on the extensive margin (promoting credit access) are dampened. In general equilibrium, we discipline the model with firm-level data from six countries and quantitatively evaluate the policy impacts. Multiple frictions are necessary to match the country-specific variables, e.g., credit access ratio, interest rate spread, and non-performing loans. A TFP decomposition finds that most of the productivity gains are captured by a between-regime shifting effect, whereby talented entrepreneurs obtain credit and expand their businesses. In terms of inequality and welfare, reducing the participation cost benefits talented-but-poor agents the most, while relaxing the borrowing constraint or intermediation cost is more beneficial for talented-and-wealthy agents.
C54|How to Predict Financial Stress? An Assessment of Markov Switching Models|This paper predicts phases of the financial cycle by using a continuous financial stress measure in a Markov switching framework. The debt service ratio and property market variables signal a transition to a high financial stress regime, while economic sentiment indicators provide signals for a transition to a tranquil state. Whereas the in-sample analysis suggests that these indicators can provide an early warning signal up to several quarters prior to the respective regime change, the out-of-sample findings indicate that most of this performance is owing to the data gathered during the global financial crisis. Comparing the prediction performance with a standard binary early warning model reveals that the Markov switching model is outperforming the vast majority of model specifications for a horizon up to three quarters prior to the onset of financial stress.
C54|Subsidising car purchases in the euro area: any spill-over on production?|Due to input-output linkages, an industry level shock can widely transmit to the rest of the economy. We identify government policies on the automobile industry, which change final prices and estimate their effect on sales and production. An example could be the scrappage schemes that many European governments introduced at the start of the Great Recession. In line with previous studies, we conﬁrm that the eﬀect on car sales is positive. More interestingly, we extend the literature that explores the eﬀects of these policies on domestic and foreign production to disentangle the potential spill-overs. JEL Classification: C32, C54, E23, E62, H25
C54|Macroeconomic Effects of Prosumer Households in Germany|This paper investigates the macroeconomic effects of the evolution of prosumer households in the future energy market in Germany. In the German policy debate, these households are discussed as potential key actors for the transition of the energy system. On the one hand, prosumer households produce power from solar PV or micro combined heat and power systems; on the other hand they consume (at least partly) their own produced power or store the energy on site for later use. Thus, prosumer households increase the complexity of the energy system, but they also offer opportunities to solve existing problems for grid stability. Prosumer households have a slightly positive effect on the macro economy: Both the investments in power generating technologies and the higher income of prosumer households due to self-produced electricity lead to higher consumption and stimulate economic growth. At the same time, the increase of prosumer households reduces emissions.
C54|Managing external macroeconomic imbalances in the EU: the welfare cost of scoreboard-based constraints|This paper investigates the consequences of introducing a new economic governance tool in the European Union - Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure. We focus on the external imbalances and especially on the lower limit of −4% imposed on the current account deficit to GDP ratio. Using a 2-region, 2-sector New Keynesian DSGE model and Woodford's technique to operationalise inequality constraints, we demonstrate that it is possible to accordingly adjust monetary and fiscal policy. The utility-based welfare loss remains very limited as compared to optimum unconstrained policy, as measured for Poland on the basis of Bayesian estimation, and this result is robust over a wide range of parameter values. The cost is slightly lower i.a. when (i) the monetary policy is autonomous (outside the euro area), (ii) for non-converging economies, (iii) when the limit is relaxed by incorporating positive capital account to GDP ratio. The procedure also envisages lower limits on REER and ULC dynamics, but the latter can be in conflict with the CA constraint, especially in the monetary union. Therefore, the scoreboard-based evaluation of external imbalances - while not very costly - has definitely some room for fine-tuning in the course of future MIP reforms.
C54|How do urban households in China respond to increasing block pricing in electricity? Evidence from a fuzzy regression discontinuity approach|China is the largest electricity consumption country after it has passed the United States in 2011. Residential electricity consumption in China grew by 381.35% (12.85% per annum) between 2000 and 2013. In order to deal with rapid growth in residential electricity consumption, an increasing block pricing policy was introduced for residential electricity consumers in China on July 1st, 2012. Using difference-in-differences models with a fuzzy regression discontinuity design, we estimate a causal effect of price on electricity consumption for urban households during the introduction of increasing block pricing policy in Guangdong province of China. We find that consumers do not respond to a smaller (approximately 8%) increase in marginal price. However, consumers do respond to a larger increase in marginal price. An approximately 40% increase in marginal price induces an approximately 35% decrease in electricity use (284kWh per month). Our results suggest that although the increasing block pricing could affect the behavior of households with higher electricity use, there is only a limit potential to overall energy conservation.
C54|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues| Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
C54|Safety, Liquidity, and the Natural Rate of Interest|Why are interest rates so low in the Unites States? We nd that they are low mostly because the premium for safety and liquidity has increased since the late 1990s. We reach this conclusion using two complementary perspectives: a exible time series model of trends in nominal rates, Treasury and corporate yields, in ation, and long term expectations, and a medium-scale DSGE model. We discuss the implications of this nding for the natural rate of interest.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C54|The welfare gain from switching to tax regulation of fisheries|Theoretical papers find that taxes are preferred over individual transferable quotas (ITQs) when fisheries regulators are uncertain about either biological growth or the extent of non-compliance with regulations. However, the size of the welfare gain from switching to taxes has not previously been investigated empirically. Based on estimated profit and growth functions, we simulate this gain for the Danish cod fishery in the Kattegat and find a welfare gain of less than 2%. We also develop a simple indicator which can be used to approximate the welfare gain of switching to tax regulation for other fisheries. The value of the indicator is calculated for a number of fisheries worldwide for which the necessary data have been published and we find that the gain from a switch to taxes is typically between 1.5% and 2.5% (in no case greater than 4.2%). We, therefore, conclude that the switch to tax regulation of fisheries, which has been recommended in prior theoretical literature, is of little practical importance.
C54|Demand for seafood exports in Sri Lanka: Has Sri Lanka gained competitiveness after civil war|No abstract is available for this item.
C54|Public Funding and Corporate Innovation|We review and condense the body of literature on the economic returns of public R&D on private R&D and find that: (i) private returns to R&D appear to be large and larger than the returns to alternative investments; (ii) private R&D and R&D subsidies are positively correlated and there is no evidence for crowding out; (iii) R&D cooperation increases private R&D; (iv) there appear to exist complementarities between alternative sources of funding; (v) the mobility of R&D workers, particularly of university scientists, is positively related to innovation; (vi) there are many university spin-offs but these are no more successful than non-university spin-offs; (vii) universities constitute important collaboration partners and (viii) clusters enhance collaboration, patents and productivity. Key problems for economic policy advice are that the identification of causal effects is problematic in most studies and that little is known about the optimal design of policy measures.
C54|Demographic dynamics and long-run development: insights for the secular stagnation debate|Abstract This paper takes a global, long-run perspective on the recent debate about secular stagnation, which has so far mainly focused on the short term. The analysis is motivated by observing the interplay between the economic and demographic transition that has occurred in the developed world over the past 150 years. To the extent that high growth rates in the past have partly been the consequence of singular changes during the economic and demographic transition, growth is likely to become more moderate once the transition is completed. At the same time, a similar transition is on its way in most developing countries, with profound consequences for the development prospects in these countries, but also for global comparative development. The evidence presented here suggests that long-run demographic dynamics have potentially important implications for the prospects of human and physical capital accumulation, the evolution of productivity, and the question of secular stagnation.
C54|The Role of Gravity Models in Estimating the Economic Impact of Brexit|The predictions of the Treasury, OECD and IMF for the long-term impact of Brexit remain influential. They provide an important context for the Brexit negotiations and underpin the belief of Scottish and Irish nationalists that Brexit strengthens their case for independence or Irish unity. Because these predictions have received limited scrutiny they are examined in detail in this paper. The bases of the predictions are similar for each of the three organisations. In each case estimates are made of the impact of Brexit on trade and on foreign direct investment. This is followed by an estimate of the knock-on effect on productivity. The OECD and IMF also include an assessment of the impact of lower migration. The aggregate impact of these factors is then fed into a macro-economic model to obtain a forecast for GDP. Much of the final impact depends on the estimate for trade which, in each case, is assessed using a ‘gravity model’. Because gravity models are inaccessible to the general public, they are explained here in comprehensible terms. In addition the Treasury’s gravity model results are replicated and examined in detail. Our conclusion is that different versions of the model give a range of results and that most versions give a smaller trade impact than that reported by the Treasury, OECD or IMF. In particular, equations which estimate the average impact of EU membership on exports of goods tend to over-predict UK exports to the EU. This implies that the average impact of EU membership applies less to the UK than to the other EU member states. The further implication is that these official predictions of the impact of Brexit are overly pessimistic.
C54|Human Decisions and Machine Predictions|Can machine learning improve human decision making? Bail decisions provide a good test case. Millions of times each year, judges make jail-or-release decisions that hinge on a prediction of what a defendant would do if released. The concreteness of the prediction task combined with the volume of data available makes this a promising machine-learning application. Yet comparing the algorithm to judges proves complicated. First, the available data are generated by prior judge decisions. We only observe crime outcomes for released defendants, not for those judges detained. This makes it hard to evaluate counterfactual decision rules based on algorithmic predictions. Second, judges may have a broader set of preferences than the variable the algorithm predicts; for instance, judges may care specifically about violent crimes or about racial inequities. We deal with these problems using different econometric strategies, such as quasi-random assignment of cases to judges. Even accounting for these concerns, our results suggest potentially large welfare gains: one policy simulation shows crime reductions up to 24.7% with no change in jailing rates, or jailing rate reductions up to 41.9% with no increase in crime rates. Moreover, all categories of crime, including violent crimes, show reductions; these gains can be achieved while simultaneously reducing racial disparities. These results suggest that while machine learning can be valuable, realizing this value requires integrating these tools into an economic framework: being clear about the link between predictions and decisions; specifying the scope of payoff functions; and constructing unbiased decision counterfactuals.
C54|Rethinking the Benefits of Youth Employment Programs: The Heterogeneous Effects of Summer Jobs|This paper reports the results of two randomized field experiments, each offering different populations of youth a supported summer job in Chicago. In both experiments, the program dramatically reduces violent-crime arrests, even after the summer. It does so without improving employment, schooling, or other types of crime; if anything, property crime increases over 2-3 post-program years. To explore mechanisms, we implement a machine learning method that predicts treatment heterogeneity using observables. The method identifies a subgroup of youth with positive employment impacts, whose characteristics differ from the disconnected youth served in most employment programs. We find that employment benefiters commit more property crime than their control counterparts, and non-benefiters also show a decline in violent crime. These results do not seem consistent with typical theory about improved human capital and better labor market opportunities creating a higher opportunity cost of crime, or even with the idea that these programs just keep youth busy. We discuss several alternative mechanisms, concluding that brief youth employment programs can generate substantively important behavioral change, but for different outcomes, different youth, and different reasons than those most often considered in the literature.
C54|How do resource-driven economies cope with the oil price slump? A comparative survey of ten major oil-exporting countries|The oil price slump of about 50% since 2014 has had a detrimental effect on oil-exporting emerging market economies (EMEs), potentially threatening to trigger social unrest in countries that had benefited from the oil price boom for more than a decade. We provide a first descriptive account of the policy reactions of central banks and governments of eight important oil-exporting EMEs and compare them with those of two oil-exporting advanced economies, allowing us to distinguish three patterns: One group of countries has so far successfully defended its exchange rate peg to the U.S. dollar, the reference invoicing currency (Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates). A second group gave up resistance to mounting market pressures and carried out step devaluations or switched to a floating exchange rate (Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Nigeria and Angola). A third group of countries continued to let their currencies float (Mexico, Canada and Norway), with the stable long-term relationship between the exchange rate and commodity export prices qualifying these currencies as “commodity currencies.” We conclude that EMEs featuring peg-like regimes and saddled with limited structural diversification, modest fiscal and external buffers as well as weak institutional conditions for capital controls are unlikely to be able to uphold their exchange rate choices if they suffer a major and sustained adverse terms-of-trade shock, and should opt for flexibility sooner rather than later. While declining oil prices may imply a degree of passive diversification, a proactive long-term strategy to develop a more diversified economic structure in good times could at least partly reduce the need for buffers.
C54|How would a fiscal shock in Germany affect other European countries? Evidence from a Bayesian GVAR model with sign restrictions|In this paper we analyze the international effects of a fiscal policy shock in Germany on other European countries. To that end we use a flexible version of a Bayesian global vector autoregression (GVAR) model and a dataset with broad country coverage comprising a wide range of macroeconomic and financial variables. Our results suggest a comparatively strong response in a majority of European economies to such a shock. In particular, we provide evidence that a deficit-financed expansionary government spending shock in Germany generates long-lasting positive cross-border output spillovers. In the case of the euro area periphery and Central, Eastern and Southeastern (CESEE) economies, these effects may be transmitted via the financial channel since financial variables such as equity prices and private sector credit significantly increase in response to the assumed fiscal shock in Germany. Upward effects on consumer prices, by contrast, are limited to core euro area countries. When looking at the effects of an expansionary tax cut shock instead of those of a spending-driven fiscal shock, we identify cross-border output spillovers of a similar magnitude but with a lower degree of persistence; in the case of CESEE economies, these results are also characterized by more estimation uncertainty. Finally, we also provide evidence for considerable cross-country heterogeneity in fiscal spillovers; for instance within CESEE, output responses to a fiscal shock in Germany are strongest in Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia.
C54|Использование Взаимосвязи Между Ввп И Денежной Массой Для Экономического Прогнозирования<BR>[Economic Forecasting Based on the Relationship between GDP and Real Money Supply]|Forecasts showing how the economy will be developing are very important both for the government and for all the economic agents, including citizens. In Russia, the common practice is to forecast based on price assumptions for hydrocarbons, primarily oil. Such an approach causes serious errors. This paper proposes a different approach driven by the close linkage between the GDP and the real money supply. By way of an example, forecast scenarios for Russia’s GDP in 2017 are adduced. Options for using the proposed methodology in economic, including anti-crisis, policies are suggested. Прогнозы развития экономики очень важны как для государства, так и для всех экономических агентов, включая граждан. В России распространённой практикой является прогнозирование, базирующееся на предположениях о ценах на углеводородное сырьё, прежде всего нефть. Такой подход приводит к серьёзным ошибкам. В данной работе предлагается другой подход, основанный на тесной взаимосвязи ВВП и реальной денежной массы. В качестве примера приведены варианты прогноза ВВП России на 2017 год. Предложены варианты использования предложенной методики в экономической, в том числе антикризисной, политике.
C54|Economic Forecasting Based on the Relationship between GDP and Real Money Supply|Forecasts showing how the economy will be developing are very important both for the government and for all the economic agents, including citizens. In Russia, the common practice is to forecast based on price assumptions for hydrocarbons, primarily oil. Such an approach causes serious errors. This paper proposes a different approach driven by the close linkage between the GDP and the real money supply. By way of an example, forecast scenarios for Russia’s GDP in 2017 are adduced. Options for using the proposed methodology in economic policy (including anti-crisis policy) are suggested
C54|“Negative Political Advertising: It’s All in the Timing”|Negative political advertising is a common feature of election campaigns in liberal democracies, whether in the milder form of ‘contrast ads’ or the more aggressive form of ‘attack ads’. Despite a substantial volume of scholarship, whether such advertisements generate persuasion effects (persuading voters of the deficiencies in the subject of the ads) or backlash effects (diminishing the standing of the candidate/party promulgating the ads) remains a still-unresolved question. This ‘persuasion or backlash’ question may well reflect the implicit assumption in many of the research designs, and their associated (and consequently mis-specified) models: that causality runs from negative political advertising to vote intention. This article tests that assumption, and finds it wanting. Testing for endogeneity indicates a bi-directional causality between negative political advertising and vote intention; each causes the other, but with differential temporal profiles. For electoral scholars (and campaign strategists) this means the decision(s) to engage in negative political advertising is not just if, by whom or how, but also when.
C54|Smoothing Algorithms by Constrained Maximum Likelihood|In the process of loan pricing, stress testing, capital allocation, modeling of PD term structure, and IFRS9 expected credit loss estimation, it is widely expected that higher risk grades carry higher default risks, and that an entity is more likely to migrate to a closer non-default rating than a farther away non-default rating. In practice, sample estimates for rating level default rate or rating migration probability do not always respect this monotonicity rule, and hence the need for smoothing approaches. Regression and interpolation techniques are widely used for this purpose. A common issue with these approaches is that the risk scale for the estimates is not fully justified, leading to a possible bias in credit loss estimates. In this paper, we propose smoothing algorithms for rating level PD and rating migration probability. The smoothed estimates obtained by these approaches are optimal in the sense of constrained maximum likelihood, with a fair risk scale determined by constrained maximum likelihood, leading to more robust credit loss estimation. The proposed algorithms can be easily implemented by a modeller using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED. The approaches proposed in this paper will provide an effective and useful smoothing tool for practitioners in the field of risk modeling.
C54|Forward Ordinal Probability Models for Point-in-Time Probability of Default Term Structure|Common ordinal models, including the ordered logit model and the continuation ratio model, are structured by a common score (i.e., a linear combination of a list of given explanatory variables) plus rank specific intercepts. Sensitivity with respect to the common score is generally not differentiated between rank outcomes. In this paper, we propose an ordinal model based on forward ordinal probabilities for rank outcomes. The forward ordinal probabilities are structured by, in addition to the common score and intercepts, the rank and rating (for a risk-rated portfolio) specific sensitivity. This rank specific sensitivity allows a risk rating to respond to its migrations to default, downgrade, stay, and upgrade accordingly. An approach for parameter estimation is proposed based on maximum likelihood for observing rank outcome frequencies. Applications of the proposed model include modeling rating migration probability for point-in-time probability of default term structure for IFRS9 expected credit loss estimation and CCAR stress testing. Unlike the rating transition model based on Merton model, which allows only one sensitivity parameter for all rank outcomes for a rating, and uses only systematic risk drivers, the proposed forward ordinal model allows sensitivity to be differentiated between outcomes and include entity specific risk drivers (e.g., downgrade history or credit quality changes for an entity in last two quarters can be included). No estimation of the asset correlation is required. As an example, the proposed model, benchmarked with the rating transition model based on Merton model, is used to estimate the rating migration probability and probability of default term structure for a commercial portfolio, where for each rating the sensitivity is differentiated between migrations to default, downgrade, stay, and upgrade. Results show that the proposed model is more robust.
C54|Point-in-Time PD Term Structure Models with Loan Credit Quality as a Component|Most point-in-time PD term structure models used in industry for stress testing and IFRS9 expected loss estimation apply only to macroeconomic scenarios. Loan level credit quality is not a factor in these models. In practice, credit profile at assessment time plays an important role in the performance of the loan during its lifetime. A forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model with loan credit quality as a component is widely expected. In this paper, we propose a forward-looking point-in-time PD term structure model based on forward survival probability, extending the model proposed in [8] by including a loan specific credit quality score as a component. The model can be derived under the Merton model framework. Under this model, the forward survival probability for a forward term is driven by a loan credit quality score in addition to macroeconomic factors. Empirical results show, the inclusion of the loan specific credit score can significantly improve the performance of the model. The proposed approaches provide a tool for modeling point-in-time PD term structure in cases where loan credit profile is essential. The model can be implemented easily by using, for example, the SAS procedure PROC NLMIXED.
C54|“Taking Occam’s Razor to the Endogeneity Problem in Economic Voting”|Conventional economic voting models are increasingly being challenged by the problem of endogeneity – that is, causality may not run, as they suggest, in one direction from economics to politics. Rather, causality may run in the other direction, from politics to economics, or be bi-directional. While a small, but growing, number of studies are highlighting the endogeneity problem in economic voting models, there is a tendency to identify and then attempt to manage, rather than eliminate, the distortions caused by endogeneity in economic voting models. At least worst, economic voting models which do not deal with endogeneity are vulnerable to producing biased results; at worst, the results may be spurious. Rather than just attempting to manage the endogeneity problem in, this study proposes a strategy to purge it from, economic voting models. However, in doing so, it further brings into question the fulcrum idea of economic voting models, finding instead ‘politics drives economics’ rather than the other way around.
C54|Substituting fossil energy sources: the role of the climate funds and effects on the economic growth|The Green Climate Fund (GCF) is a fund within the framework of the UNFCCC founded as a mechanism to assist developing countries in adaptation and mitigation practices to counter climate change. In this paper, we analyze the flow of funds among countries and investigate, through a counterfactual analysis, their effectiveness. The results show that as result of the receipt of the funds, countries reduced their GHG emission and have been incentivized in the replacement of fossil sources with renewable sources. Finally, also a leverage effect of the funds for economic development of the recipient countries comes into the light.
C54|Comparative Analysis of Afghanistan and Pakistan Central Banks Monetary Policy|This paper provides a broad overview of monetary policy cooperation of Afghanistan and Pakistan central banks through the differences framework of policy analysis. The framework proves useful for interpreting past policy decisions and mistakes of Policy during the 2005 but when closely examined within the context of the information available and policymaker perceptions in real time of those country , this change is indirect than usually appears at first glance with reviewing analysis in this research we also find the real GDP, Inflation, GDP per capita, PPP, GDP per capita, current dollars, GDP per capita, constant dollars, GDP, current U.S. dollars, External debt and Economic growth measure through the world banks internet measuring of Afghanistan and Pakistan compression .
C54|Location matters: daylight saving time and electricity use|The primary rationale for daylight saving time (DST) has long been energy savings. Whether it achieves this goal, however, remains a subject of debate. Recent studies, examining only one location at a time, have shown DST to increase, decrease or leave overall energy use unchanged. Rather than concluding the effect is ambiguous, this paper is the first to test for heterogeneous regional effects based on differences in (natural) sun times and (societal) waking hours. Using a rich hourly data set and quasi -experimental methods applied across Canadian provinces, this paper rationalizes the differing results, finding region-specific effects consistent with differences in sun times and waking hours. DST increases electricity use in regions with late sunrises and early waking hours.
C54|Does “America First” Help America? The Impact of Country Image on Exports and Welfare|"This paper estimates the effects of bilateral and time-varying preference bias on trade flows and welfare. We use a unique dataset from the BBC World Opinion Poll that surveys (annually during 2005-2017 with some gaps) the populations from a wide array of countries on their views of whether an evaluated country is having a mainly positive or negative influence in the world. We identify the effects on bilateral preference parameters due to shifts in these country image perceptions, and quantify their general equilibrium effects on bilateral exports and welfare (each time for an evaluated exporting country, assuming that the exporting country's own preference parameters have not changed). We consider fi ve important shifts in country image: the George W. Bush effect, the Donald Trump effect, the Senkaku Islands Dispute effect, the Brexit effect, and the Good-Boy Canadian effect. We fi nd that such changes in bilateral country image perceptions have quantitatively important trade and welfare effects. The negative impact of Donald Trump's ""America First"" campaign rhetorics on the US' country image might have cost the US as much as 4% of its total exports and gains from trade. In contrast, the consistent improvement of Canadian country image between 2010 and 2017 has amounted to more than 10% of its total welfare gains from trade."
C54|Dynamic Optimization under Uncertainty: A Case Study for Austrian Macroeconomic Policies|Results from optimum control problems with uncertain parameters are investigated in a numerical case study for Austria. Optimal budgetary policies are calculated under varying assumptions about stochastic parameters within the framework of a problem of quantitative economic policy. An intertemporal objective function is minimized subject to the constraints of a small macroeconometric model, and approximately optimal values for federal budget expenditures and revenues are determined. It is shown that the deterministic and the fully stochastic optimal policies are rather similar. If only some parameters are assumed to be stochastic, or if covariances between different parameters are not taken into account, on the other hand, optimization results can be very different from deterministic or fully stochastic optimization results.
C54|How risky is the optimal portfolio which maximizes the Sharpe ratio?|Abstract In this paper, we investigate the properties of the optimal portfolio in the sense of maximizing the Sharpe ratio (SR) and develop a procedure for the calculation of the risk of this portfolio. This is achieved by constructing an optimal portfolio which minimizes the Value-at-Risk (VaR) and at the same time coincides with the tangent (market) portfolio on the efficient frontier which is related to the SR portfolio. The resulting significance level of the minimum VaR portfolio is then used to determine the risk of both the market portfolio and the corresponding SR portfolio. However, the expression of this significance level depends on the unknown parameters which have to be estimated in practice. It leads to an estimator of the significance level whose distributional properties are investigated in detail. Based on these results, a confidence interval for the suggested risk measure of the SR portfolio is constructed and applied to real data. Both theoretical and empirical findings document that the SR portfolio is very risky since the corresponding significance level is smaller than 90 % in most of the considered cases.
C54|No such thing as a perfect hammer: comparing different objective function specifications for optimal control|Abstract Linear-quadratic (LQ) optimization is a fairly standard technique in the optimal control framework. LQ is very well researched, and there are many extensions for more sophisticated scenarios like nonlinear models. Conventionally, the quadratic objective function is taken as a prerequisite for calculating derivative-based solutions of optimal control problems. However, it is not clear whether this framework is as universal as it is considered to be. In particular, we address the question whether the objective function specification and the corresponding penalties applied are well suited in case of a large exogenous shock an economy can experience because of, e.g., the European debt crisis. While one can still efficiently minimize quadratic deviations around policy targets, the economy itself has to go through a period of turbulence with economic indicators, such as unemployment, inflation or public debt, changing considerably over time. We test four alternative designs of the objective function: a least median of squares based approach, absolute deviations, cubic and quartic objective functions. The analysis is performed based on a small-scale model of the Austrian economy and illustrates a certain trade-off between quickly finding an optimal solution using the LQ technique (reaching defined policy targets) and accounting for alternative objectives, such as limiting volatility in economic performance. As an implication, we argue in favor of the considerably more flexible optimization technique based on heuristic methods (such as Differential Evolution), which allows one to minimize various loss function specifications, but also takes additional constraints into account.
C54|Coherent financial cycles for G-7 countries: Why extending credit can be an asset|Failing to account for joint dynamics of credit and asset prices can be hazardous for countercyclical macroprudential policy. We show that composite financial cycles, emphasising expansions and contractions common to credit and asset prices, powerfully predict systemic banking crises. Further, the joint consideration yields a more robust view on financial cycle characteristics, reconciling an empirical puzzle concerning cycle properties when using two popular alternative methodologies: frequency decompositions and standard turning point analysis. Using a novel spectral approach, we establish the following facts for G-7 countries (1970Q1-2013Q4): Relative to business cycles, financial cycles differ in amplitude and persistence – albeit with heterogeneity across countries. Average financial cycle length is around 15 years, compared with 9 years (6.7 excluding Japan) for business cycles. Still, country-level business and financial cycles relate occasionally. Across countries, financial cycle synchronisation is strong for most countries; but not for all. In contrast, business cycles relate homogeneously. JEL Classification: C54, E32, E44, E58, G01
C54|Stock-flow consistent data for the Dutch economy, 1995-2015|In earlier work Meijers, Muysken (and Sleijpen) have developed an open economy stock-flow consistent (SFC) macroeconomic model of the Dutch economy with an elaborated financial sector. This model has been used to analyse several stylised facts of the Dutch economy, such as the deposit financing gap, the excessive trade surplus, the impact of firms accumulating financial assets and the impact of quantitative easing. However, the stylised facts were collected in an ad hoc way and the parameters used in the model were taken from the international literature, without proper reference to Dutch data. In the present paper we develop a stock flow consistent data set for the Dutch economy 1995 - 2015 in order to stimulate further research in the SFC tradition using actual data, and to enhance our understanding of the Dutch economy. The data set is based on data from the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) for most sectors - these are consistent with the AMECO data published by Eurostat. However, for the financial sector we show that the CBS-data are incomplete and also use data provided by the Dutch Central Bank (DNB). We distinguish between households, firms, government, a foreign sector and within the financial sector between a central bank, banks and pension funds. For each sector we provide a somewhat simplified balance sheet and consistent flows, which can be used in the model.
C54|Crude Oil Price Shocks And Macroeconomic Behavior In Nigeria|Milton Friedman's permanent income hypothesis suggests that frictionless open economies with depletable natural resources should increase its external reserves with most of the resource windfalls. Nigeria like any other country endowed with natural resources such as crude oil and liquefied natural gas are often faced by the Dutch disease. The evolution of the Nigeria’s foreign exchange market has been influenced by the changing pattern of international trade, institutional changes in the economy and structural shifts in production. The increased export of crude oil followed by the sharp fall in its prices, and enhanced official foreign exchange receipts should give the government a wakeup call. This study focuses on macroeconomic behavior in the presence of crude oil price volatility. The dataset covered the period of 1970-2014, using OLS model. Given the high degree of dependency and contribution crude oil has on Nigeria’s revenue generation, this analysis reveals crude oil price to be having a positive impact on Nigeria’s economic wellbeing. A 1% increase in its price has an impact of 0.67% increase in GDP. Adding-up all other analyzed variable, crude oil still stand as the mean influential factor to the Nigerian economic development. Therefore, it is of optimum important to quickly diversify the economy, to prevent the repercussion of crude oil price shock, and also heavily invest in the development of infrastructural facilities to create the enabling environment for a non-oil economy
C54|Impact Evaluation of the Brazilian crop insurance public program “Proagro Mais”| This research evaluates the impact of a public risk management tool that provides insurance to small-scale farmers. In particular, we analyze the “Farm Activity Guarantee Program for Smallholders” or Proagro Mais, which is one of the largest Brazilian public programs that uses crop insurance indemnity mechanisms. This program covers financial debts incurred by smallholders related to rural credit operations, and which payment was hampered by the occurrence of pests, diseases or climatological effects. The relevance of this research relies on the considerable size of the program, both in terms of number of operations and money invested to cover crop losses. We use a sample of small-scale corn producers from the State of Paraná, which included Proagro Mais beneficiaries and nonbeneficiaries. One should note that all growers in the sample contracted credits associated with their corn crop, but not all subscribed to the insurance Program. We use 2003 as the baseline since it is the year prior to the launch of Proagro Mais and then used 2005 as the endline considering the indemnity mechanism of the Program. The database used in this study was provided by the Federal Accounting Court of Brazil (TCU), and includes 25,877 corn growers that contracted with Proagro Mais between 2003 and 2005 (treatment group), and 68,312 growers who were not beneficiaries of that program in this same period (control group). The relevant variables include crop and growers characteristics such as area financed, complementary economic activities for additional income (dummy), education, and expected yield. We also added meteorological and regional variables from other public sources to control farm location. Our main objective is to evaluate the impact of Proagro Mais on the amount of credit per hectare granted to the beneficiaries of the Program. The methodology includes Propensity Score Matching (PSM) along with Difference-in-Difference (DID). We use longitudinal data and apply the conditional DID estimator proposed by Heckman et al. (1997), and the conditional DID estimator with repeated cross-sections, proposed by Blundell and Costa Dias (2000).The econometric estimates with both methods described above, show that the effect of the treatment on the tread was not positive. This suggests that after the yield loss period, the control group got a higher average amount of credit per hectare than Proagro Mais beneficiaries. Thus, the question that arises is whether there may be other agricultural risk management mechanisms more suited for smallholders than Proagro Mais, or whether the evaluated program could not achieve its main goal because it does not cover all risks faced by its beneficiaries. Therefore, this study could serve to promote discussions about the economic performance and efficiency of agricultural policy in Brazil.
C54|How to achieve significant reduction in pesticide use? An empirical evaluation of the impacts of pesticide taxation associated to a change in cropping practice|In this paper, we use an econometric approach to investigate the impacts of potential changes in cropping practices on the reduction in pesticide use implied by a taxation policy. We combine economic data, reflecting the relatively intensive cropping practices currently used in France, and experimental agronomic data on a low-input technology to estimate micro-econometric models of farmers’ production and acreage choices. In a second step, these estimated models are used to conduct policy simulations. Our results show that a small tax on pesticide use could provide agricultural producers sufficient economic incentive to adopt low-input cropping practices and thereby lead to significant reductions in pesticide use, close to public short-term objectives. However, given the limited impacts of taxation once these practices have been adopted, other public instruments or further improvement of low-input cropping systems should be considered to achieve more ambitious longer term public objectives.
C54|The Issue of Macroeconomic Closure Revisited and Extended|Léon Walras (1874) had already realised that his neo-classical general equilibrium model could not accommodate autonomous investments. In the early 1960s, Amartya Sen analysed the same issue in a simple, one-sector macroeconomic model of a closed economy. He showed that fixing investment in the model, built strictly on neo-classical assumptions, would make the system overdetermined, and thus one should loosen some neo-classical conditions of competitive equilibrium. He analysed three not neo-classical “closure options”, which could make the model well-determined in the case of fixed investment. His list was later extended by others and it was shown that the closure dilemma arises in the more complex computable general equilibrium (CGE) models as well, as does the choice of adjustment mechanism assumed to bring about equilibrium at the macro level. It was also illustrated through several numerical models that the adopted closure rule can significantly affect the results of policy simulations based on a CGE model. Despite these warnings, the issue of macro closure is often neglected in policy simulations. It is, therefore, worth revisiting the issue and demonstrating by further examples its importance, as well as pointing out that the closure problem in the CGE models extends well beyond the problem of how to incorporate autonomous investments into a CGE model. Several closure rules are discussed in this paper and their diverse outcomes are illustrated by numerical models calibrated on statistical data. First, the analyses are done in a one-sector model, similar to Sen’s, but extended into a model of an open economy. Next, the same analyses are repeated using a fully-fledged multi-sectoral CGE model, calibrated on the same statistical data. Comparing the results obtained by the two models it is shown that although they generate quite similar results in terms of the direction and - to a somewhat lesser extent - of the magnitude of change in the main macro variables using the same closure option, the predictions of the multi-sectoral CGE model are clearly more realistic and balanced.
C54|Examination of Inequalities in Hungary by Microsimulation in Consistency with Macro Data|Effective decision making uses various databases including both micro and macro level data-sets. In many cases it is a big challenge to ensure the consistency of the two levels. Different types of problems can occur and several methods can be used to solve them. The paper concentrates on the input alignment of the households’ income for microsimulation, which means refers to improving the elements of a micro data survey (EU-SILC) by using macro data from administrative sources. We use a combined micro-macro model called ECONS-TAX for this improvement. We also produced model projections until 2015 which is important because the official EU-SILC micro database will only be available in Hungary in the summer of 2017. The paper presents our estimations about the dynamics of income elements and the changes in income inequalities. Results show that the aligned data provides a different level of income inequality, but does not affect the direction of change from year to year. However, when we analyzed policy change, the use of aligned data caused larger differences both in income levels and in their dynamics.
C54|The economic effects of international administrations: The cases of Kosovo and East Timor|Does the involvement of foreign third parties in the post-conflict management of a country in the wake of a civil war have positive or negative economic effects? The approaches used to address this question in the social and political sciences literature are mostly qualitative, and are not sufficiently supported by quantitative evidence. This document attempts a quantitative analysis of the post-conflict economic performance of Kosovo and East Timor under the UN-sponsored international administrations established in both countries in the late 1990s. By using the synthetic control impact evaluation technique, we compute suitable counterfactual scenarios for each country to estimate the intervention effects of interest. A robust negative effect of the intervention is found for Kosovo, whereas the effect on East Timor is positive.
C54|Contribución de los choques externos en el Crecimiento Económico del Perú: un modelo semi-estructural|En este documento se estudia la contribución del sector externo en el crecimiento de la economía peruana en el periodo 1996-2015. Se usa un modelo semi-estructural similar a los desarrollos disponibles (Berg y otros, 2006; Salas, 2011; Adler y Sosa, 2012; Han, 2014),) de modo que los choques externos se propagan endógenamente hacia el crecimiento de una economía pequeña, abierta y parcialmente dolarizada mediante los canales reales (comercio y términos de intercambio) y financiero (volatilidad y tipo de cambio). Se encuentra que los efectos conjuntos de los choques externos que enfrentó la economía peruana son heterogéneos en el tiempo y según el tipo de choque: en los periodos 2005-2008 y 2010-2013 los choques externos representan hasta el 36% y 28% del crecimiento observado, respectivamente. Asimismo, durante el 2009 se hubiera crecido 4,2 puntos porcentuales mayor al observado en dicho año (1,1 %) si es que no hubiera ocurrido la crisis económica mundial.
C54|External Audit - A New Open Data Approach|This article has a double fold aim: (1) a multiple-perspective assessment of open government and open data, in the context of the developments of government reform emerging processes, and (2) a research of the impact these concepts internalisation in the operational plan may have on external audit. Defining notes, as well as key elements are delineated relating to the above-mentioned concepts, while the new approaches are characterised from the theoretical perspective, with a focus on the change of paradigm they trigger. From the practical point a view, the article introduces a solution to use open data in an audit model characterised by new audit methods and techniques, mainly based on the information technology (distance audit, online audit, e-audit). As to the second subject matter tackled in the article, the author proposes an assessment of the impact the adoption and implementation of a new auditing framework, built on open data use, has on government (the article also includes a synthesis of researches and points of view provided by specialised publications).
C54|Permanent and Temporary Oil Price Shocks, Macroeconomic Policy, and Tradable Non-oil Sector: Case of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia|This paper examines the economic effects of permanent and temporary oil price shocks in three oil exporting countries (Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia) using the five variable (real short-term interest rate, real effective exchange rate, real budget expenditure, real imports, and real tradable non-oil production) VARX model with two exogenous variables which represent the corresponding shocks. The impulse response analysis conducted over the quarterly data from 2003:I to 2015:IV shows that in Azerbaijan, a permanent oil price shock produces a significantly positive effect on all variables but interest rate, while a temporary oil price shock has a significant and positive effect only on imports and exchange rate. For Kazakhstan, the impulse response functions show that a permanent oil price shock significantly and positively affects interest rate, imports, and budget expenditure; a temporary oil price shock has a significantly positive influence on all variables except budget expenditure. In Russia, a permanent oil price shock produces a significantly positive effect on all variables; a temporary oil price shock exerts a significantly positive effect on all variables but interest rate. Contrary to the permanent income hypothesis, the budget expenditure in Russia responds both to the permanent and temporary oil price shocks. Such divergence from the hypothesis can be explained by the specifics of the policy on the oil revenue spending. As regards the presence of the symptoms of the Dutch disease, the results indicate only on one symptom. Thus oil price shocks ultimately lead to appreciation of national currencies but not to a decline in tradable non-oil production.
C54|Dating systemic financial stress episodes in the EU countries|This paper introduces a new methodology to date systemic financial stress events in a transparent, objective and reproducible way. The financial cycle is captured by a monthly Country-Level Index of Financial Stress (CLIFS). Based on two Markov-switching and one threshold vector autoregressive model, information from the CLIFS and industrial production are combined to identify those episodes of financial market stress that are associated with a substantial negative impact on the real economy. By applying this framework to 27 European Union countries, the paper is a first attempt to provide a chronology of systemic financial stress episodes as a complement to the expert-detected events that are currently available.
C54|Public Debt Sustainability In Serbia Before And During The Global Financial Crisis|We have analyzed the behaviour of primary fiscal balance and public debt in Serbia before and in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. The results of our analysis are: i) public debt to GDP ratioexhibits (near) unit root behaviour with an overall upward time trend; ii) the response of primary fiscal balance to public debt has been insufficient to mean revert the upward trend in government debt; iii) the efforts of the Serbian government to repay the debt principal after the fiscal rule breach have not been persistent, providing empirical support to the fiscal fatigue hypothesis; iv) the government budget constraint has deteriorated since the beginning of the global financial crisis; v) the response of primary fiscal balance to public debt from the onset of the global financial crisis has dropped more severely in comparison to other European economies.
C54|Survey measures of inflation expectations in Poland: are they relevant from the macroeconomic perspective?|This paper estimates different versions of the stylized New Keynesian model of the Polish economy, in which alternative measures of inflation expectations are used, that is, model-consistent (rational) expectations and survey-based expectations of consumers, enterprises and financial sector analysts. To compare dynamic properties of the models, we analyse propagation of the interest rate impulse, exchange rate impulse and a permanent change of inflation target. Differences in impulse responses pose the question which model should be treated as the most adequate. Analysis of in-sample inflation forecasting errors suggests that the model with rational expectations displays the lowest forecasting accuracy, while the model using expectations of enterprises is the best-performing model. In more general terms, our analysis suggests the best way of exploiting survey data on inflation expectations is not by using them as separate forward-looking information, alternative to macroeconomic models, but by combining both types of information.
C54|A methodology to estimate the costs of data regulations|This paper provides a robust and significant explanation of how the costs of data regulation affect downstream industries in an economy. In doing so we first select observable regulatory barriers that explicitly inhibit the domestic and cross-border movement of data, which are currently being implemented by various governments. Second, we calculate the costs of these data regulations for domestic industries through establishing an empirical link between regulation in data and domestic downstream performance at industry level across a set of countries. As such, this paper is the first work that attempts to analyse this connection econometrically by setting up a proxy index of data regulation using a typology of existing indices of administrative barriers. We show that the type of regulations prevalent in data indeed tends to affect downstream industry performance of industries that depend more heavily on data services for the countries under consideration in our study. Finally, the negative performance outcomes as a result of data regulation in these countries are employed in a general equilibrium analysis using the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) in order to estimate the impact on country-specific GDP, industry production, and foreign trade.
C54|A methodology to estimate the costs of data regulations|This paper provides a robust and significant explanation of how the costs of data regulation affect downstream industries in an economy. In doing so we first select observable regulatory barriers that explicitly inhibit the domestic and cross-border movement of data, which are currently being implemented by various governments. Second, we calculate the costs of these data regulations for domestic industries through establishing an empirical link between regulation in data and domestic downstream performance at industry level across a set of countries. As such, this paper is the first work that attempts to analyse this connection econometrically by setting up a proxy index of data regulation using a typology of existing indices of administrative barriers. We show that the type of regulations prevalent in data indeed tends to affect downstream industry performance of industries that depend more heavily on data services for the countries under consideration in our study. Finally, the negative performance outcomes as a result of data regulation in these countries are employed in a general equilibrium analysis using the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP) in order to estimate the impact on country-specific GDP, industry production, and foreign trade.
C54|The New Keynesian Theory And Its Associated Model|The basic new Keynesian model rendered in this paper, as well as the analysis of the reaction of economic variables to the occurrence of a structural, monetary policy shock, strengthen the hypothesis exposed at pure theoretical level, namely the active role of Central Banks in economy, the classical dichotomy between the nominal and the real economic factors being abandoned. As reflected by the impulse-response function graphs, the model endogenous variables: output, output gap, labour hours, inflation rate, nominal interest rate and real interest rate, clearly react to the exogenous variables of the same, represented by structural shocks, returning afterwards, more or less quickly, to their initial steady state. In compliance with the literature in the matter, the monetary entity policies, although having a lower impact than the one generated by the technological changes, manifest obvious influences on the model variables, therefore affecting both the decisions of the representative agents, at microeconomic level, and the aggregate economy, as a whole.
C54|Quantitative Study On The Involvement Of Bricolage Companies In Social Responsibility Activities|"The main purpose of this paper is to analyze the influence of social responsibility actions of the main bricolage companies doing business in Romania on their value, and mutually the impact these activities have on various social sectors. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) is a concept related to the contribution that companies need to have to the development of modern society. Over time, this contribution has been theorized by many different schools of thought. ""Responsible"" initiatives of companies have been named by a variety of terms: corporate citizenship, corporate philanthropy, corporate societal marketing, community affairs, community development etc. Consequently, currently, to demonstrate that it is ""socially responsible"", a company must understand the principles of CSR that are internationally promoted and regularly report about the integration of these principles in its activities."
C54|Una comparación de diferentes modelos para la predicción del crimen en Bogotá|El uso del mapeo de puntos calientes (hotspots) es una técnica descriptiva utilizada para identificar el lugar hacia dónde deberían dirigirse los recursos de prevención del crimen. Consiste en la identificación de áreas geográficas donde, en el pasado, ha habido delitos con mayor frecuencia, con el objetivo de prevenirlos en el futuro, de acuerdo con la existencia de determinantes fijos de crimen, así como la existencia de fenómenos temporales que, sin embargo, tienen cierta persistencia. Hay diferentes técnicas para la identificación de los puntos calientes basadas en modelos como el método de estimación de puntos, estimación de densidad por Kernel, el método de elipses espaciales y modelos espacio-temporales. Este trabajo compara la capacidad descriptiva y predictiva de los principales modelos de predicción de crimen existentes en la literatura académica al caso de crímenes en la ciudad de Bogotá durante el período 2011 – 2012. En términos generales encontramos que el modelo espacio temporal basado en Mohler et. al (2012) es el que mejor desempeño tiene en la predicción del crimen en ciertas zonas de la ciudad.
C54|Building a Structural Model: Parameterization and Structurality|A specific concept of structural model is used as a background for discussing the structurality of its parameterization. Conditions for a structural model to be also causal are examined. Difficulties and pitfalls arising from the parameterization are analyzed. In particular, pitfalls when considering alternative parameterizations of a same model are shown to have lead to ungrounded conclusions in the literature. Discussions of observationally equivalent models related to different economic mechanisms are used to make clear the connection between an economically meaningful parameterization and an economically meaningful decomposition of a complex model. The design of economic policy is used for drawing some practical implications of the proposed analysis.
C54|The Response of Bank of Indonesia’s Interest Rates to the Prices of World Crude Oil and Foreign Interest Rates|This research aimed to investigate the response of interest rates set by Bank of Indonesia (BI) to the prices of world crude oil and foreign interest rates. It analyzed monthly data which spanned from July 2005 to October 2015. The tool of analysis used was the difference equation model. Result of the test showed that there was a positive response of the interest rate determined by BI to the price of world crude oil and foreign interest rates. The interest rates maintained by BI increased (decreased) by 0.135% in response to each 1% increase (decrease) in the price of world crude oil. The interest rates also increased (decreased) by 0.081% in response to each 1% increase (decrease) in foreign interest rates
C54|Identifying Shocks in Structural VAR models via heteroskedasticity: a Bayesian approach|This paper contributes to the literature on statistical identification of macroeconomic shocks by proposing a Bayesian VAR with time varying volatility of the residuals that depends on a hidden Markov process, referred to as an MS-SVAR. With sufficient statistical information in the data and certain identifying conditions on the varianceï¿½covariance structure of the innovations, distinct volatility regimes of the reduced form residuals allow all structural SVAR matrices and impulse response functions to be estimated without the need for conventional a priori identifying restrictions. We give mathematical identification conditions and propose a novel combination of the Gibbs sampler and a Bayesian clustering algorithm for the posterior inference on MS-SVAR parameters. The new methodology is applied to US macroeconomic data on output, inflation, real money and policy rates, where the effects of two real and two nominal shocks are clearly identified
C54|Monetary shocks, macroprudential shocks and financial stability|This paper examines the implications of monetary shocks and macroprudential shocks for aggregate financial fragility using a sign restricted VAR model estimated with US data spanning the period 1960Q1–2007Q4. Contractionary monetary shocks are found to exacerbate financial fragility, increasing both the credit to GDP ratio and the ‘financial ratio’, which is the ratio of firms' debts to their internal funds. By contrast, when interest rates are fixed, credit-constraining macroprudential shocks may be able to reduce the credit to GDP ratio in the short run but are not able to reduce the financial ratio. However, when the interest rate is free to accommodate the macroprudential shock, both the credit to GDP ratio and the financial ratio decline, indicating a reduction of financial fragility and suggesting that there may be gains from a coordinated approach to macroeconomic management.
C54|Testing for monotonicity under endogeneity|This paper develops a test for monotonicity of nonparametric regression models under endogeneity, which in its generality is novel in the literature. The test statistic, which is built upon a second order U-process, introduces ‘correction terms’ based on control functions that purge the endogeneity. The test has a non-standard asymptotic distribution from which asymptotic critical values can directly be derived. Furthermore, the test statistic is extended to accommodate multivariate (exogenous) regressors. Consistency against general alternatives is proved and the finite sample properties of the test are examined in a Monte Carlo experiment. The test is used to formally assess the monotonicity of the reservation wage as a declining function of elapsed unemployment duration, which has implications for underlying job search models. This relationship is difficult to measure due to the simultaneity of both variables. Results for UK data indicate that reservation wage functions do in fact not decline monotonically thereby contradicting some partial equilibrium job search models.
C54|Co-movement of international crude oil price and Indian stock market: Evidences from nonlinear cointegration tests|This article explores nonlinear cointegration between international crude oil price and Indian stock market in a multivariate framework for the period January 2, 2003 to July 29, 2011 by threshold cointegration tests which determine the structural breaks endogenously. The tests reject any long-run equilibrium relationship among the variables for the entire data span. In order to get better insight, threshold cointegration tests have been applied on three sub-phases; prior (phase I) and post (phase III) to most volatile phase (phase II) spanning from July 2, 2007 to Dec 29, 2008. The tests suggest existence of cointegration in phase III only. Toda–Yamamoto version of Granger causality tests reveals that movements of international crude oil price have impact on Indian stock market in phases II and III with no feedback effect. The findings also suggest that global crude oil price is exogenously determined.
C54|Bidding structure, market efficiency and persistence in a multi-time tariff setting|The purpose of this study is to examine the fractal dynamics of day ahead electricity prices by using parametric and semi parametric approaches for each time zone in a multi-time tariff setting in the framework of bidding strategies, market efficiency and persistence of exogenous shocks. We find that that electricity prices have long term correlation structure for the first and third time zones indicating that market participants bid hyperbolically and not at their marginal costs, market is not weak form efficient at these hours and exogenous shocks to change the mean level of prices will have permanent effect and be effective. On the other hand, for the second time zone we find that price series does not exhibit long term memory. This finding suggests the weak form efficiency of the market in these hours and that market participants bid at their marginal costs. Furthermore this indicates that exogenous shocks will have temporary effect on electricity prices in these hours. These findings constitute an important foundation for policy makers and market participants to develop appropriate electricity price forecasting tools, market monitoring indexes and to conduct ex-ante impact assessment.
C54|Quantitative easing and related capital flows into Brazil: Measuring its effects and transmission channels through a rigorous counterfactual evaluation|We show that unconventional monetary policy in the United States appears to influence capital inflows to Brazil and, through this channel, its overall economic outlook and financial stability. In particular, quantitative easing leads to capital inflows, exchange rate appreciation, stock market price increases, credit growth and expansion of domestic activity related to consumption. Such effects are significant when considering both parameter uncertainty and a new significance test for abnormal behavior. According to a new channel identification method proposed in the paper, capital inflow is the only domestic propagation channel that systematically accounts for the estimated effects across variables and samples. Results are robust across a wide range of policy counterfactuals, regime break assumptions, testing procedures and model specifications.
C54|Counterfactual analysis in macroeconometrics: An empirical investigation into the effects of quantitative easing|This paper develops tests of policy ineffectiveness when counterfactual outcomes, namely the predicted values of the target variable in the absence of a policy change, are obtained using reduced form or final form ‘policy response equations’. The policy response equation explains the target variable by lags of itself and by current and lagged values of the policy variable and policy-invariant exogenous variables. These tests complement those in Pesaran and Smith (2015), which are done in the context of complete systems of macroeconometric dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) under rational expectations (RE). While there would be efficiency gains from using the complete system, were it fully known and correctly specified, this is rarely the case. Instead, since the counterfactual is a type of forecast and parsimonious models tend to forecast better than complex ones, we may obtain more reliable estimates of the counterfactual outcomes from a parsimonious policy response equation. We consider two types of policy intervention, a discretionary policy change where there is a deterministic change to the policy variable, and a rule-based policy change where one or more parameters of a stochastic policy rule are changed. We examine the asymptotic distributions and power of the tests under various assumptions. The proposed test for a discretionary policy change is illustrated with an application to the unconventional monetary policy known as quantitative easing (QE) adopted in the UK.
C54|Towards a liberalised European rail transport: Analysing and modelling the impact of competition on productive efficiency|This paper contributes to the railway benchmarking literature in three ways. Firstly, we used the stochastic distance function to measure productive efficiency and productivity change while considering multiple outputs in the railway sector. This method is less used among the studies that compare the performance of railway. Secondly, we calculate the evolution and decomposition of the total factor productivity for European railway. The average rate of productivity showed a slight annual improvement of 27% and the core engine of this was a 25% increase in technical progress. Results by country identify those needing improvement, to be more attractive. Finally, we use a limited dependent variable model to test the impact of rail liberalization process on productive efficiency. Results show that competition tendering improves productive efficiency, whereas free entry delivers the opposite result. Our results also show that competition and the overall liberalization have no impact on productive efficiency. It seems that liberalization process in not the key success factor for the railway industry. Our suggestion is that, in Europe, instead of focusing on rail liberalization process, policy maker should give priority to productivity gains.
C54|A new evaluation and decision making framework investigating the elimination-by-aspects model in the context of transportation projects' investment choices|The Transportation Elimination-by-Aspects (TEBA) framework, a new evaluation and decision making framework (and methodology) for large transportation projects, is proposed to elicit, structure and quantify the preferences of stakeholder groups across project alternatives. The decision rule used for group decision making within TEBA is the individual non-compensatory model of choice elimination by aspects (EBA). TEBA is designed to bring out the decision rule employed by decision makers when ranking the options presented, incorporate various criteria types and ease communication of relevant information related to options and criteria for multiple stakeholder groups. It is a platform for democratizing the decision making process. The TEBA framework was tested using a case study investigating alternative land connections between Beirut and Damascus. Key results showed that (1) stakeholders have employed EBA in making decisions, (2) a defined group of decision makers will rank options differently when provided with modified sets of criteria, (3) the public sector and general public groups ranked Impact on Employment among the top criteria, (4) the most important criterion per group from EBA was as expected; (5) the EBA analysis suggested that only 3–4 criteria are significant in reaching a decision; (6) aggregation of user assigned weights masked relative importance of criteria in some cases; and (7) analysis of user assigned weights and Minimum Threshold (MT) values suggest higher risk perception with increased criterion importance. Policy implications include recommendation to reach out to stakeholders for input on decisions, including the “people” but refrain from relying on criteria weights assigned by “experts” and reduce the “experts”’ role in decision making. Also, it is recommended to model the decision making in a probabilistic framework rather than a deterministic “one score” approach, seek to identify a consensus ranking, place particular attention on determining the values of the criteria that emerged as “top” at the evaluation stage and continue to emphasize risk measures.
C54|Integrated model of computable general equilibrium and social cost benefit analysis of an Indian oil refinery: Future projections and macroeconomic effects|Social Cost Benefit Analysis has long been used as a useful tool to appraise and evaluate the value to a society of a range of investment projects. Various important aspects of this method have been subject to scrutiny over the decades, such as the appropriate discount rate, whether the Ramsey Rule of `pure time preference' should be applied as impatience with a positive rate or zero-rated with concern for future generations; these are important concerns since the choice of discount rates deeply affect the valuations of future income streams. Other aspects concerning financial flows and appropriate `shadow prices' have also undergone considerable attention. However, when a mega-project with the character of a `universal intermediate' is considered, its multiplier effects may be wide-ranging and permeate several economic and social layers, and may be captured only in the aggregates. This study, a sequel to a paper that ignores such macro-aggregative benefits, examines the costs and benefits of Vadinar refinery in Gujarat with a focus on this welfare dimension on society for the project. The study allows for this large scale benefit accrual and examines the net economic benefit of refining at Vadinar by Essar Oil to the region, the state and the country by Social Cost Benefit Analysis. The framework thus explores a methodological breakthrough in SCBA studies. In constituting the macroeconomic effects of expansion of the mega oil refinery, the economic impact is estimated using the Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model and incorporated into the cost benefit analysis. This assimilation of CBA with macroeconomic externality obtained from the CGE model framework is perhaps only one of its kind in economic analysis of major infrastructure projects of any country. SCBA when combined with CGE as an analytical tool can be gainfully employed to appraise or evaluate large scale projects like oil refineries, especially when they make a splash with their mega-sizes as the Essar Oil refinery is.
C54|Fiscal Policy after the Crisis – Workshop Proceedings|"This paper presents the proceedings of the annual Public Finance Workshop organised by the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs in Brussels on 19 January 2016 in relation with the publication of its Public Finance in EMU 2015 Report. After the double-dip recession between 2009 and 2013, growth is gradually returning to the EU and the euro area but it is still subject to downside risks. On the nominal side, both inflation and interest rates remain very low, thereby curtailing the stabilisation function of monetary policy. After years of fiscal consolidation, budget deficits have been reduced significantly in most Member States. Nevertheless, the crisis has taken its toll on the societies of several Member States and left us with the legacy of high public-debt ratios and increased social challenges. The workshop discusses the best options for fiscal policy in such an environment. It was organised in two sessions: Session 1: ""Fiscal policy in a low-inflation context"", and Session 2: ""Fiscal policy after the crisis"". The proceedings display the high quality contributions that were presented in each of these sessions and the discussions that followed."
C54|Le componenti principali pesate geograficamente per la definizione di indicatori compositi locali|Il presente lavoro analizza il problema della costruzione degli indicatori compositi a livello locale. Gli indicatori rappresentano sempre più un valido strumento di ausilio per la definizione di interventi adeguati di policy che siano basati su un’effettiva analisi della realtà. Un indicatore composito misura concetti multidimensionali che sono difficili da comprendere attraverso l’analisi di una molteplicità di indicatori semplici. Il problema della sintesi degli indicatori semplici è un argomento spesso dibattuto nella letteratura specialistica. La tecnica statistica dell’analisi in componenti principali è uno strumento frequentemente utilizzato per risolvere tale problema. In generale, quando l’unità statistica di osservazione è geo-riferita, la versione classica dell’analisi in componenti principali risulta non adeguata per la sintesi di indicatori semplici. Infatti, usando l’analisi in componenti principali standard, vengono trascurati alcuni effetti spaziali che caratterizzano in modo cruciale le unità che si distribuiscono sul territorio. In particolare, possono essere considerati gli effetti di eterogeneità e dipendenza spaziale. In questo articolo, gli autori applicano una tecnica di analisi in componenti principali pesata geograficamente che è stata introdotta recentemente in letteratura. Tale tecnica tiene in debita considerazione l’effetto di eterogeneità spaziale. La metodologia è utilizzata al fine della definizione di indicatori compositi di benessere a livello locale. In particolare, il caso di studio riguarda le 110 province italiane per l’anno 2011. I risultati evidenziano come l’eterogeneità spaziale non possa essere ignorata quando si analizzano dati rilevati su unità territoriali, e pertanto, l’utilizzo del¬l’analisi in componenti principali modificata spazialmente risulta più adeguata per lo studio del fenomeno sotto investigazione.
C54|Time-varying parameter estimation in macroeconometrics|This paper addresses the issue of Time-Varying Parameter (TVP) estimation, a technique recently introduced in the field of macroeconometrics, and especially in FAVAR (Factor-Augmented Vector Auto-Regression) modeling. FAVAR is here extended to Vector Error Correction (VEC) methodology to yield a new and enriched model denominated FAVEC. Different from classic VAR/VEC models where Time-Fixed Parameter (TFP) estimation dominates over the entire sample and may be conducive to the â€œLucas Critiqueâ€ , TVP models produce changing parameters that can be used by the analyst to infer the dynamics underlying the data process, such as structural breaks, changes in covariances and in parameter significance, and so on. This advantage, however, comes at a high cost represented by burdensome program coding and by the CPU-machine time required to produce multi-draw Gibbs sampling to enable Bayesian parameter estimation. Sizable costs, among others, may also ensue from the construction of impulse responses and variance decompositions for the purpose of policy evaluation. In- and out-sample forecasting applied to competing TFP and TVP models of the US economy and monetary policy during the years 1959-2006, using quarterly observations, produces very interesting results that definitely favor the TVP-FAVEC model representation.
C54|The impacts of the EU ETS on Norwegian plants' environmental and economic performance|This paper examines the impacts of the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) on the environmental and economic performance of Norwegian plants. The EU ETS is regarded as the cornerstone climate policy both in the EU and in Norway, but there has been considerable debate regarding its effects due to low quota prices and substantial allocation of free allowances to the manufacturing industry. Both quota prices and allocation rules have changed significantly between the three phases of the ETS. The rich data allow us to investigate potential effects of the ETS on several important aspects of plant behavior. The results indicate a weak tendency of emissions reductions among Norwegian plants in the second phase of the ETS, but not in the other phases. We find no significant effects on emissions intensity in any of the phases, but positive effects on value added and productivity in the second phase. Positive effects on value added and productivity may be due to the large amounts of free allowances, and that plants may have passed on the additional marginal costs to consumers.
C54|Economic Research and Education Policy: Project STAR and Class Size Reduction|The use of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and related randomization strategies to eliminate selection biases in establishing causality is a key element of the “modern experimentalist paradigm” (MEP). Yet, its emphasis on precisely identifying causal factors often limits its capacity to provide an evidence base for policy. We illustrate this through a detailed look at Project STAR, an extensively analyzed, well-funded, large-scale, rigorous RCT commissioned by the Tennessee legislature to help it decide whether to mandate statewide class-size reductions (CSR) from kindergarten to the third grade. Project STAR randomly assigned students to classes of different size and compared test results across these classes, to obtain an unbiased answer to the research question, “Does reducing class size improve test scores?” However, this shed little light on whether reducing class size was a good use of increased education financing. Analyses of Project STAR ignored general equilibrium effects of CSR on both the demand for teachers and the value of test scores. Moreover, its emphasis on estimating average class-size effects in a particular setting diverted attention from their heterogeneity, and the need to understand how class size affects learning, and how its effect is moderated by circumstances. Rather than considering the full chain of evidence necessary for shaping class-size policy, Project STAR concentrated its effort on maximizing the accuracy of a single link in that chain; internal validity trumped policy relevance.
C54|What's 'structural' about unemployment in Europe: On the Determinants of the European Commission's NAIRU Estimates|This paper analyzes the determinants of the European Commission's NAIRU estimates for 14 European OECD countries during 1985-2012. The NAIRU is a poor proxy for 'structural unemployment': Labor market institutions - employment protection legislation, union density, tax wedge, minimum wages - underperform in explaining the NAIRU, while cyclical variables - capital accumulation and boom - bust patterns in housing markets - play an important role. This is relevant since the NAIRU is used to compute potential output and structural budget balances and, hence, has a direct impact on the scope and evaluation of fiscal policy in EU countries.
C54|The Financial and Macroeconomic Effects of the OMT Announcements|This paper evaluates the macroeconomic effects of the announcements of the European Central Bank’s Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT) program. Using high-frequency data, we find that the OMT announcements decreased the Italian and Spanish two-year government bond yields by about 2 percentage points, while leaving unchanged the bond yields of the same maturity in Germany and France. These results are used to calibrate a scenario in a multi-country model describing the macrofinancial linkages in France, Germany, Italy, and Spain. The scenario analysis suggests that the reduction in bond yields due to the OMT announcements is associated with a significant increase in real activity, credit, and prices in Italy and Spain, with some relatively muted spillovers in France and Germany.
C54|The financial and macroeconomic effects of OMT announcements|The ECB’s announcements that it could conduct Outright Monetary Transactions led to sizeable changes in the yield curves of some euro area countries. In particular, two-year bond yields in Italy and Spain are estimated to have fallen by around 200 basis points. As a consequence, it is likely that the announcements have had a positive effect on economic activity, prices and loans in Italy and Spain. JEL Classification: E47, E58, C54
C54|Integrated Model of Computable General Equilibrium and Social Cost Benefit Analysis of an Indian Oil Refinery: Future Projections and Macroeconomic Effects|Social Cost Benefit Analysis has long been used as a useful tool to appraise the value of a range of investment projects. Various aspects of this method have been subject to scrutiny over the decades. Other aspects concerning financial flows and appropriate â€˜shadow pricesâ€™ have also undergone considerable attention. This study, a sequel to a paper that ignores such macro-aggregative benefits, examines the costs and benefits of Vadinar refinery in Gujarat with a focus on this welfare dimension on society for the project. The study allows for this large-scale benefit accrual and examines the net economic benefit of refining at Vadinar by Essar Oil to the region. The framework thus explores a methodological breakthrough in SCBA studies. SCBA when combined with CGE as an analytical tool can be gainfully employed to appraise or evaluate large-scale projects like oil refineries, especially when they make a splash with their mega-sizes as the Essar Oil refinery is. [WP-2016-024]
C54|The Use of Multivariate Techniques for the Unemployment Analysis|The present paper includes the results of an analysis of different aspects which influence the unemployment evolution in Romania; the analysis was conducted using exploratory multidimensional techniques such as Principal Component Analysis, Factor Analysis and Cluster Analysis. The present research aims to extend the comprehension of the labor market state, offering a formula which reflects the unemployment multidimensionality, the simultaneous action of more factors and establish a framework for the evaluation of the labor market conditions. There are presented different typologies of unemployment, extracted according to the level of education, the unemployment duration and gender for the period 1996- 2014 for four age groups. The analysis highlights the specific behavior of the young generation and also of the generation over 50 years.
C54|Attitudes to Leadership and Voting: Finding the Efficient Frontier|Winning elections is essentially a matter of translating the attitudes of voters into votes. While there is a vast literature in political science, in particular in election studies, on the effectiveness of political campaigns in driving voter choice, we know very little, if anything, about the efficiency with which the inputs (voter attitudes) to the political process are converted into outputs (vote support). This article uses Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to examine the efficiency with which Australian political leaders and parties have, over the past three decades, converted voter attitudes (approval and disapproval) toward Prime Ministers and Opposition Leaders into votes (both for their own, and for their opponents’ parties). The results of the DEA analysis and associated modelling find marked differences in the political efficiency of recent Australian political leaders. Prime Ministers Hawke and Keating had superior political efficiency in converting attitudes to political leaders into votes, while Prime Ministers Howard and Rudd were relatively less efficient in doing so.
C54|Openness and Structural Labour Market Reforms: Counterfactuals for Lithuania|This paper deals with the macroeconomic responses to labour market reforms; something of utmost importance in times of monetary policy reaching its limits to affect real economy. We shed more light on the plausible macroeconomic reactions to the ex ante (planned but not implemented yet) reforms in the labour market, taking a currently proposed Social Model in Lithuania as an example. Not only contributing to the current debate on the efficacy of announced structural reforms, we also add to the literature on policy evaluation by assessing reforms from a global perspective. Omission of an international dimension could lead to seriously biased results on policy effects for any open and small economy. Taking trade connectivity and openness into account, we demonstrate macroeconomic reactions to shocks in unemployment benefits, active labour market policies, and tax wedge on the reforming economy. We contrast the results with the approach when global interdependencies are ignored - still a standard practice. Using a satellite model for the intermediate trade, we link the global framework with the sectoral extensive margin, which changes some of the initial findings. A discussion on counterfactuals, which use both cross-sectional and temporal dimensions to tackle anticipation effects, is also presented.
C54|Do inflation expectations matter in a stylised New Keynesian model? The case of Poland|This paper estimates different versions of a stylised New Keynesian model of the Polish economy, in which alternative measures of inflation expectations are used. They include: model-based (rational) expectations as well as survey measures of inflation expectations formed by consumers, enterprises and financial sector analysts. After estimating the models we verify to what extent the use of different measures of inflation expectations affects the assessment of the monetary transmission mechanism, the exchange rate pass-through and the sacrifice ratio. Simulation results show different responses in all the analysed areas. For example, the maximum reaction of CPI inflation to the interest rate impulse is almost twice bigger if the direct measures of financial sector analysts are used instead of model-consistent expectations. Also the model with survey-based measures of producer inflation expectations displays stronger response of inflation to monetary policy impulse than the model, in which rational expectations are assumed. Estimates of the exchange rate pass-through from the models with survey-based expectations are very similar to each other, but stronger than in the model with rational expectations. The sacrifice ratio seems similar in the case of all versions of the New Keynesian model except its version with consumer inflation expectations that shows significantly larger output loss resulting from a permanent reduction of the inflation target than the other models. Differences in the assessment how monetary factors affect macroeconomic variables, particularly inflation, pose the question which model should be treated as the most adequate. To answer this question we run in-sample simulations, calculating inflation forecasting errors of all the models under consideration. We conclude that the model that assumes rational inflation expectations displays the lowest forecasting accuracy, while the model using inflation expectations of enterprises is the best-performing model. It suggests that the assumption of rational inflation expectations does not match the actual data well. Inflation expectations of Polish enterprises seem the most relevant from the macroeconomic point of view – more relevant than inflation expectations of consumers and financial sector analysts.
C54|The Transvaluation of the Theory of Economic Policy: The Lucas Critique Reconsidered|This paper entertains two distinct hypotheses about the meaning and effect of the Lucas critique. The first is that the Lucas critique represents advancement in the theory of economic policy. To accept this interpretation, we will have to find evidence that the Lucas critique is empirically valid, ontologically rigorous, and theoretically sound. In search of such evidence, we will review the writings of economists both within and outside the profession’s mainstream that engage the Lucas critique on these criteria. The alternative hypothesis considered in this paper is that in denouncing the traditional theory of economic policy, Lucas sparked an ideational shift in how macroeconomists understand the meaning and value of policy. By considering macroeconomics as a moral science with a specific ontology, we can understand the philosophical implications of the Lucas critique. This paper entertains the idea that the Lucas critique altered the aspirations of economists and policymakers by undermining belief in the ability of economists to make meaningful interventions in the economy and therefore infusing implicit policy nihilism into macroeconomics.
C54|The Economic Consequences of Brexit: A Taxing Decision|Membership of the European Union has contributed to the economic prosperity of the United Kingdom. Uncertainty about the outcome of the referendum has already started to weaken growth in the United Kingdom. A UK exit (Brexit) would be a major negative shock to the UK economy, with economic fallout in the rest of the OECD, particularly other European countries. In some respects, Brexit would be akin to a tax on GDP, imposing a persistent and rising cost on the economy that would not be incurred if the UK remained in the EU. The shock would be transmitted through several channels that would change depending on the time horizon. In the near term, the UK economy would be hit by tighter financial conditions and weaker confidence and, after formal exit from the European Union, higher trade barriers and an early impact of restrictions on labour mobility. By 2020, GDP would be over 3% smaller than otherwise (with continued EU membership), equivalent to a cost per household of GBP 2200 (in today’s prices). In the longer term, structural impacts would take hold through the channels of capital, immigration and lower technical progress. In particular, labour productivity would be held back by a drop in foreign direct investment and a smaller pool of skills. The extent of foregone GDP would increase over time. By 2030, in a central scenario GDP would be over 5% lower than otherwise – with the cost of Brexit equivalent to GBP 3200 per household (in today’s prices). The effects would be larger in a more pessimistic scenario and remain negative even in the optimistic scenario. Brexit would also hold back GDP in other European economies, particularly in the near term resulting from heightened uncertainty would create about the future of Europe. In contrast, continued UK membership in the European Union and further reforms of the Single Market would enhance living standards on both sides of the Channel. Les conséquences économiques du BREXIT : les coûts d'une décision L’adhésion à l’Union européenne a contribué à la prospérité économique du Royaume-Uni. Les incertitudes entourant l’issue du referendum ont déjà commencé à affaiblir la croissance britannique. Une sortie du Royaume-Uni de l’UE (Brexit) conduirait à un choc négatif majeur pour l’économie du pays et aurait des incidences pour tous les membres de l’OCDE, en particulier en Europe. Dans une certaine mesure, le Brexit équivaudrait à un impôt sur le PIB, imposant un coût durable et croissant sur l’économie, qui ne serait pas encouru si Royaume-Uni restait dans l’UE. Ce choc serait transmis par le jeu successif de différents canaux. Sur le court terme, l’économie britannique serait affectée par le durcissement des conditions financières et l’affaiblissement de la confiance puis, après sa sortie officielle de l’Union européenne, par le relèvement des obstacles aux échanges et les conséquences précoces des limitations à la mobilité de la main-d’oeuvre. À l’horizon 2020, le PIB serait plus faible de 3 % qu’autrement (en cas de maintien dans l’UE), équivalent à un coût moyen de 2250 GBP par foyer (en prix actuels). Sur le plus long terme, les effets structurels s’affirmeraient par le biais de trois canaux : les capitaux, l’immigration et un progrès technique moindre. En particulier, la productivité du travail serait pénalisée par une baisse de l’investissement étranger direct et par l’accès à un volume de compétences plus limité. Le manque à gagner en termes de PIB se creuserait avec le temps. En 2030, selon le scénario de référence, le PIB serait inférieur de plus 5% qu’autrement – et le montant de l’« impôt Brexit » atteindrait alors 3200 GBP par ménage (en prix actuels). Les conséquences seraient encore plus marquées dans le scénario le plus défavorable, et resteraient négatives y compris dans le scénario favorable. Une sortie du Royaume-Uni de l’UE entraverait également le PIB dans d’autres économies européennes, notamment sur le court terme, en raison des incertitudes politiques sur l’avenir de l’Europe. À l’inverse, un maintien du Royaume-Uni dans l’Union européenne et la poursuite des réformes du marché unique amélioreraient les niveaux de vie des deux côtés de la Manche.
C54|“Attitudes to Leadership and Voting: Finding the Efficient Frontier”|Winning elections is essentially a matter of translating the attitudes of voters into votes. Although this proposition may sound simple, the reality is considerably more challenging. Despite vast scholarship over many years we know very little, if anything, about the efficiency with which the inputs (voter attitudes) to the political process are converted into outputs (vote support). Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) provides a statistical method to measure the efficiency with which inputs are converted into outputs. The results of the DEA analysis and associated modelling find marked differences in the political efficiency of recent Australian political leaders.
C54|السياحة والنمو الاقتصادي في الجزائر : الأدلة من التكامل المشترك و تحليل السببية<BR>[Tourism and economic growth in Algeria: Evidence of Cointegration and causal analysis]|Tourism is increasingly being recognized as an essential component of economic growth in Algeria. This paper investigates the relationship between economic growth and tourism development in Algeria. The purpose of this research is to test empirically the long-term relationship between economic growth and tourism development for annual data collected between 1995 and 2014. The study uses a multi-variable model that includes gross domestic product and as a proxy of economic growth and a variable reflecting the tourism economy such as arrivals of international tourists, income from expatriate spending. Other relevant variables are added to estimate the econometric model.
C54|Got Hurt for What You Paid? Revisiting Government Subsidy in the U.S. Mortgage Market|I evaluate the subsidized default insurance policy (implemented through the guarantee for Government-Sponsored Enterprises, GSEs) in the U.S. mortgage market both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, I find that the subsidy has raised mortgage interest rates for all loans strictly eligible for the subsidy (conforming loans), which is contrary to conventional wisdom. I do so by applying regression discontinuity designs and using the exogenous variation in mortgage rates generated by a mandate of U.S. Congress. My empirical strategy circumvents the endogeneity problem in conventional studies. Then I set up a screening model with asymmetric information, which explains my empirical results. Moreover, the model implies that the subsidy has hurt borrowers it was intended to help, even without considering the higher tax burden imposed on borrowers to finance the subsidy. The observed positive jumbo-conforming spread can also be explained by the model through incentive compatibility constraints associated with asymmetric information. My paper cautions regulators against interpreting the observed jumbo-conforming spread as an indication that the subsidy necessarily decreases mortgage rates and benefits conforming borrowers. Moreover, the paper shows that the subsidy raises household leverage, increases mortgage default rate, and ultimately undermines financial stability, calling for deeper housing finance reforms in the U.S. beyond the Dodd-Frank Act.
C54|Effectiveness of Monetary Policy in the Euro Area: The Role of US Economic Policy Uncertainty|This paper examines the role of U.S. economic policy uncertainty on the effectiveness of monetary policy in the Euro area. Using a structural Interacted Vector Autoregressive (IVAR) model conditional on high and low levels of U.S. economic policy uncertainty, we find that uncertainty regarding policy changes in the U.S. dampens the effect of monetary policy shocks in the Euro area, with both price and output reacting more significantly to monetary policy shocks when the level of U.S. policy uncertainty is low. We argue that the U.S. government’s actions regarding policy changes in the U.S. is a source of uncertainty for Euro area investors and high levels of policy uncertainty that spill over from the U.S. drive Euro area investors to adopt a wait-and-see approach, leading to a relatively weaker (and sometimes insignificant) response of price and output to monetary tightening in the Euro area. The findings underscore the importance of market integration and coordination of economic policy changes on the effectiveness of monetary policy on the macroeconomy on both sides of the Atlantic. Our results thus, provide evidence in favour of the policy ineffectiveness hypothesis in the Euro area contingent on the economic policy uncertainty of the U.S.
C54|Time-varying persistence of inflation: evidence from a wavelet-based approach|We propose a new stochastic long-memory model with a time-varying fractional integration parameter, evolving non-linearly according to a Logistic Smooth Transition Autoregressive (LSTAR) specification. To estimate the time-varying fractional integration parameter, we implement a method based on the wavelet approach, using the instantaneous least squares estimator (ILSE). The empirical results show the relevance of the modeling approach and provide evidence of regime change in inflation persistence that contributes to a better understanding of the inflationary process in the US. Most importantly, these empirical findings remind us that a “one-size-fits-all” monetary policy is unlikely to work in all circumstances. The empirical results are consistent with newly developed tests of wavelet-based unit root and fractional Brownian motion.
C54|How to achieve significant reduction in pesticide use? An empirical evaluation of the impacts of pesticide taxation associated to a change in cropping practice| In this paper, we use an econometric approach to investigate the impacts of potential changes in cropping practices on the reduction in pesticide use implied by a taxation policy. We combine economic data, reflecting the relatively intensive cropping practices currently used in France, and experimental agronomic data on a low-input technology to estimate micro-econometric models of farmers’ production and acreage choices. In a second step, these estimated models are used to conduct policy simulations. Our results show that a small tax on pesticide use could provide agricultural producers sufficient economic incentive to adopt low-input cropping practices and thereby lead to significant reductions in pesticide use, close to public short-term objectives. However, given the limited impacts of taxation once these practices have been adopted, other public instruments or further improvement of low-input cropping systems should be considered to achieve more ambitious longer term public objectives.
C54|The influence of public subsidies on farm technical efficiency: A robust conditional nonparametric approach|The objective of this paper is to assess the impact of public subsidies on farm technical efficiency using recent advances in nonparametric efficiency analysis. To this end, we use robust conditional frontier techniques as well as insights from recent developments in nonparametric econometrics. The paper contributes to the ongoing methodological discussion on how to model the effect of public subsidies on farmers’ production decisions. The analysis is conducted using an unbalanced panel data of 1,604 observations from 313 French farms located in the French region Meuse over the period 2006-2011. The estimates indicate that public subsidies influence negatively the conditional technical efficiency of farms. This suggests that public subsidies affect the range of attainable values for the inputs and outputs, and hence the shape of the boundary of the attainable set, as well as the distribution of inefficiencies inside the attainable set.
C54|Contribución de los choques externos en el crecimiento económico del Perú: un modelo semi-estructural|En este documento se estudia la contribución del sector externo en el crecimiento de la economía peruana en el periodo 1996-2015. Se usa un modelo semi-estructural similar a los desarrollos disponibles (Berg y otros, 2006; Salas, 2011; Adler y Sosa, 2012; Han, 2014),) de modo que los choques externos se propagan endógenamente hacia el crecimiento de una economía pequeña, abierta y parcialmente dolarizada mediante los canales reales (comercio y términos de intercambio) y financiero (volatilidad y tipo de cambio). Se encuentra que los efectos conjuntos de los choques externos que enfrentó la economía peruana son heterogéneos en el tiempo y según el tipo de choque: en los periodos 2005-2008 y 2010-2013 los choques externos representan hasta el 36% y 28% del crecimiento observado, respectivamente. Asimismo, durante el 2009 se hubiera crecido 4,2 puntos porcentuales mayor al observado en dicho año (1,1%) si es que no hubiera ocurrido la crisis económica mundial.
C54|The forward guidance puzzle|With short-term interest rates at the zero lower bound, forward guidance has become a key tool for central bankers, and yet we know little about its effectiveness. This paper first empirically documents the impact of forward guidance announcements on a broad cross section of financial markets data and professional forecasts. We find that Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) announcements containing forward guidance had heterogeneous effects depending on the other content of the statement. We show that once we control for these other elements, forward guidance had, on average, positive and meaningful effects on output and inflation expectations. Using this benchmark, we then show that standard medium-scale DSGE models tend to grossly overestimate the impact of forward guidance on the macroeconomy, a phenomenon we call the “forward guidance puzzle.” We explain why this is the case and show that incorporating a perpetual youth structure into the benchmark provides a possible resolution to the puzzle.
C54|Granger Causality between Inflation and Inflation Uncertainty in Iran: A MSVAR Approach|The main purpose of the present research is to study the Causal relationship between inflation and inflation uncertainty in Iran’s economy during 1990:1 – 2015:4. To achieve this goal, this paper used Vector Auto Regression model with the possibility of changing Markov Regime (MS – VAR). Results obtained from model estimation showed that depending on the placement of inflation and uncertainty variables on the regimes, causal relationship among these variables can be different. In general, results obtained from the research in relation to the presence of causality relationship from inflation to uncertainty of inflation showed that in estimated 5 cases out of the 6 cases, Friedman's (1977) and Ball’s hypothesis (1992), that inflation causes inflation uncertainty to increase, have been confirmed. Also, in the case of the causal relationship from uncertainty of inflation to inflation, it is showed that only in one case out of the 6 studied cases, Pourgerami’s and Maskus’s hypothesis (1987), that an increase in inflation causes a decrease in inflation uncertainty, has been confirmed.
C54|Influence of Foreign Institutional Investments (FIIs) on the Indian Stock Market: An Insight by VAR Models|The study examines the influence of foreign institutional investments (FIIs) on the Indian equity market and its role in integration with the United States (US) equity market. Different vector autoregression (VAR) models have been employed for sub-periods created by the structural breaks. Despite global recessionary conditions, both purchase and sales of FIIs have steadily increased. The FII inflows and outflows are significantly influenced by the domestic equity market. The exchange rate has no effect on FII inflows; however, outflows are influenced by its change. The US equity market has no influence on FIIsâ€™ inflows but has marginal impact on the outflows. JEL Classification: C58, C54, G23, G18, G15
C54|Causal Latent Markov Model for the Comparison of Multiple Treatments in Observational Longitudinal Studies|We extend to the longitudinal setting a latent class approach that was recently introduced by Lanza, Coffman, and Xu to estimate the causal effect of a treatment. The proposed approach enables an evaluation of multiple treatment effects on subpopulations of individuals from a dynamic perspective, as it relies on a latent Markov (LM) model that is estimated taking into account propensity score weights based on individual pretreatment covariates. These weights are involved in the expression of the likelihood function of the LM model and allow us to balance the groups receiving different treatments. This likelihood function is maximized through a modified version of the traditional expectationâ€“maximization algorithm, while standard errors for the parameter estimates are obtained by a nonparametric bootstrap method. We study in detail the asymptotic properties of the causal effect estimator based on the maximization of this likelihood function, and we illustrate its finite sample properties through a series of simulations showing that the estimator has the expected behavior. As an illustration, we consider an application aimed at assessing the relative effectiveness of certain degree programs on the basis of three ordinal response variables in which the work path of a graduate is considered as the manifestation of his or her human capital-level across time.
C54|Почему не развиваются российские регионы? Why does not develop the russian regions?|Устойчивое развитие государства обеспечивается сбалансированным социально-экономическим развитием всех его регионов. Важнейшим условием экономического развития регионов является полноценная и высокая активность региональных бизнес-структур, определяемая их финансовыми возможностями. В статье проводится сопоставительный анализ показателей финансовой деятельности предприятий и организаций для двух выделенных ареалов: столичного и регионального. На основе реальных, некорректированных статистических данных прослеживается разница ареальных возможностей и изменение динамики самочувствия ареального бизнеса. Использование методов статистического и корреляционно-регрессионного анализа позволило обосновать выводы о чрезмерной дифференциации бизнес-возможностей столицы и регионов и построить прогноз относительно дальнейшей деградации экономики регионов при сохранении существующей тенденции. Сформулированы выводы и рекомендации по возвращению в зону соотношений, позволяющих сохранять тренд устойчивого развития. Sustainable development of the state is provided by means of balanced socio-economic development of all its regions. The most important condition for regional economic development is complete and the high activity of regional business structures, which is determined by their fnancial capabilities. The article presents a comparative analysis of the fnancial performance of enterprises and organizations in the two selected areals: the metropolitan and regional. On the basis of the real, unadjusted statistical data traced difference of capabilities and dynamics of changes health of areal’s business. Using the methods of statistical and regression analysis allowed to justify conclusions about the excessive differentiation of the business opportunities of the capital and the regions and build a forecast of further degradation of regional economies, while maintaining the current trend. Formulated conclusions and recommendations for return to the area of ratios which allowing to maintain the trend of sustainable development.
C54|Оптимизация макроэкономической политики России на период 2016–2020 годов. Optimization of the Russian macroeconomic policy for 2016–2020|Статья посвящена проблемам совершенствования методологических основ выработки и обоснования направлений государственной экономической политики и оптимизации значений параметров ее инструментов. Возрастающая сложность социально-экономических систем, высокая роль государства в их функционировании, а также множественность целей государственной экономической политики при наличии ограниченного числа инструментов их достижения обусловливают актуальность данной научной проблематики. Большое практическое значение исследования в данной области приобретают для современной России, сталкивающейся с множеством внутренних и внешних ограничений социально-экономического развития. Основной целью настоящего исследования выступает развитие динамической эконометрической общеравновесной межотраслевой модели экономики России в направлении построения блока оптимизации государственной экономической политики, позволяющего учитывать воздействие инструментов государственной экономической политики на ее основные целевые показатели и определять оптимальные значения их количественных параметров. Основой для указанного развития является подход Роберта Манделла, расширяемый нами в направлении учета динамики и состава целей и инструментов. Использование общеравновесной межотраслевой модели позволяет учитывать воздействие экономической политики на состояние отдельных агрегированных рынков и отраслей экономики. Апробация модели позволила построить многовариантный прогноз экономического развития России на период 2016–2020 гг., определить оптимальные значения денежно-кредитной политики и количественно сопоставить рассматриваемые варианты между собой по величине возникающих общественных потерь. Полученные результаты могут быть использованы как в теоретических, так и в прикладных исследованиях, посвященных вопросам выработки экономической политики государства и прогнозирования социально-экономического развития. This paper is concerned with the methodological issues of economic policy elaboration and optimization of economic policy instruments’ parameters. Actuality of this research is provided by growing complexity of social and economic systems, important state role in their functioning as well as multi-targets of economic policy with limited number of instruments. Considering a big variety of internal and external restrictions of social and economic development of modern Russia it has wide range of applications. Extension of the dynamic econometric general equilibrium input-output model of the Russian economy with development of the sub-model of economic policy optimization is a key purpose of this study. The sub-model of economic policy optimization allows estimating impact of economic policy measures on target indicators as well as defining optimal values of their parameters. For this purpose, we extend Robert Mundell’s approach by considering dynamic optimization and wider range of economic policy targets and measures. Use of general equilibrium input-output model allows considering impact of economic policy on different aggregate markets and sectors. Approbation of suggested approach allows us to develop multi-variant forecast for the Russian economy for 2016–2020, define optimal values of monetary policy parameters and compare considered variants by values of social losses. The obtained results could be further used in theoretical as well as applied researches concerned with issues of economic policy elaboration and forecasting of social and economic development.
C54|The Real Influences Of Oil Price Changes On The Growth Of Real Gdp: The Case Of South Africa|Oil price fluctuation is a cause of concern for most of the economies of the world including South Africa. The premise is that since oil consumption is regarded as one of the major determinants of the economic activities in any country, therefore the price fluctuations have a potential of slowing down the economic growth. The purpose of this study is to analyse the influences of oil price changes on economic growth in South Africa. Determining such a relationship will not only be helpful to the academic community, but also to the policy makers and the international community. The study utilises secondary data to examine quarterly time series data from the year 1990Q1-2014Q1. Several sources of data (websites) like SARB, Quantec, and International Monetary Funds, among others, were considered to find the most relevant data. The model was estimated by using a cointegrating vector autoregressive frame work and it was passed through a battery of diagnostic and stability test. The Generalised Impulse Response Function was employed to examine the dynamic relations among the variables under study. The results show that there is a positive relationship between economic growth and oil prices fluctuations.
C54|Determining the Suitability of Alternative Locations for Syrian Refugee Camps in Turkey using Extended VIKOR|As the conflict in Syria deepens, the number of displaced Syrians crossing the border into Turkey has dramatically risen. According to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), there are 2,748,367 registered Syrian refugees in Turkey as of May 2016. On the other hand, the population of Syrian refugees in camps is estimated to be around 217,000 people, due to the lack of capacity. The demand for camps has surpassed the available spaces in the camps.On 22 October 2014, the Government of Turkey issued a regulation on protection, defining a status that refugees from Syria seeking international protection are admitted to Turkey and will not be sent back to Syria against his or her will. In addition, on 18 March 2016, EU and Turkey agreed to end the irregular migration from Turkey to the EU and replace it instead with legal channels of resettlement of refugees to the European Union. These two conditions lead to an urgent necessity to organize the situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey, who cannot be seen as temporary. For the settlement of Syrian refugees to Turkey, an adaptation process is necessary. Due to the lack of capacity and poor conditions in the current camps, new camps must be built. The aim of the present study is to analyze the alternative locations for building new refugee camps in Turkey, regarding the affecting factors, through Extended VIKOR.The problem is considered as a multi-criteria decision making problem. The factors affecting the suitability for new camps; mainly grouped as political, economic, demographic, and sociocultural; are taken into account as the main criteria. Alternatives are selected among a set of different locations that are already considered by the Turkish government and the UNHCR.The model developed uses experts? views to quantify the effects of the factors for each location with the aid of fuzzy approach. The problem is then solved using Extended VIKOR and the locations for new Syrian Refugee Camps in Turkey are evaluated. Afterwards, a sensitivity analysis is applied to analyze system?s behavior to changes.
C54|Wirkungen einer Beseitigung des „Mittelstandsbauchs“ im Einkommensteuertarif<BR>[Effects of Levelling the “Middle Class Bulge” in the German Income Tax Tariff]|Zusammenfassung Die Steuereinnahmen in Deutschland steigen unvermindert stark an, und die Forderungen nach einer Einkommensteuersenkung werden lauter. Dabei sollen einerseits der sogenannte Mittelstandsbauch und andererseits die kalte Progression korrigiert werden. Verschiedene Tarifausgestaltungen führen zu unterschiedlichen Entlastungen der einzelnen Bevölkerungsgruppen und wirken sich auf der Aufkommensseite ebenfalls unterschiedlich aus. Vier Tarifvarianten werden beispielhaft untersucht.
C54|The impacts of the EU ETS on Norwegian plants' environmental and economic performance|This paper examines the impacts of the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) on the envi- ronmental and economic performance of Norwegian plants. The EU ETS is regarded as the cornerstone climate policy both in the EU and in Norway, but there has been considerable de- bate regarding its eects due to low quota prices and substantial allocation of free allowances to the manufacturing industry. Both quota prices and allocation rules have changed signicantly between the three phases of the ETS. The rich data allow us to investigate potential eects of the ETS on several important aspects of plant behavior. The results indicate a weak tendency of emissions reductions among Norwegian plants in the second phase of the ETS, but not in the other phases. We nd no signicant eects on emissions intensity in any of the phases, but positive eects on value added and productivity in the second phase. Positive eects on value added and productivity may be due to the large amounts of free allowances, and that plants may have passed on the additional marginal costs to consumers.
C54|A Bayesian Infinite Hidden Markov Vector Autoregressive Model|We propose a Bayesian infinite hidden Markov model to estimate time-varying parameters in a vector autoregressive model. The Markov structure allows for heterogeneity over time while accounting for state-persistence. By modelling the transition distribution as a Dirichlet process mixture model, parameters can vary over potentially an infinite number of regimes. The Dirichlet process however favours a parsimonious model without imposing restrictions on the parameter space. An empirical application demonstrates the ability of the model to capture both smooth and abrupt parameter changes over time, and a real-time forecasting exercise shows excellent predictive performance even in large dimensional VARs.
C54|The Time for Austerity: Estimating the Average Treatment Effect of Fiscal Policy|Elevated government debt levels in advanced economies have risen rapidly as sovereigns absorbed private sector losses and cyclical deficits blew up in the Global Financial Crisis and subsequent slump. A rush to fiscal austerity followed but its justifications and impacts have been heavily debated. Research on the effects of austerity on macroeconomic aggregates remains unsettled, mired by the difficulty of identifying multipliers from observational data. This paper reconciles seemingly disparate estimates of multipliers within a unified framework. We do this by first evaluating the validity of common identification assumptions used by the literature and find that they are largely violated in the data. Next, we use new propensity score methods for time-series data with local projections to quantify how contractionary austerity really is, especially in economies operating below potential. We find that the adverse effects of austerity may have been understated.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C54|Tariffs, Trade and Productivity: A Quantitative Evaluation of Heterogeneous Firm Models|We examine the quantitative predictions of heterogeneous firm models à la Melitz (2003) in the context of the Canada - US Free Trade Agreement (CUSFTA) of 1989. We compute predicted increases in trade flows and measured productivity across a range of standard models and compare them to the post-CUSFTA increases observed in the data. Our results point to a fundamental problem which most models we analyse face: predicted increases in measured productivity are too low by an order of magnitude relative to predicted increases in trade flows. Thus, most models are inherently incapable of simultaneously matching trade and productivity reactions to freer trade, raising doubts about the accuracy of the quantitative predictions of a large number of work-horse models in the literature. Using a multi-product firm extension of our baseline model as an example, we show that allowing for within-firm productivity increases has the potential to reconcile model predictions with the data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C54|On Forecasting Conflict in the Sudan: 2009–2012| This paper considers univariate and multivariate models to forecast monthly conflict events in the Sudan over the out‐of‐sample period 2009–2012. The models used to generate these forecasts were based on a specification from a machine learning algorithm fit to 2000–2008 monthly data. The model that includes previous month's wheat price performs better than a similar model which does not include past wheat prices (the univariate model). Both models did not perform well in forecasting conflict in a neighborhood of the 2012 ‘Heglig crisis’. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
C54|Heterogeneity in euro area monetary policy transmission: results from a large multi-country BVAR model|We study cross-country differences in monetary policy transmission across the large four euro area countries (France, Germany, Italy and Spain) using a large Bayesian vector autoregressive model with endogenous prior selection. Drawing both on the posterior distributions of the cross-country differences in impulse responses as well as on a battery of other tests we find real output to respond less negatively to a monetary policy tightening in Spain than in the other three countries while the price level decline is weaker in Germany. Bond yields rise stronger and more persistently in France and Germany than in Italy and Spain.
C54|Public Debt Sustainability in Serbia-Evidence from Transition and the Great Recession|No abstract is available for this item.
C54|Fiscal Pressure of Interest Payments in Serbia - a Time Series Exploration|No abstract is available for this item.
