C58|Consistency and asymptotic normality of maximum likelihood estimators of a multiplicative time-varying smooth transition correlation GARCH model|A new multivariate volatility model that belongs to the family of conditional correlation GARCH models is introduced. The GARCH equations of this model contain a multiplicative deterministic component to describe long-run movements in volatility and, in addition, the correlations are deterministically time-varying. Parameters of the model are estimated jointly using maximum likelihood. Consistency and asymptotic normality of maximum likelihood estimators is proved. Numerical aspects of the estimation algorithm are discussed. A bivariate empirical example is provided.
C58|Modelling and Forecasting WIG20 Daily Returns|The purpose of this paper is to model daily returns of the WIG20 index. The idea is to consider a model that explicitly takes changes in the amplitude of the clusters of volatility into account. This variation is modelled by a positive-valued deterministic component. A novelty in specification of the model is that the deterministic component is specified before estimating the multiplicative conditional variance component. The resulting model is subjected to misspecification tests and its forecasting performance is compared with that of commonly applied models of conditional heteroskedasticity.
C58|Inference from the futures: ranking the noise cancelling accuracy of realized measures|We consider the log-linear relationship between futures contracts and their underlying assets and show that in the classical Brownian semi-martingale (BSM) framework the two series must, by no-arbitrage, have the same integrated variance. We then introduce the concept of noise cancelling and propose a generally applicable methodology to assess the performance of realized measures when the variable of interest is latent, overcoming the problem posed by the lack of a true value for the integrated variance. Using E-mini index futures contracts, we carry out formal testing of several realized measures in the presence of noise. Moreover, a thorough simulation analysis is employed to evaluate the estimators' sensitivity to different price and noise processes, and sampling frequencies.
C58|State-dependent Hawkes processes and their application to limit order book modelling|We study statistical aspects of state-dependent Hawkes processes, which are an extension of Hawkes processes where a self- and cross-exciting counting process and a state process are fully coupled, interacting with each other. The excitation kernel of the counting process depends on the state process that, reciprocally, switches state when there is an event in the counting process. We first establish the existence and uniqueness of state-dependent Hawkes processes and explain how they can be simulated. Then we develop maximum likelihood estimation methodology for parametric specifications of the process. We apply state-dependent Hawkes processes to high-frequency limit order book data, allowing us to build a novel model that captures the feedback loop between the order flow and the shape of the limit order book. We estimate two specifications of the model, using the bid-ask spread and the queue imbalance as state variables, and find that excitation effects in the order flow are strongly state-dependent. Additionally, we find that the endogeneity of the order flow, measured by the magnitude of excitation, is also state-dependent, being more pronounced in disequilibrium states of the limit order book. MSC 2010 Classification: 60G55, 62M09, 62P05
C58|Resuscitating the co-fractional model of Granger (1986)|We study the theoretical properties of the model for fractional cointegration proposed by Granger (1986), namely the FVECM d,b. First, we show that the stability of any discrete time stochastic system of the type II(L)Yt = E t can be assessed by means of the argument principle under mild regularity condition on II (L) where L is the lag operator. Second, we prove that, under stability, the FVECMd,b allows for a representation of the solution that demonstrates the fractional and co-fractional properties and we find a closed-form expression for the impulse response functions. Third, we prove that the model is identifed for any combination of number of lags and cointegration rank, while still being able to generate polynomial co-fractionality. Finally, we show that the asymptotic properties of the maximum likelihood estimator reconcile with those of the FCVARd,b model studied in Johansen and Nielsen (2012).
C58|Testing Nonlinearity through a Logistic Smooth Transition AR Model with Logistic Smooth Transition GARCH Errors|This paper analyzes the cyclical behavior of CAC 40 by testing the existence of nonlinearity through a logistic smooth transition AR model with logistic smooth transition GARCH errors. We study the daily returns of CAC 40 from 1990 to 2018. We estimate several models using nonparametric maximum likelihood, where the innovation distribution is replaced by a nonparametric estimate for the density function. We find that the rate of transition and the threshold value in both the conditional mean and conditional variance are highly significant. The forecasting results show that the informational shocks have transitory effects on returns and volatility and confirm nonlinearity.
C58|Memory that Drives! New Insights into Forecasting Performance of Stock Prices from SEMIFARMA-AEGAS Model|Stock price forecasting, a popular growth-enhancing exercise for investors, is inherently complex – thanks to the interplay of financial economic drivers which determine both the magnitude of memory and the extent of non-linearity within a system. In this paper, we accommodate both features within a single estimation framework to forecast stock prices and identify the nature of market efficiency commensurate with the proposed model. We combine a class of semiparametric autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (SEMIFARMA) model with asymmetric exponential generalized autoregressive score (AEGAS) errors to design a SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS framework based on which predictive performance of this model is tested against competing methods. Our conditional variance includes leverage effects, jumps and fat tail-skewness distribution, each of which affects magnitude of memory in a stock price system. A true forecast function is built and new insights into stock price forecasting are presented. We estimate several models using the Skewed Student-t maximum likelihood and find that the informational shocks have permanent effects on returns and the SEMIFARMA-AEGAS is appropriate for capturing volatility clustering for both negative (long Value-at-Risk) and positive returns (short Value-at-Risk). We show that this model has better predictive performance over competing models for both long and/or some short time horizons. The predictions from SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS model beats comfortably the random walk model. Our results have implications for market-efficiency: the weak efficiency assumption of financial markets stands violated for all stock price returns studied over a long period.
C58|Virtual Historical Simulation for estimating the conditional VaR of large portfolios|"In order to estimate the conditional risk of a portfolio's return, two strategies can be advocated. A multivariate strategy requires estimating a dynamic model for the vector of risk factors, which is often challenging, when at all possible, for large portfolios. A univariate approach based on a dynamic model for the portfolio's return seems more attractive. However, when the combination of the individual returns is time varying, the portfolio's return series is typically non stationary which may invalidate statistical inference. An alternative approach consists in reconstituting a ""virtual portfolio"", whose returns are built using the current composition of the portfolio and for which a stationary dynamic model can be estimated. This paper establishes the asymptotic properties of this method, that we call Virtual Historical Simulation. Numerical illustrations on simulated and real data are provided."
C58|Multivariate Fractional Components Analysis|We propose a setup for fractionally cointegrated time series which is formulated in terms of latent integrated and short-memory components. It accommodates nonstationary processes with different fractional orders and cointegration of different strengths and is applicable in high-dimensional settings. In an application to realized covariance matrices, we find that orthogonal short- and long-memory components provide a reasonable fit and competitive out-of-sample performance compared to several competing methods.
C58|Composite Likelihood Estimation of an Autoregressive Panel Probit Model with Random Effects|Modeling and estimating persistent discrete data can be challenging. In this paper, we use an autoregressive panel probit model where the autocorrelation in the discrete variable is driven by the autocorrelation in the latent variable. In such a non-linear model, the autocorrelation in an unobserved variable results in an intractable likelihood containing high-dimensional integrals. To tackle this problem, we use composite likelihoods that involve much lower order of integration. However, parameter identification becomes problematic since the information employed in lower dimensional distributions may not be rich enough for identification. Therefore, we characterize types of composite likelihoods that are valid for this model and study conditions under which the parameters can be identified. Moreover, we provide consistency and asymptotic normality results of the pairwise composite likelihood estimator and conduct Monte Carlo simulations to assess its finite-sample performances. Finally, we apply our method to analyze credit ratings. The results indicate a significant improvement in the estimated transition probabilities between rating classes compared with static models.
C58|Tail index estimation: quantile driven threshold selection|The selection of upper order statistics in tail estimation is notoriously difficult. Most methods are based on asymptotic arguments, like minimizing the asymptotic mse, that do not perform well in finite samples. Here we advance a data driven method that minimizes the maximum distance between the fitted Pareto type tail and the observed quantile. To analyse the finite sample properties of the metric we organize a horse race between the other methods. In most cases the finite sample based methods perform best. To demonstrate the economic relevance of choosing the proper methodology we use daily equity return data from the CRSP database and find economic relevant variation between the tail index estimates.
C58|Measuring contagion risk in international banking|We propose a distress measure for national banking systems that incorporates not only banks' CDS spreads, but also how they interact with the rest of the global financial system via multiple linkage types. The measure is based on a tensor decomposition method that extracts an adjacency matrix from a multi-layer network, measured using banks' foreign exposures obtained from the BIS international banking statistics. Based on this adjacency matrix, we develop a new network centrality measure that can be interpreted in terms of a banking system's credit risk or funding risk.
C58|Decomposing changes in the functioning of the sterling repo market|We identify the degree to which changes in gilt repo market functioning have been driven by changes in the supply of — and the demand for — market intermediation. To do so, we use a structural vector auto regression (SVAR) model with sign and zero restrictions. We find that changes in gilt repo market functioning over the past five years have been driven largely by changes in the supply of repo market intermediation by dealers, rather than by changes in the demand of end-users. Following the introduction of the UK leverage ratio, our model suggests that an increase in demand for repo by end-users results in a larger increase in the cost of repo transactions and a smaller increase in their volume. This effect is stronger in the case of transactions that are not nettable via central counterparties. These findings are consistent with the notion that the leverage ratio may reduce dealers’ ability and/or willingness to act as repo market intermediaries. This may have implications for the resilience of repo markets in future periods of stress.
C58|Dependent Microstructure Noise and Integrated Volatility: Estimation from High-Frequency Data|In this paper, we develop econometric tools to analyze the integrated volatility (IV) of the efficient price and the dynamic properties of microstructure noise in high-frequency data under general dependent noise. We first develop consistent estimators of the variance and autocovariances of noise using a variant of realized volatility. Next, we employ these estimators to adapt the pre-averaging method and derive consistent estimators of the IV, which converge stably to a mixed Gaussian distribution at the optimal rate n1/4. To improve the finite sample performance, we propose a multi-step approach that corrects the finite sample bias, which turns out to be crucial in applications. Our extensive simulation studies demonstrate the excellent performance of our multi-step estimators. In an empirical study, we analyze the dependence structures of microstructure noise and provide intuitive economic interpretations; we also illustrate the importance of accounting for both the serial dependence in noise and the finite sample bias when estimating IV.
C58|DCC-HEAVY: a multivariate GARCH model with realized measures of variance and correlation|This paper proposes a new class of multivariate volatility model that utilising high-frequency data. We call this model the DCC-HEAVY model as key ingredients are the Engle (2002) DCC model and Shephard and Sheppard (2012) HEAVY model. We discuss the models' dynamics and highlight their differences from DCC-GARCH models. Specifically, the dynamics of conditional variances are driven by the lagged realized variances, while the dynamics of conditional correlations are driven by the lagged realized correlations in the DCC-HEAVY model. The new model removes well known asymptotic bias in DCC-GARCH model estimation and has more desirable asymptotic properties. We also derive a Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation and provide closed-form formulas for multi-step forecasts. Empirical results suggest that the DCC-HEAVY model outperforms the DCC-GARCH model in and out-of-sample.
C58|Persistence, non-linearities and structural breaks in European stock market indices|This paper examines persistence, structural breaks and non-linearities in the case of five European stock market indices, namely the FTSE100 (UK), DAX30 (Germany), CAC40 (France), IBEX35 (Spain) and FTSE MIB40 (Italy), using fractional integration methods. The empirical results provide no evidence of non-linearities in either prices or returns; the former are found to exhibit unit roots and the latter to be I(0) in most cases. Further, between 2 and 4 structural breaks are found for each of the return series, and mean reversion in some subsamples.
C58|Total, asymmetric and frequency connectedness between oil and forex markets|We analyze total, asymmetric and frequency connectedness between oil and forex markets using high-frequency, intra-day data over the period 2007 -- 2017. By employing variance decompositions and their spectral representation in combination with realized semivariances to account for asymmetric and frequency connectedness, we obtain interesting results. We show that divergence in monetary policy regimes affects forex volatility spillovers but that adding oil to a forex portfolio decreases the total connectedness of the mixed portfolio. Asymmetries in connectedness are relatively small. While negative shocks dominate forex volatility connectedness, positive shocks prevail when oil and forex markets are assessed jointly. Frequency connectedness is largely driven by uncertainty shocks and to a lesser extent by liquidity shocks, which impact long-term connectedness the most and lead to its dramatic increase during periods of distress.
C58|Arbitrage Free Dispersion|We develop a theory of arbitrage-free dispersion (AFD) that characterizes the testable restrictions of asset pricing models. AFD measures Jensen’s gap in the cumulant generating function of pricing kernels and returns. It implies a wide family of model-free dispersion constraints, which extend dispersion and co-dispersion bounds in the literature and are applicable with a unifying approach in multivariate and multiperiod settings. Empirically, the dispersion of stationary and martingale pricing kernel components in the benchmark long-run risk model yields a counterfactual dependence of short- vs. long-maturity bond returns and is insufficient for pricing optimal portfolios of market equity and short-term bonds.
C58|On the Nature of Jump Risk Premia|We shed light on the nature of jump risk compensation by studying the profits from a trading strategy that bets on the high-frequency jump skew of S&P 500 returns. Earlier evidence suggests the jump risk premium is large and positive. We find it to be concentrated in periods when the index option market is closed, and investors cannot trade options. Whenever jump skew can be traded continuously, the premium vanishes. We conclude the jump skew premium in index options is not compensation for the risk of occasional, large returns, but for the investors’ inability to adjust their nonlinear risk exposure.
C58|Mildly Explosive Dynamics in U.S. Fixed Income Markets|We use a recently developed right-tail variation of the Augmented Dickey-Fuller unit root test to identify and date-stamp periods of mildly explosive behavior in the weekly time series of seven U.S. fixed income yield spreads between September 2002 and January 2015. We find statistically significant evidence of such behavior in six of these spreads. Mild explosivity migrates from short-term funding markets to more volatile medium- and long-term markets during the Great Financial Crisis. For some markets, we statistically validate the conjecture, originally suggested by Gorton (2009a,b), that the financial panic of 2007 initially migrated from segments of the ABX market to other U.S. fixed income markets.
C58|Modeling of electrical energy demand: beyond normality|No abstract is available for this item.
C58|The transmission channels of unconventional monetary policy: Evidence from a change in collateral requirements in France|Using a bank-firm level credit registry combined with firm-level balance sheet data we establish the presence of heterogeneity in the effects of unconventional monetary policy transmission. We examine the consequences of a loosening in the collateral eligibility requirement for credit refinancing in France. The policy was designed to affect bank lending positively. We expect a linear increase in lending and an additional increase in loans to firms with newly acceptable rating. We find a large heterogeneity of the monetary policy transmission including the unexpected reduction of lending by the banks benefiting the most from the policy. These are small, risk-averse banks whose foremost concern after the recession was to strengthen their balance sheets. Banks least affected by the policy respond with a reduction in credit to low risk borrowers in reaction to the change in the market structure. Last we document heterogenous effects of the policy on firms depending on their size.
C58|The War Next Door and the Reds are Coming: The Spanish Civil War and the Portuguese Stock Market|The Spanish Civil War (July 1936 to April 1939) was a key event that paved the way for World War II, unfolding with unprecedented violence and uncertainty over the its outcome. In this paper, we analyze the impact of the events of the Spanish Civil War on the Portuguese stock returns. Portugal is a particularly interesting case for analysis given its geographical exposure and historical ties to Spain as well as its political ties to the Nationalist side. Unlike previous studies of stock market responses to World War II outcomes, in our period of analysis the world at large was at peace, allowing for a clearer attribution of causation. We examine investors' reactions to news from the Spanish War using a panel of weekly returns for firms listed on the Lisbon Stock market, after classifying a series of important developments of the Spanish Civil War, classified according to its nature â?? military or political, and which contender emerged as favored â?? the Republicans, on the left, or the Nationalists, on the right. We run dynamic specifications with firm and month fixed effects, controlling for the reference interest rate in London, and events in Portugal. Our results reveal that Spanish Civil War events affect returns negatively, especially events that are military in nature. When we break down our sample into overseas firms â?? those whose most significant assets were located in Africa â?? and non-overseas firms, the latter present more significant effects from the event variables, especially from the Pro-Republican military events. Our findings are robust to the different specifications and suggest that both general uncertainty and partisan preferences affect Portuguese returns.
C58|Sup-ADF-style bubble-detection methods under test|In this paper we analyze the performance of supremum augmented Dickey-Fuller (SADF), generalized SADF (GSADF), and backward SADF (BSADF) tests, as introduced by Phillips et al. (International Economic Review 56:1043-1078, 2015) for detecting and date-stamping financial bubbles. In Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the SADF and GSADF tests may reveal substantial size distortions under typical financial-market characteristics (like the empirically well-documented leverage effect). We consider the rational bubble specification suggested by Rotermann and Wilfl ing (Applied Economics Letters 25:1091-1096, 2018) that is able to generate realistic stock-price dynamics (in terms of level trajectories and volatility paths). Simulating stock-price trajectories that contain these parametric bubbles, we demonstrate that the SADF and GSADF tests can have extremely low power under a wide range of bubble-parameter constellations. In an empirical analysis, we use NASDAQ data covering a time-span of 45 years and find that the outcomes of the bubble date-stamping procedure (based on the BSADF test) are sensitive to the data-frequency chosen by the econometrician.
C58|Forecasting Volatility in Cryptocurrency Markets|In this paper, we revisit the stylized facts of cryptocurrency markets and propose various approaches for modeling the dynamics governing the mean and variance processes. We first provide the statistical properties of our proposed models and study in detail their forecasting performance and adequacy by means of point and density forecasts. We adopt two loss functions and the model confidence set (MSC) test to evaluate the predictive ability of the models and the likelihood ratio test to assess their adequacy. Our results confirm that cryptocurrency markets are characterized by regime shifting, long memory and multifractality. We find that the Markov switching multifractal (MSM) and FIGARCH models outperform other GARCH-type models in forecasting bitcoin returns volatility. Furthermore, combined forecasts improve upon forecasts from individual models.
C58|Score-driven time series models with dynamic shape : an application to the Standard & Poor's 500 index|We introduce new dynamic conditional score (DCS) volatility models with dynamic scale and shape parameters for the effective measurement of volatility. In the new models, we use the EGB2 (exponential generalized beta of the second kind), NIG (normal-inverse Gaussian) and Skew-Gen-t (skewed generalized-t) probability distributions. Those distributions involve several shape parameters that control the dynamic skewness, tail shape and peakedness of financial returns. We use daily return data from the Standard & Poor's 500 (S&P 500) index for the period of January 4, 1950 to December 30, 2017. We estimate all models by using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, and we present the conditions of consistency and asymptotic normality of the ML estimates. We study those conditions for the S&P 500 and we also perform diagnostic tests for the residuals. The statistical performances of several DCS specifications with dynamic shape are superior to the statistical performance of the DCS specification with constant shape. Outliers in the shape parameters are associated with important announcements that affected the United States (US) stock market. Our results motivate the application of the new DCS models to volatility measurement, pricing financial derivatives, or estimation of the value-at-risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES) metrics.
C58|Maximum likelihood estimation of score-driven models with dynamic shape parameters : an application to Monte Carlo value-at-risk|Dynamic conditional score (DCS) models with time-varying shape parameters provide a exible method for volatility measurement. The new models are estimated by using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, conditions of consistency and asymptotic normality of ML are presented, and Monte Carlo simulation experiments are used to study the precision of ML. Daily data from the Standard & Poor's 500 (S&P 500) for the period of 1950 to 2017 are used. The performances of DCS models with constant and dynamic shape parameters are compared. In-sample statistical performance metrics and out-of-sample value-at-risk backtesting support the use of DCS models with dynamic shape.
C58|Exploring option pricing and hedging via volatility asymmetry|This paper evaluates the application of two well-known asymmetric stochastic volatility (ASV) models to option price forecasting and dynamic delta hedging. They are specied in discrete time in contrast to the classical stochastic volatility (SV) models used in option pricing. There is some related literature, but little is known about the empirical implications of volatility asymmetry on option pricing. The objectives of this paper are to estimate ASV option pricing models using a Bayesian approach unknown in this type of literature, and to investigate the e ect of volatility asymmetry on option pricing for di erent size equity sectors and periods of volatility. Using the S&P MidCap 400 and S&P 500 European call option quotes, results show that volatility asymmetry benets the accuracy of option price forecasting and hedging cost e ectiveness in the large-cap equity sector. However, asymmetric SV models do not improve the option price forecasting and dynamic hedging in the mid-cap equity sector.
C58|Residual shape risk on natural gas market with mixed jump diffusion|This paper introduces residual shape risk as a new subclass of energy commodity risk. Residual shape risk is caused by insufficient liquidity of energy forward market when retail energy supplier has to hedge his short sales by a non-flexible standard baseload product available on wholesale market. Because of this inflexibility energy supplier is left with residual unhedged position which has to be closed at spot market. The residual shape risk is defined as a difference between spot and forward prices weighted by residual unhedged position which size depends on the shape of customers’ portfolio of a given retail energy supplier. We evaluated residual shape risk over the years 2014 - 2018 with a real portfolio of a leading natural gas retail supplier in the Czech Republic. The size of residual shape risk in our example corresponds approximately to 1 percent of profit margin of natural gas retail supplier.
C58|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity, and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) Model|In order to hedge efficiently, persistently high negative covariances or, equivalently, correlations, between risky assets and the hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against financial risk and subsequent losses. If there is more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances and correlations have to be calculated. As optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, it is essential to specify dynamic time-varying models of covariances and correlations. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of this paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the only multivariate dynamic conditional correlation model to have been developed to date, namely the widely used Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) model. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. This paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation, and presentation of caveats relating to the DCC model, with an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the DCC model, as well as a related model, in practice.
C58|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Full BEKK Dynamic Conditional Covariance Model|Persistently high negative covariances between risky assets and hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against risk and subsequent financial losses. In the event of having more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances need to be calculated. Optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, so it is essential to specify dynamic covariance models. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of the paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the most widely-used multivariate dynamic conditional covariance model to have been developed to date, namely the Full BEKK model, named for Baba, Engle, Kraft and Kroner. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. The paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation and presentation of caveats relating to the Full BEKK model, and an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the Full BEKK and related non-Diagonal BEKK models, such as Triangular BEKK and Hadamard BEKK, in practice.
C58|The Impact of jumps and leverage in forecasting the co-volatility of oil and gold futures|The paper investigates the impact of jumps in forecasting co-volatility in the presence of leverage effects. We modify the jump-robust covariance estimator of Koike (2016), such that the estimated matrix is positive definite. Using this approach, we can disentangle the estimates of the integrated co-volatility matrix and jump variations from the quadratic covariation matrix. Empirical results for daily crude oil and gold futures show that the co-jumps of the two futures have significant impacts on future co-volatility, but that the impact is negligible in forecasting weekly and monthly horizons.
C58|Fed’s Unconventional Monetary Policy and Risk Spillover in the US Financial Markets|This study examines volatility spillover dynamics among the S&P 500 index, the US 10-year Treasury yield, the US dollar index futures and the commodity price index. The focus of the study is to analyze effects of Fed’s unconventional monetary policy on the US financial markets. We use realized volatility measures based on daily data covering the period from December 29, 1996 to November 12, 2018. To address nonlinear and asymmetric spillover dynamics in low and high volatility states, we propose a new regime-dependent spillover index based on a smooth transition vector autoregressive (STVAR) model, extending the study of Diebold and Yilmaz (2009,2012) to regime switching models. When applied to US financial data, we find strong evidence that the US financial market risk structure changes after the announcement of quantitively easing (QE) through the portfolio balance channel. The risk spillover moves from purchased assets to non-purchased assets after the QE announcements.
C58|Testing the Asymmetric Effects of Exchange Rate and Oil Price Pass-Through in BRICS Countries: Does the state of the economy matter?|This paper investigates not only the question of whether there is exchange rate and oil price pass-through (EROPPT) but also the extent to which the pass-through is asymmetric or state dependent in the BRICS countries. Using monthly data and the nonlinear Vector Smooth Transition Autoregressive (VSTAR) model, we find evidence of period specific pass-through between the upper and lower regime periods, governed by the selected transition variables. We also find asymmetric pass-through in all the countries with strong evidence of higher pass-through when the size of the shocks to the transition variable moves the system above a threshold level. The result further divulges that output growth asymmetrically reacts to the shocks. The implication of these findings is that the pass-through is strongly affected by the state of the economy.
C58|Econophysics of Asset Price, Return and Multiple Expectations|This paper describes asset price and return disturbances as result of relations between transactions and multiple kinds of expectations. We show that disturbances of expectations can cause fluctuations of trade volume, price and return. We model price disturbances for transactions made under all types of expectations as weighted sum of partial price and trade volume disturbances for transactions made under separate kinds of expectations. Relations on price allow present return as weighted sum of partial return and trade volume “return” for transactions made under separate expectations. Dependence of price disturbances on trade volume disturbances as well as dependence of return on trade volume “return” cause dependence of volatility and statistical distributions of price and return on statistical properties of trade volume disturbances and trade volume “return” respectively.
C58|Using Value-at-Risk for effective energy portfolio risk management|It is evident that the prediction of future variance through advanced GARCH type models is essential for an effective energy portfolio risk management. Still it fails to provide a clear view on the specific amount of capital that is at risk on behalf of the investor or any party directly affected by the price fluctuations of specific or multiple energy commodities. Thus, it is necessary for risk managers to make one further step, determining the most robust and effective approach that will enable them to precisely monitor and accurately estimate the portfolio’s Value-at-Risk, which by definition provides a good measure of the total actual amount at stake. Nevertheless, despite the variety of the variance models that have been developed and the relative VaR methodologies, the vast majority of the researchers conclude that there is no model or specific methodology that outperforms all the others. On the contrary, the best approach to minimize risk and accurately forecast the future potential losses is to adopt that specific methodology that will be able to take into consideration the particular characteristic features regarding the trade of energy products.
C58|Is Gold a Safe Haven? International Evidence revisited|The literature has not settled down on safe haven property of gold in emerging and developing countries. Therefore, in this study, we revisit the international evidence on hedging and safe haven role of gold for 34 emerging and developing countries with a span of daily data covering January 2000 – November 2018. We employ GARCH-copula approach to estimate lower-tail extreme dependencies of the joint distribution of gold and equity returns. We also introduce a new definition for strong safe haven property of an asset. Our findings indicate that while gold serves as a hedge instrument for all countries in our sample, we got evidence of weak safe haven property for gold, for domestic investors, only in 18 countries, and a strong safe haven asset only in six countries.
C58|Integer-valued stochastic volatility|We propose a novel class of count time series models, the mixed Poisson integer-valued stochastic volatility models. The proposed specification, which can be considered as an integer-valued analogue of the discrete-time stochastic volatility model, encompasses a wide range of conditional distributions of counts. We study its probabilistic structure and develop an easily adaptable Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm, based on the Griddy-Gibbs approach that can accommodate any conditional distribution that belongs to that class. We demonstrate that by considering the cases of Poisson and negative binomial distributions. The methodology is applied to simulated and real data.
C58|Forecasting bubbles with mixed causal-noncausal autoregressive models|This paper investigates one-step ahead density forecasts of mixed causal-noncausal models. We compare the sample-based and the simulations-based approaches respectively developed by Gouriéroux and Jasiak (2016) and Lanne, Luoto, and Saikkonen (2012). We focus on explosive episodes and therefore on predicting turning points of bubbles bursts. We suggest the use of both methods to construct investment strategies based on how much probabilities are induced by the assumed model and by past behaviours. We illustrate our analysis on Nickel prices series.
C58|Tests for conditional heteroscedasticity with functional data and goodness-of-fit tests for FGARCH models|Functional data objects that are derived from high-frequency financial data often exhibit volatility clustering characteristic of conditionally heteroscedastic time series. Versions of functional generalized autoregressive conditionally heteroscedastic (FGARCH) models have recently been proposed to describe such data, but so far basic diagnostic tests for these models are not available. We propose two portmanteau type tests to measure conditional heteroscedasticity in the squares of financial asset return curves. A complete asymptotic theory is provided for each test, and we further show how they can be applied to model residuals in order to evaluate the adequacy, and aid in order selection of FGARCH models. Simulation results show that both tests have good size and power to detect conditional heteroscedasticity and model mis-specification in finite samples. In an application, the proposed tests reveal that intra-day asset return curves exhibit conditional heteroscedasticity. Additionally, we found that this conditional heteroscedasticity cannot be explained by the magnitude of inter-daily returns alone, but that it can be adequately modeled by an FGARCH(1,1) model.
C58|Bitcoin's return behaviour: What do We know so far?|In this paper we study the daily return behavior of Bitcoin digital currency. We propose the use of generalized hyperbolic distributions (GH) to model Bitcoin's return. Our, results show that GH is a very good candidate to model this return.
C58|Monotonic Estimation for the Survival Probability over a Risk-Rated Portfolio by Discrete-Time Hazard Rate Models|Monotonic estimation for the survival probability of a loan in a risk-rated portfolio is based on the observation arising, for example, from loan pricing that a loan with a lower credit risk rating is more likely to survive than a loan with a higher credit risk rating, given the same additional risk covariates. Two probit-type discrete-time hazard rate models that generate monotonic survival probabilities are proposed in this paper. The first model calculates the discrete-time hazard rate conditional on systematic risk factors. As for the Cox proportion hazard rate model, the model formulates the discrete-time hazard rate by including a baseline component. This baseline component can be estimated outside the model in the absence of model covariates using the long-run average discrete-time hazard rate. This results in a significant reduction in the number of parameters to be otherwise estimated inside the model. The second model is a general form model where loan level factors can be included. Parameter estimation algorithms are also proposed. The models and algorithms proposed in this paper can be used for loan pricing, stress testing, expected credit loss estimation, and modeling of the probability of default term structure.
C58|Monotonic Estimation for Probability Distribution and Multivariate Risk Scales by Constrained Minimum Generalized Cross-Entropy|Minimum cross-entropy estimation is an extension to the maximum likelihood estimation for multinomial probabilities. Given a probability distribution {r_i }_(i=1)^k, we show in this paper that the monotonic estimates {p_i }_(i=1)^k for the probability distribution by minimum cross-entropy are each given by the simple average of the given distribution values over some consecutive indexes. Results extend to the monotonic estimation for multivariate outcomes by generalized cross-entropy. These estimates are the exact solution for the corresponding constrained optimization and coincide with the monotonic estimates by least squares. A non-parametric algorithm for the exact solution is proposed. The algorithm is compared to the “pool adjacent violators” algorithm in least squares case for the isotonic regression problem. Applications to monotonic estimation of migration matrices and risk scales for multivariate outcomes are discussed.
C58|Heterogeneous component multiplicative error models for forecasting trading volumes|We propose a novel approach to modelling and forecasting high frequency trading volumes. The new model extends the Component Multiplicative Error Model of Brownlees et al. (2011) by introducing a more flexible specification of the long-run component. This uses an additive cascade of MIDAS polynomial filters, moving at different frequencies, in order to reproduce the changing long-run level and the persistent autocorrelation structure of high frequency trading volumes. After investigating its statistical properties, the merits of the proposed approach are illustrated by means of an application to six stocks traded on the XETRA market in the German Stock Exchange.
C58|Stock Market Volatility Analysis using GARCH Family Models: Evidence from Zimbabwe Stock Exchange|Understanding the pattern of stock market volatility is important to investors as well as for investment policy. Volatility is directly associated with risks and returns, higher the volatility the more financial market is unstable. The volatility of the Zimbabwean stock market is modeled using monthly return series consisting of 109 observations from January 2010 to January 2019. ARCH effects test confirmed the use of GARCH family models. Symmetric and asymmetric models were used namely: GARCH(1,1), GARCH-M(1,1), IGARCH(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1). Post-estimation test for further ARCH effects were done for each model to confirm its efficiency for policy. EGARCH(1,1) turned to be the best model using both the AIC and SIC criterions; with the presence of asymmetry found to be significant. The study concludes that positive and negative shocks have different effects on the stock market returns series. Bad and good news will increase volatility of stock market returns in different magnitude. This simply imply that investors on the Zimbabwean stock exchange react differently to information depending be it positive or negative in making investment decisions.
C58|Incremental Risk Charge Methodology|The incremental risk charge (IRC) is a new regulatory requirement from the Basel Committee in response to the recent financial crisis. Notably few models for IRC have been developed in the literature. This paper proposes a methodology consisting of two Monte Carlo simulations. The first Monte Carlo simulation simulates default, migration, and concentration in an integrated way. Combining with full re-valuation, the loss distribution at the first liquidity horizon for a subportfolio can be generated. The second Monte Carlo simulation is the random draws based on the constant level of risk assumption. It convolutes the copies of the single loss distribution to produce one year loss distribution. The aggregation of different subportfolios with different liquidity horizons is addressed. Moreover, the methodology for equity is also included, even though it is optional in IRC.
C58|Is the relationship between infrastructure and economic growth symmetric or asymmetric? evidence from Indonesia based on linear and non-linear ARDL|Although there are a number of studies on the relationship between infrastructure and economic growth, this study is the first attempt at investigating whether the relationship between infrastructure and economic growth is symmetric or asymmetric in Indonesia. Using the non-linear ARDL technique, this study employs quarterly data from 1990:Q1 – 2016:Q1. The paper finds a long-run asymmetric relationship between infrastructure and economic growth but symmetric relationship in the short-run. Moreover, this study also finds the causal direction of economic development in Indonesia from gross fixed capital formation to labor. The paper suggests the expansion of investment in the infrastructural industry to boost the growth of the Indonesian economy. The study also urges the policy makers to design robust infrastructure policies guiding the infrastructure and country’s economy in both the short-run and long-run period.
C58|Does environmental awareness determine GDP growth ? evidence from Singapore based on ARDL and NARDL approaches|Global environmental pollution has been rapidly growing over the past few years, causing global warming and drastic climate changes. There are efforts carried out by individuals and entities to minimize the level of pollution worldwide. This study attempts to investigate the nexus relationship between carbon emissions, FDI inflows, exports and GDP. Having an open economic setting, heavy reliance on FDI and exports, as well as high rate of carbon emissions, Singapore appears to suit the study. The analysis is carried out using standard time-series techniques, supplemented by ARDL and NARDL tests on annual data spanning from 1970 to 2017. The empirical results tend to suggest that the nexus relationship is statistically significant, the rate of carbon emissions really influences GDP through FDI and that the CO2 emission is the most exogenous among the variables. This study is consistent with the “no pain all gain” slogan by which implementation of policies related to carbon emissions is expected to expand GDP growth due to the awareness of investors regarding environmental issues. Our findings are of great importance to the development policies in countries facing similar challenges.
C58|Is the relationship between housing price and banking debt symmetric or non-symmetric? evidence from Malaysia based on NARDL|The increasing price of housing property in Malaysia has become a concern as it increases the cost of living through debt payment by households. The purpose of the paper is to investigate whether the housing price has an asymmetric relationship with banking debt. The asymmetric relationship will be tested using the NARDL method. The research will aid the policymakers in deciding whether measures to control housing loan or alternatively, the initiatives and controls on the housing supply-side is better to curb increasing price of houses. The paper finds that the relationship between banking debt and housing prices is asymmetric in the short run and symmetric in the long run. However, we find that the relationship between housing debt and housing prices is asymmetric in both the short and long run. A positive change in housing debt will affect the housing price inflation more than a negative change. Through the causality tests, we find that policies should focus on the supply-side and price control policies to affect the housing price, rather than the controls on banking debt
C58|Is the relationship between inflation and financial development symmetric or asymmetric? new evidence from Sudan based on NARDL|This study highlights the impact of inflation on financial development, using NARDL approach and the annual data available allow us to cover a period of 56 years. Sudan is used as a case study. The relationship between inflation and financial development remains an important issue in both theoretical and empirical literature because of its important implications on macroeconomic stabilization policies. The importance of the study comes from examining a developing country which is witnessing an economic deterioration generally and a hyper-inflation crisis that marked it as the second highest inflation rate in Africa in the 1st quarter of 2019. We test whether the relationship between the variables is symmetrical or asymmetrical in both short run and long run. Applying the autoregressive distributed lags model (ARDL) and Nonlinear ARDL approaches proposed by Pesaran et al. (2001) and Shin et al. (2014) respectively, results confirm the presence of long run equilibrium relationship between inflation and financial development. Our findings tend to suggest that the long run relationship is symmetrical, while evidence is in support of asymmetrical short- run trade-off between the variables. Two main contributions are added to the previous literature. First, it applies a recent methodology that is Nonlinear ARDL (NARDL). Secondly it presents a new evidence from one of the high indebted poor countries-HIPC (Sudan) using data from 1961 to 2017.
C58|Mean and Volatility Spillovers between REIT and Stocks Returns A STVAR-BTGARCH-M Model|In this study we have examined volatility spillovers as well as volatility-in-mean effect between REIT returns and stock returns for both the USA and the UK by applying a bivariate GARCH-M model where the conditional mean is specified by a smooth transition VAR model. Dynamic conditional correlation approach has been applied with the GJR-GARCH specification so that the intrinsic nature of asymmetric volatility in case of positive and negative shocks can be duly captured. The major findings that we have empirically found is that the mean spillover effect from stock returns to REIT returns is significant for both the countries while the same from REIT returns to stock returns is significant only in the UK. It is also evident from the results that own risk-return relationship of REIT market is positive and significant only in the bear market situation in both the countries while for the stock market own risk-return relationship is insignificant for both the bull and bear markets in the USA but it is negative in the bear market condition and positive in the bull market situation for the UK. We have also found that asymmetric nature of conditional variance and dynamic behavior in the conditional correlation holds as well. Finally, several tests of hypotheses regarding equality of various kinds of spillover effects in the bull and bear market situations show that these spillover effects are not the same in the two market conditions in most of the aspects considered in this study.
C58|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
C58|Bank Net Interest Margin Forecasting and Capital Adequacy Stress Testing by Machine Learning Techniques|The 2007-09 financial crisis revealed that the investors in the financial market were more concerned about the future as opposed to the current capital adequacy for banks. Stress testing promises to complement the regulatory capital adequacy regimes, which assess a bank's current capital adequacy, with the ability to assess its future capital adequacy based on the projected asset-losses and incomes from the forecasting models from regulators and banks. The effectiveness of stress-test rests on its ability to inform the financial market, which depends on whether or not the market has confidence in the model-projected asset-losses and incomes for banks. Post-crisis studies found that the stress-test results are uninformative and receive insignificant market reactions; others question its validity on the grounds of the poor forecast accuracy using linear regression models which forecast the banking-industry incomes measured by Aggregate Net Interest Margin. Instead, our study focuses on NIM forecasting at an individual bank's level and employs both linear regression and non-linear Machine Learning techniques. First, we present both the linear and non-linear Machine Learning regression techniques used in our study. Then, based on out-of-sample tests and literature-recommended forecasting techniques, we compare the NIM forecast accuracy by 162 models based on 11 different regression techniques, finding that some Machine Learning techniques as well as some linear ones can achieve significantly higher accuracy than the random-walk benchmark, which invalidates the grounds used by the literature to challenge the validity of stress-test. Last, our results from forecast accuracy comparisons are either consistent with or complement those from existing forecasting literature. We believe that the paper is the first systematic study on forecasting bank-specific NIM by Machine Learning Techniques; also, it is a first systematic study on forecast accuracy comparison including both linear and non-linear Machine Learning techniques using financial data for a critical real-world problem; it is a multi-step forecasting example involving iterative forecasting, rolling-origins, recalibration with forecast accuracy measure being scale-independent; robust regression proved to be beneficial for forecasting in presence of outliers. It concludes with policy suggestions and future research directions.
C58|The Valuation of Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
C58|Revisiting the Anomalous Relationship between Inflation and REIT Returns in Presence of Structural Breaks: Empirical Evidence from the USA and the UK|In this paper we have re-investigated the frequently observed anomalous negative relationship between inflation and REIT returns for two most important economies viz., the USA and the UK by addressing two aspects of misspecification: inappropriate functional form and omission of relevant variable. We have found that the anomalous relationship between REIT and inflation appear to proxy for the significant effect of relative price variability on REIT returns in both the countries. Further, it is evidenced that the effect of relative price variability on real estate investment trust (REIT) returns is not stable over time in case of the USA while in the UK there is no structural change in the relationship.
C58|Virtual Historical Simulation for estimating the conditional VaR of large portfolios|"In order to estimate the conditional risk of a portfolio's return, two strategies can be advocated. A multivariate strategy requires estimating a dynamic model for the vector of risk factors, which is often challenging, when at all possible, for large portfolios. A univariate approach based on a dynamic model for the portfolio's return seems more attractive. However, when the combination of the individual returns is time varying, the portfolio's return series is typically non stationary which may invalidate statistical inference. An alternative approach consists in reconstituting a ""virtual portfolio"", whose returns are built using the current composition of the portfolio and for which a stationary dynamic model can be estimated. This paper establishes the asymptotic properties of this method, that we call Virtual Historical Simulation. Numerical illustrations on simulated and real data are provided."
C58|A multivariate approach for the simultaneous modelling of market risk and credit risk for cryptocurrencies|This paper proposes a set of models which can be used to estimate the market risk for a portfolio of crypto-currencies, and simultaneously to estimate also their credit risk using the Zero Price Probability (ZPP) model by Fantazzini et al (2008), which is a methodology to compute the probabilities of default using only market prices. For this purpose, both univariate and multivariate models with different specifications are employed. Two special cases of the ZPP with closed-form formulas in case of normally distributed errors are also developed using recent results from barrier option theory. A backtesting exercise using two datasets of 5 and 15 coins for market risk forecasting and a dataset of 42 coins for credit risk forecasting was performed. The Value-at-Risk and the Expected Shortfall for single coins and for an equally weighted portfolio were calculated and evaluated with several tests. The ZPP approach was used for the estimation of the probability of default/death of the single coins and compared to classical credit scoring models (logit and probit) and to a machine learning algorithm (Random Forest). Our results reveal the superiority of the t-copula/skewed-t GARCH model for market risk, and the ZPP-based models for credit risk.
C58|Forecasting Volatility and Co-volatility of Crude Oil and Gold Futures: Effects of Leverage, Jumps, Spillovers, and Geopolitical Risks|For purposes of forecasting the covariance matrix for the returns of crude oil and gold futures, this paper examines the effects of leverage, jumps, spillovers, and geopolitical risks, using their respective realized covariance matrices. In order to guarantee the positive definiteness of the forecasts, we consider the full BEKK structure on the conditional Wishart model. By the specification, we can divide flexibly the direct and spillover effects of volatility feedback, negative returns, and jumps. The empirical analysis indicates the benefits in accommodating the spillover effects of negative returns and the geopolitical risks indicator for modelling and forecasting the future covariance matrix.
C58|Testing the White Noise Hypothesis in High-Frequency Housing Returns of the United States|In the pure time-series sense, weak-form of efficiency of the housing market would imply unpredictability of housing returns. Given this, utilizing a daily dataset of aggregate housing market returns of the United States, we test whether housing market returns are white noise using the blockwise wild bootstrap in a rolling-window framework. We investigate the dynamic evolution of housing market efficiency and find that the white noise hypothesis is accepted in most windows associated with non-crisis periods. However, for some periods before the burst of the housing market bubbles, and during the subprime mortgage crisis, European sovereign debt crisis and the Brexit, the white noise hypothesis is rejected, indicating that the housing market is inefficient in periods of turbulence. Our results have important implications for economic agents.
C58|A Practical Guide to Harnessing the HAR Volatility Model|The standard heterogeneous autoregressive (HAR) model is perhaps the most popular benchmark model for forecasting return volatility. It is often estimated using raw realized variance (RV) and ordinary least squares (OLS). However, given the stylized facts of RV and wellknown properties of OLS, this combination should be far from ideal. One goal of this paper is to investigate how the predictive accuracy of the HAR model depends on the choice of estimator, transformation, and forecasting scheme made by the market practitioner. Another goal is to examine the effect of replacing its high-frequency data based volatility proxy (RV) with a proxy based on free and publicly available low-frequency data (logarithmic range). In an out-of-sample study, covering three major stock market indices over 16 years, it is found that simple remedies systematically outperform not only standard HAR but also state of the art HARQ forecasts, and that HAR models using logarithmic range can often produce forecasts of similar quality to those based on RV.
C58|Estimación de un Índice de Condiciones Financieras para el Perú|Se estima un Índice de condiciones financieras (ICF) para la economía peruana en el periodo comprendido entre 2004 y 2018. Para ello, se utiliza la metodología propuesta por Koop y Korobilis (2014), la cual emplea un modelo VAR aumentado por factores y que contiene parámetros que cambian en el tiempo (TVP-FAVAR). Así, esta metodología produce un indicador representativo de todas las variables relevantes para el sistema financiero y, dada su flexibilidad, también permite que las contribuciones de las variables incluidas en el modelo cambien a lo largo de la muestra. Utilizando este Índice de condiciones financieras se cuantifica la interrelación entre el sector real y financiero en la economía peruana, donde en particular se estima la reacción del índice estimado frente a distintos choques macroeconómicos y se estudia también el co-movimiento de este con el crecimiento del PBI. Posteriormente, se muestra la descomposición histórica estructural de dicho índice. La agenda futura se centra en evaluar en la capacidad predictiva de este Índice y también en su capacidad de convertirse en una mecanismo de alerta temprana.
C58|Reforms’ Effects on Chinese stock markets world integration - An Empirical analysis with t-DCCGARCH model|In recent years the Chinese government has instituted a series of reforms to restructure and open the Chinese financial system. This paper studies the dynamic correlations and sensitivities between Chinese mainland stock market and five major stock markets with the multivariate t-DCC-GARCH model. We also consider a Normal-DCC model and results show that t-DCC improves slightly the results. The analysis of reforms’ effects on dynamic correlations and sensitivities prove that the Chinese mainland market is more closely tied to Asian stock markets over time, followed by the United States, and with relatively lower correlations with Europe and the United Kingdom. We highlight that the implementation of reforms changes theirs correlations and sensitivities over time. Since the reforms, the correlation between China and international stock markets has been reinforced.
C58|Quantification of feedback effects in FX options markets|We model the feedback effect of delta hedging for the spot market volatility of the forex market (dollar-yen and dollar-euro) using an economy of two types of traders, an option market maker (OMM) and an option market taker (OMT), whose exposures reflect the total outstanding positions of all option traders in the market. A different hedge ratio of the OMM and OMT leads to a net delta hedge activity that introduces market friction and feedback effects. This friction is represented by a simple linear permanent impact model for the net delta hedge volumes that are executed in the spot market. This approach allows us to derive the dependence of the spot market volatility on the gamma exposure of the trader that hedges a larger share of her delta exposure and on the market impact of the delta hedge transactions. We reconstruct the aggregated OMM's gamma exposure by using publicly available DTCC trade repository data and find that it is negative, as expected: the OMT usually buys options with either a view on the spot price or with the desire to hedge other positions and, thus, is net long on options. As the OMM provides liquidity as a service to the market, their position is reversed compared with the OMT. Our regressions show a high goodness of fit, a highly significant parameter for the gamma exposure of the OMM and, as expected, that the volatility is increased by the OMM's short gamma exposure. Quantitatively, a negative gamma exposure of the OMM of approximately -1000 billion USD (which is around what we observe from our reconstructed OMM data) leads to an absolute increase in volatility of 0.7% in EURUSD and 0.9% in USDJPY. If we assume that the hedge ratios in the two markets are the same, the difference can be directly explained by the higher market impact of a transaction in the USDJPY spot market compared to the EURUSD spot market, as the liquidity of the EURUSD spot market is higher than that of the USDJPY spot market. Our results are in line with and empirically confirm previous theoretical work on the feedback effect of delta hedging strategies on spot market volatility.
C58|An empirical examination of the jump and diffusion aspects of asset pricing: Japanese evidence|Using an extension of the standard CAPM beta we decompose the beta of Japanese banking stocks into diffusion and jump components using high frequency data from 2001 to 2012. We find that jump betas on average are larger than diffusion betas, indicating that Japanese banking stocks respond differently to information associated with continuous and discontinuous market movements. Larger banks are more sensitive to discontinuities than their counterparts; high leveraged banks are more exposed to unexpected market-wide news whereas profitable banks are equally sensitive to both continuous and jump market moves. By allowing for asymmetric preferences of investors for losses versus gains we show that diffusion and jump betas both carry large premia in both up and down markets, but that these premia differ substantially during periods of economic stress from those present during normal conditions.
C58|Zero-Inflated Autoregressive Conditional Duration Model for Discrete Trade Durations with Excessive Zeros|In finance, durations between successive transactions are usually modeled by the autoregressive conditional duration model based on a continuous distribution omitting frequent zero values. Zero durations can be caused by either split transactions or independent transactions. We propose a discrete model allowing for excessive zero values based on the zero-inflated negative binomial distribution with score dynamics. We establish the invertibility of the score filter. Additionally, we derive sufficient conditions for the consistency and asymptotic normality of the maximum likelihood of the model parameters. In an empirical study of DJIA stocks, we find that split transactions cause on average 63% of zero values. Furthermore, the loss of decimal places in the proposed model is less severe than incorrect treatment of zero values in continuous models.
C58|Time-varying tail behavior for realized kernels|We propose a new score-driven model to capture the time-varying volatility and tail behavior of realized kernels. We assume realized kernels follow an F distribution with two time-varying degrees-of-freedom parameters, accounting for the Vol-of-Vol and the tail shape of the realized kernel distribution. The resulting score-driven dynamics imply that the influence of large (outlying) realized kernels on future volatilities and tail-shapes is mitigated. We apply our model to 30 stocks from the S&P 500 index over the period 2001-2014. The results show that tail shapes vary over time, even after correcting for the time-varying mean and Vol-of-Vol of the realized kernels. The model outperforms a number of recent competitors, both in-sample and out-of-sample. In particular, accounting for time-varying tail shapes matters for both density forecasts and forecasts of volatility risk quantiles.
C58|Observation-driven Models for Realized Variances and Overnight Returns|We present a new model to decompose total daily return volatility into a filtered (high-frequency based) open-to-close volatility and a time-varying scaling factor. We use score-driven dynamics based on fat-tailed distributions to limit the impact of incidental large observations. Applying our new model to 100 stocks of the S&P 500 during the period 2001-2014 and evaluating (in-sample and out-of-sample) in terms of Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall, we find our model outperforms alternatives like the HEAVY model that uses close-to-close returns and realized variances, and models treating close-to-open en open-to-close returns as separate processes. Results also indicate that the ratio between total and open-to-close volatility changes substantially through time, especially for financial stocks.
C58|Partially Censored Posterior for Robust and Efficient Risk Evaluation|A novel approach to inference for a specific region of the predictive distribution is introduced. An important domain of application is accurate prediction of financial risk measures, where the area of interest is the left tail of the predictive density of logreturns. Our proposed approach originates from the Bayesian approach to parameter estimation and time series forecasting, however it is robust in the sense that it provides a more accurate estimation of the predictive density in the region of interest in case of misspecification. The first main contribution of the paper is the novel concept of the Partially Censored Posterior (PCP), where the set of model parameters is partitioned into two subsets: for the first subset of parameters we consider the standard marginal posterior, for the second subset of parameters (that are particularly related to the region of interest) we consider the conditional censored posterior. The censoring means that observations outside the region of interest are censored: for those observations only the probability of being outside the region of interest matters. This quasi-Bayesian approach yields more precise parameter estimation than a fully censored posterior for all parameters, and has more focus on the region of interest than a standard Bayesian approach. The second main contribution is that we introduce two novel methods for computationally efficient simulation: Conditional MitISEM, a Markov chain Monte Carlo method to simulate model parameters from the Partially Censored Posterior, and PCP-QERMit, an Importance Sampling method that is introduced to further decrease the numerical standard errors of the Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall estimators. The third main contribution is that we consider the effect of using a time-varying boundary of the region of interest, which may provide more information about the left tail of the distribution of the standardized innovations. Extensive simulation and empirical studies show the ability of the introduced method to outperform standard approaches.
C58|Backtesting Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall in the Presence of Estimation Error|We investigate the effect of estimation error on backtests of (multi-period) expected shortfall (ES) forecasts. These backtests are based on first order conditions of a recently introduced family of jointly consistent loss functions for Value-at-Risk (VaR) and ES. We provide explicit expressions for the additional terms in the asymptotic covariance matrix that result from estimation error, and propose robust tests that account for it. Monte Carlo experiments show that the tests that ignore these terms suffer from size distortions, which are more pronounced for higher ratios of out-of-sample to in-sample observations. Robust versions of the backtests perform well, although this also depends on the choice of conditioning variables. In an application to VaR and ES forecasts for daily FTSE 100 index returns as generated by AR-GARCH, AR-GJR-GARCH, and AR-HEAVY models, we find that estimation error substantially impacts the outcome of the backtests.
C58|Nonparametric Assessment of Hedge Fund Performance|We propose a new class of performance measures for Hedge Fund (HF) returns based on a family of empirically identiable stochastic discount factors (SDFs). The SDF-based measures incorporate no-arbitrage pricing restrictions and naturally embed information about higher-order mixed moments between HF and benchmark factors returns. We provide a full asymptotic theory for our SDF estimators to test for the statistical signicance of each fund's performance and for the relevance of individual benchmark factors within each proposed measure. We apply our methodology to a panel of 4815 individual hedge funds. Our empirical analysis reveals that fewer funds have a statistically signicant positive alpha compared to the Jensen's alpha obtained by the traditional linear regression approach. Moreover, the funds' rankings vary considerably between the two approaches. Performance also varies between the members of our family because of a dierent fund exposure to higherorder moments of the benchmark factors, highlighting the potential heterogeneity across investors in evaluating performance.
C58|A dominance approach for comparing the performance of VaR forecasting models|We introduce three dominance criteria to compare the performance of alternative VaR forecasting models. The three criteria use the information provided by a battery of VaR validation tests based on the frequency and size of exceedances, offering the possibility of efficiently summarizing a large amount of statistical information. They do not require the use of any loss function defined on the difference between VaR forecasts and observed returns, and two of the criteria are not conditioned on any significance level for the VaR tests. We use them to explore the potential for 1-day ahead VaR forecasting of some recently proposed asymmetric probability distributions for return innovations, as well as to compare the APARCH and FGARCH volatility specifications with more standard alternatives. Using 19 assets of different nature, the three criteria lead to similar conclusions, suggesting that the unbounded Johnson SU, the skewed Student-t and the skewed Generalized-t distributions seem to produce the best VaR forecasts. The added flexibility of a free power parameter in the conditional volatility in the APARCH and FGARCH models leads to a better fit to return data, but it does not improve upon the VaR forecasts provided by GARCH and GJR-GARCH volatilities.
C58|Testing Nonlinearity through a Logistic Smooth Transition AR Model with Logistic Smooth Transition GARCH Errors|This paper analyzes the cyclical behavior of CAC 40 by testing the existence of nonlinearity through a logistic smooth transition AR model with logistic smooth transition GARCH errors. We study the daily returns of CAC 40 from 1990 to 2018. We estimate several models using nonparametric maximum likelihood, where the innovation distribution is replaced by a nonparametric estimate for the density function. We find that the rate of transition and the threshold value in both the conditional mean and conditional variance are highly significant. The forecasting results show that the informational shocks have transitory effects on returns and volatility and confirm nonlinearity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C58|Memory that Drives! New Insights into Forecasting Performance of Stock Prices from SEMIFARMA-AEGAS Model|Stock price forecasting, a popular growth-enhancing exercise for investors, is inherently complex – thanks to the interplay of financial economic drivers which determine both the magnitude of memory and the extent of non-linearity within a system. In this paper, we accommodate both features within a single estimation framework to forecast stock prices and identify the nature of market efficiency commensurate with the proposed model. We combine a class of semiparametric autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average (SEMIFARMA) model with asymmetric exponential generalized autoregressive score (AEGAS) errors to design a SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS framework based on which predictive performance of this model is tested against competing methods. Our conditional variance includes leverage effects, jumps and fat tail-skewness distribution, each of which affects magnitude of memory in a stock price system. A true forecast function is built and new insights into stock price forecasting are presented. We estimate several models using the Skewed Student-t maximum likelihood and find that the informational shocks have permanent effects on returns and the SEMIFARMA-AEGAS is appropriate for capturing volatility clustering for both negative (long Value-at-Risk) and positive returns (short Value-at-Risk). We show that this model has better predictive performance over competing models for both long and/or some short time horizons. The predictions from SEMIRFARMA-AEGAS model beats comfortably the random walk model. Our results have implications for market-efficiency: the weak efficiency assumption of financial markets stands violated for all stock price returns studied over a long period.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C58|About the relationship between renewable energy and oil markets|This paper examines the link between oil and renewable energy markets. To this end, on the one hand, we identify high and low volatility states of oil markets, using the regime-switching EGARCH (1,1) model, and analyze its effects on the renewable energy market. On the other hand, we develop a methodology to identify positive and negative oil shocks and investigate their implications for renewable energy markets. We show that: (1) state shifts are clearly present in the oil and renewable energy data; (2) the volatility links between oil and renewable energy markets are regime-dependent. When the oil market is in a high-volatility regime, it exacerbates the volatility of renewable energy markets, but in a low-volatility regime, it has no effect or a stabilizing effect on the volatility of renewable energy market; (3) the results also reveal that the renewable energy market reacts positively to extreme upward movements of oil prices and negatively to extreme downward movements. These results have several implications in terms of policies, portfolio optimization and risk management.
C58|Old-fashioned parametric models are still the best. A comparison of Value-at-Risk approaches in several volatility states|Numerous advances in the modelling techniques of Value-at-Risk (VaR) have provided the financial institutions with a wide scope of market risk approaches. Yet it remains unknown which of the models should be used depending on the state of volatility. In this article we present the backtesting results for 1% and 2.5% VaR of six indexes from emerging and developed countries using several most known VaR models, among many: GARCH, EVT, CAViaR and FHS with multiple sets of parameters. The backtesting procedure has been based on the excess ratio, Kupiec and Christoffersen tests for multiple thresholds and cost functions. The added value of this article is that we have compared the models in four different scenarios, with different states of volatility in training and testing samples. The results indicate that the best of the models that is the least affected by changes in the volatility is GARCH(1,1) with standardized student's t-distribution. Non-parmetric techniques (e.g. CAViaR with GARCH setup (see Engle and Manganelli, 2001) or FHS with skewed normal distribution) have very prominent results in testing periods with low volatility, but are relatively worse in the turbulent periods. We have also discussed an automatic method to setting a threshold of extreme distribution for EVT models, as well as several ensembling methods for VaR, among which minimum of best models has been proven to have very good results - in particular a minimum of GARCH(1,1) with standardized student's t-distribution and either EVT or CAViaR models.
C58|The nonlinear dynamics of corporate bond spreads: Regime-dependent effects of their determinants|This paper studies the behavior of corporate bond spreads during different market regimes between 2004 and 2016. Applying a Markov-switching vector autoregressive (MS-VAR) model, we document that the dynamic impact of spread determinants varies substantially with market conditions. In periods of high volatility, systematic credit risk - rather than interest rate movements - contributes to driving up spreads. Moreover, while market-wide liquidity risk is not priced when volatility is low, it becomes a crucial factor during stress periods. Our results challenge the notion that spreads predominantly capture credit risk and suggest it must be reassessed during periods of financial distress.
C58|Forecasting the Realized Variance in the Presence of Intraday Periodicity|This paper examines the impact of intraday periodicity on forecasting realized volatility using a heterogeneous autoregressive model (HAR) framework. We show that periodicity inflates the variance of the realized volatility and biases jump estimators. This combined effect adversely affects forecasting. To account for this, we propose a periodicity-adjusted model, HARP, where predictors are built from the periodicity-filtered data. We demonstrate empirically (using 30 stocks from various business sectors and the SPY for the period 2000--2016) and via Monte Carlo simulations that the HARP models produce significantly better forecasts, especially at the 1-day and 5-days ahead horizons.
C58|Quantifying the transmission of European sovereign default risk|We build a non-stationary Hawkes model of sovereign credit risk for seven European countries, and estimate it on CDS data from the run-up to the Greek default. We model a country's credit risk as partly driven by a weighted combination of risks across countries. We find Spain and Portugal are the chief drivers of this component, with Greece's contribution also significant. Greece and Portugal are found to be particularly sensitive to external risk, with a Greek default 35% less likely in our period without shocks elsewhere. Our novel maximum-likelihood procedure permits tractable estimation of high-dimensional Hawkes models with unobserved events.
C58|Metcalfe's law and herding behaviour in the cryptocurrencies market|In this paper, the authors investigate the statistical properties of some cryptocurrencies by using three layers of analysis: alpha-stable distributions, Metcalfe's law and the bubble behaviour through the LPPL modelling. The results show, in the medium to long-run, the validity of Metcalfe's law (the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system) for the evaluation of cryptocurrencies; however, in the short-run, the validity of Metcalfe's law for Bitcoin is questionable. As the results showed a potential for herding behaviour, the authors then used LPPL models to capture the behaviour of cryptocurrencies exchange rates during an endogenous bubble and to predict the most probable time of the regime switching. The main conclusion is that Metcalfe's law may be valid in the long-run, however in the short-run, on various data regimes, its validity is highly debatable.
C58|Testing for an omitted multiplicative long-term component in GARCH models|We consider the problem of testing for an omitted multiplicative long-term component in GARCH-type models. Under the alternative there is a two-component model with a short-term GARCH component that fluctuates around a smoothly time-varying long-term component which is driven by the dynamics of an explanatory variable. We suggest a Lagrange Multiplier statistic for testing the null hypothesis that the variable has no explanatory power. We derive the asymptotic theory for our test statistic and investigate its finite sample properties by Monte-Carlo simulation. Our test also covers the mixed-frequency case in which the returns are observed at a higher frequency than the explanatory variable. The usefulness of our procedure is illustrated by empirical applications to S&P 500 return data.
C58|Detecting structural differences in tail dependence of financial time series|An accurate assessment of tail inequalities and tail asymmetries of financial returns is key for risk management and portfolio allocation. We propose a new test procedure for detecting the full extent of such structural differences in the dependence of bivariate extreme returns. We decompose the testing problem into piecewise multiple comparisons of Cramér-von Mises distances of tail copulas. In this way, tail regions that cause differences in extreme dependence can be located and consequently be targeted by financial strategies. We derive the asymptotic properties of the test and provide a bootstrap approximation for finite samples. Moreover, we account for the multiplicity of the piecewise tail copula comparisons by adjusting individual p-values according to multiple testing techniques. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the test's superior finite-sample properties for common financial tail risk models, both in the i.i.d. and the sequentially dependent case. During the last 90 years in US stock markets, our test detects up to 20% more tail asymmetries than competing tests. This can be attributed to the presence of non-standard tail dependence structures. We also find evidence for diminishing tail asymmetries during every major financial crisis - except for the 2007-09 crisis - reflecting a risk-return trade-off for extreme returns.
C58|Measuring connectedness of euro area sovereign risk|We introduce a method for measuring the default risk connectedness of euro zone sovereign states using credit default swap (CDS) and bond data. The connectedness measure is based on an out-of-sample variance decomposition of model forecast errors. Due to its predictive nature, it can respond to crisis occurrences more quickly than common in-sample techniques. We determine the sovereign default risk connectedness using both CDS and bond data in order to obtain a more comprehensive picture of the system. We find evidence that there are several observable factors that drive the difference between CDS and bonds, but both data sources still contain specific information for connectedness spill-overs. In general, we can identify countries that impose risk on the system and the respective spill-over channels. Our empirical analysis covers the years 2009–2014, such that the recovery paths of countries exiting EU and IMF financial assistance schemes and the responses to the ECB’s unconventional policy measures can be analyzed.
C58|The power of (non-)linear shrinking: a review and guide to covariance matrix estimation|Many econometric and data-science applications require a reliable estimate of the covariance matrix, such as Markowitz portfolio selection. When the number of variables is of the same magnitude as the number of observations, this constitutes a difficult estimation problem; the sample covariance matrix certainly will not do. In this paper, we review our work in this area going back 15+ years. We have promoted various shrinkage estimators, which can be classified into linear and nonlinear. Linear shrinkage is simpler to understand, to derive, and to implement. But nonlinear shrinkage can deliver another level of performance improvement, especially if overlaid with stylized facts such as time-varying co-volatility or factor models.
C58|Risk reduction and efficiency increase in large portfolios: leverage and shrinkage|Two basic solutions have been proposed to fix the well-documented incompatibility of the sample covariance matrix with Markowitz mean-variance portfolio optimization: first, restrict leverage so much that no short sales are allowed; or, second, linearly shrink the sample covariance matrix towards a parsimonious target. Mathematically, there is a deep connection between the two approaches, and empirically they display similar performances. Recent developments have turned the choice between no-short-sales and linear shrinkage into a false ’either-or’ dichotomy. What if, instead of 0% leverage we considered fully-invested, long-short 130/30 portfolios, or even 150/50, given that prime brokers, fund regulators and investors have started to allow it? And instead of linearly shrinking the unconditional covariance matrix, what if we allowed for each of the eigenvalues of the sample covariance matrix to have its own shrinkage intensity, optimally determined under large-dimensional asymptotics, while also incorporating Multivariate GARCH effects? Our empirical evidence finds that, indeed, these new developments enable us to have ‘the best of both worlds’ by combining some appropriate leverage constraint with a judiciously chosen shrinkage method. The overall winner is a 150/50 investment strategy where the covariance matrix estimator is a combination of DCC (Dynamic Conditional Correlation — a well-known Multivariate GARCH model) — with NL (Non-Linear shrinkage, a substantial upgrade upon linear shrinkage technology); although 130/30 DCC-NL comes a close second. This is true both in the ‘pure’ case of estimating the Global Minimum Variance portfolio, and also for textbook-style construction of Markowitz mean-variance efficient portfolio.
C58|News Releases, Credit Rating Announcements, and Anti-Crisis Measures as Determinants of Sovereign Bond Spreads in the Peripheral Euro-Area Countries|This paper aims to contribute to the understanding of the determinants of the sovereign bond yields of the peripheral euro-area countries in recent years. We consider news releases, credit rating announcements, and anti-crisis measures undertaken by the ECB, for the EU/euro area as a whole as well as at the level of individual countries, as potential determinants. Our study is based on the daily sovereign bond spreads (with regard to German bunds) of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain in the years 2010-2016. We use the VARX-GARCH-BEKK model. Our results suggest that the spreads were most strongly influenced by the ECB’s measures and bailout programs, while the initiatives undertaken at the EU/euro area level played a less significant role. Rating changes proved to be significant, but some discrepancies with the results of previous studies occurred. Different sets of news variables were received for each country. Nonetheless, similarities were also identified.
C58|The Contribution of Jump Signs and Activity to Forecasting Stock Price Volatility|We document the forecasting gains achieved by incorporating measures of signed, finite and infinite jumps in forecasting the volatility of equity prices, using high-frequency data from 2000 to 2016. We consider the SPY and 20 stocks that vary by sector, volume and degree of jump activity. We use extended HAR-RV models, and consider different frequencies (5, 60 and 300 seconds), forecast horizons (1, 5, 22 and 66 days) and the use of standard and robust-to-noise volatility and threshold bipower variation measures. Incorporating signed finite and infinite jumps generates significantly better real-time forecasts than the HAR-RV model, although no single extended model dominates. In general, standard volatility measures at the 300-second frequency generate the smallest real-time mean squared forecast errors. Finally, the forecasts from simple model averages generally outperform forecasts from the single best model.
C58|When Simplicity Offers a Benefit, Not a Cost: Closed-Form Estimation of the GARCH(1,1) Model that Enhances the Efficiency of Quasi-Maximum Likelihood|Simple, multi-step estimators are developed for the popular GARCH(1,1) model, where these estimators are either available entirely in closed form or dependent upon a preliminary estimate from, for example, quasi-maximum likelihood. Identification sources to asymmetry in the model's innovations, casting skewness as an instrument in a linear, two-stage least squares estimator. Properties of regular variation coupled with point process theory establish the distributional limits of these estimators as stable, though highly non-Gaussian, with slow convergence rates relative to the âˆšn-case. Moment existence criteria necessary for these results are consistent with the heavy-tailed features of many financial returns. In light-tailed cases that support asymptotic normality for these simple estimators, conditions are discovered where the simple estimators can enhance the asymptotic efficiency of quasi-maximum likelihood estimation. In small samples, extensive Monte Carlo experime nts reveal these efficiency enhancements to be available for (very) heavy tailed cases. Consequently, the proposed simple estimators are members of the class of multi-step estimators aimed at improving the efficiency of the quasi-maximum likelihood estimator.
C58|Announcement-Specific Decompositions of Unconventional Monetary Policy Shocks and Their Macroeconomic Effects|I propose to identify announcement-specific decompositions of asset price changes into monetary policy shocks based on intraday time-varying volatility. This approach is the first to accommodate changes in both the nature of shocks and the state of the economy across announcements. I compute daily historical decompositions with respect to three monetary policy shocks for the United States from 2007 to 2018. I derive expressions for the asymptotic variance of such historical decompositions and apply them to assess the statistical significance of notable announcements. Only a handful spark significant shocks, and I discuss the characteristics of those announcements in detail. For many announcements, asset purchase shocks lower corporate borrowing costs, but spreads increase in response to both asset purchases and forward guidance. Turning to the real economy, I find that the asset purchase shock has significant effects on consumer and professional expectations of inflation and GDP growth. I compute dynamic responses of inflation and GDP growth; asset purchases have significant expansionary effects, while fed funds shocks and forward guidance do not.
C58|Consumer Lending Efficiency: Commercial Banks Versus A Fintech Lender|Using 2013 and 2016 data, we compare the performance of unsecured consumer loans made by U.S. bank holding companies to that of the fintech lender, LendingClub. We focus on the volume of nonperforming unsecured consumer loans and apply a novel technique developed by Hughes and Moon (2017) that decomposes the observed rate of nonperforming loans into three components: a best-practice minimum ratio, a ratio that gauges nonperformance in excess of the best-practice (reflecting the relative proficiency of credit analysis and loan monitoring), and the statistical noise. Stochastic frontier techniques are used to estimate a minimum rate of nonperforming consumer loans conditioned on the volume of consumer loans and total loans, the average contractual lending rate on consumer loans, and market conditions (GDP growth rate and market concentration). This minimum gauges best-observed practice and answers the question, what ratio of nonperforming consumer loans to total consumer lending could a lender achieve if it were fully efficient at credit-risk evaluation and loan management? The frontier estimation eliminates the influence of luck (statistical noise) and gauges the systematic failure to obtain the minimum ratio. The conditional minimum ratio can be interpreted as a measure of inherent credit risk. The difference between the observed ratio, adjusted for statistical noise, and the minimum ratio gauges lending inefficiency. In 2013 and 2016, the largest bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $250 billion experience the highest ratio of nonperforming consumer loans among the five size groups constituting the sample. Moreover, the inherent credit risk of their consumer lending is the highest among the five groups, but their lending efficiency is also the highest. Thus, the high ratio of consumer nonperformance of the largest financial institutions appears to result from assuming more inherent credit risk, not from inefficiency at lending. In 2016, LendingClub’s scale of unsecured consumer lending is slightly smaller than the scale of the largest banks. And like these large lenders, its relatively high nonperforming loan ratio is the result of a higher best-practice ratio of nonperforming consumer loans – i.e., higher inherent credit risk. As of 2016, LendingClub’s lending efficiency is similar to the high average efficiency of the largest bank lenders - a conclusion that may not be applicable to other fintech lenders. While the efficiency metric is well-accepted, widely used, and conceptually sound, it may be subject to some data limitations. For example, our data do not include lending performance during an economic downturn when delinquency rates would be higher and when lenders more experienced with downturns might achieve higher efficiency.
C58|Realized Volatility Forecasting: Robustness to Measurement Errors|In this paper, we reconsider the issue of measurement errors affecting the estimates of a dynamic model for the conditional expectation of realized variance arguing that heteroskedasticity of such errors may be adequately represented with a multiplicative error model. Empirically we show that the significance of quarticity/quadratic terms capturing attenuation bias is very important within an HAR model, but is greatly diminished within an AMEM, and more so when regime specific dynamics account for a faster mean reversion when volatility is high. Model Confidence Sets confirm such robustness both inâ€“ and outâ€“ofâ€“sample.
C58|Realized variance modeling: decoupling forecasting from estimation|In this paper we evaluate the in-sample fit and out-of-sample forecasts of various combinations of realized variance models and estimation criteria . Our empirical findings highlight that: independently of the econometricianâ€™s forecasting loss function, certain estimation criteria perform significantly better than others; the simple ARMA modeling of the log realized variance generates superior forecasts than the HAR family, for any of the forecasting loss functions considered; the (2,1) parameterizations with negative lag-2 coefficient emerge as the benchmark specifications generating the best forecasts and approximating long-run dependence as well as the HAR family.
C58|Machine Learning for Forecasting Excess Stock Returns – The Five-Year-View| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast stock returns in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and the inflation. In particular, we adopt and implement a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameter chosen by cross-validation. We find that for both one-year and five-year returns, the term spread is, overall, the most powerful predictive variable for excess stock returns. Differently combined covariates can then achieve higher predictability for different forecast horizons. Nevertheless, the set of earnings-by-price and term spread predictors under the inflation benchmark strikes the right balance between the one-year and five-year horizon.
C58|Conditional variance forecasts for long-term stock returns| In this paper, we apply machine learning to forecast the conditional variance of long-term stock returns measured in excess of different benchmarks, including the short-term interest rate, long-term interest rate, earnings-by-price ratio, and inflation. In particular, we apply and implement in a two-step procedure a fully nonparametric smoother with the covariates and the smoothing parameters chosen via cross-validation. We find that volatility forecastability is much less important at longer horizons regardless of the chosen model and that the homoscedastic historical average of the squared return prediction errors gives an adequate approximation of the unobserved realized conditional variance for both the one-year and five-year horizon.
C58|Does the Shari’ah screening impact the gold-stock nexus? A sectorial analysis|This article investigates the relationship between stocks and gold while considering the impact of the Shari’ah screening applied by Dow Jones. The main contribution of this paper relies on the distinction between risk-averse and risk-seeking investors as well as between stocks’ sectors. Using daily data from the Dow Jones indexes and the London gold market over the 2002–2014 period, the results show that there is a significant difference between Shari’ah-compliant and conventional stocks for most sectors. Risk-averters prefer investing in conventional stocks, while risk-seekers prefer investing in Shari’ah-compliant stocks. Considering the role of gold, risk-averters prefer investing in portfolios with gold, while risk-seekers prefer investing in portfolios without gold, regardless of Shari’ah-compliant or conventional stocks. A time-varying analysis shows that gold is a safe haven for risk-averse investors in downward periods of stocks’ prices.
C58|Contagion and bond pricing: The case of the ASEAN region|In this paper, we obtain explicit numerical formulas to price the defaultable bonds prices of firms. The possible default event of the firms happen in random time and not necessary in uniform time spread. For this purpose, we develop a Markov regime-switching Copula model that allows us to well-capture the economic behavior in some ASEAN region countries. The first regime represents the evidence that is used to support the standard economy. The second regime represents the crisis state. Based on various specifications, we obtain an explicit formula to evaluate the conditional Laplace transform of a regime switching Cox Ingersoll Ross model using the semi-affine property of this model. Our numerical results show strong evidence for increasing volatility parameter in crisis state, suggesting more possibility of contagion. Furthermore, statistically significant differences in terms of volatility of default across countries are reported. Indonesia and Malaysia exhibit particularly higher volatility than other markets, especially in the crisis state.
C58|The Memory of Beta Factors|Researchers and practitioners employ a variety of time-series processes to forecast betas, using either short-memory models or implicitly imposing infinite memory. We find that both approaches are inadequate: beta factors show consistent long-memory properties. For the vast majority of stocks, we reject both the short-memory and difference-stationary (random walk) alternatives. A pure long-memory model reliably provides superior beta forecasts compared to all alternatives. Finally, we document the relation of firm characteristics with the forecast error differentials that result from inadequately imposing short-memory or random walk instead of long-memory processes.
C58|Compound Returns|We provide a theoretical basis for understanding the properties of compound re-turns. At long horizons, multiplicative compounding induces extreme positive skewness into individual stock returns, an eﬀect primarily driven by single-period volatility. As a consequence, most individual stocks perform very poorly. However, holding just a few stocks (instead of a single one) greatly improves the long-run prospects of an investment strategy, indicating that missing out on the “lucky few” winner stocks is not a great concern. We show analytically how this somewhat counterintuitive result arises from an interaction between compounding, diversiﬁcation, and rebalancing that has seemingly not been previously noted.
C58|Do Portfolio Investors Need To Consider The Asymmetry Of Returns On The Russian Stock Market?|This paper uses the parsimonious method of embedding skewness in asset allocation based on the Taylor expansion of the investor utility function up to the third term and maximizing it by portfolio weights. This approach also enables us to consider investor risk aversion. Time-dependent multivariate asset moments are obtained via the GOGARCH volatility model with a normal-inverse Gaussian distribution for the error term. We explore the performance of the usual 2 moment utility and its 3 moment counterpart for a portfolio consisted of twenty assets traded on the Russian stock market. The results demonstrate that the 3 moment utility significantly outperforms the 2 moment utility by SD, MAD and CVaR for low levels of absolute risk aversion and by portfolio returns and investor utility level during the whole forecast period.
C58|Ratings matter: announcements in times of crisis and the dynamics of stock markets|In this paper we propose a novel approach in analysing the impact of changes in sovereign credit ratings on stock markets. We study the evolution of a segmented form of the stock market index for several crisis-hit countries, including both European and Asian markets. Such evolution is modelled by a homogeneous Markov chain, where the transition probabilities from one starting level of the index to a new (lower or higher) level in the next period depend on some explanatory variables, namely the country’s rating, GDP and interest rate, through a generalised ordered probit model. The credit ratings turn out to be determinant in the dynamics of the stock markets for all three European countries considered - Portugal, Spain and Greece, while not all considered Asian countries show evidence of correlation of market indices with the ratings.
C58|Auction Mechanisms and Treasury Revenue|This paper exploits a large-size auction experiment conducted by two Chinese Government Treasury security issuers -the Chinese Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank- to investigate whether Treasury securities should be sold through uniform or discriminatory auction mechanisms. Based on the outcomes of more than 300 Treasury securities issued through an alternating auction-rule market experiment, we find that auction outcome yield rates of the two auction formats are not statistically different, suggesting revenue equivalence. This equivalence is robust across different revenue measurements and participation behavior.
C58|Robust measures of skewness and kurtosis for macroeconomic and financial time series|The sample skewness and kurtosis of macroeconomic and financial time series are routinely scrutinized in the early stages of model-building and are often the central topic of studies in economics and finance. Notwithstanding the availability of several robust estimators, most scholars in economics rely on method-of-moments estimation that is known to be very sensitive to outliers. We carry out an extensive Monte Carlo analysis to compare the bias and root mean squared error of twelve different estimators of skewness and kurtosis. We consider nine statistical distributions that approximate the range of data generating processes of many macroeconomic and financial time series. Both in independently and identically distributed samples and in data generating processes featuring serial correlation L-moments and trimmed L-moments estimators are particularly resistant to outliers and deliver the lowest root mean squared error. The application to 128 macroeconomic and financial time series sourced from a large, monthly frequency, database (i.e. the FRED-MD of McCracken and Ng, 2016) confirms the findings of the simulation study.
C58|Towards resolving the Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) ‘puzzle’ in Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC’s)|The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) hypothesis represents one of the oldest existing economic doctrines and is plagued with empirical inconsistencies collectively labelled as ‘puzzles’. Our study resolves these ‘puzzles’ for 14 Newly Industrialized Countries (NIC) whose developmental strategies are impinged on the stability of real exchange rates which, in turn, validates the PPP hypothesis. We test for the stationarity of real exchange rates (RER’s) by applying an exponential smooth transition autoregressive unit root test augmented with a fractional frequency flexible Fourier form component (ESTAR-FFFFF) to capture heterogeneous smooth transition asymmetries and approximate unknown structural breaks in the time series. We find the RER’s in all 14 NIC’s are mean-reverting over monthly period of 1970:1-2018:12 which confirms the PPP hypothesis for these economies in the presence of exchange-rate regime shifts, oil and food shocks, financial crisis and other forms of asymmetries and structural breaks. Length: 29 pages
C58|Taming the Factor Zoo: A Test of New Factors|We propose a model-selection method to systematically evaluate the contribution to asset pricing of any new factor, above and beyond what a high-dimensional set of existing factors explains. Our methodology explicitly accounts for potential model-selection mistakes, unlike the standard approaches that assume perfect variable selection, which rarely occurs in practice and produces a bias due to the omitted variables. We apply our procedure to a set of factors recently discovered in the literature. While most of these new factors are found to be redundant relative to the existing factors, a few — such as profitability — have statistically significant explanatory power beyond the hundreds of factors proposed in the past. In addition, we show that our estimates and their significance are stable, whereas the model selected by simple LASSO is not.
C58|Macroeconomic Uncertainty Prices when Beliefs are Tenuous|"A representative investor does not know which member of a set of well-defined parametric ""structured models'' is best. The investor also suspects that all of the structured models are misspecified. These uncertainties about probability distributions of risks give rise to components of equilibrium prices that differ from the risk prices widely used in asset pricing theory. A quantitative example highlights a representative investor's uncertainties about the size and persistence of macroeconomic growth rates. Our model of preferences under ambiguity puts nonlinearities into marginal valuations that induce time variations in market prices of uncertainty. These arise because the representative investor especially fears high persistence of low growth rate states and low persistence of high growth rate states."
C58|Predicting Returns With Text Data|We introduce a new text-mining methodology that extracts sentiment information from news articles to predict asset returns. Unlike more common sentiment scores used for stock return prediction (e.g., those sold by commercial vendors or built with dictionary-based methods), our supervised learning framework constructs a sentiment score that is specifically adapted to the problem of return prediction. Our method proceeds in three steps: 1) isolating a list of sentiment terms via predictive screening, 2) assigning sentiment weights to these words via topic modeling, and 3) aggregating terms into an article-level sentiment score via penalized likelihood. We derive theoretical guarantees on the accuracy of estimates from our model with minimal assumptions. In our empirical analysis, we text-mine one of the most actively monitored streams of news articles in the financial system—the Dow Jones Newswires—and show that our supervised sentiment model excels at extracting return-predictive signals in this context.
C58|Testing for parameter instability in predictive regression models|We consider tests for structural change, based on the SupF and Cramer–von-Mises type statistics of Andrews (1993) and Nyblom (1989), respectively, in the slope and/or intercept parameters of a predictive regression model where the predictors display strong persistence. The SupF type tests are motivated by alternatives where the parameters display a small number of breaks at deterministic points in the sample, while the Cramer–von-Mises alternative is one where the coefficients are random and slowly evolve through time. In order to allow for an unknown degree of persistence in the predictors, and for both conditional and unconditional heteroskedasticity in the data, we implement the tests using a fixed regressor wild bootstrap procedure. The asymptotic validity of the bootstrap tests is established by showing that the asymptotic distributions of the bootstrap parameter constancy statistics, conditional on the data, coincide with those of the asymptotic null distributions of the corresponding statistics computed on the original data, conditional on the predictors. Monte Carlo simulations suggest that the bootstrap parameter stability tests work well in finite samples, with the tests based on the Cramer–von-Mises principle seemingly the most useful in practice. An empirical application to U.S. stock returns data demonstrates the practical usefulness of these methods.
C58|Is There Seasonality in Traded and Non-Traded Period Returns in the US Equity Market? A Multiple Structural Change Approach|This paper simultaneously examines day-of-the-week, turn-of-the-month and pre- and post-holidays calendar effects in traded and non-traded daily period returns in a group of broad-index exchange traded funds (ETFs) that track the major US stock indices (S&P 500, DJIA 30, NASDAQ 100 and Russel 2000 index). Bai and Perron (1998, 2003)’s method is employed to examine stability of the significant calendar effects over time and across ETFs. Results exhibit a high instability of the significant calendar effects over the various regimes up until 2001. From 2001 onwards and until the end of 2013, only a single regime across all ETFs is identified. In this last regime, results point to the disappearance of the previous significant effects across the US equity ETFs group. Unstable observed effects could have been motivated by market-specific conditions in such short time periods. The disappearance of these effects from 2001 onwards are consistent with the nature of this asset class: these ETFs are broadly diversified portfolios with diversification of private information, with higher liquidity and lower transactions cost, which is likely to reduce potential calendar effects.
C58|Measurement of Volatility Spillovers and Asymmetric Connectedness on Commodity and Equity Markets|We study volatility spillovers among commodity and equity markets by employing a recently developed approach based on realized measures and forecast error variance decomposition invariant to the variable ordering from vector-autoregressions. This enables us to measure total, directional and net volatility spillovers as well as the asymmetry of responses to positive and negative shocks. We exploit high-frequency data on the prices of Crude oil, Corn, Cotton and Gold futures, and the S&P 500 Index and use a sample which spans from January 2002 to December 2015 to cover the entire period around the global financial crisis of 2008. Our empirical analysis reveals that on average, the volatility shocks related to other markets account for around one fifth of the volatility forecast error variance. We find that shocks to the stock markets play the most important role as the S&P 500 Index dominates all commodities in terms of general volatility spillover transmission. Our results further suggest that volatility spillovers across the analyzed assets were rather limited before the global financial crisis, which then boosted the connectedness between commodity and stock markets. Furthermore, the volatility due to positive and negative shocks is transmitted between markets at different magnitudes and the prevailing effect has varied. In the pre-crisis period, the positive spillovers dominated the negative ones, however, in several years following the crisis, the negative shocks have had a significantly higher impact on the volatility spillovers across the markets, pointing to an overall increase in uncertainty in the commodity and equity markets following a major crisis. In recent years, the asymmetric measures seem to have returned to their pre-crises directions and magnitudes.
C58|Residual Shape Risk on Czech Natural Gas Market|This paper introduces residual shape risk as a new subclass of energy commodity risk. Residual shape risk is caused by insufficient liquidity of energy forward market when retail energy supplier has to hedge his short sales by a non-exible standard baseload product available on wholesale market. Because of this inflexibility energy supplier is left with residual unhedged position which has to be closed at spot market. The residual shape risk is defined as a difference between spot and forward prices weighted by residual unhedged position which size depends on the shape of customers' portfolio of a given retail energy supplier. For empirical evaluation of residual shape risk we use a real portfolio of a leading natural gas retail supplier in the Czech Republic over the period 2016-2017. The size of residual shape risk in our example corresponds approximately to 1 percent of profit margin of natural gas retail supplier.
C58|Relative pricing and risk premia in equity volatility markets|This paper provides empirical evidence that volatility markets are integrated through the time-varying term structure of variance risk premia. These risk premia predict the returns from selling volatility for different horizons, maturities, and products, including variance swaps, straddles, and VIX futures. In addition, the paper derives a closed-form relationship between the prices of variance swaps and VIX futures. While tightly linked, VIX futures exhibit deviations of varying significance from the no-arbitrage prices and bounds implied by the variance swap market. The paper examines these pricing errors and their relationship to VIX futures’ return predictability.
C58|Identifying shocks via time-varying volatility|An n-variable structural vector auto-regression (SVAR) can be identified (up to shock order) from the evolution of the residual covariance across time if the structural shocks exhibit heteroskedasticity (Rigobon (2003), Sentana and Fiorentini (2001)). However, the path of residual covariances can only be recovered from the data under specific parametric assumptions on the variance process. I propose a new identification argument that identifies the SVAR up to shock orderings using the autocovariance structure of second moments of the residuals, implied by an arbitrary stochastic process for the shock variances. These higher moments are available without parametric assumptions like those required by existing approaches. The conditions required for identification can be tested using a simple procedure. The identification scheme performs well in simulations. I apply the approach to the debate on fiscal multipliers and obtain estimates lower than those of Blanchard and Perotti (2002) and Mertens and Ravn (2014), but in line with more recent studies.
C58|Relationship between Foreign Exchange Rate and Stock Price of Commercial Banks in Romanian financial market|In the context of globalization and the financial crisis that the world traversed over the period 2007-2009, the Romanian capital market suffered extreme shocks (stock indices recording a decline of up to 90% while the national currency depreciated sharply against EUR and USD), which led to a significant increase in volatility in the national financial market. Considering that the financial sector was the trigger of the crisis and one of the most affected sector, we chose to analyze whether we can talk about the foreign exchange rate impact on price of the bank shares traded on the Bucharest Stock Exchange and vice versa (during March 2008 -June 2017), using correlation and VAR Granger Causality test. Frequency of data is daily. We also studied the evolution of the correlation between the banking sector (represented bythe shares of the banking companies traded on the Bucharest Stock Exchange) and the foreign exchange market during and after the financial crisis.Next, we analyzed volatility changes in this sector in the post-crisis period compared to the one recorded during the financial crisis. We have included the three Romanian banks: BRD-Groupe Societe Generale, Banca Transilvania, Patria Bank and two foreign banks traded on BSE: Erste Bank AG and Deutsche Bank and RON/EUR and RON/USD exchange rates.The results of the study showed that we can speak of a unidirectional causality running from the RON / EUR exchange rate to the prices of the Romanian banks included in the study (except for Patria Bank) and of a bidirectional causality for foreign banks Erste Bank and Deutsche Bank. During the crisis (as could be expected), we noticed an increase in volatility and market correlation and a slight decline once the effects of the crisis began to dissipate.
C58|Choice of Benchmark When Forecasting Long-term Stock Returns| Recent advances in pension product development seem to favour alternatives to the risk free asset so often used in financial theory. In this paper, we investigate other benchmarks of the financial model than the classical risk free asset; for example, a benchmark following an inflation index is just one important case. Modelling extra returns above the inflation of risky assets is important, for example, for actuarial applications aiming at providing real income forecasts for pensioners. We study market timing when three alternative benchmarks are considered: the risk free rate, inflation and the long bond yield. We conclude that forecasting future stock returns is of similar complexity for all three considered benchmarks. From a pension fund modelling perspective, it therefore seems that one should use the most convenient benchmark for the problem at hand.
C58|Algorithmic trading and liquidity: Long term evidence from Austria|We analyze the relation between algorithmic trading and liquidity using a novel data set from the Austrian equity market. Our sample covers almost 4.5 years, it identifies the market share of algorithmic trading at the stock-day level, and it comes from a market that has hitherto not been analyzed. We address the endogeneity problem using an instrumental variables approach. Our results indicate that an increase in the market share of algorithmic trading causes a reduction in quoted and effective spreads while quoted depth and price impacts are unaffected. They are consistent with algorithmic traders on average acting as market makers.
C58|Measuring the response of gold prices to uncertainty: An analysis beyond the mean|This paper provides an innovative perspective on the role of gold as a hedge and safe haven. We use a quantile-on-quantile regression approach to capture the dependence structure between gold returns and changes in uncertainty under different gold market conditions, while considering the nuances of uncertainty levels. To capture the core uncertainty effects on gold returns, a dynamic factor model is used. This technique allows summarizing the impact of six different indexes (namely economic, macroeconomic, microeconomic, monetary policy, financial and political uncertainties) within one aggregate measure of uncertainty. In doing so, we show that the gold's role as a hedge and safe haven cannot be assumed to hold at all times. This ability seems to be sensitive to the gold's various market states (bearish, normal or bullish) and to whether the uncertainty is low, middle or high. Interestingly, we find a positive and strong relationship between gold returns and the uncertainty composite indicator when the uncertainty attains its highest level and under normal gold market scenario. This suggests that holding a diversified portfolio composed of gold could help protecting against exposure to uncertain risks.
C58|Is Bitcoin a hedge, a safe haven or a diversifier for oil price movements? A comparison with gold|This study assesses the roles of Bitcoin as a hedge, a safe haven and/or a diversifier against extreme oil price movements, in comparison to the corresponding roles of gold. We use a quantile-on-quantile regression approach to capture the dependence structure between the considered market returns under different Bitcoin market conditions, while considering nuances of oil price movements, compared to gold. Our findings show that both Bitcoin and gold would serve the roles of a hedge, a safe haven and a diversifier for oil price movements. However, this property seems to be sensitive to the Bitcoin's and gold's different (bear, normal or bull) market conditions and to whether the oil price is in a downside, normal or upside regime. By controlling for new and relevant U.S. and global uncertainty indicators, we confirm that both Bitcoin and gold, but not oil, are assets where investors may park their cash during times of political and economic turmoil. The conditional Value-at-Risk (CoVaR) approach to risk management is then conducted, providing robust evidence of the usefulness of each of the Bitcoin and gold in expanded oil portfolios, in terms of diversification opportunities and downside risk reductions.
C58|Asymptotics of Cholesky GARCH models and time-varying conditional betas|This paper proposes a new model with time-varying slope coefficients. Our model, called CHAR, is a Cholesky-GARCH model, based on the Cholesky decomposition of the conditional variance matrix introduced by Pourahmadi (1999) in the context of longitudinal data. We derive stationarity and invertibility conditions and prove consistency and asymptotic normality of the Full and equation-by-equation QML estimators of this model. We then show that this class of models is useful to estimate conditional betas and compare it to the approach proposed by Engle (2016). Finally, we use real data in a portfolio and risk management exercise. We find that the CHAR model outperforms a model with constant betas as well as the dynamic conditional beta model of Engle (2016).
C58|A systemic risk analysis of Islamic equity markets using vine copula and delta CoVaR modeling|We model the downside and upside spillover effects, systemic and tail dependence risks of the DJ World Islamic (DJWI) and DJ World Islamic Financial (DJWIF) indices, and of Islamic equity indices from Japan, USA and the UK. We draw our empirical results and conclusions by implementing a robust modeling framework consisting of Value-at-Risk (VaR), conditional VaR (CoVaR), Delta conditional VaR (ΔCoVaR), canonical vine conditional VaR (c-vine CoVaR), and time-varying and static bivariate and vine copula models. Full sample estimations indicate larger downside spillover effects and systemic risk for the DJ Islamic Financials World and USA Islamic indices, while Islamic indices from Japan and the DJ World financials have greater exposure to upside spillover risk effects. During the financial crisis the USA and UK Islamic indices display higher downside systemic risk; and the strongest negative tail asymmetric dependence occurs between the DJ Islamic Financials World, and the Islamic indices from Japan and the DJ World financials. Implications of the results are discussed.
C58|Multivariate dependence and spillover effects across energy commodities and diversification potentials of carbon assets|In a first step, we model the multivariate tail dependence structure and spillover effects across energy commodities such as crude oil, natural gas, ethanol, heating oil, coal and gasoline using canonical vine (C-vine) copula and c-vine conditional Value-at-Risk (CoVaR). In the second step, we formulate portfolio strategies based on different performance measures to analyze the risk reduction and diversification potential of carbon assets for energy commodities. We identify greater exposure to losses arising from investments in heating oil and ethanol markets. We also find evidence of carbon asset providing diversification benefits to energy commodity investments. These findings motivate for regulatory adjustments in the trading and emission permits for the energy markets most strongly diversified by carbon assets.
C58|Time-varying evidence of efficiency, decoupling, and diversification of conventional and Islamic stocks|This study investigates the efficiency of conventional and Islamic stock markets and their diversification potential by using multifractal de-trended fluctuation analysis (MF-DFA), wavelet squared coherence (WTC) and wavelet Value-at-Risk (VaR). Evidence from regional and country-level markets indicates Islamic stocks are less efficient than conventional ones in the short term, however more efficient in the medium term. Conventional stocks in the UK, Japan, and emerging markets are more efficient than the Islamic ones in the long term, whereas those from the US and Europe are less efficient. The wavelet VaR shows that conventional stock markets are at least as risky as the Islamic ones.
C58|Examining the dynamics of illiquidity risks within the phases of the business cycle|The Fama-French (FF) five-factor model is cast into a dynamic setting to capture the impact of illiquidity over the phases of the business cycle on the returns of the passive FF twelve sector portfolios. We use two dynamic approaches, Kalman filtering and a recursive/rolling robust instrumental variables (IV) algorithm cast into a GMM framework, to determine time-varying alpha and beta estimates. Our principal result is that the Kalman filter approach supports the hypothesis that illiquidity is an important risk factor in a dynamic context. However, the only factor found to matter in the dynamic GMM approach is the market risk premium. Nevertheless, illiquidity may be prescient with respect to financial crises.
C58|On the performances of Dynamic Conditional Correlation models in the Sovereign CDS market and the corresponding bond market|The study of an efficient financial assets' modeling method is still an open hot issue especially during recent crises. Using credit risk data from 33 worldwide countries, this paper investigates the performance of 9 Dynamic Conditional Correlation models taking into account different properties of financial markets (long memory behavior, asymmetry and/or leverage effects...). This comparative study is based on the results of several multivariate diagnostic tests. Findings show that no model outperforms the others in all situations, though, the straightforward DCC-GARCH model seems to provide the most relevant estimator parameters. Yet, the innovations distributions assumption significantly impacts the statistical fit of the model. Our work is useful for financial markets' participants so as to making decision in terms of arbitrage, hedging or speculation. JEL Classification G11, G12, F02, C58
C58|Forecasting sovereign CDS volatility: A comparison of univariate GARCH-class models|Initially overlooked by investors, the sovereign credit risk has been reassessed upwards since the 2000's which has contributed to awaken the interest of speculators in sovereign CDS. The growing need of accurate forecasting models has led us to fill the gap in the literature by studying the predictability of sovereign CDS volatility, using both linear and non-linear GARCH-class models. This paper uses data from 38 worldwide countries, ranging from January 2006 to March 2017. Results show that the CDS markets are subject to periods of volatility clustering, nonlinearity, asym-metric leverage effects and long-memory behavior. Using 7 heteroskedastic and no heteroskedastic-robust statistic criteria, results show that the fractionally-integrated models outperform the basic GARCH-class models in terms of forecasting ability and that allowing flexibility regarding the persistence degree of variance shocks significantly improves the model's suitability to data. Despite the divergence in the economic status and geographical positions of the countries composing our sample, the FIGARCH and FIEGARCH models are mainly found to be the most accurate models in predicting credit market volatility. JEL Classification: G15, G17, C58.
C58|Integration and Disintegration of EMU Government Bond Markets|This paper analyzes market integration among long term government bonds in the Eurozone since the inception of the Euro in 1999. While it is commonly assumed that markets for EMU government bonds were closely integrated prior to the EMU debt crisis, we find that there is significant time variation in their relationship. There are periods of integration and disintegration, and differences between core and periphery countries can be observed long before the EMU debt crisis. To obtain insights into the sources of the observed time variation, we analyze the dependence on variables related to market sentiment, risk and risk aversion. The drivers of market integration are found to be similar to those for the well documented flight-to-quality effects from stocks to bonds, suggesting that in times of crisis investors do not only shift their portfolios from stocks to bonds, but there is also a stronger differentiation between more and less risky bonds. The persistence of these differentials leads to the conclusion that (at least in times of crisis) the pricing of EMU government bonds implied the possibility of macroeconomic and fiscal divergence between the EMU countries.
C58|Estimating the Volatility of Asset Pricing Factors|Models based on factors such as size, value, or momentum are ubiquitous in asset pricing. Therefore, portfolio allocation and risk management require estimates of the volatility of these factors. While realized volatility has become a standard tool for liquid individual assets, this measure is not available for factor models, due to their construction from the CRSP data base that does not provide high frequency data and contains a large number of less liquid stocks. Here, we provide a statistical approach to estimate the volatility of these factors. The efficacy of this approach relative to the use of models based on squared returns is demonstrated for forecasts of the market volatility and a portfolio allocation strategy that is based on volatility timing.
C58|Estimation of effects of recent macroprudential policies in a sample of advanced open economies|We analyse a quarterly panel data set consisting of ten advanced open economies that have introduced macroprudential policy measures: caps on loan to value and income (LTV and LTI), and debt service to income (DSTI) requirements in particular, but also risk weights (RW), amortization (Amort) and, less used, countercyclical buffer (CCyB). Estimation of dynamic panel data models, that also include the central bank rate, and controls for common nominal and real trends, gives support to the view that several of the measures may have reduced credit growth when they were introduced.The estimated impact effects are most significant for LTV, LTI and RW. For Amort, the long-run effect on credit growth is significant, and the same is found for RW. The estimation results when house price growth is the dependent variable are in the main consistent with the results for credit growth. The results do not support that CCyB has reduced lending (as a consequence of higher financing costs), and we suggest that the variable is mainly a control in our data set. In that interpretation, it is interesting that the estimated coefficients of the other five instruments are robust with respect to exclusion of CCyB from the empirical models. The results are also robust to controls in the form of impulse indicator saturation (IIS).
C58|Volatility Spillovers With Spatial Effects On The Oil And Gas Market|The article is devoted to the estimation of volatility spillovers occurred on the oil and gas market taking into account cross-sectional dependence. The latter is implemented via spatial specifications of the BEKK multivariate volatility model. We also use DCC, GO-GARCH and ADCC models as a benchmark.
C58|Modeling systemic risk with Markov Switching Graphical SUR models|We propose a Markov Switching Graphical Seemingly Unrelated Regression (MS-GSUR) model to investigate time-varying systemic risk based on a range of multi-factor asset pricing models. Methodologically, we develop a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) scheme in which latent states are identified on the basis of a novel weighted eigenvector centrality measure. An empirical application to the constituents of the S&P100 index shows that cross-firm connectivity significantly increased over the period 1999–2003 and during the financial crisis in 2008–2009. Finally, we provide evidence that firm-level centrality does not correlate with market values and it is instead positively linked to realized financial losses.
C58|Assessing Tail Risk Using Expectile Regressions with Partially Varying Coefficients|To characterize heteroskedasticity and nonlinearity as well as asymmetry in tail risk, this paper investigates a class of conditional (dynamic) expectile models with partially varying coefficients in which some coefficients are allowed to be constants but others are allowed to be unknown functions of random variables. A three-stage estimation procedure is proposed to estimate both the parametric constant coefficients and nonparametric functional coefficients, and their asymptotic properties are investigated under time series context, together with a new simple and easily implemented test for testing the goodness of fit of models and a bandwidth selector based on newly defined cross-validatory estimation for the expected forecasting expectile errors. The proposed methodology is data-analytic and of sufficient flexibility to analyze complex and multivariate nonlinear structures without suffering from the curse of dimensionality. Finally, the proposed model is illustrated by simulated data and applied to analyzing the daily data of the S&P500 return series.
C58|Econometric Modeling of Risk Measures: A Selective Review of the Recent Literature|Since the financial crisis in 2008, the risk measures which are the core of risk management, have received increasing attention among economists and practitioners. In this review, the concentrate is on recent developments in the estimation of the most popular risk measures, namely, value at risk (VaR), expected shortfall (ES), and expectile. After introducing the concept of risk measures, the focus is on discussion and comparison of their econometric modeling. Then, parametric and nonparametric estimations of tail dependence are investigated. Finally, we conclude with insights into future research directions.
C58|Regularized semiparametric estimation of high dimensional dynamic conditional covariance matrices|This paper proposes a three-step estimation strategy for dynamic conditional correlation models. In the first step, conditional variances for individual and aggregate series are estimated by means of QML equation by equation. In the second step, conditional covariances are estimated by means of the polarization identity, and conditional correlations are estimated by their usual normalization. In the third step, the two-step conditional covariance and correlation matrices are regularized by means of a new non-linear shrinkage procedure and used as starting value for the maximization of the joint likelihood of the model. This yields the final, third step smoothed estimate of the conditional covariance and correlation matrices. Due to its scant computational burden, the proposed strategy allows to estimate high dimensional conditional covariance and correlation matrices. An application to global minimum variance portfolio is also provided, confirming that SP-DCC is a simple and viable alternative to existing DCC models.
C58|Asymmetric Volatility Spillovers Between Developed And Developing European Countries|This paper aims to examine the volatility spillovers among three asset classes, namely, equity, currency and credit among developed European countries and developing Central Eastern European countries in response to political, economic and financial events occurred in the Eurozone in the last decade. We use a different version of the Diebold-Yilmaz spillovers index in order to take into account the volatility asymmetry effect under both its leverage effect and, also, in relation to separated good or bad news. The first may be due to positive or negative shocks of identical size, whereas the latter may be due to good or bad news impacting separately. We find that the stock market is the main channel through which volatility spills over among these countries with a clear role as volatility transmitters for the developed EU stock markets. The volatility leverage effect is evident mainly for the equity market, while it emerges only after the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis for the credit market. The Brexit vote is found to be the main event contributing to volatility spillovers in the currency market with the Brittish pound transmitting positive volatility to the system. The Italian CDS market is found to play a crucial role during the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, while the German CDS market is found to be more stable and mainly transmitting positive volatility. The European Central Banks policies, such as, LTRO and QE result into a reduction of negative volatility spillovers and into an increase of positive volatility spillovers in the credit market. According to the considered asset classes and time period, we detect positive and negative volatility spillovers among the selected countries in Europe showing how different events might contribute to different, beneficial or harmful, reactions within the system.
C58|On the financial connectedness of the commodity market: a replication of the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) study|In this paper we replicate the Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) study on the connectedness of the Commodity market and three other financial markets: the stock market, the bond market, and the FX market. We show that both the row and the column normalization schemes of the Generalized Forecast Error Variance Decomposition, suggested by the authors, lead to inaccurate measures of net contribution to risk transmission, in terms of ranking and sign. We show that, considering data generating processes characterized by different degrees of comovement and persistence, a scalar based normalization of the Generalized Forecast Error Variance Decomposition yields consistent (free of sign and ranking errors) net spillovers.
C58|Dynamic price jumps: The performance of high frequency tests and measures, and the robustness of inference|This paper provides an extensive evaluation of high frequency jump tests and measures, in the context of using such tests and measures in the estimation of dynamic models for asset price jumps. Specifically, we investigate: i) the power of alternative tests to detect individual price jumps, most notably in the presence of volatility jumps; ii) the frequency with which sequences of dynamic jumps are correctly identified; iii) the accuracy with which the magnitude and sign of a sequence of jumps, including small clusters of consecutive jumps, are estimated; and iv) the robustness of inference about dynamic jumps to test and measure design. Substantial differences are discerned in the performance of alternative methods in certain dimensions, with inference being sensitive to these differences in some cases. Accounting for measurement error when using measures constructed from high frequency data to conduct inference on dynamic jump models is also shown to have an impact. The sensitivity of inference to test and measurement construction is documented using both artificially generated data and empirical data on both the S&P500 stock index and the IBM stock price. The paper concludes by providing guidelines for empirical researchers who wish to exploit high frequency data when drawing conclusions regarding dynamic jump processes.
C58|Approximate Bayesian forecasting|Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) has become increasingly prominent as a method for conducting parameter inference in a range of challenging statistical problems, most notably those characterized by an intractable likelihood function. In this paper, we focus on the use of ABC not as a tool for parametric inference, but as a means of generating probabilistic forecasts; or for conducting what we refer to as ‘approximate Bayesian forecasting’. The four key issues explored are: (i) the link between the theoretical behavior of the ABC posterior and that of the ABC-based predictive; (ii) the use of proper scoring rules to measure the (potential) loss of forecast accuracy when using an approximate rather than an exact predictive; (iii) the performance of approximate Bayesian forecasting in state space models; and (iv) the use of forecasting criteria to inform the selection of ABC summaries in empirical settings. The primary finding of the paper is that ABC can provide a computationally efficient means of generating probabilistic forecasts that are nearly identical to those produced by the exact predictive, and in a fraction of the time required to produce predictions via an exact method.
C58|Factors that Fit the Time Series and Cross-Section of Stock Returns|We propose a new method for estimating latent asset pricing factors that fit the time-series and cross-section of expected returns. Our estimator generalizes Principal Component Analysis (PCA) by including a penalty on the pricing error in expected returns. We show that our estimator strongly dominates PCA and finds weak factors with high Sharpe-ratios that PCA cannot detect. Studying a large number of characteristic sorted portfolios we find that five latent factors with economic meaning explain well the cross-section and time-series of returns. We show that out-of-sample the maximum Sharpe-ratio of our five factors is more than twice as large as with PCA with significantly smaller pricing errors. Our factors are based on only a subset of the stock characteristics implying that a significant amount of characteristic information is redundant.
C58|Empirical Asset Pricing via Machine Learning|We perform a comparative analysis of machine learning methods for the canonical problem of empirical asset pricing: measuring asset risk premia. We demonstrate large economic gains to investors using machine learning forecasts, in some cases doubling the performance of leading regression-based strategies from the literature. We identify the best performing methods (trees and neural networks) and trace their predictive gains to allowance of nonlinear predictor interactions that are missed by other methods. All methods agree on the same set of dominant predictive signals which includes variations on momentum, liquidity, and volatility. Improved risk premium measurement through machine learning simplifies the investigation into economic mechanisms of asset pricing and highlights the value of machine learning in financial innovation.
C58|Financial Market Contagion and the Sovereign Debt Crisis: A Smooth Transition Approach|In this paper, we investigate the timing and extent of sovereign debt contagion across nine Eurozone countries using daily returns on 10-year government bonds from 2007 until 2017. The novelty lies in modelling bond return correlations using a multivariate GARCH model with a multiplicative decomposition of the variance and time-varying conditional correlations. The model introduces flexibility by allowing the individual unconditional variances to be time-dependent and the correlations to change smoothly between two extreme states according to time and observable financial variables. The main results provide no evidence of asymmetric response of comovements to negative shocks, as opposed to the size of innovations from the periphery which is expected to affect the dynamics of correlations. Our findings further indicate the presence of long-run contagion effects across peripheral countries following the more acute phase of the sovereign crisis. Interestingly, periods of high turbulence in the European stock market do not seem to drive financial contagion.
C58|Bank Loan Loss Provisions, Investor Protection and the Macroeconomy|This study investigates the non-discretionary determinants of bank loan loss provisions in Africa after controlling for macroeconomic fluctuation, financial development and investor protection. We find that non-performing loans, loan-to-asset ratio and loan growth are significant non-discretionary drivers of bank provisions in the African region. We observe that bank provision is a positive function of non-performing loans up to a threshold beyond which bank provisions will no longer increase as non-performing loans increases. Also, bank loan-to-asset ratio is a significant driver of bank provisions when African banks have higher loan-to-asset ratios. Also, larger banks in financially developed African countries have fewer loan loss provisions while increase in bank lending leads to fewer bank provisions in countries with strong investor protection. Finally, higher bank lending is associated with higher bank provisions during economic boom. The findings have implications.
C58|Time Varying Heteroskedastic Realized GARCH models for tracking measurement error bias in volatility forecasting|This paper proposes generalisations of the Realized GARCH model by Hansen et al. (2012), in three different directions. First, heteroskedasticity in the noise term in the measurement equation is allowed, since this is generally assumed to be time-varying as a function of an estimator of the Integrated Quarticity for intra-daily returns. Second, in order to account for attenuation bias effects, the volatility dynamics are allowed to depend on the accuracy of the realized measure. This is achieved by letting the response coefficient of the lagged realized measure depend on the time-varying variance of the volatility measurement error, thus giving more weight to lagged volatilities when they are more accurately measured. Finally, a further extension is proposed by introducing an additional explanatory variable into the measurement equation, aiming to quantify the bias due to effect of jumps and measurement errors.
C58|Functional GARCH models: The quasi-likelihood approach and its applications|The increasing availability of high frequency data has initiated many new research areas in statistics. Functional data analysis (FDA) is one such innovative approach towards modelling time series data. In FDA, densely observed data are transformed into curves and then each (random) curve is considered as one data object. A natural, but still relatively unexplored, context for FDA methods is related to financial data, where high-frequency trading currently takes a significant proportion of trading volumes. Recently, articles on functional versions of the famous ARCH and GARCH models have appeared. Due to their technical complexity, existing estimators of the underlying functional parameters are moment based—an approach which is known to be relatively inefficient in this context. In this paper, we promote an alternative quasi-likelihood approach, for which we derive consistency and asymptotic normality results. We support the relevance of our approach by simulations and illustrate its use by forecasting realised volatility of the S&P100 Index.
C58|A Class of Generalized Dynamic Correlation Models|This paper proposes a class of parametric correlation models that apply a two-layer autoregressive-moving-average structure to the dynamics of correlation matrices. The proposed model contains the Dynamic Conditional Correlation model of Engle (2002) and the Varying Correlation model of Tse and Tsui (2002) as special cases and offers greater flexibility in a parsimonious way. Performance of the proposed model is illustrated in a simulation exercise and an application to the U.S. stock indices.
C58|Does the currency exposure affect stock returns of Chinese automobile firms?|Abstract This study examines the symmetric and asymmetric exchange rate exposures of Chinese automobile firms at different time horizons. Empirical findings reveal that firm returns are less likely to be affected by currency movements at short-term (daily) horizons due to restrictions on the currency daily trading band, but (a)symmetric exchange rate exposures appear to be significant at relatively longer horizons after the launch of RMB internationalisation, particularly for monthly horizons. Possible hedging strategies could be the application of forward exchange agreements, price difference between onshore and offshore RMB exchange rate, foreign reserves and other quantitative methods. Since returns of foreign capital shares tend to rise with the application of RMB, firms may also consider listing shares on foreign stock exchange in addition to the domestic market and produce products simultaneously in foreign nations through international expansion.
C58|A semi-parametric GARCH (1, 1) estimator under serially dependent innovations|The main objective of this study is to derive semi parametric GARCH (1, 1) estimator under serially dependent innovations. The specific objectives are to show that the derived estimator is not only consistent but also asymptotically normal. Normally, the GARCH (1, 1) estimator is derived through quasi-maximum likelihood estimation technique and then consistency and asymptotic normality are proved using the weak law of large numbers and Linde-berg central limit theorem respectively. In this study, we apply the quasi-maximum likelihood estimation technique to derive the GARCH (1, 1) estimator under the assumption that the innovations are serially dependent. Allowing serial dependence of the innovations has however brought problems in terms of methodology. Firstly, we cannot split the joint probability distribution into a product of marginal distributions as is normally done. Rather, the study splits the joint distribution into a product of conditional densities to get around this problem. Secondly, we cannot use the weak laws of large numbers or/and the Linde-berg central limit theorem. We therefore employ the martingale techniques to achieve the specific objectives. Having derived the semi parametric GARCH (1, 1) estimator, we have therefore shown that the derived estimator not only converges almost surely to the true population parameter but also converges in distribution to the normal distribution with the highest possible convergence rate similar to that of parametric estimators
C58|Modelling asymmetric conditional heteroskedasticity in financial asset returns: an extension of Nelson’s EGARCH model|Recently, volatility modeling has been a very active and extensive research area in empirical finance and time series econometrics for both academics and practitioners. GARCH models have been the most widely used in this regard. However, GARCH models have been found to have serious limitations empirically among which includes, but not limited to; failure to take into account leverage effect in financial asset returns. As such so many models have been proposed in trying to solve the limitations of the leverage effect in GARCH models two of which are the EGARCH and the TARCH models. The EGARCH model is the most highly used model. It however has its limitations which include, but not limited to; stability conditions in general and existence of unconditional moments in particular depend on the conditional density, failure to capture leverage effect when the parameters are of the same signs, assuming independence of the innovations, lack of asymptotic theory for its estimators et cetera. This paper therefore is geared at extending/improving on the EGARCH model by taking into account the said empirical limitations. The main objective of this paper therefore is to develop a volatility model that solves the problems faced by the exponential GARCH model. Using the Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation technique coupled with martingale techniques, while relaxing the independence assumption of the innovations; the paper has shown that the proposed asymmetric volatility model not only provides strongly consistent estimators but also provides asymptotically efficient estimators
C58|Economic growth, energy consumption and government expenditure:evidence from a nonlinear ARDL analysis|This study investigates the nonlinear asymmetric relationship between energy consumption and economic growth by incorporating government expenditure and oil prices into a production function using Nigerian economy from 1980-2014. The nonlinear autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing approach is applied to examine the asymmetric cointegration between the variables. An asymmetric causality test is also employed to examine the causal association between the considered variables. The results indicate cointegration between the variables in the presence of asymmetries. The asymmetric causality results show that negative shocks to energy consumption have impacts on economic growth. Likewise, negative shocks to government expenditure have impacts on economic growth. The implications of these results for growth policies in Nigeria are also examined.
C58|Exchange rate and trade balance linkage: sectoral evidence from Thailand based on nonlinear ARDL|Exchange rate has been managed to improve trade balance in many countries to increase economic growth. However, the relationship between exchange rate and trade balance is inconclusive both in the long-run and short-run. Thus, to improve trade balance effectively, the relationship needs to be studied. Therefore, this paper will examine the relationship in Thailand by applying novel approach NARDL which would give more robust result than former techniques. The paper finds that relationship exists, and that depreciation improves trade balance for the whole country in the long-run but have mixed results for different sectors due to elasticity of demand for import and export. However, trade balance is worsened in the short-run according to J-curve theory. These results imply that there is a tradeoff of depreciation between short-run and long-run, and between exporting sectors and importing sectors. Policymaker could moderately depreciate the currency to boost trade balance but needs to effectively manage the cost incurred.
C58|Brain drain or brain gain? investigating the diaspora’s effect on the economy and real estate bubble: new evidence from Kenya based on ARDL analysis|The diaspora has often been castigated for the real estate bubble as a greater part of their remittances is invested in property. We therefore want to identify the relationship between these remittances, real estate prices and the GDP and employ the ARDL model to try and investigate whether there exists a long run relationship between them. This we believe would make a significant contribution to both the policy makers and academia due to scarce literature focused on the diaspora’s effect on the real estate prices in their home countries. We find no causal relationship between the remittances and the real estate bubble but find a trade-off in using the exchange rate to make housing more affordable at the expense of economic growth.
C58|Is the oil price pass-through to domestic inflation symmetric or asymmetric? new evidence from India based on NARDL|With 80% oil dependence, which is expected to further increase in coming years due to rapid expansion, and the reforms initiated to deregulate domestic oil market, the association between global oil prices and inflation in India has increased. Using the autoregressive distribution lag (ARDL) and the nonlinear and asymmetric autoregressive distribution lag (NARDL) framework, we investigate the association between global oil prices and inflation. The ARDL results indicate no association between the two, whereas NARDL findings not only point to long term association but also indicates asymmetric pass-through. Precisely, domestic prices increase with the increase in global oil prices but the decrease in global oil prices has no significant association with the domestic prices. These results are robust to the inclusion of additional variables, different proxy of oil prices (WTI crude) and different time period (January 2003 to January 2018). The contrasting results obtained from the ARDL and the NARDL modelling highlight the importance of using non-linear framework, especially in high oil dependence country with non-competitive market structure. The results have implications for welfare assessment and the effectiveness of monetary policy.
C58|Is the relationship between financial development and income inequality symmetric or asymmetric ? new evidence from South Africa based on NARDL|Income inequality in South Africa has been increasing from a Gini-coefficient height of 0.57 in 2000 to 0.65 in 2014. It is therefore important to investigate whether, in a developing economy, financial sector development reduces or worsens income inequality by mobilising and allocating savings into productive investments. For this purpose, South Africa, with arguably the second-largest economy in Africa, has been identified. The Non-linear Auto Regressive Distributed Lag (NARDL) technique advanced by Shin et. al. (2014) has been applied. This paper contributes to existing literature both in terms of being country-specific as well as demonstrating for the first time, to the best of our knowledge, that there is no long-run asymmetry between financial development and income inequality. Our conclusions support the pressing need for double-digit economic growth in South Africa together with moderate increase in government consumption expenditures.
C58|Revisiting effectiveness of interest rate as a tool to control inflation: evidence from Malaysia based on ARDL and NARDL|Public policy remains a paradox and a challenging pursuit in finding a delicate balance between conflicting economic goals and outcomes. Nevertheless, interest rate is a commonly used monetary policy tool to maintain a low and stable inflation. However, the effectiveness of interest rate in controlling inflation remains unanswered conclusively. Undertaking a wrong policy stance will lead to huge costs to the economy and society as a whole. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the lead-lag relationship between inflation and interest rate, and whether the relationship between the two variables is linear. These will determine whether interest rate is an effective tool in the context of Malaysia. This study extends prior literature by using a more recent monthly time series data and advanced techniques known as NARDL and ARDL. Based on this study, it is found that inflation rate is the most exogenous variable while interest rate is the most endogenous variable, hence policy makers have no influence over inflation. A crucial policy implication is policy makers should not use interest rate to control inflation but instead, they should focus on supply side policies to manage inflation.
C58|Is the lead-lag relationship between financial development and economic growth symmetric ? new evidence from Bangladesh based on ARDL ad NARDL|The nexus between financial development and economic growth has been the subject of many literature. Researchers have tried to find if the causality is unidirectional, if so which variable causes the growth of the other or if it was bi-directional. However, the results of these researches have been conflicting and no definitive solution to this has been discovered. The purpose of this paper is to apply time series techniques to investigate this relationship. The focus of this study was based on Bangladesh because it was very recently classified by the UN as a developing country and such a study would help the government with critical information for formulating policies for its development. To the best of our knowledge, Bangladesh has not been the interest of such a study in the past. Time series techniques such as Autoregressive distributed lags (ARDL) and the more recent Non-linear autoregressive distributed lags (NARDL) were used. The results were paired with Variance decomposition techniques to strengthen the results. Annual data from 1972 to 2016 was obtained from the World Bank data bank. This study revealed that there is a strong positive co-integrating relationship between financial development and economic growth in Bangladesh and that the finance variable leads the economic growth variable suggesting a supply-leading hypothesis. Finally, the results revealed only a short run symmetry between the variables.
C58|The impact of oil and gold price fluctuations on the South African equity market: volatility spillovers and implications for portfolio management|This paper aims to study the impact of gold and oil price fluctuations on the volatility of the South African stock market and its component indices or sectors – namely, the financial, industrial and resource sectors – making use of the asymmetric dynamic conditional correlation (ADCC) generalised autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) model. Moreover, the study assesses the magnitude of the optimal portfolio weight, hedge ratio and hedge effectiveness for portfolios that are constituted of a pair of assets, namely oil-stock and gold-stock pairs. The findings of the study show that there is significant volatility spillover between the gold and the stock markets, and the oil and stock markets. This finding suggests the importance of the link between futures commodity markets and the stock markets, which is essential for portfolio management. With reference to portfolio optimisation and the possibility of hedging when using the pairs of assets under study, the findings suggest the importance of combining oil and stocks as well as gold and stocks for effective hedging against any risks
C58|Consistent Pseudo‐Maximum Likelihood Estimators and Groups of Transformations|In a transformation model yt=c[a(xt,β),ut], where the errors ut are i.i.d. and independent of the explanatory variables xt, the parameters can be estimated by a pseudo‐maximum likelihood (PML) method, that is, by using a misspecified distribution of the errors, but the PML estimator of β is in general not consistent. We explain in this paper how to nest the initial model in an identified augmented model with more parameters in order to derive consistent PML estimators of appropriate functions of parameter β. The usefulness of the consistency result is illustrated by examples of systems of nonlinear equations, conditionally heteroscedastic models, stochastic volatility, or models with spatial interactions.
C58|Assessing the extent of contagion of sovereign credit risk among BRICS countries|This paper contributes to the literature of sovereign credit risk contagion by conducting a counterfactual analysis on credit risk spillovers among BRICS countries. The conditional value-at-risk (CoVaR) methodology is used to this end. Moreover, the paper makes use of the generalised forecast error decomposition to assess the contribution of state variables in the CoVaR of each of the BRICS countries conditioned by China, the biggest economies of the BRICS. The findings of this paper show that credit risk distress in China affects the most all countries sovereign credit risk in the BRICS grouping. Moreover, the channel through which credit risk distress in China affect other BRICS country is not homogenous.
C58|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
C58|Financial Development and Economic Growth in Oil-Dependent Economy: The case of Bahrain|This paper attempts to identify the relationship between energy consumption, oil prices, market shares, dividend yields and economic growth for the Kingdom of Bahrain from year 2006 to 2016. For this purpose, unit root test, Johansen cointegration techniques for analysing the long run relationship, and Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) are used. The key findings are summarized as follow: (i) long run relationship exists between the suggested variables. (ii) Both energy and financial markets are significant in the long run relationship, and positively affect the economic growth of Bahrain. (iii) According to the estimated ECM term, the model is stable in the short run. (iv) Decline in the international price of oil has negative significant drawback on the economic growth of Bahrain. Accordingly, it is recommended that policy makers in the Kingdom of Bahrain focuses on implement strong strategies that aim at encouraging investments in non-oil sectors and carbon emissions reduction policy in the long run without impeding energy sector or economic growth in order to move towards sustainability.
C58|A review of more than one hundred Pareto-tail index estimators|This paper reviews more than one hundred Pareto (and equivalent) tail index estimators. It focuses on univariate estimators for nontruncated data. We discuss basic ideas of these estimators and provide their analytical expressions. As samples from heavy-tailed distributions are analysed by researchers from various fields of science, the paper provides nontechnical explanations of the methods, which could be understood by researchers with intermediate skills in statistics. We also discuss strengths and weaknesses of the estimators, if they are known. The paper can be viewed as a catalog or a reference book on Pareto-tail index estimators.
C58|Investigating International Portfolio Diversification Opportunities for the Asian Islamic Stock Market Investors|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the possible portfolio diversification opportunities between Asian Islamic market and other regions’ Islamic markets; namely USA, Europe and BRIC. This study makes the initial attempt to fill in the gaps of previous studies by focusing on the proxies of global Islamic markets to identify the correlations among those selected markets by employing the recent econometric methodologies such as multivariate generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedastic-dynamic conditional correlations (MGARCH–DCC), maximum overlap discrete wavelet transform (MODWT), and the continuous wavelet transform (CWT). By utilizing the MGARCH-DCC, this chapter tries to identify the strength of the time-varying correlation among the markets. However, to see the time-scale dependent nature of these mentioned correlations, the authors utilized CWT. For robustness, the authors have applied MODWT methodology as well. The findings tend to indicate that the Asian investors have better portfolio diversification opportunities with the US markets followed by the European markets. BRIC markets do not offer any portfolio diversification benefits, which may be explained partly by the fact that the Asian markets cover partially the same countries of BRIC markets, namely India and China. Considering the time horizon dimension, the results narrow down the portfolio diversification opportunities only to the short-term investment horizons. The very short-run investors (up to eight days only) can benefit through portfolio diversification, especially in the US and European markets. The above-mentioned results have policy implications for the Asian Islamic investors (e.g. Portfolio Management, Strategic Investment Management).
C58|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
C58|Conditional heteroskedasticity in crypto-asset returns|In a recent contribution to the financial econometrics literature, Chu et al. (2017) provide the first examination of the time-series price behaviour of the most popular cryptocurrencies. However, insufficient attention was paid to correctly diagnosing the distribution of GARCH innovations. When these data issues are controlled for, their results lack robustness and may lead to either underestimation or overestimation of future risks. The main aim of this paper therefore is to provide an improved econometric specification. Particular attention is paid to correctly diagnosing the distribution of GARCH innovations by means of Kolmogorov type non-parametric tests and Khmaladze's martingale transformation. Numerical computation is carried out by implementing a Gauss-Kronrod quadrature. Parameters of GARCH models are estimated using maximum likelihood. For calculating P-values, the parametric bootstrap method is used. Further reference is made to the merits and demerits of statistical techniques presented in the related and recently published literature.
C58|Effective energy commodities’ risk management: Econometric modeling of price volatility|The current study emphasizes on the importance of the development of an effective price risk management strategy regarding energy products, as a result of the high volatility of that particular market. The study provides a thorough investigation of the energy price volatility, through the use of GARCH type model variations and the Markov-Switching GARCH methodology, as they are presented in the most representative academic researches. A large number of GARCH type models are exhibited together with the methodology and all the econometric procedures and tests that are necessary for developing a robust and precise forecasting model regarding energy price volatility. Nevertheless, the present research moves another step forward, in an attempt to cover also the probability of potential shifts in the unconditional variance of the models due to the effect of economic crises and several unexpected geopolitical events into the energy market prices.
C58|Count and duration time series with equal conditional stochastic and mean orders|We consider a positive-valued time series whose conditional distribution has a time-varying mean, which may depend on exogenous variables. The main applications concern count or duration data. Under a contraction condition on the mean function, it is shown that stationarity and ergodicity hold when the mean and stochastic orders of the conditional distribution are the same. The latter condition holds for the exponential family parametrized by the mean, but also for many other distributions. We also provide conditions for the existence of marginal moments and for the geometric decay of the beta-mixing coefficients. Simulation experiments and illustrations on series of stock market volumes and of greenhouse gas concentrations show that the multiplicative-error form of usual duration models deserves to be relaxed, as allowed in the present paper.
C58|Bayesian MCMC analysis of periodic asymmetric power GARCH models|A Bayesian MCMC estimate of a periodic asymmetric power GARCH (PAP-GARCH) model whose coefficients, power, and innovation distribution are periodic over time is proposed. The properties of the PAP-GARCH model such as periodic ergodicity, finiteness of moments and tail behaviors of the marginal distributions are first examined. Then, a Bayesian MCMC estimate based on Griddy-Gibbs sampling is proposed when the distribution of the innovation of the model is standard Gaussian or standardized Student with a periodic degree of freedom. Selecting the orders and the period of the PAP-GARCH model is carried out via the Deviance Information Criterion (DIC). The performance of the proposed Griddy-Gibbs estimate is evaluated through simulated and real data. In particular, applications to Bayesian volatility forecasting and Value-at-Risk estimation for daily returns on the S&P500 index are considered.
C58|Is residential property the ultimate hedge against inflation ? new evidence from Malaysia based on ARDL and nonlinear ARDL|Residential property is seen as a good investment asset which can protect the real wealth of investors against increase in prices of goods and services. Despite rising house prices, consumer home buying power is still going strong in Malaysia. Nevertheless, many believe that over longer time horizon, house prices could decline jeopardizing the real returns on investment especially during inflationary pressure. Therefore, this paper aims to analyze the inflation-hedging abilities of Malaysian housing properties both in the long run and short run. We extend current literature using relatively advanced technique of NARDL (Shin et al, 2014) in order to examine the intrinsic asymmetric relationship among the variables. Different hedging tools are included for comparison purpose namely, gold price and stock price. Overall, we find that house price responds to inflation rate asymmetrically in the long run. Gold has asymmetric linkage with inflation but the NARDL estimation result is insignificant, whereas stock price is proven to be a much better option as it reacts symmetrically over both short- and longer-time horizon. However, house ownership can still hedge against inflation in the long-run since the home prices have risen faster than inflation rate during the recent housing bubbles. The findings tend to suggest that ignoring potential nonlinearity may lead to misleading evidence as house prices can be influenced by different macroeconomic determinants. Therefore, it could be of major importance for more effective property investment and policymaking in the context of the Malaysian house market.
C58|Exchange rate and trade balance linkage: evidence from Malaysia based on ARDL and NARDL|The exchange rate is able to influence the trade balance in most of countries’ economy. When a country's trade account does not net to zero – that is, when exports are not equal to imports – there is relatively more supply or demand for a country's currency, which influences the price of that currency on the world market. However, the relationship between exchange rate and trade balance is indecisive both in long run and short run. The purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between exchange rate and trade balance in Malaysia. This study extends prior literature by using a more recent monthly time series data and relatively advanced techniques known as ARDL and NARDL. Based on this study, it is found that the relationship between these two variables exists. It also found that trade balance is worsened in the short-run in line with the J-curve theory. These results imply that there is a trade-off of depreciation between short-run and long-run, and between exporting sectors and importing sectors. Policymaker could moderately depreciate the currency to boost trade balance but needs to effectively manage the cost incurred.
C58|Determinants of food price inflation: evidence from Malaysia based on linear and nonlinear ARDL|Given the adverse impact of growing inflation on food prices and the importance of policymakers to keep the food price inflation stable, this study aims to investigate the determinants of food price inflation. This study contributes to the existing literature by employing Nonlinear ARDL (NARDL) technique to identify whether the relationship between the focused variables is linear and symmetric or not. This study finds that the variables are cointegrated in the long run. The error correction model VECM and the Variance Decompositions analysis found that the exchange rate is the most exogenous variable and the government has no control over it since it is determined by the external factors such as, supply and demand for Malaysia ringgit. Further, NARDL found that the relationship between the food price and exchange rate to be symmetric in the long run but asymmetric in the short run. Since the exchange rate is the most exogenous variable in this study and the fact that Malaysia in on flexible exchange regime, it makes it hard for the policy makers to control the fluctuations of the Malaysian exchange rate to control food price. Hence the adjustment and control of food price should be made through the reduction of the food import in order to minimise the exchange rate pass through effect on the food price inflation.
C58|Is inflation targeting compatible with economic growth ? Korean experience based on ARDL and NARDL|The relationship between inflation and growth has been one of the most widely researched topics in economics. Studies have shown various outcomes, deeming positive, negative and non-existence of relationship between the two macroeconomic variables, and the result varies among the areas of study. The complex dynamics between inflation and growth has made it difficult for policy makers to comprehend whether inflation targeting policy will result in favourable or adverse effect to the economic growth. This paper aims to study the relationship between inflation and economic growth in South Korea, one of the fastest growing economies in Asia. Consumer Price Index (CPI) will be used as an indicator for inflation and GDP by market price is used to represent the economic growth. Using the recent time series techniques, ARDL and NARDL, the study seeks to find the long-term relationship and causality between the two variables. Based on the results, it is found that inflation is exogenous, while GDP is endogenous. The relationship between inflation and GDP is also found to be asymmetric in the long run. The policy implication of this study is that the central bank of Korea should not adopt inflation targeting policy while having the objective of boosting the GDP in mind since they are conflicting macroeconomic objectives. Instead, inflation targeting policy should be applied mainly to focus on keeping the price stability.
C58|Oil price and the global conventional and islamic stock markets: Is the relationship symmetric or asymmetric ? evidence from nonlinear ARDL|The objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between the global oil and stock markets using the Islamic and conventional global stock indexes. We test the short- and long-run asymmetric impact of oil prices on both the conventional and Islamic stock prices in the global markets. The nonlinear ARDL approach developed by Shin et al.(2014) is utilized to examine the asymmetric relationship between the variables. The results tend to indicate that the impact of oil prices on stock prices is asymmetric during the short-run for both the Islamic and conventional stock markets. However, the long-run asymmetric relationship exists for the impact of the Oil price on Islamic stocks only and not on conventional stocks.The results carry important policy implications for the investors and policymakers.
C58|Is the relation between lending interest rate and non-performing loans symmetric or asymmetric ? evidence from ARDL and NARDL|Lending interest rate has an inherent implicit cost on the credit issued by banks with implication on loan defaults. In this regard, high level of non-performing loans ( NPLs) will depress economic growth owing to many banks refusing to lend. This paper makes the initial attempt to test the non-linear asymmetric relationships between lending interest rate and NPLs by using the NARDL approach and provides a direction of Granger causality between the lending interest rate and NPLs. Malaysia is used as a case study. The finding tends to indicate that lending interest rate and NPLs has an asymmetric relationship in the short-run and symmetric relationship in the long-run. This paper suggests that banks can improve their quality credit management by streamlining their collection process and the quality of customers in order to reduce the number of NPLs in the short-run. Besides, banks can keep their total risk low by diversifying their loan portfolios.
C58|Is gold a hedge against equity risk? Malaysian experience based on NARDL approach|The chain of financial crises that had been occurring raised a serious concern among the investors regarding its equity risk. There is a need to rethink about gold as a hedge against its equity risk in the long run. Hence, the question is whether gold is a good hedge against equity risk? We use a recently developed time series technique namely, nonlinear ARDL (NARDL) to test the long term asymmetric relationship between gold price and Kuala Lumpur Composite Index. To the best of our knowledge, this would be the first attempt to use NARDL to look into the long run asymmetric relationship between these variables. Our results tend to suggest that gold price in the Malaysian context is determined by external factors, specifically cultural preferences. Also, it has a negative relationship making gold a good hedge against equity risk. This finding would be important for the investors to consider to have gold in their portfolio to hedge against equity risk in Malaysia.
C58|Revisiting the Phillips curve trade-off: evidence from Tanzania using nonlinear ARDL approach|The spotlight of this study is to re-examine the presence and nature of the long run relationship between inflation and unemployment. The topic has been of much interest to researchers and policy makers as it has significant implications on macroeconomic stabilization policies. Using expected inflation rates and expected unemployment rates generated by Autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA), the study tests whether the relationship between the variables is symmetrical or asymmetrical in both short run and long run. Applying the autoregressive distributed lags model (ARDL) and Nonlinear ARDL approaches proposed by Pesaran et al. (2001) and Shin et al. (2014), we confirm the presence of long run equilibrium relationship between expected inflation and expected unemployment. Findings tend to indicate that the long run relationship is symmetrical whereas evidence is in support of asymmetrical short-run trade-off between the variables. CUSUM and CUSUMSQ tests confirm the stability of the coefficients. The study contributes to the literature in three ways. First it uses expected as opposed to actual variables, second it employs recent methodology of Nonlinear ARDL and third it presents new evidence from a Highly indebted poor country-HIPC (Tanzania) using data from 1991 to 2017.
C58|Does asymmetry matter in the relationship between exchange rate and remittance? Evidence from a remittance recipient country based on ARDL and NARDL|The relationship between the exchange rate and remittance has been addressed in the literature. The results of these research papers, however, have been conflicting in terms of causal relationship between these variables. Even when some researches have proven the causality between them, they assume linear and symmetric relationship between them. In our paper, we first test their cointegrating relationship by using time series technique of Autoregressive Distributed Lags (ARDL) and then test the linear and symmetric assumption in their relationship based on Nonlinear AutoRegressive Distributed Lag (NARDL). We used 42 years of annual data from 1976 to 2017 of Bangladesh collected from the World Development Indicators database. We used Bangladesh, as it is one of the top ten remittance receiving country in the world. This paper finds that exchange rate significantly impacts remittance in the long run. It also finds that the relationship between the exchange rate and remittance is nonlinear and asymmetric in both long and short run. Policy makers may follow semi-fixed exchange rate policy to maximise the remittance income of the country, while managing exchange rate risk through other economic variables.
C58|Investigating the causal relationship between exchange rate variability and palm oil export: evidence from Malaysia based on ARDL and nonlinear ARDL approaches|Exchange rate is seen as an important economic variable that affects Malaysia’s palm oil export, which the policy maker may interfere in order to ensure that it maintains its position as one of the major palm oil exporters in the world. Nevertheless, the lead-lag relationship between exchange rate and palm oil export is unclear. Similarly, it is unclear whether there exists a long run asymmetric relationship between exchange rate and palm oil export. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the lead-lag relationship between exchange rate variability and palm oil export in Malaysia and whether the relationship between the two is linear symmetric or otherwise. This study employs ARDL, VECM and VDC techniques and further extends the previous research by adopting a recent technique which is Non-linear ARDL (NARDL) by using the data extracted over the period of 2008:1 to 2017:12 from Malaysian Palm Oil Council and DataStream. Based on this study, it is found that exchange rate is the exogenous variable, while palm oil export is the endogenous variable. Further, there exists a long run asymmetric relationship between exchange rate and palm oil export. Based on such findings, it is important to note that although the exchange rate is the most exogenous variable, policy maker could, to some extent, interfere in the exchange rate regime to manipulate the palm oil export and the policy maker should take into consideration the nonlinear asymmetric relationship between them in designing a suitable policy.
C58|Islamic equity as an alternative investment from the perspective of the Southeast Asian investors: evidence from MGARCH-DCC and Wavelet Coherence|International diversification of equity is important for investors who want to reduce risk of capital loss. However, international diversification benefit is inconclusive. This research is the initial attempt to find international diversification benefit of global Islamic equity (in the World, US, EU and Asia Pacific region) from the perspective of the conventional Southeast Asian investors. We use relatively advanced and robust techniques MGARCH-DCC and Wavelet coherence. We find that, for the Southeast Asia as a whole region, very-short-term investors have obvious diversification benefit in Islamic equities in World, Europe and US regions but not in Asia Pacific region. Short-term and Medium-term investors face limited diversification benefit, while long-term investors have benefit in Islamic Europe and US equity. Each Southeast Asian country has varying benefit at different investment horizons. The result of this study provides suggestion for the investors who have different investment horizons to effectively diversify their conventional stocks with Islamic equity.
C58|Effect of dividend policy on stock price volatility in the Dow Jones U.S. index and the Dow Jones islamic U.S. index: evidences from GMM and quantile regression|The relationship between stock price volatility and dividend policy remains a “puzzle” with conflicting evidences. The objective of this study is to attempt to shed light on this debate with the help of relatively advanced GMM methods and quantile regressions on the stocks listed in the Dow Jones U.S. Index and Islamic stocks based on the Dow Jones Islamic U.S. Index. Our data is unbalanced panel data consisting of two samples for all stocks (2456 companies) and Islamic stocks (589 companies) in the Dow Jones U.S. Index from the year 2005 to 2017. Our main findings suggest that dividend policy in both samples contributes a minor component to explaining stock price volatility and is becoming less relevant for the overall market. However, dividend yield shows positive relationship with stock price volatility when analyzed based on each class of stocks in the Dow Jones Islamic U.S. Index. Thus there could be a clientele effect in each class of stock for Islamic stocks. It is hoped that the findings of this study would contribute to dividend policy literature and Islamic equity literature.
C58|The lead lag relationship between oil prices and exchange rate in an oil importing country: evidence fromThailand using ARDL|The purpose of this study is to explore the Granger-causal relationship between oil prices, exchange rates and inflation rates using Thailand as a case study. Discerning this relationship will help us understand the mechanics of the Thai economy and the factors contributing to its development. Standard time-series and ARDL methods were used to investigate this relation. The reason for choosing to apply both methods is that ARDL is a more robust technique than the standard time series technique. Also, ARDL helped us overcome a problem regarding the variables used in the study as we had a mix of I(0) and I(1) variables which is unacceptable under the standard time-series technique when cointegration of the variables is examined. Our empirical findings tend to indicate that there is a long run relationship existing between these variables and that the exchange rate appears to be the variable leading oil prices and inflation at least in the context of Thailand during the period under review. The results are reasonable and have strong policy implications.
C58|Does income or house price lead in the public housing market? a case study of Singapore’s public housing sector|The purpose of this study is to find the Granger-causal relationship between house price and income. Singapore is taken as a case study and standard time-series approach is employed. The outcome of this relationship will determine the lead-lag relation between house price and income which will then provide some policy implications to tackle the rising housing price and income distribution as well as housing affordability in Singapore. However, the empirical findings based on the generalised VDC (forecast variance decompositions) tend to indicate that unemployment rate is the most lagging factor, while house price is the most leading variable followed by the income variable. This happens due to the probability that house price is controlled and determined by HDB (Housing Development Board), the government entity for public housing in Singapore. This has strong policy implications.
C58|Time Varying Heteroskedastic Realized GARCH models for tracking measurement error bias in volatility forecasting|This paper proposes generalisations of the Realized GARCH model by Hansen et al. (2012), in three different directions. First, heteroskedasticity in the noise term in the measurement equation is allowed, since this is generally assumed to be time-varying as a function of an estimator of the Integrated Quarticity for intra-daily returns. Second, in order to account for attenuation bias effects, the volatility dynamics are allowed to depend on the accuracy of the realized measure. This is achieved by letting the response coefficient of the lagged realized measure depend on the time-varying variance of the volatility measurement error, thus giving more weight to lagged volatilities when they are more accurately measured. Finally, a further extension is proposed by introducing an additional explanatory variable into the measurement equation, aiming to quantify the bias due to effect of jumps and measurement errors.
C58|Arbitrage Opportunities in CDS Term Structure: Theory and Implications for OTC Derivatives|Absence-of-Arbitrage (AoA) is the basic assumption underpinning derivatives pricing theory. As part of the OTC derivatives market, the CDS market not only provides a vehicle for participants to hedge and speculate on the default risks of corporate and sovereign entities, it also reveals important market-implied default-risk information concerning the counterparties with which financial institutions trade, and for which these financial institutions have to calculate various valuation adjustments (collectively referred to as XVA) as part of their pricing and risk management of OTC derivatives, to account for counterparty default risks. In this study, we derive No-arbitrage conditions for CDS term structures, first in a positive interest rate environment and then in an arbitrary one. Using an extensive CDS dataset which covers the 2007-09 financial crisis, we present a catalogue of 2,416 pairs of anomalous CDS contracts which violate the above conditions. Finally, we show in an example that such anomalies in the CDS term structure can lead to persistent arbitrage profits and to nonsensical default probabilities. The paper is a first systematic study on CDS-term-structure arbitrage providing model-free AoA conditions supported by ample empirical evidence.
C58|Dynamics between islamic banking performance and CO2 emissions: evidence from the OIC countries|This paper is an humble initial attempt at studying the effects of Islamic Banking performance on CO2 Emissions among OIC countries. Recently, there has been increasing awareness surrounding Sustainability Development Goals (SDG), which is what inspired this study. While SDG data is quite limited, there is a substantial record of CO2 Emissions, which is one of the components in calculating the SDG index. While extensive research has been done on environmental performance and firm profitability in the conventional space, there are limited studies on this area in the Islamic Finance space. The core issue that will be investigated in this paper is to assess if Islamic Banking performance is impacted or influenced by CO2 emissions. Islamic Bank Performance will be measured using aggregate Return on Equity (ROE), and Return on Asset (ROA) figures for all banks in the OIC region. This study employs GMM Panel Technique given the dynamic nature of the data. The main contribution of this paper is it is among the first attempts at examining this unique area. Islamic Finance is not only about Shariah compliant product structures, but also its overall impact on society itself (CO2 emissions serves as a measure of this). The key conclusion is that there is a correlation between Islamic Bank performance and CO2 emissions. However, in some cases the correlation was found to be positive (when examining ROA) and in others negative (when examining ROE). Policy makers need to study the trends in order to provide guidelines that would motivate the Islamic Banking industry to reduce emissions.
C58|Bayesian Parametric and Semiparametric Factor Models for Large Realized Covariance Matrices|This paper introduces a new factor structure suitable for modeling large realized covariance matrices with full likelihood based estimation. Parametric and nonparametric versions are introduced. Due to the computational advantages of our approach we can model the factor nonparametrically as a Dirichlet process mixture or as an infinite hidden Markov mixture which leads to an infinite mixture of inverse-Wishart distributions. Applications to 10 assets and 60 assets show the models perform well. By exploiting parallel computing the models can be estimated in a matter of a few minutes.
C58|Trade Networks and Economic Fluctuations in Asia|We present a new methodology, based on tensor decomposition, to map dynamic trade networks and assess their strength in spreading economic fluctuations at different periods of time in Asia. Using monthly merchandise import and export data across 33 Asian economies, together with the United Sates, the European Union, and the United Kingdom, we detect the modularity structure of the evolving network and we identify communities and central nodes inside each of them. Our findings show that data are well represented by two communities, in which the People's Republic of China and Japan play the major role. We then analyze the synchronization between GDP growth and trade, and apply our model to the prediction of economic fluctuations. Our findings show that the model leads to an increase in predictive accuracy, as higher order interactions between countries are taken into account.
C58|Determinants Of Loan And Bad Loan Dynamics: Evidence From Italy|In this paper we describe the dynamics of Loans and Bad Loans in the Italian Non-Financial Sector during the period 1998:4 to 2014:4. We use a Factor Model approach to take into account all of the macroeconomic fac- tors that could a ect the cyclical dynamics of the credit market, and we try to capture the causal e ect of di erent variables at quarterly frequency, tak- ing into account the structural break of the Great Recession. We reach two main conclusions: rst, our evidence con rms the well-known negative rela- tion between GDP variation and Bad Loan ows, and moreover shows a strong infra-annual Bad Loan reaction triggered by a GDP shock within a period of six months. Second, if we correctly remove structural economic factors we nd that New Bad Loan Entry rate cause Loan variations. These facts are useful in formulating some policy conclusions.
C58|The Time-Varying Asymmetry Of Exchange Rate Returns: A Stochastic Volatility – Stochastic Skewness Model|While the volatility of financial returns has been extensively modelled as time-varying, skewness is usually either assumed constant or neglected by assuming symmetric model innovations. However, it has long been understood that accounting for (time-varying) asymmetry as a measure of crash risk is important for both investors and policy makers. This paper extends a standard stochastic volatility model to account for time-varying skewness. We estimate the model by extensions of traditional Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods for stochastic volatility models. When applying this model to the returns of four major exchange rates, skewness is found to vary substantially over time. The results support a potential link between carry trading and crash risk. Finally, investors appear to demand compensation for a negatively skewed return distribution.
C58|How Bad Is a Bad Loan? Distinguishing Inherent Credit Risk from Inefficient Lending (Does the Capital Market Price This Difference?)|We develop a novel technique to decompose banks’ ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans into two components: first, a minimum ratio that represents best-practice lending given the volume and composition of a bank’s loans, the average contractual interest rate charged on these loans, and market conditions such as the average GDP growth rate and market concentration; and, second, a ratio, the difference between the bank’s observed ratio of nonperforming loans and the best-practice minimum ratio, that represents the bank’s proficiency at loan making. The best-practice ratio of nonperforming loans, the ratio a bank would experience if it were fully efficient at credit-risk evaluation and loan monitoring, represents the inherent credit risk of the loan portfolio and is estimated by stochastic frontier techniques. We apply the technique to 2013 data on top-tier U.S. bank holding companies. We divide them into five size groups. The largest banks with consolidated assets exceeding $250 billion experience the highest ratio of nonperformance among the five groups. Moreover, the inherent credit risk of their lending is the highest among the five groups. On the other hand, their inefficiency at lending is one of the lowest among the five. Thus, the high ratio of nonperformance of the largest financial institutions appears to result from lending to riskier borrowers, not inefficiency at lending. Small community banks under $1 billion also exhibit higher inherent credit risk than all other size groups except the largest banks. In contrast, their loan-making inefficiency is highest among the five size groups. Restricting the sample to publicly traded bank holding companies and gauging financial performance by market value, we find the ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans is on average negatively related to financial performance except at the largest banks. When nonperformance is decomposed into inherent credit risk and lending inefficiency, taking more inherent credit risk enhances market value at many more large banks while lending inefficiency is negatively related to market value at all banks. Market discipline appears to reward riskier lending at large banks and discourage lending inefficiency at all banks.
C58|New More Powerful Likelihood Ratio Tests for Short Horizon Event Studies|"Short horizon Event Studies (ES) in financial research, are concerned with the effects of firm-specific or market-wide events such as, stock-splits, earnings announcements, mergers and acquisitions, derivatives introductions etc. on the underlying firms' stock prices. Though it has been around for half a century, and evidences abound about the phenomenon of Event Induced Variance (EIV), the methodological development in the ES literature, has mostly focused only on a shift in location of the expected abnormal returns.In this work, a random-effect model is proposed which explicitly accounts for the (empirically observed) cross-sectional variance of the (predicted) abnormal returns, along with another parameter accommodating for (another empirical phenomenon of) a change in post-event volatility. Under this model, the null hypothesis of ""no event effect"" also involves these additional variance parameters other than the usual mean. This necessitates development of new tests for this and other hypotheses of interests in ES, for which new Likelihood Ratio Tests (LRTs) are derived.As is standard in the ES literature, the specification and power behavior of the newly developed LRTs are compared with those of the existing ES tests, using real returns of 1231 stocks, that were listed in the National Stock Exchange, India between April 1998 and January 2016. 100,000 samples of sizes 5 and 50 are drawn to estimate and compare the probabilities of type-I error and power of the tests. The new LRTs are compared with both the popular and recent parametric and non-parametric ES tests in the literature. The powers are compared under both presence and absence of shift in location of the distribution of the abnormal returns, along with those of the two components of EIV. The newly developed LRTs are found to be adequately specified, and for more powerful than the existing ES tests in the literature, for a wide spectrum of alternatives."
C58|Measuring herding behavior in the Russian stock market|This paper attempts to examine herding behavior in the Russian stock market by implementing four different methods designed to test for herding by Chang et al. (2000), Christie&Huang (1995), Hwang&Salmon (2001) and Torrecillas et al (2016). The main goal is to investigate the implications of the interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations for the stock market efficiency. The results of the work help to identify the sources of herding behavior in the Russian stock market.Employing different approaches towards measuring herding, it is possible to determine whether individuals copy each other?s actions (Torrecillas et al (2016)) or herd towards market views about market index (Chang et al. (2000), Christie&Huang (1995), Hwang&Salmon (2001)). This paper starts by the establishing the transition from efficient-market behavior to herding behavior by using Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (Torrecillas et al (2016)) applied to MICEX closing prices within the period from September 1997 to December 2017. The DFA reveals the presence of persistent herding behavior during the 2007-2009 crisis. Next, Christie and Huang?s CSSD measure of stock returns is used to capture if herding related to the firm-specific risk in the portfolio is present at the market. Consistent with results of the previous studies, the method fails to establish traces of herding. Christie and Huang?s improved measure of CSSD with non-linear trend by Chang et al. (2000) yields evidence of herding in the down market during monetary policy announcements. The results of the Hwang and Salmon?s state space models help to demonstrate herding related to the market risk by analyzing relative dispersion of the time-varying betas for assets. The main finding is that changes in the betas can?t be explained by movements in fundamentals, which indicates intentional herding. Therefore, bad news for the stock market (interest rate increase and currency depreciation) induce intentional herding in the Russian stock market. Intentional herding during market stress has important implications for portfolio diversification for both diversified and undiversified investors.
C58|The Dynamics of Dependencies between the World Grain and Oilseed Markets|The paper analyses relations between world grain and oilseed markets in the period from the beginning of 2000 to the middle of 2018. The study covered the period of drastic hikes and drops of cereal grain and oilseed prices during the economic and financial crisis. The study assessed the strength and dynamics of dependencies between rates of return from grain and oilseed sub-Indexes of the International Grains Council. For this purpose copula-based multivariate GARCH models were used, and dynamic Kendall's tau coefficients and dynamic tail dependence coefficients were calculated. Among the analysed markets the strongest (weak or moderate) relationships were found between the maize and soybean markets, and between the wheat and maize markets, with the linkages changing in time. The greatest probabilities of extreme events transfer were recorded for the maize and soybean markets.
C58|Realized Volatility in Agricultural Commodities Futures|The objectives of this paper are to construct the efficient frontier and optimum portfolio of agricultural commodity futures, and to evaluate financial risk by Value at Risk. We evaluated alternative volatility forecasting and computed daily Value at Risk (VaR) based on Realized Volatility approach and ARFIMA ? FIGARCH model. The intraday trade data of three agricultural commodity futures prices, namely corn, wheat and soybean traded in the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) with three different frequencies namely 1 minute, 5 minutes and 15 minutes, were collected from Bloomberg database. The complete data set covered the period from November 2015 to December 2016. The empirical results showed that the calculated realized volatility from Realized Covariance Measure (Andersen et al. 2003) of corn, wheat and soybean futures returns have the long memory feature for every frequency based on R/S test and GPH test. The simulated returns from ARFIMA ? FIGARCH are applied to construct the efficient frontier and optimum portfolio. The optimum portfolio suggested investing more than half in corn followed by soybean and wheat, respectively.
C58|The Janus-faced nature of debt : result from a data-driven cointegrated SVAR approach|In this paper, we investigate the causal effects of public and private debts on U.S. output dynamics. We estimate a battery of Cointegrated Structural Vector Autoregressive models, and we identify structural shocks by employing Independent Component Analysis, a data-driven technique which avoids ad-hoc identification choices. The econometric results suggest that the impact of debt on economic activity is Janus-faced. Public debt shocks have positive and persistent influence on economic activity. In contrast, rising private debt has a milder positive impact on GDP, but it fades out over time. The analysis of the possible transmission mechanisms reveals that public debt crowds in private consumption and investment. In contrast, mortgage debt fuels consumption and output in the short-run, but shrinks them in the medium-run.
C58|How effective are sovereign bond-backed securities as a spillover prevention device?|Brunnermeier et al. (2017) propose the introduction of sovereign bond-backed securities (SBBS) in the euro area. It and other papers address how the securitisation would insulate senior security holders from actual default-related losses. This article generalises the assessment by using the VAR-based Diebold & Yilmaz (2012) spillover index methodology to assess potential attenuation of the spillover of shocks in holding-period returns across asset markets from the introduction of SBBS. This is made possible by employing SBBS yields estimated from historical euro area member state sovereign bond yields using Monte Carlo methods, as described in Schönbucher (2003). The econometric results show that (i) SBBS tranching protects senior SBBS holders by reducing the spillover of shocks from the higher-risk peripheral member states to it; (ii) spillovers from high risk sovereigns to a weighted portfolio are much higher than those to the senior SBBS; (iii) a smaller junior SBBS tranche reduces spillover from it to the senior SBBS; and (iv) rolling window analysis indicates that the spillover of shocks from the junior tranche to the senior tranche declines during a period of financial stress.
C58|Positive Liquidity Spillovers from Sovereign Bond-Backed Securities|This paper contributes to the debate concerning the benefits and disadvantages of introducing a European Sovereign Bond-Backed Securitisation (SBBS) to address the need for a common safe asset that would break destabilising bank-sovereign linkages. The analysis focuses on assessing the effectiveness of hedges incurred while making markets in individual euro area sovereign bonds by taking offsetting positions in one or more of the SBBS tranches. Tranche yields are estimated using a simulation approach. This involves the generation of sovereign defaults and allocation of the combined credit risk premium of all the sovereigns, at the end of each day, to the SBBS tranches according to the seniority of claims under the proposed securitisation. Optimal hedging with SBBS is found to reduce risk exposures substantially in normal market conditions. In volatile conditions, hedging is not very effective but leaves dealers exposed to mostly idiosyncratic risks. These remaining risks largely disappear if dealers are diversified in providing liquidity across country-specific secondary markets and SBBS tranches. Hedging each of the long positions in a portfolio of individual sovereigns results in a risk exposure as low as that borne by holding the safest individual sovereign bond (the Bund).
C58|Clearinghouse-Five: determinants of voluntary clearing in European derivatives markets|Central clearing is a major part of the policy response to the financial crisis of 2008, aiming to reign in counterparty credit risk in derivatives markets. I perform an empirical study of the incentives for voluntary central clearing of OTC derivative contracts in Europe. Central clearing acts as insurance against counterparty credit risk related to derivative contracts, and is legally mandated for a specific subset of standardized derivative contracts, with a significant portion of the other contracts eligible for voluntary clearing. I show that there exist significant economies of scale in central clearing, in terms of both the size of each contract, and the scale of total clearing activity. I also show that maturity of the contract and international frictions affect voluntary clearing of different types of derivative contracts in different ways, linked to the conventional maturity and payout structures of various types of contracts. Finally, I show that significant amount of clearing happens only for credit and interest rate derivatives, while equity, foreign exchange, and commodity derivatives are rarely centrally cleared. The results validate theoretical literature, and guide future modeling of derivative markets. JEL Classification: C58, G28, G32
C58|"Dependence of “Fragile Five"" and “Troubled Ten"" Emerging Markets' Financial System to US Monetary Policy and Monetary Policy Uncertainty"|In this study, we aim to measure the dependence between financial markets of certain emerging market countries to the US monetary policy and monetary policy uncertainty. To do so, we apply time-varying copula models proposed by Patton (2006). We are particularly interested in the differences between emerging markets dependence on the US monetary policy, i.e. which country's financial market co-move more or less in response to quantitative easing or quantitative tightening. The results of our study is important as financial risks via contagion became an issue to monitor especially after the subprime crisis of 2008, although this crisis affected the emerging markets relatively less compared to advanced economies. The results of this paper show us that, there exists significant difference between the emerging markets with respect to their dependence to the US monetary policy. The correlation persistence parameters, which control the evolution of time-varying dependence, reveal that especially the emerging countries in the Latin American region are more dependent to both the US monetary policy and the monetary policy uncertainty. In this framework, it is interesting to see that the results acknowledge increasing dependence during the subprime crisis, which decrease after the year 2009, which should be considered as a risk factor for the policy makers that monitor the financial markets of the emerging markets closely.
C58|Spanning Tests for Markowitz Stochastic Dominance|Using properties of the cdf of a random variable defined as a saddle-type point of a real valued continuous stochastic process, we derive first-order asymptotic properties of tests for stochastic spanning w.r.t. a stochastic dominance relation. First, we define the concept of Markowitz stochastic dominance spanning, and develop an analytical representation of the spanning property. Second, we construct a non-parametric test for spanning via the use of an empirical analogy. The method determines whether introducing new securities or relaxing investment constraints improves the investment opportunity set of investors driven by Markowitz stochastic dominance. In an application to standard data sets of historical stock market returns, we reject market portfolio Markowitz efficiency as well as two-fund separation. Hence there exists evidence that equity management through base assets can outperform the market, for investors with Markowitz type preferences.
C58|How Does Stock Market Volatility React To Oil Price Shocks?|We study the impact of oil price shocks on the U.S. stock market volatility. We jointly analyze three different structural oil market shocks (i.e., aggregate demand, oil supply, and oil-specific demand shocks) and stock market volatility using a structural vector autoregressive model. Identification is achieved by assuming that the price of crude oil reacts to stock market volatility only with delay. This implies that innovations to the price of crude oil are not strictly exogenous, but predetermined with respect to the stock market. We show that volatility responds significantly to oil price shocks caused by unexpected changes in aggregate and oil-specific demand, whereas the impact of supply-side shocks is negligible.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C58|Responses of macroeconomy and stock markets to structural oil price shocks: New evidence from Asian oil refinery|In extensive oil-related literature, less attention has been paid to Asia and particularly little evidence is known for oil-refining countries. This paper examines how the economy of an oil-refining country reacts to an oil price shock and performs cross-country comparisons with oil-exporting and oil-importing countries. Singapore (oil refiner), Japan (oil importer), and Malaysia (oil exporter) have been analysed through a SVAR model using both macroeconomic and financial variables. Results show limited reactions of both macroeconomic indicators and stock returns to an oil supply shock and an oil aggregate demand shock negatively impacts economic activities. Our findings reveal that the countryâ€™s status in the oil market matters is important when an oil specific demand shock is analysed. Our findings inform policymakers of the effectiveness of using monetary policy tools such as interest rate and exchange rate to mitigate the adverse effects of an oil price shock.
C58|Tail Risk in a Retail Payment System: An Extreme-Value Approach|The increasing importance of risk management in payment systems has led to the development of an array of sophisticated tools designed to mitigate tail risk in these systems. In this paper, we use extreme value theory methods to quantify the level of tail risk in the Canadian retail payment system (ACSS) for the period from 2002 to 2015. Our analysis shows that tail risk has been increasing over the years, but the pace of growth has been reduced towards the end of our data sample, which suggests a slower rate of growth of collateral required to cover that risk.
C58|A Calibrated Model of Intraday Settlement|"This paper estimates potential exposures, netting benefits and settlement gains by merging retail and wholesale payments into batches and conducting multiple intraday settlements in this hypothetical model of a single ""calibrated payments system."" The results demonstrate that credit risk exposures faced by participants in the system are largely dependent on their relative activity in the retail and wholesale payments systems. Participants experience lower exposures in the calibrated system owing to increased netting and significant gains through higher payment values and volumes. This result is reinforced when analyzing participant exposures in periods of stress, particularly during the Great Recession. Relative activity is also indicative of the variations in exposures across participants when implementing multiple batch sizes, especially because increasing batch sizes enhances the value and volume of payments accumulated, thus leading to higher netting and lower exposures. These results and further work may contribute to a better understanding of participant exposures and trade-offs arising from this potential system design."
