C62|The Extended Perturbation Method: New Insights on the New Keynesian Model|This paper introduces the extended perturbation method, which improves upon standard perturbation by removing approximation errors under perfect foresight. For the New Keynesian model, we show that standard perturbation generates explosive sample paths because it does not account for the upper bound on inflation as implied by Calvo pricing. In contrast, extended perturbation generates stable dynamics as it enforces this bound. Extended perturbation also adds to existing evidence on downward nominal wage rigidities in the New Keynesian model, as we only find support for this friction when using standard perturbation but not when using the more accurate extended perturbation approximation.
C62|The pure effect of social preferences on regional location choices: The evolving dynamics of convergence to a steady state population distribution|This paper tracks the consequences of individuals' desire to align their location with their social preferences. The social preference studied in the paper is distaste for relative deprivation, measured in a cardinal manner. Location is conceived as social space, with individuals choosing to relocate if, as a result, their relative deprivation will be reduced, holding their incomes constant. Conditions are provided under which the associated dynamics reaches a spatial steady state, the number of periods it takes to reach a steady state is specified, and light is shed on the robustness of the steady state outcome. By way of simulation it is shown that for large populations, a steady state of the relocation dynamics is almost always reached, typically in one period, and that cycles are more likely to occur when the populations' income distributions are more equal.
C62|Inflation Targeting and Liquidity Traps under Endogenous Credibility|We derive policy implications for an inflation targeting central bank, whoâ€™s credibility is endogenous and depends on its past ability to achieve its targets. We do this in a New Keynesian framework with heterogeneous agents and boundedly rational expectations. Our assumptions about expectation formations are more in line with expectations observed in survey data and laboratory experiments than the fairly restrictive rational expectations hypothesis. We find that the region of allowed policy parameters is strictly larger under heterogeneous expectations than under rational expectations. Furthermore, with theoretically optimal monetary policy, global stability of the fundamental steady state can be achieved, implying that the system always converges to the targets of the central bank. This result however no longer holds when the zero lower bound (ZLB) on the nominal interest rate is accounted for. Self-fulfilling deflationary spirals can then occur, even under optimal policy. The occurrence of these liquidity traps crucially depends on the credibility of the central bank. Deflationary spirals can be prevented with a high inflation target, aggressive monetary easing, or a more aggressive response to inflation.
C62|Strong Robustness To Incomplete Information And The Uniqueness Of A Correlated Equilibrium|No abstract is available for this item.
C62|Implementable Mechanisms for discrete utility functions, a solution using Tropical Geometry|For mechanisms with two possible outcomes and a unique agent with two posible types, we state sufficient and necessary conditions over the type space that guarantees the existence of an incentive compatible mechanism. By using tropical geometry, we found that these conditions rely only on the relative valuations to be increasing over types. This result extends implementability for discrete utility functions.
C62|Understanding Preferences: “Demand Types”, and the Existence of Equilibrium With Indivisibilities|An Equivalence Theorem between geometric structures and utility functions allows new methods for understanding preferences. Our classification of valuations into “Demand Types” incorporates existing definitions (substitutes, complements, “strong substitutes,” etc.) and permits new ones. Our Unimodularity Theorem generalizes previous results about when competitive equilibrium exists for any set of agents whose valuations are all of a “demand type.” Contrary to popular belief, equilibrium is guaranteed for more classes of purely‐complements than of purely‐substitutes, preferences. Our Intersection Count Theorem checks equilibrium existence for combinations of agents with specific valuations by counting the intersection points of geometric objects. Applications include matching and coalition‐formation, and the “Product‐Mix Auction” introduced by the Bank of England in response to the financial crisis.
C62|Dynamic Social Interactions and Health Risk Behavior|We study risky behavior of adolescents. Concentrating on smoking and alcohol use, we structurally estimate a dynamic social interaction model in the context of students' school networks included in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). The model allows for forward-looking behavior of agents, addiction effects, and social interactions in the form of preferences for conformity in the social network. We find strong evidence for forward looking dynamics and addiction effects. We also find that social interactions in the estimated dynamic model are quantitatively large. A misspecified static model would fit data substantially worse, while producing a much smaller estimate of the social interaction effect. With the estimated dynamic model, a temporary shock to students' preferences in the 10th grade has effects on their behavior in grades 10, 11, 12, with estimated social multipliers 1:53, 1:03, and 0:76, respectively. The multiplier effect of a permanent shock is much larger, up to 3:7 in grade 12. Moreover (semi-) elasticities of a permanent change in the availability of alcohol or cigarettes at home on child risky behavior implied by the dynamic equilibrium are 25%, 63%, and 79%, in grades 10, 11, 12, respectively.
C62|Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Determinacy of Asymptotically Stationary Equilibria in Olg Models|We propose a criterion for determining whether a local policy analysis can be made in a given equilibrium in an overlapping generations model. The criterion can be applied to models with infinite past and future as well as those with a truncated past. The equilibrium is not necessarily a steady state; for example, demographic and type composition of the population or individuals’ endowments can change over time. However, asymptotically, the equilibrium should be stationary. The two limiting stationary paths at either end of the timeline do not have to be the same. If they are, conditions for local uniqueness are far more stringent for an economy with a truncated past as compared to its counterpart with an infinite past. In addition, we illustrate our main result using a textbook model with a single physical good, a two-period life-cycle and a single type of consumer. In this model we show how to calculate a response to a policy change using the implicit function theorem.
C62|Monetary Policy, Inflation Target and the Great Moderation: An Empirical Investigation|This paper compares the empirical fit of a Taylor rule featuring constant versus time-varying inflation target by estimating a Generalized New Keynesian model under positive trend inflation while allowing for indeterminacy. The estimation is conducted over two different periods covering the Great Inflation and the Great Moderation. We find that the rule embedding time variation in target inflation turns out to be empirically superior and determinacy prevails in both sample periods. Counterfactual simulations point toward both `good policy' and `good luck' as drivers of the Great Moderation. We find that better monetary policy, both in terms of a more active response to inflation gap and a more anchored inflation target, has resulted in the decline in inflation gap volatility and predictability. In contrast, the reduction in output growth variability is mainly explained by reduced volatility of technology shocks.
C62|A non-linear Keynesian Goodwin-type endogenous model of the cycle: Bayesian evidence for the USA|This paper incorporates the so-called Bhaduri-Marglin accumulation function in Goodwin’s original growth cycle model and econometrically estimates the proposed model for the case of the US economy in the time period 1960–2012, using a modern Bayesian sequential Monte Carlo method. Based on our findings, the US economy follows an exhilarationist regime throughout our investigation period with the sole exception of an underconsumption regime for the time period 1974–1978. In general, the results suggest that the proposed approach is an appropriate vehicle for expanding and improving traditional Goodwin-type models.
C62|Dominance in Spatial Voting with Imprecise Ideals: A New Characterization of the Yolk| We introduce a dominance relationship in spatial voting with Euclidean preferences, by treating voter ideal points as balls of radius δ. Values δ > 0 model imprecision or ambiguity as to voter preferences, or caution on the part of a social planner. The winning coalitions may be any consistent monotonic collection of voter subsets. We characterize the minimum value of δ for which the δ-core, the set of undominated points, is nonempty. In the case of simple majority voting, the core is the yolk center and δ is the yolk radius. Thus the δ-core both generalizes and provides a new characterization of the yolk. We then study relationships between the δ-core and two other concepts: the Ɛ-core and the finagle point. We prove that every fi nagle point must be within 2.32472 yolk radii of every yolk center, in all dimensions m ≥ 2.
C62|The fi nagle point might not be within the Ɛ-core: a contradiction with Bräuninger's result| In this paper, we focus on a result stated by Bräuninger that the fi nagle point is within the Ɛ-core in a spatial voting game with Euclidean individual preferences. Through a counterex- ample with 7 players, we show that Bräuninger's result is not valid.
C62|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity, and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) Model|In order to hedge efficiently, persistently high negative covariances or, equivalently, correlations, between risky assets and the hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against financial risk and subsequent losses. If there is more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances and correlations have to be calculated. As optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, it is essential to specify dynamic time-varying models of covariances and correlations. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of this paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the only multivariate dynamic conditional correlation model to have been developed to date, namely the widely used Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) model. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. This paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation, and presentation of caveats relating to the DCC model, with an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the DCC model, as well as a related model, in practice.
C62|What They Did Not Tell You about Algebraic (Non-) Existence, Mathematical (IR-)Regularity and (Non-) Asymptotic Properties of the Full BEKK Dynamic Conditional Covariance Model|Persistently high negative covariances between risky assets and hedging instruments are intended to mitigate against risk and subsequent financial losses. In the event of having more than one hedging instrument, multivariate covariances need to be calculated. Optimal hedge ratios are unlikely to remain constant using high frequency data, so it is essential to specify dynamic covariance models. These values can either be determined analytically or numerically on the basis of highly advanced computer simulations. Analytical developments are occasionally promulgated for multivariate conditional volatility models. The primary purpose of the paper is to analyze purported analytical developments for the most widely-used multivariate dynamic conditional covariance model to have been developed to date, namely the Full BEKK model, named for Baba, Engle, Kraft and Kroner. Dynamic models are not straightforward (or even possible) to translate in terms of the algebraic existence, underlying stochastic processes, specification, mathematical regularity conditions, and asymptotic properties of consistency and asymptotic normality, or the lack thereof. The paper presents a critical analysis, discussion, evaluation and presentation of caveats relating to the Full BEKK model, and an emphasis on the numerous dos and don’ts in implementing the Full BEKK and related non-Diagonal BEKK models, such as Triangular BEKK and Hadamard BEKK, in practice.
C62|Monetary Policy and Macroeconomic Stability Revisited|A large literature with canonical New Keynesian models has established that the Fed's policy change from a passive to an active response to inflation led to U.S. macroeconomic stability after the Great Inflation of the 1970s. We revisit this view by estimating a staggered price model with trend inflation using a Bayesian method that allows for equilibrium indeterminacy and adopts a sequential Monte Carlo algorithm. {{p}} The model empirically outperforms a canonical New Keynesian model and demonstrates an active response to inflation even in the Great Inflation era, during which the U.S. economy was likely in the indeterminacy region of the model's parameter space. A more active response to inflation alone does not suffice for explaining the shift to determinacy after the Great Inflation, unless it is accompanied by a decline in trend inflation or a change in policy responses to the output gap and output growth.
C62|A Generalized Approach to Indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations Models|We propose a novel approach to deal with the problem of indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations models. The method consists of augmenting the original state space with a set of auxiliary exogenous equations to provide the adequate number of explosive roots in presence of indeterminacy. The solution in this expanded state space, if it exists, is always determinate, and is identical to the indeterminate solution of the original model. The proposed approach accommodates determinacy and any degree of indeterminacy, and it can be implemented even when the boundaries of the determinacy region are unknown. Thus, the researcher can estimate the model using standard packages without restricting the estimates to the determinacy region. We apply our method to estimate the New-Keynesian model with rational bubbles by Galí (2017) over the period 1982:Q4 until 2007:Q3. We find that the data support the presence of two degrees of indeterminacy, implying that the central bank was not reacting strongly enough to the bubble component.
C62|A Model of Market Making with Heterogeneous Speculators|I introduce an optimizing monopolistic market maker in an otherwise standard setting a la Brock and Hommes (1998) (BH98). The market maker manages her inventory of a zero yielding asset, such as foreign currency, and can earn profits from trading, taking advantage of her knowledge of speculators' demand. The resulting dynamic behavior is qualitatively identical to the one described in BH98, showing that the results of the latter are independent from the institutional framework of the market. At the same time I show that the market maker has conflicting effects. She acts as a stabilizer when she allows for market imbalances, while she acts as a destabilizer when she manages aggressively her inventories and when she trades actively, both if she acts as fundamentalist or if she is a strong extrapolator. Indeed the more stable institutional framework is one in which market makers are inventory neutral and don't trade actively but, even in this case, the typical complex behavior of BH98 occurs.
C62|Firm Decisions under Jump-Diffusive Dynamics|We present a model of firm investment under uncertainty and partial irreversibility in which uncertainty is represented by a jump diffusion. This allows to represent both the continuous Gaussian volatility and the discontinuous uncertainty related to information arrival, sudden changes and large shocks. The model shows how both sources of uncertainty negatively impact the optimal investment and disinvestment policies, and how the presence oflarge negative jumps can drastically affect the firm’s ability to recover. Our results show that the standard Gaussian framework consistently underestimates the negative effect of uncertainty on firm investment decisions. We test these predictions on a panel dataset of UK firms: we first structurally estimate the uncertainty parameters using multinomial maximum likelihood and differential evolution techniques and subsequently study their impact on firm investment rates, validating our model predictions.
C62|Growth and Public Debt: What Are the Relevant Trade‐Offs?|The interplay between growth and public debt is addressed considering a Barro‐type (1990) endogenous growth model where public spendings are financed through taxes on income and public debt. The government has a target level of public debt relative to GDP, and the long‐run debt‐to‐GDP ratio is used as a policy parameter. We show that when debt is a large enough proportion of GDP, two distinct balanced‐growth paths (BGPs) may coexist, one being indeterminate. We exhibit two types of important trade‐offs associated with self‐fulfilling expectations. First, we show that the lowest BGP is always decreasing with respect to the debt‐to‐GDP ratio while the highest one is increasing. Second, we show that the highest BGP, which provides the highest welfare, is always locally indeterminate while the lowest is always locally determinate. Therefore, local and global indeterminacy may arise and self‐fulfilling expectations appear as a crucial ingredient to understand the impact of debt on growth, welfare, and macroeconomic fluctuations. Finally, a simple calibration exercise allows to provide an understanding of the recent experiences of many OECD countries.
C62|Eductive Stability in Real Business Cycle Models|Within the standard real business cycle model, we examine issues of expectational coordination on the unique rational expectations equilibrium. We show sensitivity of agents’ plans and decisions to their short-run and long-run expectations is too great to trigger eductive coordination in a world of rational agents who are endowed with knowledge of the economic structure and contemplate the possibility of small deviations from equilibrium: eductive stability never obtains. We conclude adaptive learning must play a role in real-time dynamics. Our eductive instability theorem has a counterpart under adaptive learning: even with asymptotic stability, transition dynamics can involve large departures from rational expectations.
C62|The equalizing spiral in early 21st century Brazil: a Kaleckian model with sectoral heterogeneity|The relative success of the Brazilian and other South American economies in combining higher growth rates with a reduction of income inequality in the 2000s can be better understood through the study of the relationship between wage distribution, consumption patterns and the composition of employment. By starting from the Neo-Kaleckian framework, this paper builds a two-sector open economy model with two types of workers. An unstable cumulative causation mechanism through which a reduction in wage inequality increases consumption of non-tradable goods, leading to higher demand for low-skilled labor and a further reduction in inequality may arise.
C62|Macroeconomic Models with Incomplete Information and Endogenous Signals|This paper characterizes a general class of macroeconomic models with incomplete information, when the information process includes endogenous variables. I derive conditions for existence and uniqueness of equilibrium, which apply even when the model contains endogenous state variables, and I introduce an algorithm to solve the general model. As an application I consider a business cycle model with capital where firms must make inferences about aggregate shocks through the movements of endogenous prices. In this model, the central bank's policy rule determines the real effects of nominal shocks, by controlling how informative prices are about the aggregate state. The optimal policy targets acyclical inflation, which makes money neutral. Finally, I demonstrate an advantage of models with endogenous information: the noisy signals are driven by fundamental shocks, rather than ad hoc noise, so data can discipline the information structure. Accordingly, I calibrate the model using US industry-level panel data.
C62|Individual upper semicontinuity and subgame perfect ϵ-equilibria in games with almost perfect information|We study games with almost perfect information and an infinite time horizon. In such games, at each stage, the players simultaneously choose actions from finite action sets, knowing the actions chosen at all previous stages. The payoff of each player is a function of all actions chosen during the game. We define and examine the new condition of individual upper semicontinuity on the payoff functions, which is weaker than upper semicontinuity. We prove that a game with individual upper semicontinuous payoff functions admits a subgame perfect ϵ-equilibrium for every ϵ > 0, in eventually pure strategy profiles.
C62|Optimal investment with vintage capital: equilibrium distributions|The paper concerns the study of equilibrium points, or steady states, of economic systems arising in modelling optimal investment with vintage capital, namely, systems where all key variables (capitals, investments, prices) are indexed not only by time τ but also by age s. Capital accumulation is hence described as a partial differential equation (briefly, PDE), and equilibrium points are in fact equilibrium distributions in the variable s of ages. Investments in frontier as well as non-frontier vintages are possible. Firstly a general method is developed to compute and study equilibrium points of a wide range of infinite dimensional, infinite horizon boundary control problems for linear PDEs with convex criterion, possibly applying to a wide variety of economic problems. Sufficient and necessary conditions for existence of equilibrium points are derived in this general context. In particular, for optimal investment with vintage capital, existence and uniqueness of a long run equilibrium distribution is proved for general concave revenues and convex investment costs, and analytic formulas are obtained for optimal controls and trajectories in the long run, definitely showing how effective the theoretical machinery of optimal control in infinite dimension is in computing explicitly equilibrium distributions, and suggesting that the same method can be applied in examples yielding the same abstract structure. To this extent, the results of this work constitutes a first crucial step towards a thorough understanding of the behaviour of optimal controls and trajectories in the long run.
C62|Markovian Core, Indivisibility, and Successive Pareto-Improvements|We study a general barter market in which every agent is initially endowed with several inherently indivisible items and wishes to exchange with other agents. There is no medium of exchange like money. Agents have general preferences over bundles of items and may acquire several items. It is well-known that the core of such an economy is typically empty. We propose a new but more general notion of core called a Markovian core. A Markovian core allocation is individually rational, but Pareto-efficient and stable against any possible coalition deviation by comparison with their current assignments instead of their initial endowments. We show that the market has always a nonempty strict Markovian core through a decentralized Pareto-improvement process.
C62|The pure effect of social preferences on regional location choices: The evolving dynamics of convergence to a steady state population distribution| This paper tracks the consequences of individuals’ desire to align their location with their social preferences. The social preference studied in the paper is distaste for relative deprivation, measured in a cardinal manner. Location is conceived as social space, with individuals choosing to relocate if, as a result, their relative deprivation will be reduced, holding their incomes constant. Conditions are provided under which the associated dynamics reaches a spatial steady state, the number of periods it takes to reach a steady state is specified, and light is shed on the robustness of the steady state outcome. By way of simulation it is shown that for large populations, a steady state of the relocation dynamics is almost always reached, typically in one period, and that cycles are more likely to occur when the populations’ income distributions are more equal.
C62|Multi-battle contests, finite automata, and the tug-of-war|This paper examines multi-battle contests whose extensive form can be represented in terms of a finite state machine. We start by showing that any contest that satisfies our assumptions decomposes into two phases, a principal phase (in which states cannot be revisited) and a concluding tie-breaking phase (in which all non-terminal states can be revisited). Degenerate cases are the finite-horizon contests on the one hand (e.g., the match race), and the tug-of-war on the other. Next, assuming a probabilistic technology in each battle, we show that any contest satisfying our assumptions, with either finite or infinite horizon, admits a unique symmetric and interior Markov perfect equilibrium. This entails, in particular, a complete characterization of the equilibrium in the tug-of-war. Finally, we explore, both analytically and numerically, the intricate problem of a contest designer that maximizes expected total effort. In the absence of a complexity constraint, the revenue-maximizing contest is always a match race, where the optimal length of the race increases as the technology of the component contest becomes more noisy. If, however, the complexity constraint is binding, then the optimal contest is typically (but not always) a tug-of-war.
C62|A general equilibrium evolutionary model with generic utility functions and generic bell-shaped attractiveness maps, generating fashion cycle dynamics|We propose a discrete-time exchange economy evolutionary model, in which two groups of agents are possibly characterized by heterogeneous preference structures. With respect to the classical Walrasian framework, in our setting the definition of equilibrium, in addition to utility functions and endowments, depends also on population shares, which affect the market clearing conditions. We prove that, despite such difference with the standard framework, for every economy and for each population shares there exists at least one equilibrium and we show that, for all population shares, generically in the set of the economies, equilibria are finite and regular. We then introduce the dynamic law governing the evolution of the population shares, and we investigate the existence and the stability of the resulting stationary equilibria. More precisely, we assume that the reproduction level of a group is related to its attractiveness degree, which depends on the social visibility level, determined by the consumption choices of the agents in that group. The attractiveness of a group is described via a generic bell-shaped map, increasing for low visibility levels, but decreasing when the visibility of the group exceeds a given threshold value, due to a congestion effect. Thanks to the combined action of the price mechanism and of the share updating rule, the model may reproduce the recurrent dynamic behavior typical of the fashion cycle, presenting booms and busts in the agents’ consumption choices, and in the groups’ attractiveness and population shares. We illustrate the emergence of fashion cycle dynamics in the case of Stone-Geary utility functions, which generalize the Cobb-Douglas utility functions, and for different formulations of the attractiveness maps, already considered in the literature.
C62|Eductive stability may not imply evolutionary stability in the presence of information costs|Starting from a Muthian cobweb model, we extend the profit-based evolutionary setting in Hommes and Wagener (2010) populated by pessimistic, optimistic and unbiased fundamentalists, by assuming that agents face heterogeneous information costs, inversely proportional to the entity of their bias. Hommes and Wagener (2010) proved that, when the unique steady state of their model is globally eductively stable in the sense of Guesnerie (2002), the equilibrium under evolutionary learning may be just locally, but not globally, stable, due to the presence of a period-two cycle. Thanks to the introduction of information costs, we find that the equilibrium, when globally eductively stable, may be not even locally stable under evolutionary learning. More precisely, we analyze our setting by measuring the influence of agents’ heterogeneity through the parameter describing the degree of optimism and pessimism. According to the considered parameter configuration, the unique steady state, which coincides with the fundamental, may be (locally or globally) stable for every value of the bias, like in Hommes and Wagener (2010), or it may be stable just for suitably small and for suitably large values of the bias. Hence, increasing beliefs’ heterogeneity can be stabilizing when information costs are taken into account. We give an interpretation of such counterintuitive result in terms of profits, on which the share updating rule is based.
C62|Dynamic Social Interactions and Health Risk Behavior|We study risky behavior of adolescents. Concentrating on smoking and alcohol use, we structurally estimate a dynamic social interaction model in the context of students' school networks included in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). The model allows for forward-looking behavior of agents, addiction effects, and social interactions in the form of preferences for conformity in the social network. We find strong evidence for forward looking dynamics and addiction effects. We also find that social interactions in the estimated dynamic model are quantitatively large. A misspecified static model would fit data substantially worse, while producing a much smaller estimate of the social interaction effect. With the estimated dynamic model, a temporary shock to students' preferences in the 10th grade has effects on their behavior in grades 10, 11, 12, with estimated social multipliers 1.53, 1.03, and 0.76, respectively. The multiplier effect of a permanent shock is much larger, up to 3.7 in grade 12. Moreover, (semi-) elasticities of a permanent change in the availability of alcohol or cigarettes at home on child risky behavior implied by the dynamic equilibrium are 25%, 63%, and 79%, in grades 10, 11, 12, respectively.
C62|Emergence of Urban Landscapes: Equilibrium Selection in a Model of Internal Structure of the Cities|This paper addresses a longstanding stability issue of equilibria in a seminal model in spatial economic theory, making use of the potential game approach. The model explains the formation of multiple business centers in cities as an equilibrium outcome under the presence of commuting costs of households and positive production externalities between firms. We fist show that the model can be viewed as a large population (nonatomic) potential game. To elucidate properties of stable spatial equilibria in the model, we select global maximizers of the potential function, which are known to be globally stable under various learning dynamics. We find that the formation of business centers (agglomeration of firms) is possible only when the commuting costs of households are sufficiently low and that the size (number) of business centers increases (decreases) monotonically as communication between firms becomes easier. Our results indicate a new range of applications, i.e., spatial economic models, for the theory of potential games.
C62|On the transitional dynamics and policy analysis of the Romer (1990) model|In this paper we prove the existence, uniqueness and saddle-point stability of the steady state (or balanced growth path) of the Romer (1990) model by utilizing the reduction of dimensionality. Furthermore, we found out a set of policy instruments to improve the monopolistic competitive equilibrium allocation up to social optimum.
C62|Growth Dynamics, Multiple Equilibria, and Local Indeterminacy in an Endogenous Growth Model of Money, Banking and Inflation Targeting|We develop an overlapping generations monetary endogenous growth (generated by productive public expenditures) model with inflation targeting, characterized by relocation shocks for young agents, which in turn generates a role for money (even in the presence of the return-dominating physical capital) and financial intermediaries. Based on this model, we show that two distinct growth paths emerge conditional on a threshold value of the share of physical capital in the production function. Along one path, we find convergence to a single stable equilibrium, and on the other path, we find multiple equilibria: a stable low-growth and an unstable high-growth, with the stable low-growth equilibrium found to be locally indeterminate. Since, government expenditure is productive in our model, a higher inflation-target would translate into higher growth, but under multiple equilibria, this is not necessarily always the case.
C62|Measured Productivity with Endogenous Markups and Economic Profits|I develop a model of dynamic firm entry, oligopolistic competition and returns to scale in order to decompose TFP fluctuations into technical change, economic profit and markup fluctuations. I show that economic profits cause short-run upward bias in measured TFP, but this subsides to upward bias from endogenous markups as firm entry adjusts. I analyze dynamics analytically through a nonparametric DGE model that allows for a perfect competition equilibrium such that there are no biases in measured TFP. Given market power, simulations show that measured TFP is 40% higher than technology in the short-run, due solely to profits, and 20% higher in the long-run due solely to markups. During transition both effects contribute upward bias: initially the profit effect dominates, but by 5 quarters the two effects contribute equally, and by 10 quarters only the markup effect persists. The speed of firm adjustment ('business dynamism') will determine these timings and therefore the importance of each bias.
C62|The Invariant Distribution of Wealth and Employment Status in a Small Open Economy with Precautionary Savings|We study optimal savings in continuous time with exogenous transitions between employment and unemployment as the only source of uncertainty in a small open economy. We prove the existence of an optimal consumption path. We exploit that the dynamics of consumption and wealth between jumps can be expressed as a Fuchsian system. We derive conditions under which an invariant joint distribution for the state variables, i.e., wealth and labour market status, exists and is unique. We also provide conditions under which the distribution of these variables converges to the invariant distribution. Our analysis relies on the notion of T-processes and applies results on the stability of Markovian processes from Meyn and Tweedie (1993a, b,c).
C62|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies. .
C62|Quadratic Games|We study general quadratic games with multidimensional actions, stochastic payoff interactions, and rich information structures. We first consider games with arbitrary finite information structures. In such games, we show that there generically exists a unique equilibrium. We then extend the result to games with infinite information structures, under an additional assumption of linearity of certain conditional expectations. In that case, there generically exists a unique linear equilibrium. In both cases, the equilibria can be explicitly characterized in compact closed form. We illustrate our results by studying information aggregation in large asymmetric Cournot markets and the effects of stochastic payoff interactions in beauty contests. Our results apply to general games with linear best responses, and also allow us to characterize the effects of small perturbations in arbitrary Bayesian games with finite information structures and smooth payoffs.
C62|Financial bubbles and capital accumulation in altruistic economies|We consider an overlapping generations model à la Diamond (1965) with two additional ingredients: altruism and an asset (or land) bringing non-stationary positive dividends (or fruits). We study the global dynamics of capital stocks and asset values as well as the interplay between them. Asset price bubbles are also investigated.
C62|Nonlinear policy behavior, multiple equilibria and debt-deflation attractors|Abstract This paper analyzes global dynamics in a macroeconomic model where both monetary and fiscal policies are nonlinear, consistent with empirical evidence. Nonlinear monetary policy, in which the nominal interest rate features an increasing marginal reaction to inflation, interacting with nonlinear fiscal policy, in which the primary budget surplus features an increasing marginal reaction to debt, gives rise to four steady-state equilibria. Each steady state exhibits in its neighborhood a pair of ‘active’/‘passive’ monetary/fiscal policies à la Leeper-Woodford, and is typically investigated in isolation within linearized monetary models. We show that, when global nonlinear dynamics are taken into account, such steady states are endogenously connected. In particular, the global dynamics reveals the existence of infinite self-fulfilling paths that originate around the steady states locally displaying either monetary or fiscal ‘dominance’—and thus locally delivering equilibrium determinacy—as well as around the unstable steady state with active monetary-fiscal policies, and that converge into an unintended high-debt/low-inflation (possibly deflation) attractor. Such global trajectories—bounded by two heteroclinic orbits connecting the three out-of-the-trap steady states—are, however, obscured if the four monetary-fiscal policy mixes are studied locally and disjointly.
C62|Financialization and Endogenous Technological Change: a Post-Kaleckian Perspective|In post-Keynesian literature, Hein (2012a) was the first to incorporate financialization as an influential positive determinant of the rate of technological change. However, financialization is more like a two-edged sword which can affect technological progress negatively as well. We capture both the positive as well as the negative effect of financialization on technological progress which encapsulates the possibility of multiple equilibria. In analyzing the long run of the model we endogenize the financialization parameter as well. We then show how two subsystems (technological progress and financialization dynamics) when interact with each other, can produce instability and cycles for the whole system. We show that under certain circumstances, higher speed of diffusion of technological innovation, more regulated financial markets, and higher intra-class competition among firms are desirable for stabilizing the economy. Finally, we provide some policy prescriptions for the same.
C62|A non-linear post-Keynesian Goodwin-type endogenous model of the cycle for the USA|Since its original formulation, Goodwin’s (1967) approach became a standard endogenous business cycles model. However, despite its elegant mathematical formulation, the empirical estimation of Goodwin-type models has not always ended up in success. The present paper uses the so-called Bhaduri-Marglin accumulation function in Goodwin’s original growth cycle model. Based on its derived equations of motion and dynamic properties, we econometrically estimate the proposed model for the case of the US economy in the time period 1960-2012, using structural breaks. The empirical estimation is very satisfactory and, in general terms, consistent with economic theory and the findings by other researchers on the US economy. The results of this work suggest that the proposed approach is an appropriate vehicle for expanding and improving traditional Goodwin-type models.
C62|Market sentiment and heterogeneous fundamentalists in an evolutive financial market mode|We study a financial market populated by heterogeneous fundamentalists, whose decisions are driven by ``animal spirits''. Each agent may have optimistic or pessimistic beliefs about the fundamental value, which are selected from time to time on the basis of an evolutionary mechanism. The evolutionary selection depends on a weighted evaluation of the general market sentiment perceived by the agents and on a profitability measure of the existent strategies. As the relevance given to the sentiment index increases, a herding phenomenon in agents behavior may take place and the animal spirits can drive the market toward polarized economic regimes, which coexist and are characterized by persistent high or low levels of optimism and pessimism. This conduct is detectable from agents polarized shares and beliefs, which in turn influence the price level. Such polarized economic regimes can consist in stable steady states or can be characterized by endogenous complex dynamics, generating persistent alternating waves of optimism and pessimism, as well as return distributions displaying fat tails and excess volatility.
C62|Environmental regulation and economic cycles|This paper considers economic cycles that do not depend on the exogenous economic actions. More precisely, the paper develops a positive model of government behavior in order to define the intertemporal fiscal policies that are optimal for a country, determining the optimal level of the budget and the optimal level of the rate of environmental quality, as well. For this purpose, we setup an optimal control model involving the intertemporal subsidy strategies for an authoritarian (like a central European) government. It will be shown - applying the Hopf bifurcation theorem - that cyclical strategy, i.e. waves of regulation, environmental subsidies alternating with deregulation, cuts in social programmes, etc., may be optimal strategies. In this paper we propose an extremely simple optimal control model concerning budget surplus and environmental subsidies. We investigate the cyclical subsiding policies applying one bifurcation theorem. A number of propositions are stated during the solution process.
C62|Financial Inclusion And Macroeconomic Stability In Emerging And Frontier Markets|Financial inclusion, being considered as a key enabler to reducing poverty and boosting prosperity in emerging and frontier markets such as Vietnam, is the process in which individuals and small businesses are provided with an access to useful and affordable financial products and services. The extant literature on the empirical evidence regarding the contribution of financial inclusion to macroeconomic stability is mixed. This paper investigates the linkages between financial inclusion and macroeconomic stability, which has not yet been thoroughly examined in the literature, for 22 emerging and frontier economies from 2008 to 2015, with particular focus on a potential optimal level. Using the panel threshold estimation technique, the empirical findings show that financial inclusion, as approximated by the growth rate in the number of bank branches over 100,000 account holders, is found to enhance financial stability under a certain threshold. Financial inclusion is also found to be of benefit to maintaining stable inflation and output growth. Policy implications are also discussed on the basis of the important empirical findings.
C62|Risk trading in capacity equilibrium models|No abstract is available for this item.
C62|A Variational Approach to Network Games|This paper studies strategic interaction in networks. We focus on games of strategic substitutes and strategic complements, and departing from previous literature, we do not assume particular functional forms on players' payoffs. By exploiting variational methods, we show that the uniqueness, the comparative statics, and the approximation of a Nash equilibrium are determined by a precise relationship between the lowest eigenvalue of the network, a measure of players' payoff concavity, and a parameter capturing the strength of the strategic interaction among players. We apply our framework to the study of aggregative network games, games of mixed interactions, and Bayesian network games.
C62|Reliably Computing Nonlinear Dynamic Stochastic Model Solutions: An Algorithm with Error Formulas|This paper provides a new technique for representing discrete time nonlinear dynamic stochastic time invariant maps. Using this new series representation, the paper augments the usual solution strategy with an additional set of constraints thereby enhancing algorithm reliability. The paper also provides general formulas for evaluating the accuracy of proposed solutions. The technique can readily accommodate models with occasionally binding constraints and regime switching. The algorithm uses Smolyak polynomial function approximation in a way which makes it possible to exploit a high degree of parallelism.
C62|Organizational Equilibrium with Capital|This paper proposes a new equilibrium concept – organizational equilibrium – for models with state variables that have a time-inconsistency problem. The key elements of this equilibrium concept are: (1) agents are allowed to ignore the history and restart the equilibrium; (2) agents can wait for future agents to start the equilibrium. We apply this equilibrium concept to a quasi-geometric discounting growth model and to a problem of optimal dynamic fiscal policy. We find that the allocation gradually transits from that implied by its Markov perfect equilibrium towards that implied by the solution under commitment, but stopping short of the Ramsey outcome. The feature that the time inconsistency problem is resolved slowly over time rationalizes the notion that good will is valuable but has to be built gradually.
C62|Expectation-driven asset price fluctuations under the spirit of capitalism hypothesis: The role of heterogeneity|In this paper, I study how heterogeneity amongst agents affects the occurrence of expectation-driven asset price fluctuations in a pure exchange economy à la Lucas, with infinitely-lived households, under the hypothesis of spirit of capitalism. I consider heterogeneous households in terms of preferences, endowments and initial wealth, and capture the spirit of capitalism through preferences for wealth. Preferences for wealth are the key element of this paper in a twofold aspect. First, they explain the occurrence of asset price fluctuations driven by self-fulfilling changes in expectations. Second, heterogeneity in endowments affects asset price level and dynamics only if preferences are heterogeneous. For instance, if agents with the strongest spirit of capitalism are also the rich in terms of endowments, heterogeneity in endowments heightens the asset price level in the long run, and destabilizes by enlarging the range of parameter values for which expectation-driven asset price fluctuations occur.
C62|Recursive Equilibrium in Krusell and Smith (1998)|This paper combines the tools developed in two important and independent literatures - one on large economies started with Aumann (1964) and the other on dynamically incomplete markets, notably Duffie et al (1994)- to study Krusell and Smith’s incomplete markets economy with both idiosyncratic and aggregate shocks. It establishes the existence of sequential competitive equilibrium, generalized recursive equilibrium, recursive equilibrium with an extended-state space, and characterizes several important properties of the equilibrium variables. The equilibrium process admits an ergodic measure, which enables the application of the ergodic theorem for the simulation and calibration of the model. Without aggregate shocks, the existence and some characterization results carry over to economies with only idiosyncratic shocks such as Huggett (1997)’s economy. However, the existence of recursive equilibrium with the natural minimal state space in Krusell and Smith's economy remains elusive, as in finite-agent incomplete markets economies.
C62|Pairwise stable matching in large economies| We formulate a general model and stability notion for two-sided pairwise matching problems with individually insignificant agents. Matchings are formulated as joint distributions over the characteristics of the populations to be matched. These characteristics can be high-dimensional and need not be included in compact spaces. Stable matchings exist with and without transfers and stable matchings correspond exactly to limits of stable matchings for finite agent models. We can embed existing continuum matching models and stability notions with transferable utility as special cases of our model and stability notion. In contrast to finite agent matching models, stable matchings exist under a general class of externalities. This might pave the way for integrating matching problems in other economic models.
C62|Equilibrium in a dynamic model of congestion with large and small users|Individual users of transportation facilities often control a significant share of total traffic. Examples include airlines, rail and maritime freight shippers, urban goods delivery companies, taxi companies, and ride-sharing companies. These users have an incentive to internalize the congestion delays their own vehicles impose on each other by adjusting the timing of their trips. We investigate simultaneous trip-timing decisions by large users and small users in a dynamic model of congestion. Unlike previous work, we allow for heterogeneity of trip-timing preferences and for the presence of small users such as individual commuters and fringe airlines. We derive the optimal fleet departure schedule for a large user as a best-response to the aggregate departure rate of other users. We show that when the vehicles in a large user’s fleet have sufficiently diverse preferred arrival times, there may exist a pure-strategy Nash-equilibrium (PSNE) in which the large user schedules vehicles when there is a queue. This highlights that the problem of non-existence of a PSNE identified in Silva et al. (2016) for the case of symmetric large users hinges on the assumption that all vehicles in each fleet have the same preferred arrival time. We also develop some examples to identify under what conditions a PSNE exists, and when the large user departs. The examples illustrate how self-internalization of congestion by a large user can affect the nature of equilibrium and the travel costs that it and other users incur.
C62|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies
C62|On sunspot fluctuations in variable capacity utilization models|We investigate the extent to which standard one sector RBC models with positive externalities and variable capacity utilization can account for the large hump-shaped response of output when the model is submitted to a pure sunspot shock. We refine the Benhabib and Wen (2004) model considering a general type of additive separable preferences and a general production function. We provide a detailed theoretical analysis of local stabilities and local bifurcations as a function of various structural parameters. We show that, when labor is infinitely elastic, local indeterminacy occurs through Flip and Hopf bifurcations for a large set of values for the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in consumption, the degree of increasing returns to scale and the elasticity of capital–labor substitution. Finally, we provide a detailed quantitative assessment of the model and conclude with mixed results. We show that although the model is able theoretically to generate a hump-shaped dynamics of output following an i.i.d. sunspot shock under realistic parameter values, the hump is too persistent for the model to be considered fully satisfactory from an empirical point of view.
C62|Mean growth and stochastic stability in endogenous growth models|Under uncertainty, mean growth of, say, wealth is often defined as the growth rate of average wealth, but it can alternatively be defined as the average growth rate of wealth. We argue that stochastic stability points to the latter notion of mean growth as the theoretically relevant one. Our discussion is cast within the class of continuous-time AK-type models subject to geometric Brownian motions. First, stability concepts related to stochastic linear homogeneous differential equations are introduced and applied to the canonical AK model. It is readily shown that exponential balanced-growth paths are not robust to uncertainty. In a second application, we evaluate the quantitative implications of adopting the stochastic-stability-related concept of mean growth for the comparative statics of global diversification in the seminal model due to Obstfeld (1994).
C62|Optimal Population Growth as an Endogenous Discounting Problem: The Ramsey Case|This paper revisits the optimal population size problem in a continuous time Ramsey setting with costly child rearing and both intergenerational and intertemporal altruism. The social welfare functions considered range from the Millian to the Benthamite. When population growth is endogenized, the associated optimal control problem involves an endogenous effective discount rate depending on past and current population growth rates, which makes preferences intertemporally dependent. We tackle this problem by using an appropriate maximum principle. Then we study the stationary solutions (balanced growth paths) and show the existence of two admissible solutions except in the Millian case. We prove that only one is optimal. Comparative statics and transitional dynamics are numerically derived in the general case.
C62|Robust comparative statics for non-monotone shocks in large aggregative games|A policy change that involves a redistribution of income or wealth is typically controversial, affecting some people positively but others negatively. In this paper we extend the “robust comparative statics” result for large aggregative games established by Acemoglu and Jensen (2010) to possibly controversial policy changes. In particular, we show that both the smallest and the largest equilibrium values of an aggregate variable increase in response to a policy change to which individuals' reactions may be mixed but the overall aggregate response is positive. We provide sufficient conditions for such a policy change in terms of distributional changes in parameters.
C62|A Note on Balanced-Budget Income Taxes and Aggregate (In)Stability in Multi-Sector Economies|We examine the impact of balanced-budget labor income taxes on the existence of expectation- driven business cycles in a two-sector version of the Schmitt-Grohé and Uribe (SGU) [18] model with constant government expenditures and counter-cyclical taxes. Our results show that the destabilizing impact of labor income taxes strongly depends on the capital intensity difference across sectors. Local indeterminacy is indeed more likely when the consumption good sector is capital intensive, as the minimal tax rate decreases, and less likely when the investment good sector is capital intensive, as the minimal tax rate increases. The implication of this result can be quantitatively significant. Indeed, when compared to SGU, local indeterminacy can be either completely ruled out for all OECD countries when the investment good is sufficiently capital intensive, or drastically improved, delivering indeterminacy for a larger set of OECD countries, if the consumption good is sufficiently capital intensive. Focusing however on recent estimates of the sectoral capital shares corresponding to the empirically plausible case of a capital intensive consumption good, we find that there is a significant increase of the range of economically relevant labor tax rates (from a minimum tax rate of 30% to 24.7%) for which local indeterminacy arises with respect to the aggregate formulation of SGU.
C62|Time-varying Consumption Tax, Productive Government Spending, and Aggregate Instability|In this paper we study the dynamics of an economy with productive government spending under the assumption that the government balances its budget by levying endogenous non-linear consumption taxes. For standard specifcation of the utility function and production function, we prove that under counter-cyclical consumption taxes, while there exists a unique balanced growth path, sunspot equilibria based on self-fulfilling expectations occur through a form of global indeterminacy.
C62|Competitive Equilibrium Cycles for Small Discounting in Discrete-Time Two-Sector Optimal Growth Models|We study the existence of endogenous competitive equilibrium cycles under small discounting in a two-sector discrete-time optimal growth model. We provide precise concavity conditions on the indirect utility function leading to the existence of period-two cycles with a critical value for the discount factor that can be arbitrarily close to one. Contrary to the continuous-time case where the existence of periodic-cycles is obtained if the degree of concavity is close to zero, we show that in a discrete-time setting the driving condition does not require a close to zero degree of concavity but a symmetry of the indirect utility function’s concavity properties with respect to its two arguments.
C62|Non-Balanced Endogenous Growth and Structural Change: When Romer Meets Kaldor and Kuznets|We propose a model of non-balanced endogenous growth in which the final good, which can be either consumed or used as capital, is produced using two intermediate inputs, one being “knowledge-intensive”. Agents working in the knowledge-intensive sector need to accumulate technological knowledge and thus have to decide how to split their individual unit of time between accumulation of technological knowledge (research) and work. Agents working in the second sector do not need to accumulate knowledge and thus devote all their individual unit of time to work. Individual knowledge therefore becomes a labor-augmenting factor, and knowledge accumulation leads to an unbounded increase in TFP in the knowledge-intensive sector, and thus to endogenous capital deepening. The asymmetry in the growth rates of TFP leads to non-balanced growth. Labor (number of workers) reallocations across sectors occur, leading to a greater increase in output for the knowledge-intensive sector. We show that non-balanced growth is consistent with Kaldor facts, as the asymptotic equilibrium is above all characterized by a constant interest rate and capital share in national income. However, the economy follows a growth path converging to a particular level of wealth that depends on the initial price of capital and knowledge. As a consequence, countries with the same fundamentals but lower initial wealth will be characterized by lower asymptotic wealth. We therefore extend the Lucas [19] finding and prove the existence of non-convergence across countries in a framework with structural change.
C62|Bundling Incentives in (Many-to-Many) Matching with Contracts|In many-to-many matching with contracts, the way in which contracts are specified can affect the set of stable equilibrium outcomes. Consequently, agents may be incentivized to modify the set of contracts upfront. We consider one simple way in which agents may do so: unilateral bundling, in which a single agent links multiple contracts with the same counterparty together. We show that essentially no stable matching mechanism eliminates incentives for unilateral bundling. Moreover, we find that unilateral bundling can sometimes lead to Pareto improvement?and other times produces market power that makes one agent better off at the expense of others.
C62|Supply Function Equilibrium over a Constrained Transmission Line I: Calculating Equilibria|Competition between oligopolist electricity generators is inhibited by transmission constraints. I present a supply function equilibrium (SFE) model of an electricity market with a single lossless, but constrained, transmission line. The market admits equilibria in which generator withhold energy in order to induce congestion, which further increases their local market power. Under appropriate assumptions on cost and demand functions, I obtain a planar autonomous system of ordinary differential equations for the SFE. Computational methods are developed to solve the system while respecting monotonicity constraints on the supply functions. Using these methods I can calculate SFE in network markets that range from fully isolated to fully integrated. I also find network markets for which the SFE is not unique.
C62|Supply Function Equilibrium over a Constrained Transmission Line II: Multiple Plants and Nodal Price Derivatives|Market power in electricity wholesale markets arises when generators have incentives to mark up their offers above the cost of production. I model a transmission network with a single line. I derive optimality conditions for supply functions for generators who supply energy at both ends of the line, and also for generators who hold financial derivatives on the locational prices. These financial derivatives include contracts for differences as well as financial transmission rights. One way that generators can manipulate prices in their favor is by inducing congestion in the network. I find that dispersed ownership and financial transmission rights are both effective ways to reduce strategic congestion of the line. I also fid that certain portfolios of contracts for differences can lead to multiple supply function equilibria.
C62|On the perils of stabilizing prices when agents are learning|We show that price level stabilization is not optimal in an economy where agents have incomplete knowledge about the policy implemented and try to learn it. A systematically more accommodative policy than what agents expect generates short term gains without triggering an abrupt loss of confi dence, since agents update expectations sluggishly. In the long run agents learn the policy implemented, and the economy converges to a rational expectations equilibrium in which policy does not stabilize prices, economic volatility is high, and agents su ffer the corresponding welfare losses. However, these losses are outweighed by short term gains from the learning phase.
C62|Pairwise stable matching in large economies|We formulate a general model and stability notion for two-sided pairwise matching problems with individually insignificant agents. Matchings are formulated as joint distributions over the characteristics of the populations to be matched. These characteristics can be high-dimensional and need not be included in compact spaces. Stable matchings exist with and without transfers and stable matchings correspond exactly to limits of stable matchings for finite agent models. We can embed existing continuum matching models and stability notions with transferable utility as special cases of our model and stability notion. In contrast to finite agent matching models, stable matchings exist under a general class of externalities. This might pave the way for integrating matching problems in other economic models.
C62|A Note on Balanced-Budget Income Taxes and Aggregate (In)Stability in Multi-Sector Economies|We examine the impact of balanced-budget labor income taxes on the existence of expectation- driven business cycles in a two-sector version of the Schmitt-Grohé and Uribe (SGU) [18] model with constant government expenditures and counter-cyclical taxes. Our results show that the destabilizing impact of labor income taxes strongly depends on the capital intensity difference across sectors. Local indeterminacy is indeed more likely when the consumption good sector is capital intensive, as the minimal tax rate decreases, and less likely when the investment good sector is capital intensive, as the minimal tax rate increases. The implication of this result can be quantitatively significant. Indeed, when compared to SGU, local indeterminacy can be either completely ruled out for all OECD countries when the investment good is sufficiently capital intensive, or drastically improved, delivering indeterminacy for a larger set of OECD countries, if the consumption good is sufficiently capital intensive. Focusing however on recent estimates of the sectoral capital shares corresponding to the empirically plausible case of a capital intensive consumption good, we find that there is a significant increase of the range of economically relevant labor tax rates (from a minimum tax rate of 30% to 24.7%) for which local indeterminacy arises with respect to the aggregate formulation of SGU.
C62|Competitive Equilibrium Cycles for Small Discounting in Discrete-Time Two-Sector Optimal Growth Models|We study the existence of endogenous competitive equilibrium cycles under small discounting in a two-sector discrete-time optimal growth model. We provide precise concavity conditions on the indirect utility function leading to the existence of period-two cycles with a critical value for the discount factor that can be arbitrarily close to one. Contrary to the continuous-time case where the existence of periodic-cycles is obtained if the degree of concavity is close to zero, we show that in a discrete-time setting the driving condition does not require a close to zero degree of concavity but a symmetry of the indirect utility function's concavity properties with respect to its two arguments.
C62|Non-Balanced Endogenous Growth and Structural Change: When Romer Meets Kaldor and Kuznets|"We propose a model of non-balanced endogenous growth in which the final good, which can be either consumed or used as capital, is produced using two intermediate inputs, one being ""knowledge-intensive"". Agents working in the knowledge-intensive sector need to accumulate technological knowledge and thus have to decide how to split their individual unit of time between accumulation of technological knowledge (research) and work. Agents working in the second sector do not need to accumulate knowledge and thus devote all their individual unit of time to work. Individual knowledge therefore becomes a labor-augmenting factor, and knowledge accumulation leads to an unbounded increase in TFP in the knowledge-intensive sector, and thus to endogenous capital deepening. The asymmetry in the growth rates of TFP leads to non-balanced growth. Labor (number of workers) reallocations across sectors occur, leading to a greater increase in output for the knowledge-intensive sector. We show that non-balanced growth is consistent with Kaldor facts, as the asymptotic equilibrium is above all characterized by a constant interest rate and capital share in national income. However, the economy follows a growth path converging to a particular level of wealth that depends on the initial price of capital and knowledge. As a consequence, countries with the same fundamentals but lower initial wealth will be characterized by lower asymptotic wealth. We therefore extend the Lucas [19] finding and prove the existence of non-convergence across countries in a framework with structural change."
C62|An Armington–Leontief model|Abstract We develop a novel linear equilibrium model with an Armington flavor. We provide (1) proof of the solvability of the model and of the existence and non-negativity of the equilibrium solution and of the newly derived multiplier matrix; we also show (2) that the standard Leontief multiplier matrix arises as a special case of this new model and (3) that this model allows the computation of multiplier effects with no external output bias, which is particularly relevant for applied economic analysis.
C62|Performance Cycles|No abstract is available for this item.
C62|Global warming and technical change: Multiple steady-states and policy options|In this paper we develop an economic growth model that includes anthropogenicclimate change. We include a publicly funded research sector that creates new technologies and simultaneously expands the productivities of existing technologies. The environment is affected by R&D activities both negatively, through the increase of output from productivity growth, as well as positively as new technologies are less harmful for the environment. We find that there may exist two different steadystates of the economy, depending on the amount of research spending: one with less new technologies being developed and the other with more technologies. Thus, a lock-in effect may arise that, however, can be overcome by raising R&D spending sufficiently such that the steady-state becomes unique. We derive the combinations of fiscal policy instruments for which that can be achieved and we study the implications for the economy and for the environment. In particular, the double dividend hypothesis may hold only under some specific conditions.
C62|Heterogeneous R&D spillovers and sustainable growth: Limits to efficient regulation|This paper introduces heterogeneity of cross-technologies interactions into the double-differentiated R&D-based endogenous growth model. In this model new technologies appear continuously and older are outdated generating structural change. All technologies may interact with each other through knowledge spillovers which are technology-specific and this results in innovations' heterogeneity. The conditions on the shape of these interactions for the existence of the (sustained) growth path in the decentralized economy as well as for the social planner's problem are estab- lished. Next the necessity for government interventions depending on the complexity of these interactions is studied. At last the scale and duration of interventions are demonstrated to be functions of spectral properties of the interactions operator.
C62|The Invariant Distribution of Wealth and Employment Status in a Small Open Economy with Precautionary Savings|We study optimal savings in continuous time with exogenous transitions between employment and unemployment as the only source of uncertainty in a small open economy. We prove the existence of an optimal consumption path. We exploit that the dynamics of consumption and wealth between jumps can be expressed as a Fuchsian system. We derive conditions under which an invariant joint distribution for the state variables, i.e., wealth and labour market status, exists and is unique. We also provide conditions under which the distribution of these variables converges to the invariant distribution. Our analysis relies on the notion of T-processes and applies results on the stability of Markovian processes from Meyn and Tweedie (1993a, b,c)
C62|Optimal fund menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the beliefs of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to offer funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset that is not subject to the information friction.
C62|Del mundo del más o menos al universo de precisión: a propósito de los modelos de ciclos de los negocios de Ragnar Frisch Y Michal Kalecki|El objetivo de este trabajo es presentar de manera detallada los modelos matemáticos de Frisch y Kalecki, mostrando los problemas conceptuales y analíticos que la literatura reciente ha señalado. La linealización del sistema de ecuaciones de los modelos de Frisch y Kalecki, fortalecieron la idea de que los ciclos económicos se podrían explicar mediante un mecanismo de propagación de oscilaciones amortiguadas y uno de impulso de choques externos aleatorios, mientras que el ciclo auto-sostenido de manera endógena encontraría su fundamento en la no linealidad. ****** The aim of this paper is to present in detail the mathematical models of Frisch and Kalecki, showing the conceptual and analytical problems that recent literature has pointed out. The linearization of the system of equations of the Frisch and Kalecki models strengthened the idea that economic cycles could be explained by a mechanism of propagation of damped oscillations and one of impulse of random external shocks, while the self-sustained cycle of endogenous way would find its foundation in non-linearity.
C62|Currency Risk Factors in a Recursive Multi-Country Economy|Focusing on the ten most-traded currencies, we provide empirical evidence about a significant heterogenous exposure to global growth news shocks. We incorporate this empirical fact in a frictionless risk-sharing model with recursive preferences, multiple countries, and multiple consumption goods whose supply features both global and local short- and long-run shocks. Since news shocks are priced, heterogenous exposure to global long-lasting growth shocks results in a relevant reallocation of international resources and currency adjustments. Our unified framework replicates the properties of the HML-FX and HML-NFA carry trade strategies studied by Lustig et al. (2011) and Della Corte et al. (2013).
C62|BKK the EZ Way. International Long-Run Growth News and Capital Flows|We study the response of international investment flows to short- and long-run growth news. Among developed G7 countries, positive long-run news for domestic productivity induces a net outflow of investments, in contrast to the effects of short-run growth shocks. We document that a standard Backus, Kehoe, and Kydland (1994) (BKK) model fails to reproduce this novel empirical evidence. We augment this model with Epstein and Zin (1989) preferences (EZ-BKK) and characterize the resulting recursive risk-sharing scheme. The response of international capital flows in the EZ-BKK model is consistent with the data.
C62|Optimal Fund Menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the preferences of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal fund menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to behave as a closet indexer by offering funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset which is not subject to the information friction.
C62|Volatility Risk Pass-Through|We develop a novel measure of volatility pass-through to assess international propagation of output volatility shocks to macroeconomic aggregates, equity prices, and currencies. An increase in country's output volatility is associated with a decrease in its output, consumption, and net exports. The average consumption pass-through is 50% (a 1% increase in output volatility increases consumption volatility by 0.5%) and it increases to 70% for shocks originating in smaller countries. The equity volatility pass-through is 90%, whereas the link between volatility of currency and fundamentals is weak. A novel channel of risk sharing of volatility risks can explain our empirical findings.
C62|Computing Sunspot Solutions to Rational Expectations Models with Timing Restrictions|Rational expectations (RE) frameworks featuring informational constraints are becoming increasingly popular in macroeconomic research. A recent strand of literature has explored the analytics of RE models with informational subperiods, in which the occurrence of exogenous shocks is period-specific and decision makers thus condition their own choices and expectations upon a sequence of nested information sets (timing restrictions). Assuming the unrestricted (full information) RE model satisfies saddle-path stability, this paper provides (i) necessary and sufficient conditions for existence of an uncountably infinite set of linearly perturbed solutions to its restricted (informationally constrained) counterpart, and (ii) an algorithm for computing the full set of (sunspot) solutions when equilibrium indeterminacy occurs.
C62|Equilibrium in the Assignment Market under Budget Constraints|We reexamine the well-known assignment market model in a more general and more practical environment where agents may be financially constrained. These constraints will be shown to have an important impact on the set of Walrasian equilibria. We prove that a price adjustment process will either find a unique minimal Walrasian equilibrium price vector, or exclusively validate the nonexistence of equilibrium
C62|An Econometric Model of Network Formation with an Application to Board Interlocks between Firms|The paper provides a framework for partially identifying the parameters governing agents’ preferences in a static game of network formation with interdependent link decisions, complete information, and transferable or non-transferable payoffs. The proposed methodology attenuates the computational difficulties arising at the inference stage - due to the huge number of moment inequalities characterising the sharp identified set and the impossibility of brute-force calculating the integrals entering them - by decomposing the network formation game into local games which have a structure similar to entry games and are such that the network formation game is in equilibrium if and only if each local game is in equilibrium. As an empirical illustration of the developed procedure, the paper estimates firms’ incentives for having executives sitting on the board of competitors, using Italian data.
C62|The limits to robust monetary policy in a small open economy with learning agents|We study in a small open economy New Keynesian model the consequences of adaptive learning for the design of optimal robust monetary policy. Compared to the rational expectations equilibrium, we find that the possiblity to conduct robust monetary policy is extremely limited in the open economy when private agents are learning. The misspecification that can be introduced into all equations of the model is very small and approaches zero at high speed as the learning gain rises.
C62|Growing through chaos in the Matsuyama map via subcritical flip and bistability|"Recent publications reconsider the growth model proposed by Matsuyama (""Growing through cycles""), also called M-map, presenting new interpretation of the model as well as new results on its dynamic behaviors. The goal of the present paper is to give the rigorous proof of some results which were remaining open, related to the dynamics of this model. We prove that in the whole parameter range of interest an attracting 2-cycle appears via border collision bifurcation, we give the explicit flip bifurcation value of the 2-cycle proving that it is always of subcritical type. This leads to bistability related to coexistence of an attracting 2-cycle with attracting 4-cyclic chaotic intervals. We give the conditions related to the sharp transition to chaos, proving that the cascade of stable cycles of even periods cannot occur. The parameter range in which repelling cycles of odd period exist is further investigated, giving an explicit boundary, as well as its relation to the non existence of cycles of period three."
C62|Fiscal regimes and the (non)stationarity of debt|This paper analyzes the sustainability of fiscal debt contingent on fiscal policy operating in two fiscal regimes. The first regime is characterized by active policy (not reacting to debt) and the other by passive fiscal policy (reacting to debt). The average duration for which either regime can be pursued in order to arrive at a long-run stable solution is dependent on the steady-state debt-to-GDP ratio and thus determines the cutoff point beyond which debt is non-stationary. We find that the longer an active policy regime is in force or, equivalently, the more likely fiscal policy is to remain in this regime, the lower the steady state debt-to-GDP ratio must be. This has repercussions for the overall business cycle, implying a higher volatility of inflation and output the longer fiscal policy is active for any given equilibrium debt-to-GDP level. Using the Markov-switching DSGE-model as the data generating process it is possible to apply the test by Bohn (1998) and find that it is prone to type 2 errors.
C62|A contribution to the theory of fertility and economic development|The aim of this research is to build on a theory for explaining economic development in a (neoclassical) growth model with endogenous fertility. The economy is comprised of overlapping generations of rational and identical individuals and identical competitive firms producing with a constant-returns-to-scale technology with no externalities. From a theoretical perspective, the distinguishing feature of this work is that endogenous fertility per se is able to explain the existence of low and high development regimes. It provides alternative reasons (history driven or expectations driven) why some countries enter development trajectories with high GDP and low fertility and others experience under-performances with low GDP and high fertility. The model is also able to reproduce fertility fluctuations and explain the baby busts and baby booms observed in the last century in some developed countries.
C62|A parsimonious model of longevity, fertility, HIV transmission and development|A central policy issue in the battle against HIV in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is whether and when high-prevalence countries might become fully autonomous in designing and implementing their own intervention policies aimed to control the disease. The aim of this research is twofold. First, it develops a framework for explaining economic development in a general equilibrium growth model with endogenous fertility and endogenous longevity under the threat of a deadly enduring infectious disease, as is the case of HIV/AIDS in SSA. Second, it aims to shed light on the interplay between foreign aid and endogenous domestic public policies in those SSA countries severely afflicted by HIV. In particular, it investigates the macro-economic dynamic feasibility and related effects of an intervention policy where the overall amount of resources devoted to HIV/AIDS is the sum of an exogenous component representing foreign aid and an endogenous public expenditure. Both these policies allow to bring HIV under control, but show quite different responses in terms demo-economic variables, mainly passing through the fertility response to the evolving epidemic conditions.
C62|Forward Guidance at the Zero Lower Bound: Curse and Blessing of Time-Inconsistency|Forward guidance as a tool of unconventional monetary policy can be highly efficient to support aggregate demand and to steer the economy out of the zero lower bound (ZLB). However, the effect that stimulates the economy can give rise to a time-inconsistency problem: if the central bank promises to keep interest rates at the ZLB for long, the sub-sequent increase in inflation and economic activity may create a motive for the central bank to forego its promise and to exit the ZLB earlier than announced. We illustrate the time-inconsistency problem in a New Keynesian model with hand-to-mouth consumers. Using a novel and analytically tractable method for handling occasionally binding constraints, we contrast the case of commitment to forward guidance with the case in which monetary policy allows for an early exit of the ZLB. Our method is able to provide results on uniqueness and existence of (ZLB) equilibria. We study the equilibrium selection given different scenarios and conclude that central bankers should be careful when choosing the number of periods with low interest rates in order to avoid the inconsistency problem. Furthermore, we calculate government spending multipliers and argue that the multiplier is even larger if combined with forward guidance.
C62|From constrained optimization to constrained dynamics: extending analogies between economics and mechanics|Since the beginnings of modern economics, economists sought to emulate the revolution in physics initiated by Newton’s ‘Principia’ (1687). Concepts from mechanics have influenced economic models both in terms of methodology and content. The aim of this theoretical paper is to put forward a novel economic modeling framework that extends the analogies between economics and classical mechanics from constrained optimization to constrained dynamics. We introduce the concepts of economic forces and economic power that bear striking resemblance to physical forces and the reciprocal value of mass. In this setup, the change of a variable is determined by the forces agents employ to change it according to their desire, their power to assert their interest, and constraint forces emerging from system constraints. The approach is based on a genuine dynamic out-of-equilibrium analysis and can incorporate heterogeneous agents, prisoner’s dilemma situations, and behavioral assumptions different from rationality and utility maximization. Thereby, it seeks to overcome some restrictions inherent to approaches based on optimization under constraint and provide an out-of-equilibrium foundation for equilibrium models. We transform a static textbook exchange model into a dynamic model, and reflect on advantages, extensions and caveats of our modeling approach.
C62|Edgeworth box economies with multiple equilibria|Abstract We derive sufficient conditions for the existence of multiple equilibria in two-good, two-agent pure exchange economies with heterogeneous but symmetric preferences with identical Bernoulli utilities. When preferences are non-homothetic (for example, quadratic, quasi-linear, or HARA), multiple equilibria are possible even with identical endowments.
C62|Contracts and domination in incomplete markets: what is a true core?|Abstract The goal of the paper is to propose and study a concept of domination by coalitions for incomplete markets. Previously elaborated in the context of contractual approach, now it is presented in more or less standard terms and style. This concept is described as a set of allocations implemented by the net trades (webs of contracts) that are characterized by a special kind of stability in future markets: (i) for every state of the world inducted allocation has to be Pareto optimal and individually rational and (ii) there is no coalition which is able to dominate the allocation via financially feasible trades in future spot markets using real assets and relative to prices specified by (i) (partial Pareto prices). This core converts into a classical one when the market turns complete. Under perfect competition conditions core allocations are GEI-equilibria. These properties prove the validity of suggested core.
C62|Existence of equilibrium in OLG economies with increasing returns|Abstract We consider a standard overlapping generations (OLG) economy with a simple demographic structure where a new cohort of agents appears at each period and whose economic activity is extended over two successive periods, and finitely many firms may be active. The production possibilities are described by a sequence of production set-valued mappings and the main innovation comes from the fact that we allow for increasing returns to scale of more general type of non-convexities. To describe the behavior of the firms, we consider loss-free pricing rules, which cover the case of the average pricing rule, the competitive behavior when the firms have convex production sets, and the competitive behavior with quantity constraints à la Dehez–Drèze. We prove the existence of an equilibrium under assumptions, which are at the same level of generality than the ones for the existence in an exchange OLG economy.
C62|Eliminating useless portfolios in constrained financial economies|Abstract When financial investors’ portfolio holdings are unconstrained, financial economies are assumed, w.l.o.g., to have no redundant assets. Indeed, eliminating redundant assets allows to replace the initial financial structure by an equivalent one, i.e., one that has the same consumption equilibria. Moreover, at the end of the process, absence of redundant assets guarantees that the set of admissible portfolio allocations is bounded, a fundamental property for the existence of equilibria. In the presence of institutional (exogenous) portfolio constraints, eliminating redundant assets is not innocuous anymore since bounded arbitrage may persist at equilibrium, the law of one price does not hold, and some zero-income portfolios may not be free. The goal of the paper is to replace the elimination of redundant assets by the elimination of useless portfolios, a process that eliminates in particular Werner useless portfolios, but needs to go beyond to obtain the boundedness of the set of admissible portfolio allocations at the end of the purification process. Moreover, the elimination process is carried out without affecting the set of consumption equilibria, hence replacing at each step the financial structure by an equivalent one.
C62|On the regularity of smooth production economies with externalities: competitive equilibrium à la Nash|Abstract We consider a general equilibrium model of a private ownership economy with consumption and production externalities. The choices of all agents (households and firms) may affect utility functions and production technologies. The allocation of a competitive equilibrium is a Nash equilibrium. We provide an example showing that, under standard assumptions, competitive equilibria are indeterminate in an open set of the household’s endowments. Next, we consider a new version of this model, with firms’ endowments in the spirit of Geanakoplos et al. (J Math Econ 19:113–151, 1990). In our model, firms’ endowments impact the technologies of the other firms. We then prove that, generically in the space of endowments of households and firms, each economy has a finite number of competitive equilibria and each competitive equilibrium is locally a differentiable map of the fundamental parameters.
C62|General economic equilibrium with financial markets and retainability|Abstract A theory of economic equilibrium for incomplete financial markets in general real assets is developed in a new formulation with currency-denominated prices. The “goods” are not only commodities, and they can influence utility through retention as an alternative to consumption. Perfect foresight is relinquished in a rolling horizon approach to markets which lets agents pursue long-term interests without being sure of future prices. The framework is that of an economy operating in a fiat currency that agents find attractive to retain, in balance with other needs. The attractiveness comes from Keynesian considerations about uncertainty which until now have not been brought in. The existence of equilibrium is established directly—not just generically—and moreover under weaker assumptions on endowments than before, except that utility functions are taken to be concave. Agents do not need to start out with, or end up with, positive amounts of everything. With a single currency denominating the units of account in all states, price indeterminacy is avoided and all contracts issued in the financial markets can be interpreted as “real contracts.” Derivative instruments and collateralized contracts based on money prices are thereby encompassed for the first time. Transaction costs on sales of contracts, generated endogenously, lead to bid–ask spreads and in particular to a gap between interest rates for lending and borrowing money.
C62|Characterizing existence of equilibrium for large extensive form games: a necessity result|Abstract What is the minimal structure that is needed to perform equilibrium analysis in large extensive form games? To answer this question, this paper provides conditions that are simultaneously necessary and sufficient for the existence of a subgame perfect equilibrium in any well-behaved perfect information game defined on a large game tree. In particular, the set of plays needs to be endowed with a topology satisfying two conditions. (a) Nodes are closed as sets of plays; and (b) the immediate predecessor function is an open map.
C62|Existence of equilibria in exhaustible resource markets with economies of scale and inventories|Abstract The paper proves the existence of equilibrium in non-renewable resource markets when extraction costs are non-convex and resource storage is possible. Inventories flatten the consumption path and eliminate price jumps at the end of the extraction period, so that market equilibrium becomes possible. We distinguish between two types of solutions, one with immediate and one with delayed buildup of inventories. For both cases, we do not only characterize potential optimal paths but also show that equilibria actually exist under fairly general conditions. It is found that optimum resource extraction involves increasing quantities over a period of time. What is generally interpreted as an indicator of increasing resource abundance is thus perfectly compatible with constant resource stocks.
C62|Asset prices and wealth dynamics in a financial market with endogenous liquidation risk|Within a financial market where a risk-free bond and a long-lived risky asset are exchanged by investors with heterogeneous trading rules, we assume that the investors most exposed to the risky asset are subject to joint liquidation needs. The latter encompass a risk whenever the market impact of traders subject to them is large enough, due to a fire-sale phenomenon. Our aim is to provide conditions for the transformation of liquidation needs into liquidation risk, and to characterize the resulting asset price dynamics. We find that when the average position of traders subject to liquidation needs is lower than the position of the other traders, the former vanish and asset prices are driven solely by the dividend process. Whether liquidation risk becomes systemic or its impact is mitigated by the position of other traders, depends on the relative wealth dynamics. We provide conditions on agents positions under which the liquidation risk is always systemic because the aggressive traders dominate, as well as conditions under which the size of the liquidation risk is endogenously determined because all traders survive and the relative wealth dynamics is a mean reverting process.
C62|Nonaggregable evolutionary dynamics under payoff heterogeneity|We consider general evolutionary dynamics under idiosyncratic but persistent payoff heterogeneity and study the dynamic relation between the strategy composition over different payoff types and the aggregate strategy distribution of the entire population. It is rigorously proven that continuity of the switching rate function or the type distribution guarantees the existence of a unique trajectory. In major evolutionary dynamics except the standard best response dynamic, an agent's switching rate from the current action to a new action increases with the payoff gain from this switch. This payoff sensitivity makes a heterogeneous dynamic nonaggregable: the transition of the aggregate strategy generically depends not only on the current aggregate strategy but also on the current strategy composition. However, if we look at the strategy composition, stationarity of equilibrium in general and stability in potential games hold under any admissible dynamics. In particular, local stability of each individual equilibrium composition under an admissible dynamic is equivalent to that of the corresponding aggregate equilibrium in the aggregate dynamic induced from the standard best response dynamic, though the basin of attraction may differ over different dynamics.
C62|On the equivalence of large individualized and distributionalized games|The theory of large one-shot simultaneous-play games with a bio-social typology has been presented in both the individualized and distributionalized forms, LIG and LDG respectively. Using an example of an LDG with two actions and a single trait in which some Nash equilibrium distributions cannot be induced by the Nash equilibria of the representing LIG, this paper offers three equivalence results that delineate a relationship between the two game-forms. Our analysis also reveals the different roles that the Lebesgue unit interval and a saturated space play in the theory.
C62|On the existence of approximate equilibria and sharing rule solutions in discontinuous games|This paper studies the existence of some known equilibrium solution concepts in a large class of economic models with discontinuous payoff functions. The issue is well understood for Nash equilibria, thanks to Reny's better-reply security condition, and its recent improvements. We propose new approaches, related to Reny's work, and obtain tight conditions for the existence of an approximate equilibrium and of a sharing rule solution in pure and mixed strategies (Simon and Zame). As byproducts, we prove that many auction games with correlated types admit an approximate equilibrium, and that many competition models with discontinuous preferences have a sharing rule solution.
C62|Equilibria in symmetric games: theory and applications|This article presents a new approach to analyze the equilibrium set of symmetric, differentiable games by separating between multiple symmetric equilibria and asymmetric equilibria. This separation allows to investigate, for example, how various parameter constellations affect the scope for multiple symmetric or asymmetric equilibria, or how the equilibrium set depends on the nature of the strategies. The approach is particularly helpful in applications because (1) it allows to reduce the complexity of the uniqueness-problem to a two-player game, (2) boundary conditions are less critical compared to standard procedures, and (3) best-replies need not be everywhere differentiable. The usefulness of the separation approach is illustrated with several examples, including an application to asymmetric games and to a two-dimensional price-information game.
C62|Firm Dynamics, Dynamic Reallocation, Variable Markups, and Productivity Behaviour|I analyze two opposing effects of firm dynamics on productivity over the business cycle. Consider net exit, on the one hand it reallocates resources to incumbents whose productivity improves through scale economies, on the other hand it reduces the competitive pressure incumbents face which depresses productivity. Contrarily net entry strengthens competition, thus increasing productivity, but worsens incumbents' scale economies, thus decreasing productivity. I outline a theory that focuses on two industrial features (1) slow firm entry/exit and (2) firm pricing that depends on the number of competitors. In this environment a negative shock strikes incumbents due to slow exit responses. This weakens their scale thus worsening productivity but the effect recedes as exit occurs which reallocates resources to incumbents. However, the remaining firms face fewer competitors and thus charge higher markups which damages productivity. I analyze this trade-off between productivity improving resource reallocation and productivity degrading market power, by developing a continuous time, analytically tractable DGE model of endogenous firm entry/exit and endogenous markups.
C62|Can inflation contract discipline central bankers when agents are learning?|This paper studies how the government should design a linear inflation contract to deal with the time-inconsistency problem arising from incentives for the central bank to exploit the inflation-output tradeoff with an overambitious output-gap objective when private expectations are based on adaptive learning. An intertemporal tradeoff due to learning leads the central bank to accommodate less the effect of inflation expectations and cost-push shocks on inflation. An optimal linear inflation contract is able to achieve many of the benefits, i.e., reducing inflation bias and stabilization bias, resulting from central bank conservatism and inflation targeting rules. The government can impose either a long-term or a short-term contract. The first is equivalent to appointing a hawkish central banker. The second implies that inflation penalty rate should be adjusted for inflation expectations in each period, and could be positive or negative, i.e., the central banker should shift between hawkish and dovish stances depending on inflation expectations and the speed of learning.
C62|Learning, optimal monetary delegation and stock prices dynamics|This paper studies how learning affects the interactions between monetary policy and stock prices. Learning modifes the intertemporal trade-off of the central bank by giving to the latter the possibility to manipulate private expectations. The result of this manipulation is not socially optimal since it reduces excessively the stabilization bias. To remedy this, the government should appoint a central banker that is less conservative than the society. The turnover rate in the stock market is the key factor that determines the interactions between monetary policy (hence delegation) and stock prices. A positive turnover rate means that the presence of stocks in the households' portfolios distorts the optimal consumption path. This type of distortion compensates somehow these induced by learning. The central bank should be more conservative to avoid the effect of distortions on social welfare induced by learning than in the absence of stocks.
C62|To Fed Watch or Not to Fed Watch: Equilibrium Analysis of Bank System Dynamics|We build a model economy in which Fed watching occurs. There is a huge number of blogs, financial letters, and news reporting that talks about what the Federal Reserve is likely to do. We model this behavior by allowing for banks to Fed watch, meaning that the bank will apply a costly forecasting technology to predict next periodâ€™s price level. Here, the banks accept deposits to insure against idiosyncratic liquidity shocks. Within this model economy, we characterize the price-level dynamics. Our findings have direct implications for the notion of banking crises though related precisely to the role of insurance, not output fluctuations. We derive conditions in which there are endogenous oscillations between price level spikes and price-level falls; in other words, the model economy generates boom-andbusts cycles as real balances fluctuate from high to low values. We extend the model economy to consider how heterogeneity exists with the set of central bankers as they could have heterogeneous forecasts of the next-period price level.
C62|Asset prices and wealth dynamics in a financial market with endogenous liquidation risk|Within a financial market where a risk-free bond and a long-lived risky asset are exchanged by investors with heterogeneous trading rules, we assume that the investors most exposed to the risky asset are subject to joint liquidation needs. The latter encompass a risk whenever the market impact of traders subject to them is large enough, due to a fire-sale phenomenon. Our aim is to provide conditions for the transformation of liquidation needs into liquidation risk, and to characterize the resulting asset price dynamics. We find that when the average position of traders subject to liquidation needs is lower than the position of the other traders, the former vanish and asset prices are driven solely by the dividend process. Whether liquidation risk becomes systemic or its impact is mitigated by the position of other traders, depends on the relative wealth dynamics. We provide conditions on agents positions under which the liquidation risk is always systemic because the aggressive traders dominate, as well as conditions under which the size of the liquidation risk is endogenously determined because all traders survive and the relative wealth dynamics is a mean reverting process.
C62|Fixed-point approaches to the proof of the Bondareva–Shapley Theorem|Abstract We provide two new proofs of the Bondareva–Shapley theorem, which states that the core of a transferable utility cooperative game has a nonempty core if and only if the game is balanced. Both proofs exploit the fixed points of self-maps of the set of imputations, applying elementary existence arguments typically associated with noncooperative games to cooperative games.
C62|Supplements A, B and C to “Efficient Kidney Exchange with Dichotomous Preferences”|This document contains the supplementary material to “Efficient Kidney Exchange with Dichotomous Preferences” by Yao Cheng and Zaifu Yang(2017).
C62|Procyclical endogenous taxation and aggregate instability|The existing contributions on endogenous taxation, and balanced budget rules, suggest that countercyclical taxes should be avoided, because they may lead to aggregate instability (i.e. sunspot equilibria); on the other hand, procyclical taxes have always been praised for their stabilizing role. In this paper, we re-examine this issue in an endogenous growth model with productive government investment, and we prove that an economy with procyclical taxes, and a sufficiently large income effect, can still be characterized by i) global indeterminacy because two balanced growth paths may exist; ii) aggregate instability around the balanced growth path with the lowest growth rate. Finally, we show that this dynamics may emerge for reasonable choices of the parameters.
C62|Managing unanchored, heterogeneous expectations and liquidity traps|We study the possibility of (almost) self-fulfilling waves of optimism and pessimism and self-fulfilling liquidity traps in a New Keynesian model with a continuum of heterogeneous expectations. In particular, all agents choose, based on past forecasting performance, expectation values out of a distribution around the targets of the central bank. This framework allows us to explicitly model the “anchoring” of expectations as the variance of this distribution of possible expectation values. We find that when the zero lower bound on the nominal interest rate is not binding, adequate monetary policy can prevent waves of optimism and pessimism and exclude near unit root dynamics, even when expectations are unanchored. However, as shocks bring the economy to a situation with a binding zero lower bound, there is a danger of a long lasting self-fulfilling liquidity trap that can take the form of a deflationary spiral. This can be prevented if expectations are strongly enough anchored to the targets, or if the inflation target is high enough.
C62|Perturbed best response dynamics in a hawk–dove game|We examine the impact of behavioral noise on equilibrium selection in a hawk–dove game with a model that linearly interpolates between the one- and two-population structures in an evolutionary context. Perturbed best response dynamics generates two hypotheses in addition to the bifurcation predicted by standard replicator dynamics. First, when replicator dynamics suggests mixing behavior (close to the one-population model), there will be a bias against hawkish play. Second, polarizing behavior as predicted by replicator dynamics in the vicinity of the two-population model will be less extreme in the presence of behavioral noise. We find both effects in our data set.
C62|Existence and uniqueness of solutions to dynamic models with occasionally binding constraints|Policy makers would like to prevent self-fulfilling fluctuations. Given the prevalence of occasionally binding constraints (OBCs) such as the zero lower bound (ZLB), this requires understanding the determinacy of models with OBCs. To this end, we derive existence and uniqueness conditions for otherwise linear models with OBCs. Our main result gives necessary and sufficient conditions for such a model to have a unique perfect foresight solution returning to a given steady state, for any initial condition. We show that while standard New Keynesian models with a ZLB possess multiple perfect-foresight paths eventually escaping the ZLB, price level targeting restores determinacy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|Can We Identify the Fed's Preferences?|"Using US data, we estimate optimal policy with a probability below one that the Fed reneges on its commitment (""limited credibility"") versus discretionary policy where the Fed reneges on its commitment at all periods with a probability equal to one (""zero credibility""). The transmission mechanism is the new-Keynesian Phillips curve with auto-correlated cost-push shock. It includes the labor cost channel or the working capital channel. Discretion with zero credibility of the Fed is rejected. The working capital channel fits the data before Volcker's mandate. The labor cost channel fits the data since Volcker's mandate."
C62|Hopf Bifurcation from new-Keynesian Taylor rule to Ramsey Optimal Policy|This paper shows that a shift from Ramsey optimal policy under short term commitment (based on a negative-feedback mechanism) to a Taylor rule (based on positive-feedback mechanism) in the new-Keynesian model is in fact a Hopf bifurcation, with opposite policy advice. The number of stable eigenvalues corresponds to the number of predetermined variables including the interest rate and its lag as policy instruments for Ramsey optimal policy. With a new-Keynesian Taylor rule, however, these policy instruments are arbitrarily assumed to be forward-looking variables when policy targets (inflation and output gap) are forward-looking variables. For new-Keynesian Taylor rule, this Hopf bifurcation implies a lack of robustness and multiple equilibria if public debt is not set to zero for all observation.
C62|A Simple Algorithm for Solving Ramsey Optimal Policy with Exogenous Forcing Variables|This algorithm extends Ljungqvist and Sargent (2012) algorithm of Stackelberg dynamic game to the case of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models including exogenous forcing variables. It is based Anderson, Hansen, McGrattan, Sargent (1996) discounted augmented linear quadratic regulator. It adds an intermediate step in solving a Sylvester equation. Forward-looking variables are also optimally anchored on forcing variables. This simple algorithm calls for already programmed routines for Ricatti, Sylvester and Inverse matrix in Matlab and Scilab. A final step using a change of basis vector computes a vector auto regressive representation including Ramsey optimal policy rule function of lagged observable variables, when the exogenous forcing variables are not observable.
C62|Migration when Social Preferences are Ordinal: Steady-state Population Distribution and Social Welfare| This paper adds three dimensions to the received literature: it models migration when the individuals’ preferences regarding their relative income are ordinal, it works out the resulting spatial steady state distribution of the individuals, and it shows that the aggregate of the individuals’ migration choices in the spatial steady state distribution sums up to the social optimum. This finding does not apply when the individuals’ preferences regarding their relative income are cardinal. We highlight the importance of the assumption about the nature of the individuals’ social preferences (whether ordinal or cardinal) to studying and predicting their migration behavior, and to elucidating the consequences of that behavior for social welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|The lottery contest is a best-response potential game|It is shown that the n-player lottery contest admits a best-response potential (Voorneveld, 2000). This is true also when the contest technology reflects the possibility of a draw. The result implies, in particular, the existence of a non-trivial two-player zero-sum game that is best-response equivalent to a game with identical payoff functions.
C62|Managing monetary policy in a New Keynesian model with many beliefs types|This paper considers a standard New Keynesian model with heterogeneous expectations on the future level of inflation and output. A biased perception of the target pursued by the Central Bank may arise due to idiosyncrasies in information processing, leading to heterogeneous beliefs about the target. We consider an arbitrarily large number of agents’ beliefs and apply the concept of Large Type Limit. We find that an increase in the sensitivity of agents in selecting the optimal prediction strategy or in the spread of beliefs is crucial for the extent of the Central Bank to stabilize the economy. When the predictors are largely dispersed around the target, the Taylor principle is a requisite for stability since it prevents the self-fulfilling reinforcement mechanism between the realizations of the relevant macroeconomic variables and the forecasts of the agents. When the set of beliefs is somehow anchored to the target, stability can be achieved with weaker monetary policy.
C62|Existence and uniqueness of equilibrium in a distorted dynamic small open economy|We provide a set of sufficient conditions for existence and uniqueness of recursive equilibrium for a class of small open economies with distortion. The second welfare theorem is not available in this framework and usual approach for studying optimal neoclassical growth models is also not applicable.
C62|Transparency, expectations anchoring and inflation target|In various speeches, former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke contrasted the proposal of setting a higher inflation target by claiming that it could unanchor inflation expectations. A standard New Keynesian framework with learning supports this claim both asymptotically, because a higher inflation target shrinks the E-stability region when a central bank follows a Taylor rule, and in the transition phase, because a higher inflation target slows down the speed of convergence of expectations. Transparency helps anchoring expectations. However, the importance of being transparent diminishes with the level of the inflation target. Finally, the higher the inflation target, the more policy should respond to inflation and the less to output to guarantee E-stability. Hence, a policy that increases both the inflation target and the monetary policy response to output would be “reckless”.
C62|On noncooperative oligopoly equilibrium in the multiple leader–follower game|In this paper, we provide new proofs of existence and uniqueness of a Stackelberg market equilibrium for a multiple leader–follower noncooperative oligopoly model in which heterogeneous firms compete on quantities. To this end, we consider a two-stage game of complete and perfect information in which many leaders interact strategically with many followers. The Stackelberg market equilibrium constitutes a pure strategy subgame perfect Nash equilibrium of this game. Existence and uniqueness are more difficult to handle in this framework, insofar as the presence of several leaders and followers displays a richer set of strategic interactions. Then, to prove existence, we notably provide a new procedure to determine (the conditions under which) the optimal behavior of the followers (may be written) as functions of the sole strategy profile of the leaders. Some examples outline our procedure and discuss our assumptions.
C62|Assessing environmental performance in the European Union: Eco-innovation versus catching-up|This paper assesses environmental performance in the European Union (EU) using Luenberger productivity indicators, directional distance functions and Data Envelopment Analysis techniques. It considers four indicators of the pressures exerted by economic activity on the environment: global warming, tropospheric ozone formation, acidification and particulate formation. The change in environmental performance from the early 2000s onwards is decomposed at the levels of country and environmental pressure, and as the result of eco-innovations and catching-up with the best available environmental technologies; furthermore, we distinguish between the periods of economic growth (2001–07) and severe crisis (2007–13). Our main finding is that environmental performance improved in both periods, mainly fuelled by advances in environmental technology. Accordingly, environmental policies aimed at boosting catching-up are highly recommended, particularly in the newer member states that joined the EU from 2004 onwards, which perform further away from their respective environmental technological frontiers. In addition, re-establishing the pre-crisis eco-innovation investment levels would also be highly advisable in order to return to the rates of environmental technical progress registered in the expansion period.
C62|Contract design and stability in many-to-many matching|We develop a model of many-to-many matching with contracts that subsumes as special cases many-to-many matching markets and buyer–seller markets with heterogeneous and indivisible goods. In our setting, substitutable preferences are sufficient to guarantee the existence of stable outcomes; moreover, in contrast to results for the setting of many-to-one matching with contracts, if any agent's preferences are not substitutable, then the existence of a stable outcome can not be guaranteed.
C62|Optimal target criteria for stabilization policy|This paper considers a general class of nonlinear rational-expectations models in which policymakers seek to maximize an objective function that may be household expected utility. We show how to derive a target criterion that is: (i) consistent with the model's structural equations, (ii) strong enough to imply a unique equilibrium, and (iii) optimal, in the sense that a commitment to adjust the policy instrument at all dates so as to satisfy the target criterion maximizes the objective function. The proposed optimal target criterion is a linear equation that must be satisfied by the projected paths of certain economically relevant “target variables.” It takes the same form at all times and generally involves only a small number of target variables, regardless of the size and complexity of the model. While the projected path of the economy requires information about the current state, the target criterion itself can be stated without reference to a complete description of the state of the world. We illustrate the application of the method to a nonlinear DSGE model with staggered price-setting, in which the objective of policy is to maximize household expected utility.
C62|Discrete-space agglomeration model with social interactions: Multiplicity, stability, and continuous limit of equilibria|This study examines the properties of equilibrium, including the stability, of discrete-space agglomeration models with social interactions. The findings reveal that while the corresponding continuous-space model has a unique equilibrium, the equilibrium in discrete space can be non-unique for any finite degree of discretization by characterizing the discrete-space model as a potential game. Furthermore, it indicates that despite the above result, any sequence of discrete-space models’ equilibria converges to the continuous-space model’s unique equilibrium as the discretization of space is refined.
C62|Spatial scale of agglomeration and dispersion: Theoretical foundations and empirical implications|This paper revisits a wide variety of existing economic geography models in a many-region setup. It investigates the spatial scale of agglomeration and dispersion intrinsic to each model. In our unified analytical framework, these models reduce to two canonical classes: one with a global dispersion force and the other with a local dispersion force. Their formal distinction is that the former is dependent, whereas the latter is independent of the distance structure of the model. These classes exhibit two stark differences. The first difference concerns their response to transport costs: Global and local dispersion forces are triggered by higher and lower transport costs, respectively. Consequently, in a realistic model with both types of dispersion forces, a decrease in transport costs simultaneously causes both agglomeration at the global scale and dispersion at the local scale. The second difference concerns the agglomeration pattern: multiple agglomerations emerge and spread globally over the regions in the former, whereas agglomeration always takes the form of a unimodal regional distribution of mobile agents in the latter. Endogenous agglomeration mechanisms generally do not isolate the locations at which agglomerations grow or decline for a given change in transport costs. However, they offer predictions for the global spatial distribution of agglomerations as well as the local spatial extent of an individual agglomeration. This knowledge provides a consistent explanation for the set of seemingly unrelated empirical results from reduced-form regressions on regional agglomerations (e.g., Baum-Snow, 2007; Baum-Snow, Brandt, Henderson, Turner and Zhang, 2017; Duranton and Turner, 2012; Faber, 2014); it provides a new set of testable hypotheses. Moreover, our analytical framework provides formal predictions of treatment effects in the structural model-based approaches for regional agglomeration. Applications to the most standard formulations (e.g., Allen and Arkolakis, 2014; Redding and Sturm, 2008) are discussed.
C62|No-arbitrage and Equilibrium in Finite Dimension: A General Result|We consider an exchange economy with a finite number of assets and a finite number of agents. The utility functions of the agents are concave, strictly increasing and their suprema equal infity. We use weak no-arbitrage prices a la Dana and Le Van [5]. Our main result is: an equilibrium exists if, and only if, their exists a weak no-arbitrage price common to all the agents.
C62|Global Dynamics in a Search and Matching Model of the Labor Market|We study global and local dynamics of a simple search and matching model of the labor market. We show that the model can be locally indeterminate or have no equilibrium at all, but only for parameterizations that are empirically implausible. In contrast to the local results, we show that the model exhibits chaotic and periodic dynamics for reasonable parameter values both in backward and forward time. In contrast to earlier work, we establish these results analytically without placing numerical restrictions on the parameters.
C62|Simple Contracts under Observable and Hidden Actions|" We consider a general framework for multitask moral hazard problems with observable and hidden actions. Ideally, the principal in our framework can design optimal contracts that depend on both observable (and verifiable) actions and realized outcomes. Given a mild assumption on the existence of a punishment scheme, we identify a general equivalence result, dubbed the ""forcing principle"", which states that every optimal contract in our framework is strategically equivalent to a simple forcing contract that is essentially outcome-contingent. The forcing contract only specifies an outcome-contingent reward scheme and an action profile, and the agent receives the outcome-contingent reward only if he follows the recommended observable actions (and is otherwise punished severely). The forcing principle has useful implications: It confers analytic advantage for the existence and computation of optimal contracts in our setting. It also highlights the importance of the existence of the punishment scheme in characterizing first-best benchmarks in moral hazard problems, which is typically ignored in the literature."
C62|Private ownership economies with externalities and existence of competitive equilibria: a differentiable approach|Abstract We consider a general equilibrium model of a private ownership economy with consumption and production externalities. Utility functions and production technologies may be affected by the consumption and production activities of all other agents in the economy. We use homotopy techniques to show that the set of competitive equilibria is non-empty and compact. Fixing the externalities, the assumptions on utility functions and production technologies are standard in a differentiable framework. Competitive equilibria are written in terms of first order conditions associated with agents’ behavior and market clearing conditions, following the seminal paper of Smale (J Math Econ 1:1–14, 1974). The work of adapting the homotopy approach to economies with externalities on the production side is non-trivial and it requires some ingenious adjustments, because the production technologies are not required to be convex with respect to the consumption and production activities of all agents.
C62|Rational land and housing bubbles in infinite-horizon economies|This paper considers rational land and housing bubbles in an infinite-horizon general equilibrium model. Their demands rest on two different grounds: the land is an input to produce while the house may be consumed. Our work differs from the existing literature in two respects. First, dividends on both these long-lived assets are endogenous and their sequences are computed. Second, we introduce and study different concepts of bubbles, including individual and strong bubbles
C62|Externalities in Economies with Endogenous Sharing Rules|Endogenous sharing rules were introduced by Simon and Zame [16] to model payoff indeterminacy in discontinuous games. They prove the existence in every compact strategic game of a mixed Nash equilibrium and an associated sharing rule. We extend their result to economies with externalities [1] where, by definition, players are restricted to pure strategies. We also provide a new interpretation of payoff indeterminacy in Simon and Zame's model in terms of preference incompleteness.
C62|No-arbitrage and Equilibrium in Finite Dimension: A General Result|We consider an exchange economy with a finite number of assets and a finite number of agents. The utility functions of the agents are concave, strictly increasing and their suprema equal infity. We use weak no-arbitrage prices a la Dana and Le Van [5]. Our main result is: an equilibrium exists if, and only if, their exists a weak no-arbitrage price common to all the agents
C62|Can we Identify the Fed's Preferences?|Durbin (1970) pre-tests of Ramsey optimal policy versus time-consistent policy rejects time-consistent policy and optimal simple rule for the U.S. Fed during 1960 to 2006, assuming the reference new-Keynesian Phillips curve transmission mechanism with auto-correlated cost-push shock, including or not working capital. Estimates of a structural VAR shows that Ramsey optimal policy models the persistence of inflation, output gap and federal funds rate without requiring two additional parameters for inflation indexation and habit persistence. The number of reduced form parameters is larger with Ramsey optimal policy than with time-consistent policy although the number of structural parameters, including central bank preferences, is the same. The new-Keynesian Phillips curve model is under-identified with Ramsey optimal policy (one identifying equation missing) and hence under-identified for time-consistent policy (three identifying equations missing).
C62|Hopf Bifurcation from new-Keynesian Taylor rule to Ramsey Optimal Policy|This paper shows that a shift from Ramsey optimal policy under short term commitment (based on a negative-feedback mechanism) to a Taylor rule (based on positive-feedback mechanism) in the new-Keynesian model is in fact a Hopf bifurcation, with opposite policy advice. The number of stable eigenvalues corresponds to the number of predetermined variables including the interest rate and its lag as policy instruments for Ramsey optimal policy. With a new-Keynesian Taylor rule, however, these policy instruments are arbitrarily assumed to be forward-looking variables when policy targets (inflation and output gap) are forward-looking variables. For new-Keynesian Taylor rule, this Hopf bifurcation implies a lack of robustness and multiple equilibria if public debt is not set to zero for all observation.
C62|Optimal Population Growth as an Endogenous Discounting Problem: The Ramsey Case|This paper revisits the optimal population size problem in a continuous time Ramsey setting with costly child rearing and both intergenerational and intertemporal altruism. The social welfare functions considered range from the Millian to the Benthamite. When population growth is endogenized, the associated optimal control problem involves an endogenous effective discount rate depending on past and current population growth rates, which makes preferences intertemporally dependent. We tackle this problem by using an appropriate maximum principle. Then we study the stationary solutions (balanced growth paths) and show the existence of two admissible solutions except in the Millian case. We prove that only one is optimal. Comparative statics and transitional dynamics are numerically derived in the general case.
C62|Linear Time Iteration|This paper proposes a simple iterative method – time iteration – to solve linear rational expectation models. I prove that this method converges to the solution with the smallest eigenvalues in absolute value, and provide the conditions under which this solution is unique. In particular, if conditions similar to those of Blanchard and Kahn (1980) are met, the procedure converges to the unique stable solution. Apart from its transparency and simplicity of implementation, the method provides a straightforward approach to solving models with less standard features, such as regime switching models. For large-scale problems the method is 10-20 times faster than existing solution methods.
C62|Bubbly Markov equilibria|Abstract Bubbly Markov equilibria (BME) are recursive equilibria on the natural state space which admit a non-trivial bubble. The present paper studies the existence and properties of BME in a general class of overlapping generations economies with capital accumulation and stochastic production shocks. Using monotone methods, we develop a general approach to construct Markov equilibria and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for these equilibria to be bubbly. Our main result shows that a BME exists whenever the bubbleless equilibrium is Pareto inefficient due to either overaccumulation of capital or inefficient risk sharing between generations.
C62|Capital Control, Exchange Rate Regime, and Monetary Policy: Indeterminacy and Bifurcation|Will capital controls enhance macro economy stability? How will the results be influenced by the exchange rate regime and monetary policy reaction? Are the consequences of policy decisions involving capital controls easily predictable, or more complicated than may have been anticipated? We will answer the above questions by investigating the macroeconomic dynamics of a small open economy. In recent years, these matters have become particularly important to emerging market economies, which have often adopted capital controls. We especially investigate two dynamical characteristics: indeterminacy and bifurcation. Four cases are explored, based on different exchange rate regimes and monetary policy rules. With capital controls in place, we find that indeterminacy depends upon how inflation and output gap coordinate with each other in their feedback to interest rate setting in the Taylor rule. When forward-looking, both passive and positive monetary policy feedback can lead to indeterminacy. Compared with flexible exchange rates, fixed exchange rate regimes produce more complex indeterminacy conditions, depending upon the stickiness of prices and the elasticity of substitution between labor and consumption. We find Hopf bifurcation under capital control with fixed exchange rates and current-looking monetary policy. To determine empirical relevance, we test indeterminacy empirically using Bayesian estimation. Fixed exchange rate regimes with capital controls produce larger posterior probability of the indeterminate region than a flexible exchange rate regime. Fixed exchange rate regimes with current-looking monetary policy lead to several kinds of bifurcation under capital controls. We provide monetary policy suggestions on achieving macroeconomic stability through financial regulation.
C62|Horizontal differentiation and economic growth under non-CES aggregate production function|Abstract We present a model of economic growth driven by horizontal innovation in which, unlike the existing literature, the final output sector employs a non-specified, non-CES, additive production function. Our motivation in conducting such analysis is based on the recognition that the use of a CES aggregate production function in the final output sector leads to the unrealistic conclusion that the gross markup of price over marginal costs set in the monopolistically-competitive intermediate sector is constant. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for an equilibrium with perfect competition in the final output market to exist even in the presence of a non-CES technology. These conditions generalize the usual properties of the CES case. We also analyze the long-run relation between economic growth and variable markups.
C62|Common-Pool Resources are Intrinsically Unstable|Efficient allocations in common-pool resources cannot be accomplished when appropriators are selfish. In addition, we find that a system of a common-pool resource is locally unstable if there are four or more appropriators. Such instability most likely makes efficiency worse than that in the Nash equilibrium. These results indicate that equilibrium analyses might not capture the essence of the common-pool resource problem. They may also provide an answer to the unexplained pulsing behavior among appropriators and inefficiency observed in experiments.
C62|Two Steady States and Two Movement Patterns under the Balanced Budget Rule - An Economy with Divisible Labor|No abstract is available for this item.
C62|Chaotic Dynamics of a Piecewise Linear Model of Credit Cycles with Imperfect Observability|"By incorporating information imperfection into the model of Asano et al. (2012), which is a special case of Matsuyama's (2007) model, we develop a model of endogenous business cycles to analyze how information imperfection affects the dynamic nature of the model. Some sort of ""noise"" representing information imperfection is shown to transform Matsuyama's model into a continuous, eventually expanding, piecewise linear map on the interval with the Markov property, which implies the occurrence of observable chaotic dynamics in our setting. Unlike the models of Asano et al. (2012) and Matsuyama (2007), our model deals with observable chaos for a large set of parameter values."
C62|Selecting Equilibria using Best-Response Dynamics|I propose a simple simulation procedure for large games with multiple equilibria. The simulation procedure is based on a best-response dynamic. The implied equilibrium selection mechanism is intuitive: more stable equilibria are selected with higher probability.
C62|Factor-specific technology choice|This paper analyzes the properties of a two-dimensional problem of factor-specific technology choice subject to a technology menu — understood as the choice of the degree of factor augmentation by a producing firm or the choice of quality of goods demanded by a consumer. The considered general setup encompasses the benchmark cases of Cobb–Douglas, CES and Leontief (minimum) functions. It is shown that the technology menu and the global function (envelope of local functions) are dual objects, in a well-defined generalized sense of duality. In the optimum, partial elasticities of (i) the local function, (ii) the technology menu and (iii) the global function are all equal and there exists a clear-cut, economically interpretable relationship between their curvatures. In particular, the elasticity of substitution of the global function is always above that of the local function. The paper also invokes Bergson’s theorem to comment on the consequences of assuming homogeneity or homotheticity, with a particular focus on technology menus constructed as level curves of idea (unit factor productivity) distributions.
C62|A Generalized Approach to Indeterminacy in Linear Rational Expectations Models|Modern empirical macroeconomics frequently tests for equilibrium determinacy in linear rational expectations (LRE) models. We propose an augmented representation to solve and estimate LRE models over the entire parameter space, even when the researcher does not know the region of determinacy. The novel approach does not impose restrictions on the parameter space over which the model is estimated and therefore exploits the full informational content of the data. Our methodology tests for determinacy in the wide class of medium- and large-scale models as well as small-scale models for which the region of determinacy is non-trivial. Importantly, the approach is implementable in standard software packages, such as Dynare. We apply our findings by simulating the canonical New-Keynesian model when the Taylor principle is both satisfied and not. We show that our method successfully recovers the true parameter values under the assumption that the researcher does not know the Taylor principle.
C62|Crisis and theoretical methods: equilibrium and disequilibrium once again|The financial crisis of 2007-8 damaged the credibility of macroeconomic analysis based on price-taking Walrasian intertemporal general equilibrium models. This talk explores methodological alternatives, particularly stable Nash-Cournot equilibria of social interaction models that center on agents’ response to other agents’ actions rather than on agents’ forecasts of future paths of prices and production. Social interaction equilibria in conjunction with constraints from information theory highlight the social coordination problems at the root of macroeconomic policy questions. Equilibrium concepts enhance the explanatory power of economic theories in contrast with the limitations of disequilibrium dynamical systems analysis and agent-based modeling. Constrained maximum entropy methods offer a general approach to macroeconomic modeling. Various conceptions of equilibrium in economics arise from distinct conceptions of expectations.
C62|Huggett economies with multiple stationary equilibria|I obtain a closed-form solution to a Huggett economy with constant absolute risk aversion (CARA) utility when the vector of individual state variables follows a VAR(1) process with an arbitrary shock distribution. The stationary equilibrium is unique if the income process is AR(1), but not necessarily so otherwise. With Gaussian shocks, I provide general sufficient conditions for the existence of at least three equilibria when the income process is either ARMA(1,1), AR(2), or has a persistent-transitory (PT) representation with negatively correlated shocks. The possibility of multiple equilibria calls for caution in comparative statics exercises and policy analyses using heterogeneous-agent models. As an illustration I provide an example in which the welfare implication of changing the income risk goes in opposite directions depending on the choice of equilibrium.
C62|On periodic ergodicity of a general periodic mixed Poisson autoregression|We propose a general class of non-linear mixed Poisson autoregressions whose form and parameters are periodic over time. Under a periodic contraction condition on the forms of the conditional mean, we show the existence of a unique nonanticipative solution to the model, which is strictly periodically stationary, periodically ergodic and periodically weakly dependent having in the pure Poisson case finite higher-order moments. Applications to some well-known integer-valued time series models are considered.
C62|Dividend taxation in an infinite-horizon general equilibrium model|We consider an infinite-horizon general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents and financial market imperfections. We investigate the role of dividend taxation on economic growth and asset price. The optimal dividend taxation is also studied.
C62|Spatial Scale of Agglomeration and Dispersion: Theoretical Foundations and Empirical Implications|This paper studies the theoretical properties of existing economic geography models with agglomeration and dispersion forces in a many-region setup, rather than their original two-region space, to investigate the spatial scale—global or local—of agglomeration and dispersion intrinsic to each model. We show that models in the literature reduce to two canonical classes that differ starkly in their engendered spatial patterns and comparative statics. Our formal results offer a consistent explanation for the set of various outcomes from the extant reduced-form regression analyses and also provide qualitative predictions of the treatment effects in the structural model-based studies on regional agglomeration.
C62|Capital Control, Exchange Rate Regime, and Monetary Policy: Indeterminacy and Bifurcation|Will capital controls enhance macro economy stability? How will the results be influenced by the exchange rate regime and monetary policy reaction? Are the consequences of policy decisions involving capital controls easily predictable, or more complicated than may have been anticipated? We will answer the above questions by investigating the macroeconomic dynamics of a small open economy. In recent years, these matters have become particularly important to emerging market economies, which have often adopted capital controls. We especially investigate two dynamical characteristics: indeterminacy and bifurcation. Four cases are explored, based on different exchange rate regimes and monetary policy rules. With capital controls in place, we find that indeterminacy depends upon how inflation and output gap coordinate with each other in their feedback to interest rate setting in the Taylor rule. When forward-looking, both passive and positive monetary policy feedback can lead to indeterminacy. Compared with flexible exchange rates, fixed exchange rate regimes produce more complex indeterminacy conditions, depending upon the stickiness of prices and the elasticity of substitution between labor and consumption. We find Hopf bifurcation under capital control with fixed exchange rates and current-looking monetary policy. To determine empirical relevance, we test indeterminacy empirically using Bayesian estimation. Fixed exchange rate regimes with capital controls produce larger posterior probability of the indeterminate region than a flexible exchange rate regime. Fixed exchange rate regimes with current-looking monetary policy lead to several kinds of bifurcation under capital controls. We provide monetary policy suggestions on achieving macroeconomic stability through financial regulation.
C62|Firm Entry, Excess Capacity and Aggregate Productivity|Slow firm entry over the business cycle causes measured TFP to vary endogenously because incumbent firms bear shocks. Our main theorem states that imperfect competition and dynamic firm entry are necessary and sufficient conditions for these endogenous productivity fluctuations. The result focuses on the short-run absence of entry and incumbents' output response given this quasi-fixity. Quantitatively we show the endogenous productivity effect is as large as a traditional capital utilization effect.
C62|Economic Analysis of Price Premiums in the Presence of Non-convexities - Evidence from German Electricity Markets|Analyzing price data from sequential German electricity markets, namely the day-ahead and intraday auction, a puzzling but apparently systematic pattern of price premiums can be identified. The price premiums are highly correlated with the underlying demand profile. As there is evidence that widespread models for electricity forward premiums are not applicable to the market dynamics under analysis, a theoretical model is developed within this article which reveals that non-convexities in only a subset of sequential markets with differing product granularity may cause systematic price premiums at equilibrium. These price premiums may be bidirectional and reflect a value for additional short-term power supply system flexibility.
C62|Equilibrium approach of asset and option pricing under LÃ©vy process and stochastic volatility|This paper studies the equity premium and option pricing under the general equilibrium framework taking into account stochastic volatility. We establish analytical expressions for the equity premium and pricing kernel of the stock process. Moreover, the equilibrium option pricing formula is derived by the Fourier transformation method. Numerical results show that our model is superior to the previous model with constant volatility in explaining some financial phenomena, such as negative variance risk premium, implied volatilities and negative skewness risk premium. As the price of the underlying asset is modeled as the exponential of the LÃ©vy process with stochastic volatility, our model is more general than the existing equilibrium pricing models.
C62|Monetary Policy, Target Inflation and the Great Moderation: An Empirical Investigation|This paper compares the empirical fit of a Taylor rule featuring constant versus time-varying inflation target by estimating a Generalized New Keynesian model under positive trend inflation while allowing for indeterminacy. The estimation is conducted over two different periods covering the Great Inflation and the Great Moderation. We find that the rule embedding time variation in target inflation turns out to be empirically superior and determinacy prevails in both sample periods. Counterfactual simulations point toward both `good policy' and `good luck' as drivers of the Great Moderation. We find that better monetary policy, both in terms of a more active response to inflation gap and a more anchored inflation target, has resulted in the decline in inflation gap volatility and predictability. In contrast, the reduction in output growth variability is mainly explained by reduced volatility of technology shocks.
C62|The Case of “Less is More”: Modelling Risk-Preference with Expected Downside Risk|This paper discusses an alternative explanation for the empirical findings contradicting the positive relationship between risk (variance) and reward (expected return). We show that these contradicting results might be due to the false definition of risk-perception, which we correct by introducing Expected Downside Risk (EDR). The EDR parameter, similar to the Expected Shortfall or Conditional Value-at-Risk, measures the tail risk, however, fits and better explains the utility perception of investors. Our results indicate that when using the EDR as risk measure, both the positive and negative relationship between expected return and risk can be derived under standard conditions (e. g. expected utility theory and positive risk-aversion). Therefore, no alternative psychological explanation or additional boundary condition on utility theory is required to explain the phenomenon. Furthermore, we show empirically that it is a more precise linear predictor of expected return than volatility, both for individual assets and portfolios.
C62|A Simple Algorithm for Solving Ramsey Optimal Policy with Exogenous Forcing Variables|This algorithm extends Ljungqvist and Sargent (2012) algorithm of Stackelberg dynamic game to the case of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models including exogenous forcing variables. It is based Anderson, Hansen, McGrattan, Sargent (1996) discounted augmented linear quadratic regulator. It adds an intermediate step in solving a Sylvester equation. Forward-looking variables are also optimally anchored on forcing variables. This simple algorithm calls for already programmed routines for Ricatti, Sylvester and Inverse matrix in Matlab and Scilab. A final step using a change of basis vector computes a vector auto regressive representation including Ramsey optimal policy rule function of lagged observable variables, when the exogenous forcing variables are not observable.
C62|Risk trading in capacity equilibrium models|We present a set of power investment models, the class of risky capacity equilibrium problems, reflecting different assumptions of perfect and imperfect markets. The models are structured in a unified stochastic Nash game framework. Each model is the concatenation of a model of the short-term market operations (perfect competition or Cournot), with a long-term model of investment behavior (risk neutral and risk averse behavior under different assumptions of risk trading). The models can all be formulated as complementarity problems, some of them having an optimization equivalent. We prove existence of solutions and report numerical results to illustrate the relevance of market imperfections on welfare and investment behavior. The models are constructed and discussed as two stage problems but we show that the extension to multistage is achieved by a change of notation and a standard assumption on multistage risk functions. We also treat a large multistage industrial model to illustrate the computational feasibility of the approach.
C62|The Effect of Firm Entry on Capacity Utilization and Macroeconomic Productivity|This paper argues that firm entry causes endogenous fluctuations in macroeconomic productivity through its effect on incumbent firms’ capacity utilization. The analysis shows that imperfect competition causes long-run excess entry leading to many small firms each with excess capacity. Since entry occurs slowly, macroeconomic shocks are initially borne by these incumbents who respond by altering their capacity utilization. As they vary utilization efficiency changes because of non-constant returns to scale and this aggregates to affect the economy’s productivity. In the long run, entry occurs and new firms dissipate the shock, which alleviates incumbents’ alteration in capacity. Therefore the endogenous productivity effect is temporary.
C62|Wealth distribution with random discount factors|To explain the Pareto tail behavior empirically observed in wealth distributions, the quantitative macro literature has occasionally assumed that agents have random discount factors. This paper formally proves that the stationary wealth distribution in a simple Huggett model with random discounting has power law tails and characterizes the Pareto exponents analytically. I find that in general there is no clear relationship between the return on wealth and inequality and that the Pareto exponent is highly sensitive to the persistence of the discount factor process. I also provide a practical guidance for how to characterize the Pareto exponents in richer models.
C62|A simple dynastic economy with parental time investment in children’s patience|This article explores the dynamics of a general equilibrium when an individual’s rate of time preferences is endogenous in a dynastic competitive economy. We postulate that altruistic parents allocate time to make their children patient to improve their lifetime welfare. The paper shows multiplicity and instability of the competitive equilibrium. Local and global indeterminacy emerges due to complementarity between a balanced growth rate and parental time allocation. Indeterminacy implies income and growth disparity among generations. In contrast, a balanced growth path is unique and determinate in the corresponding social optimum. A unique social optimum introduces a potential policy instrument for stabilizing a cyclical competitive equilibrium.
C62|Speculative behavior in a housing market: Boom and bust|We study a housing market with household buyers, speculative investors and property developers in a Walrasian scenario. We show that in addition to the factors that affect the real demand of household buyers and the development cost of property developers, investors' speculative behavior is an important factor explaining housing price evolution and dynamics. In particular, investors' extrapolative expectations may drive the housing price to persistently deviate from its benchmark value and even to explode. In contrast, investors' mean-reverting strategy can balance out the position of trend extrapolators, which may stabilize an otherwise explosive housing market. Moreover, the evolutionary process of housing prices driven by investors' speculative behavior is path-dependent in the sense that different initial market conditions may result in different price paths, which corresponds to the localization property empirically documented in the real housing market. In addition, within the stylized model, we provide some policy implications through analyzing the limitation and effectiveness of policy adjustments via down payment and development cost, and find that the decrease of development cost is a better measure to adjust the housing market when it booms or busts.
C62|Physical Basis Of Sustainable Development| This work is based on the talk given by Csernai at the Blue Sky International Conference in the Buda Castle on October 30, 2015, Budapest, Hungary. The human development on the Earth is analysed based on basic physical principles and the available resources. The areal and material resources are obviously ﬁnite, but the very fundamen¬tal energy resources are suﬃcient for solid and sustainable continuing development. These energy resources can compensate many of the constraints arising from the ﬁnite material resources. The development is going in the direction of increasing complexity on the surface of the Earth, due to the increasing green mass and the developing biological and material complex structures. This sustainable development is enabled by the astrophysical conditions and con¬straints and these conditions provide a good possibility for continuous further development in a sus¬tainable way. This development is characterized by the increasing neg-entropy on the surface of the Earth. -------------------------------------------------------- A cikk Csernai László előadásán alapul, amit a Budai Várban a Blue Sky nemzetközi tanácskozáson tartott, 2015. október 30-án. A Földön az emberi fejlődést az alapvető fizikai elvek és a rendelkezésre álló források alapján tanulmányozzuk. A rendelkezésünkre álló terület és az anyagi források nyilvánvalóan végesek, de az alapvető energiaforrások elegendőek egy szilárd és fenntartható folytonos fejlődéshez. Ezek az energiaforrások kiegyenlíteni tudják a véges anyagi forrásokból eredő megszorításokat. A fejlődés az összetettebb rendszerek irányába történik a Föld felszínén, a növekvő zöldtömeg és a fejlődő biológiai és összetett anyagi rendszerek kialakulásával. Ezt a fenntartható fejlődést az asztrofizikai feltételek és korlátok teszik lehetővé, amelyek jó feltételeket biztosítanak a további folytonos fejlődésnek egy fenntartható módon. Ez a fejlődés a Föld felületén a növekvő neg-entrópia kialakulásával jellemezhető.
C62|Sunspot Fluctuations in Two-Sector Models with Variable Income Effects|We analyze a version of the Benhabib and Farmer [3] two-sector model with sector-specific externalities in which we consider a class of utility functions inspired from the one considered in Jaimovich and Rebelo [14] which is flexible enough to encompass varying degrees of income effect. First, we show that local indeterminacy and sunspot fluctuations occur in 2-sector models under plausible configurations regarding all structural parameters – in particular regarding the intensity of income effects. Second, we prove that there even exist some configurations for which local indeterminacy arises under any degree of income effect. More precisely, for any given size of income effect, we show that there is a non-empty range of values for the Frisch elasticity of labor and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in consumption such that indeterminacy occurs. This contrasts with the results obtained in one-sector models in both Nishimura et al. [19], in which it is shown that indeterminacy cannot occur under either GHH and KPR preferences, and in Jaimovich [13] in which local indeterminacy only arises for intermediary income effects.
C62|Contagion and fire sales in banking networks|The paper develops a theoretical framework to analyze the connection between the structure of banking networks and their resilience to systemic shocks. We base our analysis on the model of interbank contagion proposed by Cifuentes, Ferrucci and Shin (2005), which accounts for the impact of illiquid assets' fire sales. We develop this model along three main lines: (i) analytically proving, in a general setting, the existence of an equilibrium and the convergence of the algorithm that can be used to compute it; (ii) extending the scope of the simulations (e.g., including an assessment of the resilience of different stylized network topologies and a sensitivity analysis); (iii) generalizing the model to deal with the case where more than one illiquid asset is available on the market.
C62|The Linear Systems Approach To Linear Rational Expectations Models|This paper considers linear rational expectations models from the linear systems point of view. Using a generalization of the Wiener-Hopf factorization, the linear systems approach is able to furnish very simple conditions for existence and uniqueness of both particular and generic linear rational expectations models. As applications of this approach, the paper provides results for existence of sequential solutions to block triangular systems and provides an exhaustive description of stationary and unit root solutions, including a generalization of Granger's representation theorem. In addition, the paper provides an innovative numerical solution to the Wiener-Hopf factorization and its generalization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|Sunspot fluctuations in two-sector models: New results with additively separable preferences|We analyze local indeterminacy and sunspot-driven fluctuations in the standard two-sector model with additively separable preferences. We provide a detailed theoretical analysis enabling us to derive relevant bifurcation loci and to characterize the steady-state local stability properties as a function of various structural parameters influencing the degree of increasing returns to scale, the amount of intertemporal substitution in consumption, and the elasticity of the aggregate labor supply curve. On the theoretical side, we prove the existence of both a flip and a Hopf bifurcation locus in the corresponding parameter space. We also show that local indeterminacy can be obtained under any labor supply elasticity or under an arbitrarily low elasticity of intertemporal substitution in consumption. On the empirical side, we find that indeterminacy and sunspot fluctuations are robust features of two-sector models, prevailing for most empirically plausible calibrations for these parameters.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|The Gravitation of Market Prices as A Stochastic Process|The theory of value has been based ever since Adam Smith on the idea that the market prices of commodities, those at which actual trade takes place, gravitate around a central position known as natural prices. This paper seeks to develop a statistical idea of the process in question and suggests in particular that market prices can be said to gravitate around natural prices if the probability of their means being very close to natural prices after t observations tends to 1 as t tends to infinity. A set of possible conditions leading to that result is also presented.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|The Taylor principle is valid under wage stickiness|We consider the textbook neo-Keynesian model with staggered prices and wages in discrete time. We prove analytically that the Taylor principle holds in this case. When both contracts exhibit sluggish adjustment to market conditions, the policy maker faces a trade-off between stabilizing three welfare relevant variables: output, price inflation and wage inflation. We consider a monetary policy rule designed accordingly: the central banker can react to both inflations and the output gap. In addition to generalizing the Taylor principle we show that the frontier of determinacy embeds the frontier derived with staggered prices only, generalizes the frontier of determinacy in the limit case of continuous time and is symmetric in price and wage inflations.
C62|House prices and monetary policy|This paper analyzes global dynamics in an overlapping generations general equilibrium model with housing-wealth effects. It demonstrates that monetary policy cannot burst rational bubbles in the housing market. Under monetary policy rules of the Taylor-type, there exist global self-fulfilling paths of house prices along a heteroclinic orbit connecting multiple equilibria. From bifurcation analysis, the orbit features a boom (bust) in house prices when monetary policy is more (less) active. The paper also proves that booms or busts cannot be ruled out by interest-rate feedback rules responding to both inflation and house prices.
C62|From Sunspots to Black Holes: Singular dynamics in macroeconomic models|We present conditions for the emergence of singularities in DGE models. We distinguish between slow-fast and impasse singularity types, review geometrical methods to deal with both types of singularity and apply them to DGE dynamics. We find that impasse singularities can generate new types of DGE dynamics, in particular temporary determinacy/indeterminacy. We illustrate the different nature of the two types of singularities and apply our results to two simple models: the Benhabib and Farmer (1994) model and one with a cyclical fiscal policy rule.
C62|An Analytical And Numerical Search For Bifurcations In Open Economy New Keynesian Models|We explore bifurcation phenomena in the open-economy New Keynesian model developed by Gali and Monacelli (2005). We find that the open economy framework brings about more complex dynamics, along with a wider variety of qualitative behaviors and policy responses. Introducing parameters related to the open economy structure affects the values of bifurcation parameters and changes the location of bifurcation boundaries. As a result, the stratification of the confidence region, as previously seen in closed-economy New Keynesian models, remains an important research and policy risk to be considered in the context of the open-economy New Keynesian functional structures. In fact, econometrics and optimal policy design become more complex within an open economy. Dynamical inferences need to be qualified by the risk of bifurcation boundaries crossing the confidence regions. Policy design needs to take into consideration that a change in monetary policy can produce an unanticipated bifurcation, without adequate prior econometrics research.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|Public Spending As A Source Of Endogenous Business Cycles In A Ramsey Model With Many Agents|We introduce public spending, financed through income taxation, in the Ramsey model with heterogeneous agents. Public spending as a source of welfare generates more complex dynamics. In contrast to previous contributions focusing on similar models but with wasteful public spending, limit cycles through Hopf bifurcation and expectation-driven fluctuations appear if the degree of capital-labor substitution is large enough to be compatible with capital income monotonicity. Moreover, unlike frameworks with a representative agent, our results do not require externalities in production and are compatible with a weakly elastic labor supply with respect to wage.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C62|Uniqueness and Stability of Equilibrium in Economies with Two Goods|We offer new sufficient conditions ensuring demand is downward sloping local to equilibrium. It follows that equilibrium is unique and stable in the sense that rising supply implies falling prices. In our setting, there are two goods, which we interpret as consumption in different time periods, and many impatience types. Agents have the same Bernoulli utility function, but the types differ arbitrarily in time preference. Our main result is that if endowments are identical and utility displays nonincreasing absolute risk aversion, then market demand is strictly downward sloping local to equilibrium. We discuss implications for the Diamond-Dybvig literature.
C62|Monetary Policy With Constant Real Stock Of Bonds|The equilibrium growth path stated in this paper is based on the IS-LM- SRAS model augmented with the dynamics of expected inflation and real wealth, developed by Sidrauski and Turnovski . In our previous papers, we computed the IS-LM equilibrium for the linear model and defined the dynamic system. In this work, we estimated the parameters using statistical data for Romania during 2001Q2-2014Q2 and computed the multipliers. These parameters and multipliers were further used to compute the coefficients of the two dimensional dynamic system. We further augmented the dynamic system, with an objective function, reflecting the sum of the square differences of the real actual government expenditures, from the values established by fiscal policy. We applied the Pontryagin’s Principle in order to compute the optimal conditions of the optimal control problem. The overall dynamics of the economy is computed for short run, considering the monetary policy of constant stock of bound, using Runge-Kutta algorithm in MATLAB. The dynamics of the system was analyzed via phase diagram. The results reflect the fact that the economy is in an unstable zone, with expected inflation decreasing and real wealth increasing, fact that determines us to add an objective function for minimizing the square differences of the government expenditures from the stationary ones during 2016Q1-2017Q4.
C62|Stability Analysis Of Some Dynamical Models For Prices With Distributed Delays|In the present paper, we study two nonlinear systems which describe the price dynamics of a single commodity market. The market price is expressed with the demand and supply functions for the commodity. The distributed time delay is introduced in the demand and supply prices. It is assumed that the consumer and producer behavior depends on the weighted function of the past prices. The demand can take into account the recent price and the past demand price. The producer can consider the past supply price. Thus, we obtain two nonlinear mathematical models for the price dynamics. In some conditions, there is only one positive equilibrium point. The stability of the equilibrium point and the existence of periodic solutions are investigated. We find the conditions so that the equilibrium point is locally asymptotically stable. The numerical simulations illustrate the effectiveness of our results and some conclusions and future research are provided.
C62|Determinacy analysis in high order dynamic systems: The case of nominal rigidities and limited asset market participation|We show how to use Hurwitz polynomials to study the stability and uniqueness of Rational Expectation equilibria (REE) in Dynamic General Equilibrium models (DGE). We apply this method to a model characterized by sticky wages and prices and by limited asset market participation (LAMP). We prove analytically in a fourth-order dynamics system that, once nominal wage stickiness is taken into account, LAMP does not invalidate the Taylor Principle.
C62|Bertand Competition and the Existence of Pure Strategy Nash Equilibrium in Markets with Adverse Selection|I analyse a market with adverse selection in which companies competè a la Bertrand by offering menus of contracts. Contrary to Rothschild and Stiglitz (1976), I allow for any finite number of types and states and more general utility functions. I define the generalised Rothschild-Stiglitz Profile of Actions (RSPA), and I show that, in every possible market, if the RSPA is efficient, it is also a pure strategy Nash equilibrium profile of actions. On the contrary, I show that in markets in which the RSPA is not efficient, preferences admit an expected utility representation with strictly increasing and strictly concave VNM utilities and a weak sorting condition holds, no pure strategy Nash equilibrium exists.
C62|Government Debt and the Returns to Innovation|Elevated levels of government debt raise concerns about their effects on long-term growth prospects. This study shows that (i) high-R&D firms are more exposed to government debt and pay higher expected returns than low-R&D firms; and (ii) higher levels of the debt-to-GDP ratio predict higher risk premia for high-R&D firms. Furthermore, rises in the cost of capital for innovation-intensive firms are associated with declines in subsequent R&D activity and economic growth. We study these findings in a production-based asset pricing model with endogenous innovation. By accounting for fiscal and political risk, our model reproduces several aspects of the empirical evidence.
C62|Optimal monetary policy under learning and structural uncertainty in a New Keynesian model with a cost channel and inflation inertia|We investigate whether expectations-based optimal monetary policy rules under discretion and under commitment can enforce a determinate and least squares learnable rational expectations equilibrium (REE) in a New Keynesian model with inflation inertia and a cost channel of monetary policy transmission. Our numerical results show that commitment rules can enforce a determinate and learnable REE for all parameter constellations considered, whereas discretionary rules are not always able to enforce the same desirable outcome in the economy. We also examine different types of misapprehensions in policy-making and find that an incorrect assessment of the economy׳s true structure by the central bank greatly affects its capability to enforce a determinate and learnable, although suboptimal, REE. Thus, our numerical results highlight the relevance of this type of analysis for the design and conduct of monetary policy.
C62|Equilibria under monetary and fiscal policy interactions in a portfolio choice model|This paper studies how the presence of income-taxes changes the properties of general equilibrium models with monetary and fiscal policy interactions. It is found that from a global perspective, the only policy regime that leads to a unique equilibrium is one where fiscal policy is active, i.e. the fiscal theory of the price level regime in Sims (1994). From a local perspective, there are three regimes. In particular, and relative to the previous literature following Leeper (1991), a new third regime exists where a passive fiscal rule combined with a passive monetary rule can still deliver determinacy where the same area of the parameter space would lead to multiple solutions if taxes were lump sum. To obtain the size of the new regime, the paper characterizes analytically the extent to which tax cuts are self-financing and how the distortionary tax Laffer curve looks near the steady state. In the new regime, monetary and fiscal backstops are brought into play so as to rule out off equilibrium dynamics, and inflation can temporarily increase in order to increase seigniorage revenues. With this flexibility, the monetary policy is consistent with the real debt remaining bounded, and the arithmetic that follows is monetarist and unpleasant in the sense of Sargent and Wallace (1981).
C62|Equilibrium of financial derivative markets under portfolio insurance constraints|This paper examines the equilibrium of financial portfolios under insurance constraints on terminal wealth. We consider a single period economy in which agents search to maximize the expected utilities of their wealth at maturity. Three main classes of financial assets are considered: a riskless asset (usually the bond), a risky asset (the stock) and European options of all strikes (corresponding to financial derivatives). Both partial and general optimal financial equilibria are determined and analyzed for quite general utility functions and insurance constraints.
C62|Endogenous evolution of heterogeneous consumers preferences: Multistability and coexistence between groups|We propose an exchange economy evolutionary model with agents heterogeneous in the structure of preferences. Assuming that the share updating mechanism is non-monotone in the calorie intake, we find multistability phenomena involving equilibria characterized by the coexistence of heterogeneous agents.
C62|On sufficient conditions for the existence of stable matchings with contracts|We introduce two new sufficient conditions for the existence of stable outcomes in many-to-one matching with contracts. The conditions subsume the observable substitutability of Hatfield et al. (2015) and the substitutable completability of Hatfield and Kominers (2016) as special cases. We also prove that unilaterally substitutability and irrelevance of rejected contracts imply substitutable completability.
C62|Stability of Cournot equilibria under discrete best-reply dynamics with non-negative output constraints|This paper explores the stability of Cournot equilibria under discrete best-reply dynamics with non-negative output constraints. When firms produce complement goods, Cournot equilibria are the unique and globally stable solutions of the dynamics under some stability conditions, and all firms will survive in the long run regardless of their efficiency levels. By contrast, if firms produce substitute goods, Cournot equilibria are neither the limit of the dynamics nor stable unless all firms are efficient enough.
C62|The dynamics of bequeathed tastes with endogenous fertility|In contrast with the existing literature with overlapping generations, aspirations and exogenous fertility, this article shows that endogenous fertility prevents endogenous fluctuations in a general equilibrium economy.
C62|When does the cost channel pose a challenge to inflation targeting central banks?|In a sticky-price model where firms finance their production inputs, there is both a lower and an upper bound on the central bank's inflation response necessary to rule out the possibility of self-fulfilling inflation expectations. This paper shows that real wage rigidities decrease this upper bound, but coefficients in the range of those on the Taylor rule place the economy well within the determinacy region. However, when there is time-variation in the share of firms who finance their inputs (i.e. Markov-switching) then inflation targeting interest rate rules frequently result in indeterminacy, even if the central bank also targets output. Adding a nominal growth target to the policy rule can often alleviate this indeterminacy and therefore anchor inflation expectations.
C62|An exploration of a strategic competition model for the European Union natural gas market|Following Jansen et al. (2012), we examine an unconventional Cournot model of the European Union natural gas market with three major suppliers: Russian Gazprom, Norwegian Statoil, and Algerian Sonatrach. To reflect Russia's other strategic consideration besides profit, we incorporate a relative market share into Gazprom's objective function. We prove that when Gazprom pursues the control of market share along with profit, it will be good news for consumers but bad news for its pure profit maximising rivals. We further show that by seeking a proper market share, Gazprom can achieve the same profit of a Stackelberg leader in a simultaneous move model as in the standard sequential move leader–follower model. Compared with Jansen et al.’s, our approach makes both the analysis considerably simpler and more transparent, and the model more applicable.
C62|Borch’s theorem, equal margins, and efficient allocation|The economic concept of margin guides or justifies the sharing of risks and resources. Broadly, by Borch’s theorem, competing claimants, ends or users ought see equal margins along any efficient allocation.
C62|Path dependent coordination of expectations in asset pricing experiments: A behavioral explanation|In the learning-to-forecast laboratory experiments in Hommes et al. (2005), three different types of aggregate asset price behavior have been observed: monotonic convergence to the stable fundamental steady state, dampened price oscillations and permanent price oscillations. We present a simple behavioral 2-type heuristics switching model explaining individual as well as aggregate behavior in the experiment. Based on relative performance, agents switch between a simple trend following and an anchor and adjustment heuristic that differ in how much weight is given to the long run average price level. The nonlinear switching model exhibits path dependence through co-existence of a locally stable fundamental steady state and a stable (quasi-)periodic orbit, created via a so-called Chenciner bifurcation. Depending on initial states, agents coordinate individual expectations either on a stable fundamental steady state path or on almost self-fulfilling persistent price fluctuations around the fundamental steady state.
C62|On the learning and stability of mixed strategy Nash equilibria in games of strategic substitutes|This paper analyzes the learning and stability of mixed strategy Nash equilibria in games of strategic substitutes (GSS), complementing recent work done in the case of strategic complements (GSC). Mixed strategies in GSS are of particular interest because it is well known that such games need not exhibit pure strategy Nash equilibria. First, we establish bounds on the strategy space which indicate where randomizing behavior may occur in equilibrium. Second, we show that mixed strategy Nash equilibria are generally unstable under a wide variety of learning rules. Multiple examples are given.
C62|Existence of equilibria in discontinuous Bayesian games|We provide easily-verifiable sufficient conditions on the primitives of a Bayesian game to guarantee the existence of a behavioral-strategy Bayes–Nash equilibrium. We allow players' payoff functions to be discontinuous in actions, and illustrate the usefulness of our results via an example of an all-pay auction with general tie-breaking rules which cannot be handled by extant results.
C62|Finite-population evolution with rare mutations in asymmetric games|We model evolution according to an asymmetric game as occurring in multiple finite populations, one for each role in the game, and study the effect of subjecting individuals to stochastic strategy mutations. We show that, when these mutations occur sufficiently infrequently, the dynamics over all population states simplify to an ergodic Markov chain over just the pure population states (where each population is monomorphic). This makes calculation of the stationary distribution computationally feasible. The transition probabilities of this embedded Markov chain involve fixation probabilities of mutants in single populations. The asymmetry of the underlying game leads to fixation probabilities that are derived from frequency-independent selection, in contrast to the analogous single-population symmetric-game case (Fudenberg and Imhof, 2006). This frequency independence is useful in that it allows us to employ results from the population genetics literature to calculate the stationary distribution of the evolutionary process, giving sharper, and sometimes even analytic, results. We demonstrate the utility of this approach by applying it to a battle-of-the-sexes game, a Crawford–Sobel signalling game, and the beer-quiche game of Cho and Kreps (1987).
