C71|Modeling transfer profits as externalities in a cooperative game-theoretic model of natural gas networks|Existing cooperative game theoretic studies of bargaining power in gas pipeline systems are based on the so called characteristic function form (CFF). This approach is potentially misleading if some pipelines fall under regulated third party access (TPA). TPA, which is by now the norm in the EU, obliges the owner of a pipeline to transport gas for others, provided they pay a regulated transport fee. From a game theoretic perspective, this institutional setting creates so called “externalities”, the description of which requires partition function form (PFF) games. In this paper we propose a method to compute payoffs, reflecting the power structure, for a pipeline system with regulated TPA. The method is based on an iterative flow mechanism to determine gas flows and transport fees for individual players and uses the recursive core and the minimal claim function to convert the PPF game back into a CFF game, which can be solved by standard methods. We illustrate the approach with a simple stylized numerical example of the gas network in Central Eastern Europe with a focus on Ukraine's power index as a major transit country.
C71|Rationalizability, observability and common knowledge|We study the strategic impact of players' higher order uncertainty over the observability of actions in general two-player games. More specifically, we consider the space of all belief hierarchies generated by the uncertainty over whether the game will be played as a static game or with perfect information. Over this space, we characterize the correspondence of a solution concept which represents the behavioral implications of Rationality and Common Belief in Rationality (RCBR), where `rationality' is understood as sequential whenever a player moves second. We show that such a correspondence is generically single-valued, and that its structure supports a robust refinement of rationalizability, which often has very sharp implications. For instance: (i) in a class of games which includes both zero-sum games with a pure equilibrium and coordination games with a unique efficient equilibrium, RCBR generically ensures efficient equilibrium outcomes; (ii) in a class of games which also includes other well-known families of coordination games, RCBR generically selects components of the Stackelberg pro les; (iii) if common knowledge is maintained that player 2's action is not observable (e.g., because 1 is commonly known to move earlier, etc.), in a class of games which includes of all the above RCBR generically selects the equilibrium of the static game most favorable to player 1.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C71|Duality for General TU-games Redefined|"We criticize some conceptual weaknesses in the recent literature on coalitional TUgames and propose, based on our critics, a new definition of dual TU-games that coincides with the one in the literature on the class of super-additive games. We justify our new definition in four alternative ways: 1. Via an adequate definition of ecient payo vectors. 2. Via a modification of the Bondareva-Shapley duality. 3. Via an explicit consideration of \coalition building"". 4. Via associating general TU-games to coalition-production economies. Rather than imputations, we base our analysis on a modification of aspirations."
C71|Shapley regressions: a framework for statistical inference on machine learning models|Machine learning models often excel in the accuracy of their predictions but are opaque due to their non-linear and non-parametric structure. This makes statistical inference challenging and disqualifies them from many applications where model interpretability is crucial. This paper proposes the Shapley regression framework as an approach for statistical inference on non-linear or non-parametric models. Inference is performed based on the Shapley value decomposition of a model, a pay-off concept from cooperative game theory. I show that universal approximators from machine learning are estimation consistent and introduce hypothesis tests for individual variable contributions, model bias and parametric functional forms. The inference properties of state-of-the-art machine learning models — like artificial neural networks, support vector machines and random forests — are investigated using numerical simulations and real-world data. The proposed framework is unique in the sense that it is identical to the conventional case of statistical inference on a linear model if the model is linear in parameters. This makes it a well-motivated extension to more general models and strengthens the case for the use of machine learning to inform decisions.
C71|Value-Capture in the Face of Known and Unknown Unknowns|A large theoretical literature on value capture following Brandenburger and Stuart (1996) uses cooperative games under complete information to study how and why firms earn supernormal profits. However, firms often have different information, beliefs, or creative foresight. We extend value capture theory to incomplete information (``known unknowns'') or unawareness (``unknown unknowns''), and illustrate some conceptual issues with that extension. Using the case study of Cirque du Soleil, we show how an entrepreneurial firm can profit even when it does not contribute materially to value creation.
C71|An experimental study on the effects of communication, credibility, and clustering in network games|The effectiveness of social interaction depends strongly on an ability to coordinate actions efficiently. In large networks, such coordination may be very difficult to achieve and may depend on the communication technology and the network structure. We examine how pre-play communication and clustering within networks affect coordination in a challenging experimental game on eight-person networks. Free-form chat is enormously effective in achieving the non-equilibrium efficient outcome in our game, but restricted communication (where subjects can only indicate their intended action) is almost entirely ineffective. We can rationalize this result with a novel model about the credibility of cheap-talk messages. This credibility is much larger with freeform message communication than with restricted communication. We are the first to model this credibility and show, both theoretically and experimentally, an interaction effect of network structure and communication technologies. We also provide a model of message diffusion, which indeed predicts that diffusion will be more rapid without clustering and is consistent with our data.
C71|A Dynamic Game with Interaction between Kantian Players and Nashian Players|This paper defines the concept of feedback Kant-Nash equilibrium for a discrete-time model of resource exploitation by infinitely-lived Kantian and Nashian players, where we define Kantian agents as those who act in accordance with the categorical imperative. We revisit a well-known dynamic model of the tragedy of the commons and ask what would happen if not all agents are solely motivated by self interest. We establish that even without external punishment of violation of social norms, if a sufficiently large fraction of the population consists of Kantian agents, the tragedy of the commons can be substantially mitigated.
C71|Axiomatizations of the Shapley Value for Upstream Responsibility Games|In this paper the problem of sharing the cost of emission in supply chains are considered. We focus on allocation problems that can be described by rooted trees, called cost-tree problems, and on the induced transferable utility cooperative games, called upstream responsibility games (Gopalakrishnan et al., 2017). The formal notion of upstream responsibility games is introduced, and the characterization of the class of these games is provided. The Shapley value (Shapley, 1953) is probably the most popular value for transferable utility cooperative games. In Radvanyi (2018b) we showed that Shapley's (Shapley, 1953) and Young's (Young, 1985) axiomatizations of the Shapley value are valid on the class of upstream responsibility games. According to Gopalakrishnan et al. (2017) we introduce some pollution related properties and we relate them to the TU games terminologies.
C71|Gender Differences in Volunteer's Dilemma: Evidence from Teamwork among Graduate Students|Using data from room bookings at the Harvard Kennedy School, I find that female students volunteer significantly more than male students in booking rooms for team meetings. I also find that gender difference in undertaking this logistical task is statistically and quantitatively significant only when students have limited interaction prior to teamwork. Even though booking a room involves a relatively small (time) cost, such costs can add up, and also contribute to gender stereotyping in allocation of tasks in other team settings.
C71|A Perfectly Robust Approach to Multiperiod Matching Problems|Many two-sided matching situations involve multiperiod interaction. Traditional cooperative solutions, such as stability and the core, often identify unintuitive outcomes (or are empty) when applied to such markets. As an alternative, this study proposes the criterion of perfect alpha-stability. An outcome is perfect alpha-stable if no coalition prefers an alternative assignment in any period that is superior for all plausible market continuations. Behaviorally, the solution combines foresight about the future and a robust evaluation of contemporaneous outcomes. A perfect alpha-stable matching exists, even when preferences exhibit inter-temporal complementarities. A stronger solution, the perfect alpha-core, is also investigated. Extensions to markets with arrivals and departures, transferable utility, and many-to-one assignments are proposed.
C71|The Nucleolus, the Kernel, and the Bargaining Set: An Update|One of the many important contributions in David Schmeidler's distinguished career was the introduction of the nucleolus. This paper is an update on the nucleolus and its two related supersolutions, i.e., the kernel and the bargaining set.
C71|Marginality, dividends, and the value in games with externalities|In the absence of externalities, marginality is equivalent to an independence property that rests on Harsanyi‘s dividends. These dividends identify the surplus inherent to each coalition. Independence states that a player‘s payoff stays the same if only dividends of coalitions to which this player does not belong to change. We introduce notions of marginality and independence for games with externalities. We measure a player‘s contribution in an embedded coalition by the change in the worth of this coalition that results when the player is removed from the game. We provide a characterization result using efficiency, anonymity, and marginality or independence, which generalizes Young‘s characterization of the Shapley value. An application of our result yields a new characterization of the solution put forth by Macho-Stadler et al. (J Econ Theor, 135, 2007, 339-356) without linearity, as well as for almost all generalizations put forth in the literature. The introduced method also allows us to investigate egalitarian solutions and to reveal how accounting for externalities may result in a deviation from the Shapley value. This is exemplified with a new solution that is designed in a way to not reward external effects, while at the same time it cannot be assumed that any partition is the default partition.
C71|The risk-based core for cooperative games with uncertainty|In coalitional games with uncertain payoffs, a deviating coalition can only form expectations regarding its post-deviation payoff. Classical approaches address the problem from the side of conservatism, expecting the worst, or by explicit assumptions of the emerging state of the world. We borrow the idea of risk from the finance literature and compare the payoff of staying with the original outcome with the risk of deviating. Employing this idea to the core leads to a new concept that we call the risk-based core. We introduce this concept and discuss its properties. We find an inclusion relation between cores of games with increasingly conservative players. The model is also suitable to study cooperative games in partition function form where the value of a coalition depends on the entire partition. For the cores of such games our main result yields many of the familiar inclusion relations as corollaries, while the inclusion of the optimistic core in the optimistic recursive core turns out to be non-robust.
C71|Weighted nucleoli and dually essential coalitions (extended version)|We study linearly weighted versions of the least core and the (pre)nucleolus and investigate the reduction possibilities in their computation. We slightly extend some well-known related results and establish their counterparts by using the dual game. Our main results imply, for example, that if the core of the game is not empty, all dually inessential coalitions (which can be weakly minorized by a partition in the dual game) can be ignored when we compute the per-capita least core and the per-capita (pre)nucleolus from the dual game. This could lead to the design of polynomial time algorithms for the per-capita (and other monotone nondecreasingly weighted versions of the) least core and the (pre)nucleolus in specific classes of balanced games with polynomial many dually essential coalitions.
C71|Experimental Evidence on Cooperation, Political Affiliation, and Group Size|The main objective of this paper is to strengthen the knowledge about the relationship be-tween cooperation and political affiliation. For this purpose, I carry out an incentivized N-person prisoner’s dilemma experiment. I find that left-wing voters cooperate more than right-wing voters in 3-person prisoner’s dilemmas. However, this difference in cooperation tapers off with group size due to a heterogeneous response to larger decision groups. While leftists cooperate less as the group size increases, I find no significant group size effect for rightists. These findings can partly be explained by differences in beliefs about the cooperativeness of others, but a substantial part remains unexplained.
C71|Welfare egalitarianism in surplus-sharing problems and convex games|We show that the constrained egalitarian surplus-sharing rule, which divides the surplus so that the poorer players’ resulting payoffs become equal but not larger than any remaining player’s status quo payoff, is characterized by Pareto optimality, path independence, both well-known, and less first (LF), requiring that a player does not gain if her status quo payoff exceeds that of another player by the surplus. This result is used to show that, on the domain of convex games, Dutta-Ray’s egalitarian solution is characterized by aggregate monotonicity (AM), bounded pairwise fairness, resembling LF, and the bilateral reduced game property (2-RGP) à la Davis and Maschler. We show that 2-RGP can be replaced by individual rationality and bilateral consistency à la Hart and Mas-Colell. We prove that the egalitarian solution is the unique core selection that satisfies AM and bounded richness, requiring that the poorest players cannot be made richer within the core. Replacing “poorest” by “poorer” allows to eliminate AM.
C71|Consistency Of The Equal Split-Off Set|This paper axiomatically studies the equal split-o set [Branzei, Dimitrov, Tijs 2006) as a solution for cooperative games with transferable utility. This solution extends the well-known [Dutta Ray 1989] solution for convex games to arbitrary games. By deriving several characterizations, we explore the relation of the equal split-o set with various consistency notions.
C71|Stability against Robust Deviations in the Roommate Problem|We propose a new solution concept in the roommate problem, based on the “robustness” of deviations (i.e., blocking coalitions). We call a deviation from a matching robust up to depth k, if none of the deviators gets worse off than at the original matching after any sequence of at most k subsequent deviations. We say that a matching is stable against robust deviations (for short, SaRD) up to depth k, if there is no robust deviation up to depth k. As a smaller k imposes a stronger requirement for amatching to be SaRD, we investigate the existence of a matching that is SaRD with a minimal depth k. We constructively demonstrate that a SaRDmatching always exists for k = 3, and establish sufficient conditions for k = 1 and 2.
C71|An Experimental Study on the Effects of Communication, Credibility, and Clustering in Network Games|The effectiveness of social interaction depends strongly on an ability to coordinate actions efficiently. In large networks, such coordination may be very difficult to achieve and may depend on the communication technology and the network structure. We examine how pre-play communication and clustering within networks affect coordination in a challenging experimental game on eight-person networks. Free-form chat is enormously effective in achieving the non-equilibrium efficient outcome in our game, but restricted communication (where subjects can only indicate their intended action) is almost entirely ineffective. We can rationalize this result with a novel model about the credibility of cheap-talk messages. This credibility is much larger with free-form message communication than with restricted communication. We are the first to model this credibility and show, both theoretically and experimentally, an interaction effect of network structure and communication technologies. We also provide a model of message diffusion, which indeed predicts that diffusion will be more rapid without clustering and is consistent with our data.
C71|A General Derivation of Axiomatizations for Allocation Rules: Duality and Anti-Duality Approach|"We offer a general derivation of axiomatizations for allocation rules, referred to as ""duality"" and ""anti-duality"" approach. We show basic properties of duality and antiduality approach. Using these properties, we can derive axiomatizations of allocation rules by taking (anti-)dual of axioms involved in axiomatizations of their self-(anti-)dual rules. As an illustration, we derive a new axiomatization of the Shapley value for bidding ring problems from using the notion of duality and axioms involved in axiomatizations of the Shapley value for airport problems. As another illustration, we derive a new axiomatization of the nucleolus for bidding ring problems from using the notion of antiduality and axioms involved in axiomatizations of the nucleolus for airport problems."
C71|The Nucleolus, the Kernel, and the Bargaining Set: An Update| One of David Schmeidler’s many important contributions in his distinguished career was the introduction of the nucleolus, one of the central single-valued solution concepts in cooperative game theory. This paper is an updated survey on the nucleolus and its two related supersolutions, i.e., the kernel and the bargaining set. As a first approach to these concepts, we refer the reader to the great survey by Maschler (1992); see also the relevant chapters in Peleg and Sudholter (2003). Building on the notes of four lectures on the nucleolus and the kernel delivered by one of the authors at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1999, we have updated Maschler’s survey by adding more recent contributions to the literature. Following a similar structure, we have also added a new section that covers the bargaining set. The nucleolus has a number of desirable properties, including nonemptiness, uniqueness, core selection, and consistency. The first way to understand it is based on an egalitarian principle among coalitions. However, by going over the axioms that characterize it, what comes across as important is its connection with coalitional stability, as formalized in the notion of the core. Indeed, if one likes a single-valued version of core stability that always yields a prediction, one should consider the nucleolus as a recommendation. The kernel, which contains the nucleolus, is based on the idea of “bilateral equilibrium” for every pair of players. And the bargaining set, which contains the kernel, checks for the credibility of objections coming from coalitions. In this paper, section 2 presents preliminaries, section 3 is devoted to the nucleolus, section 4 to the kernel, and section 5 to the bargaining set.
C71|The Choice of Institutions to Solve Cooperation Problems: A Survey of Experimental Research|A growing experimental literature studies the endogenous choice of institutions to solve cooperation problems arising in prisoners’ dilemmas, public goods games, and common pool resource games. Participants in these experiments have the opportunity to influence the rules of the game before they play the game. In this paper, we review the experimental literature of the last 20 years on the choice of institutions and describe what has been learned about the quality and the determinants of institutional choice. Almost all institutions improve cooperation if they are implemented, but they are not always implemented by the players. Institutional costs, remaining free-riding incentives, and a lack of learning opportunities are the most important barriers. At the individual level, own cooperativeness and beliefs about other players’ behavior can be identified as important determinants of institutional choice. Cooperation tends to be higher under endogenously chosen institutions than exogenously imposed institutions. However, a significant share of players fails to implement the institution and they often perform poorly, which is why we cannot conclude that letting people choose is better than enforcing institutions from outside.
C71|A Generalization of Peleg's Representation Theorem on Constant-Sum Weighted Majority|We propose a variant of the nucleolus associated with distorted satisfaction of each coalition in TU games. This solution is referred to as the α-nucleolus in which α is a profile of distortion rates of satisfaction of all the coalitions. We apply the α-nucleolus to constant-sum weighted majority games. We show that under assumptions of distortions of satisfaction of winning coalitions the α-nucleolus is the unique normalized homogeneous representation of constant-sum weighted majority games which assigns a zero to each null player. As corollary of this result, we derive the well-known Peleg’s representation theorem.
C71|An Experimental Study on the Effects of Communication, Credibility, and Clustering in Network Games|The effectiveness of social interaction depends strongly on an ability to coordinate actions efficiently. In large networks, such coordination may be very difficult to achieve and may depend on the communication technology and the network structure. We examine how pre-play communication and clustering within networks affect coordination in a challenging experimental game on eight-person networks. Free-form chat is enormously effective in achieving the nonequilibrium efficient outcome in our game, but restricted communication (where subjects can only indicate their intended action) is almost entirely ineffective. We can rationalize this result with a novel model about the credibility of cheap-talk messages. This credibility is much larger with freeform message communication than with restricted communication. We are the first to model this credibility and show, both theoretically and experimentally, an interaction effect of network structure and communication technologies. We also provide a model of message diffusion, which indeed predicts that diffusion will be more rapid without clustering and is consistent with our data.
C71|A family of rules to share the revenues from broadcasting sport events|We consider the problem of sharing the revenues from broadcasting sport league events, introduced by Bergantiños and Moreno-Ternero (2019). We characterize a family of rules compromising between two focal and somewhat polar rules: the equal-split rule and concede-and-divide. The characterization only makes use of three basic axioms: equal treatment of equals, additivity and maximum aspirations. We also show further interesting features of the family: (i) if we allow teams to vote for any rule within the family, then a majority voting equilibrium exists; (ii) the rules within the family yield outcomes that are fully ranked according to the Lorenz dominance criterion; (iii) the family provides rationale for existing schemes in real-life situations.
C71|Duality for General TU-games Redefined|"We criticize some conceptual weaknesses in the recent literature on coalitional TUgames and propose, based on our critics, a new definition of dual TU-games that coincides with the one in the literature on the class of super-additive games. We justify our new definition in four alternative ways: 1. Via an adequate definition of efficient payoff vectors. 2. Via a modification of the Bondareva-Shapley duality. 3. Via an explicit consideration of \coalition building"". 4. Via associating general TU-games to coalition-production economies. Rather than imputations, we base our analysis on a modification of aspirations."
C71|Do Coalitions Matter in Designing Institutions?|In this paper, we re-examine the classical questions of implementation theory under complete information in a setting where coalitions are the fundamental behavioral units and the outcomes of their interactions are predicted by applying the solution concept of the core. The planner's exercise consists of designing a code of rights, which specifies the collection of coalitions that have the right to block one outcome by moving to another. A code of individual rights is a code of rights in which only unit coalitions may have blocking powers. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for implementation (under core equilibria) by codes of rights as well as by codes of individual rights. We show that these two modes of implementation are not equivalent. This result is proven robust and extends to alternative notions of core, such as that of an externally stable core. Therefore, coalitions are shown to bring value added to institutional design. The characterization results address the limitations that restrict the relevance of existing implementation theory.
C71|Mixed rules in multi‐issue allocation situations|Multi‐issue allocation situations study problems where an estate must be divided among a group of agents. The claim of each agent is a vector specifying the amount claimed by each agent on each issue. We present a two‐stage rule. First, we divide the estate among the issues following the constrained equal awards rule. Second, the amount assigned to each issue is divided among the agents in proportion to their demands on this issue. We apply the rule to two real‐world problems: the distribution of natural resources between countries and the distribution of budget for education and research between universities.
C71|Cooperative and axiomatic approaches to the knapsack allocation problem|In the knapsack problem a group of agents want to fill a knapsack with several goods. Two issues should be considered. Firstly, to decide optimally the goods selected for the knapsack, which has been studied in many papers. Secondly, to divide the total revenue among the agents, which has been studied in few papers (including this one). We assign to each knapsack problem several cooperative games. For some of them we prove that the core is non-empty. Later, we follow the axiomatic approach. We propose two rules. The first one is based on the optimal solution of the knapsack problem. The second one is the Shapley value of the so called optimistic game. We offer axiomatic characterizations of both rules.
C71|The Folk Rule for Minimum Cost Spanning Tree Problems with Multiple Sources|We consider a problem where a group of agents is interested in some goods provided by a supplier with multiple sources. To be served, each agent should be connected directly or indirectly to all sources of the supplier for a safety reason. This problem generalizes the classical minimum cost spanning problem with one source by allowing the possibility of multiple sources. In this paper, we extend the definitions of the folk rule to be suitable for minimal cost spanning tree problems with multiple sources and present its axiomatic characterizations.
C71|The folk rule through a painting procedure for minimum cost spanning tree problems with multiple sources|We consider minimum cost spanning tree problems with multiple sources. We propose a cost allocation rule based on a painting procedure. Agents paint the edges on the paths connecting them to the sources. We prove that the painting rule coincides with the folk rule.
C71|Value dividends, the Harsanyi set and extensions, and the proportional Harsanyi payoff|A new concept for TU-values, called value dividends, is introduced. Similar to Harsanyi dividends, value dividends are defined recursively and provide new characterizations of values from the Harsanyi set. In addition, we generalize the Harsanyi set where each of the TU-values from this set is defined by the distribution of the Harsanyi dividends via sharing function systems and give an axiomatic characterization. As a TU value from the generalized Harsanyi set, we present the proportional Harsanyi payoff, a new proportional solution concept. As a side benefit, a new characterization of the Shapley value is proposed. None of our characterizations uses additivity.
C71|Allocating costs in set covering problems|This paper deals with the problem of allocating costs in set covering situations. In particular, we focus on set covering situations where the optimal covering is given in advance. Thus, we take into account only the facilities that have to be opened and look for rules distributing their cost. We define a cooperative game and study the core and the nucleolus. We also introduce two new rules: the equal split rule on facilities and the serial rule. We axiomatically characterize the core, the nucleolus, and the two rules. Finally, we study several monotonicity properties of the rules.
C71|Uncertainty in cooperative interval games: How Hurwicz criterion compatibility leads to egalitarianism|We study cooperative interval games. These are cooperative games where the value of a coalition is given by a closed real interval specifying a lower bound and an upper bound of the possible outcome. For interval cooperative games, several (interval) solution concepts have been introduced in the literature. We assume that each player has a different attitude towards uncertainty by means of the so-called Hurwicz coefficients. These coefficients specify the degree of optimism that each player has, so that an interval becomes a specific payoff. We show that a classical cooperative game arises when applying the Hurwicz criterion to each interval game. On the other hand, the same Hurwicz criterion can be also applied to any interval solution of the interval cooperative game. Given this, we say that a solution concept is Hurwicz compatible if the two procedures provide the same final payoff allocation. When such compatibility is possible, we characterize the class of compatible solutions, which reduces to the egalitarian solution when symmetry is required. The Shapley value and the core solution cases are also discussed.
C71|Parallel axiomatizations of weighted and multiweighted Shapley values, random order values, and the Harsanyi set|We present new axiomatic characterizations of five classes of TU-values, the classes of the weighted, positively weighted, and multiweighted Shapley values, random order values, and the Harsanyi set. The axiomatizations are given in parallel, i.e., they differ only in one axiom. In conjunction with marginality, a new property, called coalitional differential dependence, is the key that allows us to dispense with additivity. In addition, we propose new axiomatizations of the above five classes, in which, in part new, different versions of monotonicity, associated with the strong monotonicity in Young (1985), are decisive.
C71|Characterization of the painting rule for multi-source minimal cost spanning tree problems|In this paper we provide an axiomatic characterization of the painting rule for minimum cost spanning tree problems with multiple sources. The properties we need are: cone-wise additivity, cost monotonicity, symmetry, isolated agents, and equal treatment of source costs.
C71|A family of rules to share the revenues from broadcasting sport events|We consider the problem of sharing the revenues from broadcasting sport league events, introduced by Bergantiños and Moreno-Ternero (2019). We characterize a family of rules compromising between two focal and somewhat polar rules: the equal-split rule and concede-and-divide}. The characterization only makes use of three basic axioms: equal treatment of equals}, additivity and maximum aspirations}}. We also show further interesting features of the family: (i) if we allow teams to vote for any rule within the family, then a majority voting equilibrium exists; (ii) the rules within the family yield outcomes that are fully ranked according to the Lorenz dominance criterion; (iii) the family provides rationale for existing schemes in real-life situations.
C71|Mechanism design with farsighted agents|Agents are farsighted when they consider the ultimate results to which their own actions may lead to. We re-examine the classical questions of implementation theory under complete information in a setting with transfers where farsighted coalitions are regarded as fundamental behavioral units and the equilibrium outcomes of their interactions are predicted via the stability notion of the largest consistent set. The designer's exercise consists of designing a rights structure, which formalizes the idea of power distribution in society. His or her challenge lies in designing a rights structure in which the equilibrium behavior of agents always coincides with the recommendation given by a social choice function. We show that (Maskin) monotonicity fully identifies the class of social choice functions that are implementable by a rights structure. We also discuss how this result changes when social choice correspondences are considered.
C71|Conventions and Coalitions in Repeated Games|We develop a theory of repeated interaction for coalitional behavior. We consider stage games where both individuals and coalitions may deviate. However, coalition members cannot commit to long-run behavior (on and off the path), and anticipate that today’s actions influence tomorrow’s behavior. We evaluate the degree to which history-dependence can ward off coalitional deviations. If monitoring is perfect, every feasible and strictly individually rational payoff can be supported by history-dependent conventions. By contrast, if players can make secret side-payments to each other, every coalition achieves a coalitional minmax value, reducing the set of supportable payoffs to the core of the stage game.
C71|Sharing the Cost of Maximum Quality Optimal Spanning Trees|Minimum cost spanning tree problems have been widely studied in operation research and economic literature. Multi-criteria optimal spanning trees provide a more realistic representation of di↵erent actual problems. Once an optimal tree is obtained, how to allocate its cost among the agents defines a situation quite di↵erent from what we have in the minimum cost spanning tree problems. In this paper, we analyze a multicriteria problem where the objective is to connect a group of agents to a source with the highest possible quality at the cheapest cost. We compute optimal networks and propose cost allocations for the total cost of the project. We analyze properties of the proposed solution; in particular, we focus on coalitional stability (core selection), a central concern in the literature on minimum cost spanning tree problems.
C71|An Egalitarian Approach for Sharing the Cost of a Spanning Tree|A minimum cost spanning tree problem analyzes the way to efficiently connect individuals to a source. Hence the question is how to fairly allocate the total cost among these agents. Our approach, reinterpreting the spanning tree cost allocation as a claims problem (O'Neill, 1982), defines a simple way to allocate the optimal cost with two main criteria: (1) each individual only pays attention to a few connection costs (the total cost of the optimal network and the cost of connecting by himself to the source); and (2) an egalitarian criteria is used to share costs or benefits. Then, by using claims rules, we define two egalitarian solutions so that the total cost is allocated equalizing either the payments in which agents incur, or the benefit that agents obtain throughout cooperation. Finally, through the axiomatic study of core selection, we obtain an alternative interpretation of the Folk solution.
C71|A Non-Cooperative Approach to the Folk Rule in Minimum Cost Spanning Tree Problems|This paper deals with the problem of finding a way to distribute the cost of a minimum cost spanning tree problem between the users. A rule that assigns a payoff to each agent provides this distribution. An optimistic point of view is considered to devise a cooperative game. Following this optimistic approach, a sequential game exerts this construction to define the action sets of the agents. The main result states the existence of a unique cost allocation in subgame perfect equilibria. This cost allocation matches the one suggested by the folk rule.
C71|Social Loss with Respect to the Core of an Economy with Externalities|We consider a pure exchange economy with externalities. We adopt a cooperative approach to equilibrium analysis, allowing each individual to cooperate with others and to form coalitions. Individual preferences are affected by the consumption of all other agents in the economy, and the consumption set of each agent is affected by the coalition to which he/she belongs. Following Montesano (2002), we introduce a measure of social loss with respect to the gamma-core and alpha-core of the economy which completely characterizes the corresponding core allocations.
C71|Bargaining with a residual claimant: An experimental study|We experimentally investigate a bargaining environment in which players negotiate over a xed payment to one player, while the other player receives the residual from a random pie realization after subtracting the xed payment. Contrary to the intuition that risk exposure is detrimental, we show that residual claimants are able to extract a risk premium, which is increasing in risk exposure. In some cases the premium is so high that it is advantageous to bargain over a risky pie rather than a risk-less pie. Contrary to theory, the comparatively less risk averse residual claimants benet the most. Moreover, bargaining frictions increase as risk increases, and we document more frequent disagreements as risk increases. When given the chance to choose a less or more risky distribution over which to bargain, residual claimants tend to choose the more risky distribution only when there is the possibility of an equal-split ex-post. Our results suggest that theoretical bargaining models require some separation between the determinants of bargaining power and fair compensation for risk exposure.
C71|Sharing a Polluted River under Waste Flow Control|When the cleaning up of a polluted transboundary river requires the cooperation of several agents (countries, regions, firms or cities) located along it, a challenging issue is how should the pollutant-cleaning costs be shared among them. An important factor ignored by literature so far concerns the ability for wastewater treatment of the river itself depending on both sediment types and ecological units (hydrophyte filter beds, aerobic digesters) in order to control waste flow from upstream to downstream. First, we introduce and implement a new cost sharing method for polluted river problems under waste ow control, called the Downstream Compensation method, which combines the two well-known conflicting theories in international river disputes, namely the Absolute Territorial Sovereignty and the Unlimitted Territorial Integrity. When the river does not have any wastewater treatment ability, the Downstream Compensation method coincides with the Downstream Equal Sharing method. At the other extreme case of full wastewater treatment within the river, the Downstream Compensation method corresponds to the Local Responsibility Sharing method. Second, we show that the Downstream Compensation method is obtained as the Shapley value of appropriately defined cooperative games with transferable utility. Finally, we prove that these games satisfy the concavity property, meaning that the proposed cost allocation scheme belongs to the core.
C71|Winning Coalitions in Plurality Voting Democracies|We study the issue of assigning weights to players that identify winning coalitions in plurality voting democracies. For this, we consider plurality games which are simple games in partition function form such that in every partition there is at least one winning coalition. Such a game is said to be precisely supportive if it is possible to assign weights to players in such a way that a coalition being winning in a partition implies that the combined weight of its members is maximal over all coalitions in the partition. A plurality game is decisive if in every partition there is exactly one winning coalition. We show that decisive plurality games with at most four players, majority games with an arbitrary number of players, and almost symmetric decisive plurality games with an arbitrary number of players are precisely supportive. Complete characterizations of a partition's winning coalitions are provided as well.
C71|The Shapley Value and Games with Hierarchies|In this paper we focus on restrictions arising from the players belonging to some hierarchical structure that is represented by a digraph. Two of these models are the games with a permission structure and games under precedence constraints. In both cases, the hierarchy can be represented by a directed graph which restricts the possibilities of coalition formation. These two approaches led to two different type of solutions in the literature. The precedence power solutions for games under precedence constraints, are axiomatized with an axiom that applies a network power measure to the precedence constraint. We will show that something similar can be done for games with a permission structure, and obtain a class of permission power solutions. This class contains the (conjunctive) permission value. With this we have two classes of solutions for games with a hierarchy, one based on permission structures and another based on precedence constraints, that are characterized by similar axioms. Moreover, the solutions are linked with network power measures.
C71|Consistency of the Equal Split-Off Set|This paper axiomatically studies the equal split-off set (cf. Branzei et al. (2006)) as a solution for cooperative games with transferable utility. This solution extends the well-known Dutta and Ray (1989) solution for convex games to arbitrary games. By deriving several characterizations, we explore the relation of the equal split-off set with various consistency notions.
C71|The Procedural Egalitarian Solution and Egalitarian Stable Games|This paper studies the procedural egalitarian solution on the class of egalitarian stable games. By deriving several axiomatic characterizations involving consistency and monotonicity, we show that the procedural egalitarian solution satisfies various desirable properties and unites many egalitarian concepts defined in the literature. Moreover, we illustrate the computational implications of these characterizations and relate the class of egalitarian stable games to other well-known classes.
C71|The Nucleolus and Inheritance of Properties in Communication Situations|This paper studies the nucleolus of graph-restricted games as an alternative for the Shapley value to evaluate communication situations. We focus on the inheritance of properties of cooperative games related to the nucleolus: balancedness (the nucleolus is in the core), compromise stability and strong compromise admissibility (these properties allow for a direct, closed formula for the nucleolus). We characterize the families of graphs for which the graph-restricted games inherit these properties from the underlying games. Moreover, for each of these properties, we characterize the family of graphs for which the nucleolus is invariant.
C71|Approval Voting and Shapley Ranking|"Approval voting allows voters to list any number of candidates. Their scores are obtained by summing the votes cast in their favor. Fractional voting instead follows the One-person-onevote principle by endowing voters with a single vote that they may freely distribute among candidates. In this paper, we show that to be fair, such a ranking requires a uniform distribution. It corresponds to Shapley ranking that was introduced to rank wines as the Shapley value of a cooperative game with transferable utility. We analyze the properties of these ""ranking games"" and provide an axiomatic foundation to Shapley ranking. We also analyze Shapley ranking as a social welfare function and compare it to approval ranking."
C71|Competitive Equilibria in Matching Models with Financial Constraints|We consider the one-to-one two-sided matching with contracts model in which buyers face financial constraints. In this model there is a stable outcome, but not necessarily a competitive equilibrium as defined in the standard way. We propose a new equilibrium notion, quantity-constrained competitive equilibrium (QCCE) that allows buyers to form rational expectations on the lack of supply when their financial constraints are binding. We show the existence of QCCEs and establish the equivalence among QCCE outcomes, stable outcomes, and core outcomes. We also analyze the existence of QCCEs with uniform prices, the lattice property of QCCEs, and the rural hospital theorem of QCCEs. We finally examine the relation between models with financial constraints and models with price controls.
C71|Rationalizability, Observability and Common Knowledge|We study the strategic impact of players' higher order uncertainty over the observability of actions in general two-player games. More specifically, we consider the space of all belief hierarchies generated by the uncertainty over whether the game will be played as a static game or with perfect information. Over this space, we characterize the correspondence of a solution concept which represents the behavioral implications of Rationality and Common Belief in Rationality (RCBR), where `rationality' is understood as sequential whenever a player moves second. We show that such a correspondence is generically single-valued, and that its structure supports a robust refinement of rationalizability, which often has very sharp implications. For instance: (i) in a class of games which includes both zero-sum games with a pure equilibrium and coordination games with a unique efficient equilibrium, RCBR generically ensures efficient equilibrium outcomes; (ii) in a class of games which also includes other well-known families of coordination games, RCBR generically selects components of the Stackelberg pro les; (iii) if common knowledge is maintained that player 2's action is not observable (e.g., because 1 is commonly known to move earlier, etc.), in a class of games which includes of all the above RCBR generically selects the equilibrium of the static game most favorable to player 1.
C71|Stability against Robust Deviations in the Roommate Problem|"We propose a new solution concept in the roommate problem, based on the ""robustness"" of deviations (i.e., blocking coalitions). We call a deviation from a matching robust up to depth k, if none of the deviators gets worse off than at the original matching after any sequence of at most k subsequent deviations. We say that a matching is stable against robust deviations (for short, SaRD) up to depth k, if there is no robust deviation up to depth k. As a smaller k imposes a stronger requirement for a matching to be SaRD, we investigate the existence of a matching that is SaRD with a minimal depth k. We constructively demonstrate that a SaRD matching always exists for k=3, and establish sufficient conditions for k=1 and 2."
C71|The choice of institutions to solve cooperation problems: A survey of experimental research|A growing experimental literature studies the endogenous choice of institutions to solve cooperation problems arising in prisoners' dilemmas, public goods games, and common pool resource games. Participants in these experiments have the opportunity to influence the rules of the game before they play the game. In this paper, we review the experimental literature of the last 20 years on the choice of institutions and describe what has been learned about the quality and the determinants of institutional choice. Almost all institutions improve cooperation if they are implemented, but they are not always implemented by the players. Institutional costs, remaining free-riding incentives, and a lack of learning opportunities are the most important barriers. At the individual level, own cooperativeness and beliefs about other players' behavior can be identified as important determinants of institutional choice. Cooperation tends to be higher under endogenously chosen institutions than exogenously imposed institutions. However, a significant share of players fails to implement the institution and they often perform poorly, which is why we cannot conclude that letting people choose is better than enforcing institutions from outside.
C71|The family of ideal values for cooperative games|In view of the nature of pursuing profit, a selfish coefficient function is employed to describe the degrees of selfishness of players in different coalitions, which is the desired rate of return to the worth of coalitions. This function brings in the concept of individual expected reward to every player. Built on different selfish coefficient functions, the family of ideal values can be obtained by minimizing deviations from the individual expected rewards. Then we show the relationships between the family of ideal values and two other classical families of values: the procedural values and the least square values. For any selfish coefficient function m, the m-ideal value is characterized by efficiency, linearity, m-equal-expectation player property and nullifying player m-punishment property. We also provide an interpretation of a dynamic process for the m-ideal value. As two dual cases in the family of ideal values, the center-of-gravity of imputation-set value (CIS value) and the equal allocation of nonseparable costs value (EANS value) are raised from new axiomatic angles.
C71|The Dark Side of Personality: Anti-Sociality Increases Strategic Game Play|We assess the role of anti-social personality traits in explaining heterogeneity in commonly observed social preferences. We identified a personality profile that clearly reflects anti-social personality characteristics, with high positive loadings on Machiavellianism and high negative loadings on empathy, trustworthiness and agreeableness. Anti-sociality predicts decision strategies in a manner that is consistent with its name: significantly lower levels of trust and decreased trustworthiness. To identify the strategic nature of anti-social behavior in changing environments, we assessed the moderating role of personality on investor trust and trustee reciprocity in the presence relative to the absence of the investor’s option to punish. Our results show that only the anti-social personality profile is associated with specific payoff maximizing strategy shifts induced by these environmental changes: when punishment was not available to investors, we observe significantly lower levels of investor trust and trustee reciprocity, while there is a significant increase in both behaviors when punishment was available. These effects were specific for anti-sociality, as no other personality factor was associated with such a strong adjustment of decision strategies in the presence of punishment. These results demonstrate that anti-social personality characteristics are associated with strategic behavioral shifts aimed at maximizing the extraction of resources from their counterparts. The reliability of the strategic effects of anti-social personality during trust, reciprocity and punishment strongly supports the notion that self-projection underlies anti-social decision-making.
C71|Valuation Monotonicity, Fairness and Stability in Assignment Problems|In this paper, we investigate the possibility of having stable rules for two-sided markets with transferable utility, that satisfy some valuation monotonicity and fairness axioms. Valuation fairness requires that changing the valuation of a buyer for the object of a seller leads to equal changes in the payoffs of this buyer and seller. This is satisfied by the Shapley value, but is incompatible with stability. A main goal in this paper is to weaken valuation fairness in such a way that it is compatible with stability. It turns out that requiring equal changes only for buyers and sellers that are matched to each other before as well as after the change, is compatible with stability. In fact, we show that the only stable rule that satisfies weak valuation fairness is the well-known fair division rule which is obtained as the average of the buyers-optimal and the sellers-optimal payoff vectors. Our second goal is to characterize these two extreme rules by valuation monotonicity axioms. We show that the buyers-optimal (respectively sellers-optimal) stable rule is characterized as the only stable rule that satisfies buyer-valuation monotonicity which requires that a buyer cannot be better off by weakly decreasing his/her valuations for all objects, as long as he is assigned the same object as before (respectively object-valuation antimonotonicity which requires that a buyer cannot be worse off when all buyers weakly decrease their valuations for the object that is assigned to this specific buyer, as long as this buyer is assigned the same object as before). Finally, adding a consistency axiom, the two optimal rules are characterized in the general domain of allocation rules for two-sided assignment markets with a variable population.
C71|Chinese postman games with repeated players|This paper analyses Chinese postman games with repeated players, which generalize Chinese postman games by dropping the one-to-one relation between edges and players. In our model, we allow players to own more than one edge, but each edge belongs to at most one player. The one-to-one relation between edges and players is essential for the equivalence between Chinese postman-totally balanced and Chinese postman-submodular graphs shown in Granot et al. (1999). We illustrate the invalidity of this result in our model. Besides, the location of the post office has a relevant role in the submodularity and totally balancedness of Chinese postman games with repeated players. Therefore, we focus on sufficient conditions on the assignment of players to edges to ensure submodularity of Chinese postman games with repeated players, independently of the associated travel costs. Moreover, we provide some insights on the difficulty of finding necessary conditions on assignment functions to this end.
C71|The Shapley Value, Proper Shapley Value, and Sharing Rules for Cooperative Ventures|Moulin (1987) studies the equal and proportional sharing rule for a special class of cooperative games that he calls joint venture games. Proportionality is an important principle in allocation problems. Besides some special cases, it is not obvious how proportionality should be applied in cooperative TU-games. Such special cases, where proportionality is obvious, are inessential games and cooperative joint venture games. In this paper, we discuss an explicit axiom that shows that proper Shapley values can be seen as an appropriate way to express proportionality in value allocation in cooperative TU-games. We characterize positive proper Shapley values by affine invariance and an axiom that requires proportional allocation according to the individual singleton worths in generalized joint venture games. As a counterpart, we show that affine invariance and an axiom that requires equal allocation of the surplus in generalized joint venture games, characterize the positive part of the Shapley value among the single-valued solutions.
C71|On Interactive Sequencing Situations with Exponential Cost Functions|This paper addresses interactive one-machine sequencing situations in which the costs of processing a job are given by an exponential function of its completion time. The main difference with the standard linear case is that the gain of switching two neighbors in a queue is time-dependent and depends on their exact position. We illustrate that finding an optimal order is complicated in general and we identify specific subclasses, which are tractable from an optimization perspective. More specifically, we show that in these subclasses, all neighbor switches in any path from the initial order to an optimal order lead to a non-negative gain. Moreover, we derive conditions on the time-dependent neighbor switching gains in a general interactive sequencing situation to guarantee convexity of the corresponding cooperative game. These conditions are satisfied within our specific subclasses of exponential interactive sequencing situations.
C71|Equilibrium in the Assignment Market under Budget Constraints|We reexamine the well-known assignment market model in a more general and more practical environment where agents may be financially constrained. These constraints will be shown to have an important impact on the set of Walrasian equilibria. We prove that a price adjustment process will either find a unique minimal Walrasian equilibrium price vector, or exclusively validate the nonexistence of equilibrium
C71|Instrumental Reciprocity as an Error|We study the strategies used by experimental subjects in repeated sequential prisoners’ dilemma games to identify the underlying motivations behind instrumental reciprocity, that is, reciprocation of cooperation only if there is future interaction. Importantly, we designed the games so that instrumental reciprocity is a mistake for payoff-maximizing individuals irrespective of their beliefs. We find that, despite the fact that instrumental reciprocity is suboptimal, it is one of the most frequently used cooperative strategies. Moreover, although the use of instrumental reciprocity is sensitive to the costs of deviating from the payoff-maximizing strategy, these costs alone cannot explain the high frequency with which subjects choose to reciprocate instrumentally.
C71|Recursive Clustering Methods for Network Analysis|We study axiomatically recursive clustering methods for networks. Such methods can be used to identify community structures of a network. One of the methods is based on identifying a node subset that maximizes the average degree within this subset. Once such a subset is found, the method is applied on the subnetwork whose node set is the complement of the first cluster, and so on recursively. The method produces an ordered partition of the node set of the original network. We give a list of axioms that this method satisfies, and show that any recursive clustering method satisfying the same set of axioms must produce the same or a coarser partition than our method.
C71|The Myopic Stable Set for Social Environments (RM/17/002-revised)|We introduce a new solution concept for models of coalition formation, called the myopic stable set (MSS). The MSS is defined for a general class of social environments and allows for an infinite state space. An MSS exists and, under minor continuity assumptions, it is also unique. The MSS generalizes and unifies various results from more specific applications. It coincides with the coalition structure core in coalition function form games when this set is non-empty; with the set of stable matchings in the Gale-Shapley matching model; with the set of Pareto optimal allocations in the Shapley-Scarf housing matching model; with the set of pairwise stable networks and closed cycles in models of network formation; with the set of pure strategy Nash equilibria in pseudo-potential games and finite supermodular games; and with the set of mixed strategy Nash equilibria in several classes of two-player games.
C71|The Midpoint-Constrained Egalitarian Bargaining Solution|A payoff allocation in a bargaining problem is midpoint dominant if each player obtains at least one n-th of her ideal payoff. The egalitarian solution of a bargaining problem may select a payoff configuration which is not midpoint dominant. We propose and characterize the solution which selects for each bargaining problem the feasible allocation that is closest to the egalitarian allocation, subject to being midpoint dominant. Our main axiom, midpoint monotonicity, is new to the literature; it imposes the standard monotonicity requirement whenever doing so does not result in selecting an allocation which is not midpoint dominant. In order to prove our main result we develop a general extension theorem for bargaining solutions that are order-preserving with respect to any order on the set of bargaining problems.
C71|Farsighted Rationality|Farsighted deviations are based on agents' abilities to compare the outcome of a farsighted deviation to the status quo. However, agents do not account for deviations by others in case they do not change the status quo; so, they are not fully farsighted. We use extended expectation functions to capture a coalition's belief about subsequent moves of other coalitions in both cases. We provide three stability and optimality axioms on coalition behavior and show that an expectation function satisfies these axioms if and only if it corresponds to an equilibrium of the abstract game that is stable with respect to coalitional deviations. We provide applications of our solution for games in characteristic function form and matching problems.
C71|The Last will be First, and the First Last: Segregation in Societies with Positional Externalities|This paper studies coalition formation among individuals who differ in productivity. The output of a coalition is determined by the sum of productivities if the coalition exceeds a minimal threshold of members. We consider competitive societies in which the surplus of a coalition is split according to productivity and egalitarian societies in which coalitions split their surplus equally. Preferences of coalition members depend on their material payoffs, but are also influenced by positional concerns, which relate their material payoffs to the average material payoff in the coalition. Our analysis uses two stability notions, the Core and the Myopic Stable Set. Both competitive and egalitarian societies lead to segregated partition structures. For competitive societies, all stable allocations are based on bottom-up segregation, i.e., individuals with adjacent productivities form coalitions and if some individuals are not part of a productive coalition, then these are the most productive ones. For egalitarian societies, we obtain top-down segregation in all stable allocations. Again it holds that individuals with adjacent productivities form coalitions, but now the least productive individuals may not be part of any productive coalition. If all individuals have different productivity levels, then the material efficiency of competitive societies is below that of egalitarian societies.
C71|The Unbinding Core for Coalitional Form Games|In this paper, we introduce a new concept of core by extending the de nition of deviation. The traditional de nition of deviation allows for players to deviate if some pro table allocation exists after their deviation, while our new de nition requires that all possible allocations are pro table. Hence, our core becomes a superset of the traditional core. We examine some properties that our new core satis es and provide a sufficient condition for being nonempty. Moreover, we apply Ray's (1989) credibility to our core.
C71|Stability and fairness in the job scheduling problem|The job scheduling problem is a classic operational research problem in which agents have jobs to be executed by machines in given time slots, with each machine being able to process only one job at a time. We study this problem using cooperative game theory, focusing on how to divide the minimum cost (of executing all jobs) between the agents. First, we characterize the set of stable allocations, which all charge only users whose jobs are executed in peak-demand time periods. Second, using properties designed to avoid strategic mergers or splits of the jobs, we offer axiomatizations for two remarkable stable allocation rules. Third, observing that all stable rules fail Unanimity Lower Bound (ULB), a property requiring that everybody pay an equal share of the first machine (since it is needed by all), we study and axiomatize the Shapley value, which satisfies ULB. A compromise is then proposed between Stability and ULB.
C71|The uncovered set and the core: Cox's (1987) result revisited|In this work first it is shown that in contradiction to the well-known claim in Cox (1987) (repeated in a number of subsequent works), the uncovered set in a multidimensional spatial voting situation (under the usual regularity conditions) does not necessarily coincide with the core even when the core is singleton: in particular, the posited coincidence result, while true for an odd number of voters, may cease to be true when the number of voters is even. Then we provide a characterization result for the case with even number of voters: a singleton core is the uncovered set in this case if and only if the unique element in the core is the Condorcet winner.
C71|Efficiency, Stability, and Commitment in Senior Level Job Matching Markets|We study a senior level job matching model with multiple heterogeneous incumbents and entrants. Incumbents can be committed or uncommitted (i.e., free). A committed agent is an incumbent (firm or worker) who has initially had a partner (worker or firm) and is bound by her commitment. A free agent is an entrant or an incumbent whose relation with by her initial partner is not binding. Every agent tries to find her best possible partner with contract. A committed agent cannot unilaterally dissolve her partnership unless her partner agrees to do so. We examine the problem of how to match workers and firms as well as possible and at the same time to set committed agents free as many as possible without violating their commitments to their partners. We show the existence of (strongly) stable and (strict) core matchings through a constructive algorithm and derive several properties of such outcomes.
C71|Weighted Committee Games|Players in a committee, council, or electoral college often wield asymmetric numbers of votes. Binary decision environments are then conventionally modeled as weighted voting games. We introduce weighted committee games in order to describe decisions on three or more alternatives in similarly succinct fashion. We compare different voting weight configurations for plurality, Borda, Copeland, and antiplurality rule. The respective geometries and very different numbers of structurally non-equivalent committees have escaped notice so far. They determine voting equilibria, the distribution of power, and other aspects of collective choice.
C71|Fair cake-cutting in practice|Using a lab experiment, we investigate the real-life performance of envy-free and proportional cake-cutting procedures with respect to fairness and preference manipulation. We nd that envy-free procedures, in particular Selfridge-Conway, are fairer and also are perceived as fairer than their proportional counterparts, despite the fact that agents very often manipulate them. Our results support the practical use of the celebrated Selfridge-Conway procedure, and more generally, of envy- free cake-cutting mechanisms. We also nd that subjects learn their opponents' preferences after repeated interaction and use this knowledge to improve their allocated share of the cake. Learning reduces truth-telling behavior, but also reduces envy.
C71|On bargaining sets of supplier-firm-buyer games|We study a special three-sided matching game, the so-called supplier-firm-buyer game, in which buyers and sellers (suppliers) trade indirectly through middlemen (firms). Stuart (1997) showed that all supplier-firm-buyer games have non-empty core. We show that for these games the core coincides with the classical bargaining set (Davis and Maschler, 1967), and also with the Mas-Colell bargaining set (Mas-Colell, 1989).
C71|Core stability and core-like solutions for three-sided assignment games|In this paper, we study different notions of stability for three-sided assignment games. Since the core may be empty in this case, we first focus on other notions of stability such as the notions of subsolution and von Neumann-Morgenstern stable sets. The dominant diagonal property is necessary for the core to be a stable set, and also sufficient in the case where each sector of the market has two agents. Furthermore, for any three-sided assignment market, we prove that the union of the extended cores of all µ-compatible subgames, for a given optimal matching µ, is the core with respect to those allocations that are compatible with that matching, and this union is always non-empty.
C71|Transmission Network Investment across National Borders: The Liberalized Nordic Electricity Market|The world’s first multinational electricity market was formed with the creation of the Nordic power exchange, Nord Pool. We analyze the incentives to undertake transmission network investment in the context of the liberalized Nordic electricity market. Welfare improving investment in a multinational electricity market requires accounting for the cross-border effects of capacity expansion. We propose methods to increase voluntary cooperation on international infrastructure projects, with an aim to increase aggregate efficiency and achieve equitable distribution of the gains from market integration.​
C71|Dynamic refugee matching|Asylum seekers are often assigned to localities upon arrival using uninformed matching systems, which lead to inefficient and unfair allocations. This paper proposes an informed dynamic mechanism as an intuitive and easy-to-implement alternative. Our mechanism can be adopted in any dynamic refugee matching problem given locality-specific quotas and that asylum seekers map into specific categories. Any matching selected by the proposed mechanism is Pareto efficient, and envy between localities is bounded by a single asylum seeker. Our simulations show that the proposed mechanism outperforms uninformed mechanisms even in presence of severe misclassification error in the estimation of asylum seeker categories.
C71|Gale's Fixed Tax for Exchanging Houses|We consider the taxation of exchanges among a set of agents where each agent owns one object. Agents may have different valuations for the objects and they need to pay taxes for exchanges. Using basic properties, we show that if pairwise (or some) exchanges of objects are allowed, then all exchanges (in any possible manner) must be feasible. Furthermore, whenever any agent exchanges his object, he pays the same fixed tax (a lump sum payment which is identical for all agents) independently of which object he consumes. Gale’s top trading cycles algorithm finds the final allocation using the agents’ valuations adjusted with the fixed tax. Our mechanisms are in stark contrast to Clarke-Groves taxation schemes or the max-med schemes proposed by Sprumont (2013).
C71|Sequential School Choice with Public and Private Schools|Motivated by school admission systems used in, e.g., Turkey and Sweden, this paper investigates a sequential two-stage admission system with public and private schools. To perform the analysis, relevant axioms and equilibrium notions need to be tailored for the considered dynamic setting. In particular, a notion of truthfulness, referred to as straightforwardness, is introduced. In sharp contrast to classic one-stage admission systems, sequentiality leads to a trade-off between the existence of a straightforward (i.e., truthful) equilibrium and non-wastefulness. Given this insight, we identify the unique set of rules for two-stage admission systems that guarantees the existence of a straightforward equilibrium and, at the same time, reduces the number of wasted school seats. Several existing admission systems are also theoretically analyzed within our general framework and empirically evaluated using school choice data from Sweden. The latter analysis allows us to quantify various trade-offs in sequential admission systems.
C71|Cooperative game-theoretic features of cost sharing in location-routing|This article studies several variants of the location-routing problem using a cooperative game-theoretic framework. The authors derive characteristics in terms of subadditivity, convexity, and non-emptiness of the core. Moreover, for some of the game variants, it is shown that for facility opening costs substantially larger than the costs associated with routing, the core is always non-empty. The theoretical results are supported by numerical experiments aimed at illustrating the properties and deriving insights. Among others, it is observed that, while in general it is not possible to guarantee core allocations, in a huge majority of cases the core is non-empty.
C71|Monotonicity and weighted prenucleoli: A characterization without consistency|A solution on a set of transferable utility (TU) games satisfies strong aggregate monotonicity (SAM) if every player can improve when the grand coalition becomes richer. It satisfies equal surplus division (ESD) if the solution allows the players to improve equally. We show that the set of weight systems generating weighted prenucleoli that satisfy SAM is open which implies that for weight systems close enough to any regular system the weighted prenucleolus satisfies SAM. We also provide a necessary condition for SAM for symmetrically weighted nucleoli. Moreover, we show that the per capita nucleolus on balanced games is characterized by single-valuedness (SIVA), translation and scale covariance (COV), and equal adjusted surplus division (EASD), a property that is comparable but stronger than ESD. These properties together with ESD characterize the per capita prenucleolus on larger sets of TU games. EASD and ESD can be transformed to independence of (adjusted) proportional shifting and these properties may be generalized for arbitrary weight systems p to I(A)Sp. We show that the p-weighted prenucleolus on the set of balanced TU games is characterized by SIVA, COV, and IASp; and on larger sets by additionally requiring ISp.
C71|A Generalization of the Harsanyi NTU Value to Games with Incomplete Information|"In this paper, we introduce a solution concept generalizing the Harsanyi non-transferable utility (NTU) value to cooperative games with incomplete information. The so-defined H-solution is characterized by virtual utility scales that extend the Harsanyi-Shapley fictitious weighted-utility transfer procedure. We construct a three-player cooperative game in which Myerson's [Cooperative games with incomplete information. Int. J. Game Theory, 13, 1984, pp. 69-96] generalization of the Shapley NTU value does not capture some ""negative"" externality generated by the adverse selection. However, when we explicitly compute the H-solution in this game, it turns out that it prescribes a more intuitive outcome taking into account the informational externality mentioned above."
C71|On the Values for Bayesian Cooperative Games with Sidepayments|In this paper we explore the relationship between several value-like solution concepts for cooperative games with incomplete information and utility transfers in the form of sidepayments. In our model, state-contingent contracts are required to be incentive compatible, and thus utility might not be not fully transferable (as it would be in the complete information case). When we restrict our attention to games with orthogonal coalitions (i.e., which do not involve strategic externalities), our first main result states that Myerson's [Cooperative games with incomplete information. Int. J. Game Theory. (1984), 13, 69-96] generalization of the Shapley NTU value and Salamanca's [A generalization of the Harsanyi NTU value to games with incomplete information. (2016), HAL 01579898] extension of the Harsanyi NTU value are interim utility equivalent. I f we allow for arbitrary informational and strategic externalities, our second main result establishes that the ex-ante evaluation of Myerson's solution equals Kalai and Kalai's [Cooperation in strategic games revisited. Q. J. Econ. (2013) 128, 917-966] cooperative-competitive value in two-player games with verifiable types.
C71|A Comparison of NTU Values in a Cooperative Game with Incomplete Information|Several value-like solutions concepts are computed and compared in a cooperative game with incomplete information and non-transferable utility.
C71|About the Looking Forward Approach in Cooperative Differential Games with Transferable Utility|This paper presents a complete description and the results of the Looking Forward Approach for cooperative differential games with transferable utility. The approach is used for constructing game theoretical models and defining solutions for conflict-controlled processes where information about the process updates dynamically or for differential games with dynamic updating. It is supposed that players lack certain information about the dynamical system and payoff function over the whole time interval on which the game is played. At each instant, information about the game structure updates, players receive new updated information about the dynamical system and payoff functions. A resource extraction game serves as an illustration in order to compare a cooperative trajectory, imputations, and the imputation distribution procedure in a game with the Looking Forward Approach and in the original game with a prescribed duration.
C71|An equitable Nash solution to nonconvex bargaining problems|This paper studies the Nash solution to non-convex bargaining problems. Given the multiplicity of the Nash solution in this context, we refine the Nash solution by incorporating an equity consideration. The proposed refinement is defined as the composition of the Nash solution and a variant of the Kalai Smorodinsky solution. We then present an axiomatic characterization of the new solution.
C71|Representations of Political Power Structures by Strategically Stable Game Forms: A Survey|We survey the results on representations of committees and constitutions by game forms that possess some kind of equilibrium strategies for each profile of preferences of the players. The survey is restricted to discrete models, that is, we deal with finitely many players and alternatives. No prior knowledge of social choice is assumed: As far as definitions are concerned, the paper is self-contained. Section 2 supplies the necessary general tools for the rest of the paper. Each definition is followed by a simple (but nontrivial) example. In Section 3 we give a complete account of representations of committees (proper and monotonic simple games), by exactly and strongly consistent social choice functions. We start with Peleg’s representations of weak games, and then provide a complete and detailed account of Holzman’s solution of the representation problem for simple games without veto players. In Section 4 we deal with representations of constitutions by game forms. Following Gärdenfors we model a constitution by a monotonic and superadditive effectivity function. We fully characterize the representations for three kinds of equilibrium: Nash equilibrium; acceptable equilibrium (Pareto optimal Nash equilibrium); and strong Nash equilibrium. We conclude in Section 5 with a report on two recent works on representations of constitutions under incomplete information.
C71|Pairwise stable matching in large economies|We formulate a general model and stability notion for two-sided pairwise matching problems with individually insignificant agents. Matchings are formulated as joint distributions over the characteristics of the populations to be matched. These characteristics can be high-dimensional and need not be included in compact spaces. Stable matchings exist with and without transfers and stable matchings correspond exactly to limits of stable matchings for finite agent models. We can embed existing continuum matching models and stability notions with transferable utility as special cases of our model and stability notion. In contrast to finite agent matching models, stable matchings exist under a general class of externalities. This might pave the way for integrating matching problems in other economic models.
C71|Do Children Cooperate Conditionally? Adapting the Strategy Method for First-Graders|We develop a public goods game (PGG) to measure cooperation and conditional cooperation in young children. Our design addresses several obstacles in adapting simultaneous and sequential PGGs to children who are not yet able to read or write, do not possess advanced abilities to calculate payo s, and only have a very limited attention span at their disposal. It features the combination of haptic online explanation, fully standardized audiovisual instructions, computerized choices based on touchscreens, and a suitable incentive scheme. Applying our experimental protocol to a sample of German first-graders, we find that already 6-year-olds cooperate conditionally and that the relative frequency of di erent cooperation types matches the findings for adult subjects. We also find that neither survey items from teachers nor from parents predict unconditional or conditional cooperation behavior; this underlines the value of incentivized experimental protocols for measuring cooperation in children.
C71|An Equitable Nash Solution to Nonconvex Bargaining Problems|This paper studies the Nash solution to non-convex bargaining problems. Given the multiplicity of the Nash solution in this context, we refine the Nash solution by incorporating an equity consideration. The proposed refinement is defined as the composition of the Nash solution and a variant of the Kalai-Smorodinsky solution. We then present an axiomatic characterization of the new solution.
C71|Generalized Potentials, Value, and Core|Our objective is to analyze the relationship between the Shapley value and the core from the perspective of the potential of a game. To this end, we introduce a new concept, generalized HM-potential, which is a generalization of the potential function defined by Hart and Mas-colell (1989). We show that the Shapley value lies in the core if and only if the maximum of the generalized HM-potential of a game is less than a cutoff value. Moreover, we show that this is equivalent to the minimum of the generalized HM-potential of a game being greater than another, different cutoff value. We also provide a geometric characterization of the class of games in which the Shapley value lies in the core, which also shows the relationship with convex games and average convex games as a corollary. Our results suggest a new approach to utilizing the potential function in cooperative game theory.
C71|Analysis of the core under inequality-averse utility functions|In this paper, we study cooperative games with the players whose pref- erences depend on all players’ allocations, which we refer to as the social preferences. The social preferences we study in this paper are represented by the utility functions proposed by Fehr and Schmidt (1999) or the util- ity functions proposed by Charness and Rabin (2002). First, we define and characterize the cores, which are the same as the standard core except that the utility functions are the Fehr-Schmidt or the Charness-Rabin type. We show that the Fehr-Schmidt type core becomes smaller if the players become more envious and that it may become larger or smaller if the players become more compassionate. We also show that the Charness-Rabin type core be- comes smaller if the players pay more attention to care about the minimal allocation and that it may become larger or smaller if the players pay more attention to care about the social welfare. Moreover, we analyze the alpha- core and the beta-core of the cooperative games consisting of players with these types of social preferences, as well as a new core concept that takes ac- count of networks among the players. We show that the Fehr-Schmidt type core is the smallest among these cores and that the alpha-core coincides with the beta-core under the Fehr-Schmidt utility functions.
C71|Non-cooperative Bargaining for Side Payments Contract|We present a non-cooperative sequential bargaining game for side payments contracting. Players voluntarily participate in negotiations. If any player does not participate, then renegotiation will take place in the next round, given an on-going contract. We show that if the stop- ping probability of negotiations is sufficiently small, then there exists an efficient Markov perfect equilibrium where all players immediately par- ticipate in negotiations and agree to the Nash bargaining solution. The efficiency result is strengthened by the asymptotically efficient one that in every Markov perfect equilibrium, all players participate in negotia- tions through a process of renegotiations in the long run with probability one. Finally, we illustrate international negotiations for climate change as an application of the result.
C71|Consequentialism and Dynamic Consistency in Updating Ambiguous Beliefs|By proposing the notions of upper-constrained dynamic consistency and lower-constrained dynamic consistency that are weaker axioms than dynamic consistency, this paper axiomatizes the Dempster-Shafer updating rule and naive Bayes' updating rule within the framework of Choquet expected utility. Based on the notion of conditional comonotonicity, this paper also provides an axiomatization of consequentialism under Choquet expected utility. Fur- thermore, based on the idea of the mean preserving rule, this paper provides a unified approach for distinguishing capacity updating rules (the Dempster- Shafer updating rule, naive Bayes' updating rule, and Fagin-Halpern updating rule) according to the degree of dynamic consistency.
C71|Options of optimal dam capacity under externality and uncertainty|This paper analyses the relation between optimal dam capacity and water management in a unified approach. Having extended a hydropower generation model, we investigate the optimal dam capacity for multi-functional dams such as providing infrastructure for industrial and households water use, conjunctive use of hydropower generation and irrigation; storing water in the wet season for use in the dry season, and mitigating flooding damages. Our optimal solution shows that optimal dam capacity is characterized by the marginal benefits of hydropower generation, the marginal costs of flooding damages, and the constraining factors. We also provide the implication of the optimal solution for three real world cases of dam construction, i.e. for flood control, for irrigation and for hydropower generation.
C71|The Tort Law and the Nucleolus for Generalized Joint Liability Problems|We analyze a legal compensation scheme axiomatically under the situation where causation of the cumulative injury appears in multiple sequences of wrongful acts caused by tortfeasors. This situation is a generalization of joint liability problems on tort law, and it is described by a rooted-tree graph. We show that there is a unique compensation scheme that satisfies three axioms, one about lower bounds of individual compensations, one about upper bounds of individual compensations, and one about case-system consistency. These axioms are derived from legal observations on tort law. The unique compensation scheme satisfying the three axioms yields the Nucleolus of an associated liability game.
C71|Duality and Anti-duality for Allocation Rules in Economic Problems I: An Axiomatic Analysis|We develop the notions of duality and anti-duality for axiomatic analysis of allocation rules. First, we show basic properties of duality and anti-duality for allocation rules. Next, using the notion of duality and axioms involved in axiomatizations of the Shapley rule for airport problems, we axiomatize the Shapley rule for bidding ring problems. Finally, using the notion of anti- duality and axioms involved in axiomatizations of the nucleolus for airport problems, we axiomatize the nucleolus rule for bidding ring problems. From the approach proposed, we may derive appropriate interpretations of axioms involved in axiomatizations of economic rules.
C71|Bargaining In Legislatures Over Private And Public Goods With Endogenous Recognition|This paper studies a sequential model of multilateral bargaining with a majority rule in which legislators can make decisions over both private and public good dimensions with endogenous recognition process. Legislators expend resources to be the proposer and make proposals about the allocation of private and public goods. We show that legislators can exert effort to be the proposer and make proposals in both dimensions depending on legislative preferences. Effort choices in equilibrium mainly depend on preferences over both distributional and ideological dimensions, as well as the patience level of legislators and the size of the legislature. We also show that in a diverse legislature, it may be possible to have distributive policies when the majority has collective desires or vice-versa.
C71|Cooperation with lists|Group tasks are often organized by a list: group members state their willingness to contribute by entering their names on a publicly visible, empty list. Alternatively, one could organize the group task by starting with a full list: every group member is already entered on the list and non-cooperators have to cross out their names. Indeed, strong behavioral differences are observed when comparing (otherwise identical) environments with empty and full lists in a laboratory experiment with repeated interaction. Cooperation in the empty list is high in early periods, but is decreasing. In the full list, cooperation starts low, but is actually increasing, surpassing cooperation in the empty list treatment in later periods. Two factors, diffusion of responsibility and unraveling of cooperation seem to drive the results.
C71|The cone of supermodular games on finite distributive lattices|In this article, we study supermodular functions on finite distributive lattices. Relaxing the assumption that the domain is a powerset of a finite set, we focus on geometrical properties of the polyhedral cone of such functions. Specifically, we generalize the criterion for extremal rays and study the face lattice of the supermodular cone. An explicit description of facets by the corresponding tight linear inequalities is provided.
C71|Sequential competition and the strategic origins of preferential attachment|There exists a wide gap between the predictions of strategic models of network formation and empirical observations of the characteristics of socio-economic networks. Empirical observations underline a complex structure characterized by fat-tailed degree distribution, short average distance, large clustering coefficient and positive assortativity. Game theoretic models offer a detailed representation of individuals' incentives but they predict the emergence of much simpler structures than these observed empirically. Random network formation processes, such as preferential attachment, provide a much better fit to empirical observations but generally lack micro-foundations. in order to bridge this gap, we propose to model network formation as extensive games and investigate under which conditions equilibria of these games are observationally equivalent with random network formation process. In particular, we introduce a class of games in which players compete with their predecessors and their successors for the utility induced by the links they form with another node in the network. Such sequential competition games can represent a number of strategic economic interactions such as oligopolistic competition in supply networks or diffusion of influence in opinion networks. we show that the focal equilibrium that emerge in this setting is one where players use probability distributions with full support and target the whole network with probabilities inversely proportional to the utility of each node. Notably, when the utility of a node is inversely proportional to its degree, equilibrium play induces a preferential attachment process.
C71|Dynamic Refugee Matching|Asylum seekers are often assigned to localities upon arrival using uninformed matching systems, which lead to inefficient and unfair allocations. This paper proposes an informed dynamic mechanism as an intuitive and easy-to-implement alternative. Our mechanism can be adopted in any dynamic refugee matching problem given locality-specific quotas and that asylum seekers map into specific categories. Any matching selected by the proposed mechanism is Pareto efficient, and envy between localities is bounded by a single asylum seeker. Our simulations show that the proposed mechanism outperforms uninformed mechanisms even in presence of severe misclassification error in the estimation of asylum seeker categories.
C71|Gale's Fixed Tax for Exchanging Houses|We consider the taxation of exchanges among a set of agents where each agent owns one object. Agents may have different valuations for the objects and they need to pay taxes for exchanges. Using basic properties, we show that if pairwise (or some) exchanges of objects are allowed, then all exchanges (in any possible manner) must be feasible. Furthermore, whenever any agent exchanges his object, he pays the same fixed tax (a lump sum payment which is identical for all agents) independently of which object he consumes. Gale's top trading cycles algorithm finds the final allocation using the agents' valuations adjusted with the fixed tax. Our mechanisms are in stark contrast to Clarke-Groves taxation schemes or the max-med schemes proposed by Sprumont (2013).
C71|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game, and thus serves as an alternative justification of the value.
C71|Sharing the revenues from broadcasting sport events|We study the problem of sharing the revenue from broadcasting sport events, among participating players. We provide direct, axiomatic and game-theoretical foundations for two focal rules: the equal-split rule and concede-and-divide. The former allocates the revenues generated from broadcasting each game equally among the participating players in the game. The latter concedes players in each game the revenues generated by their respective fans and divides equally the residual. We also provide an application studying the case of sharing the revenue from broadcasting games in La Liga, the Spanish Football League. We show that hybrid schemes, combining our rules with lower bounds and performance measures, yield close outcomes to the current allocation being implemented by the Spanish National Professional Football League Association.
C71|Feedback Pareto weights in cooperative NTU differential games|This note deals with agreeability in nontransferable utility (NTU) differential games. We introduce state feedback Pareto weights to enrich the set of efficient cooperative solutions. The framework is particularly useful if constant weights fail to support agreeability, but cooperation is desired nonetheless. The concept is applied to an adverting differential game.
C71|A Dichotomous Analysis Of Unemployment Welfare|In an economy which could not accommodate full employment of its labor force, it employs some but does not employ others. The bipartition of the labor force is random, and we characterize it by a probability distribution with equal employment opportunity. We value each employed individual by his marginal contribution to the production; we also value each unemployed individual by the potential marginal contribution he would make if the market hired him. We fully honor both the individual value and its national aggregate in our distribution of the net production to the unemployment welfare and the employment benefits. Using a balanced budget rule of taxation, we derive a fair, debt-free, and risk-free tax rate for any given unemployment rate. The tax rate minimizes both the asymptotic mean and variance of the underlying posterior unemployment rate; it also stimulates employment, boosts productivity, and mitigates income inequality. One could also apply the rate and valuation approach to areas other than the labor market. This framework is open to alternative identification strategies and other forms of equal opportunity.
C71|Coalition formation and history dependence|Farsighted formulations of coalitional formation, for instance by Harsanyi (1974) and Ray and Vohra (2015), have typically been based on the von Neumann-Morgenstern (1944) stable set. These farsighted stable sets use a notion of indirect dominance in which an outcome can be dominated by a chain of coalitional `moves' in which each coalition that is involved in the sequence eventually stands to gain. Dutta and Vohra (2017) point out that these solution concepts do not require coalitions to make optimal moves. Hence, these solution concepts can yield unreasonable predictions. Dutta and Vohra (2017) restricted coalitions to hold common, history independent expectations that incorporate optimality regarding the continuation path. This paper extends the Dutta-Vohra analysis by allowing for history dependent expectations. The paper provides characterization results for two solution concepts corresponding to two versions of optimality. It demonstrates the power of history dependence by establishing non-emptyness results for all finite games as well as transferable utility partition function games. The paper also provides partial comparisons of the solution concepts to other solutions.
C71|Incomplete Information and Costly Signaling in College Admissions|We analyze a college admissions game with asymmetric information between students and colleges. Students' preferences for colleges depend on the observable quality of the schools. In contrast, colleges' preferences for students depend on the latter's abilities, which are private information. Students and schools are matched via a decentralized mechanism in which students signal their abilities with costly observable signals. A closed-form symmetric separating equilibrium of this game that depends on the supply of and demand for schools seats and on college quality is characterized. In this equilibrium, an increase in the number of students, a reduction in the number of school seats or a drop in the quality of schools reduce the incentive of low-ability students to invest in signaling and increase it for high-ability students.
C71|Capital Misallocation and Secular Stagnation|The widespread emergence of intangible technologies in recent decades may have significantly hurt output growth--even when these technologies replaced considerably less productive tangible technologies--because of structurally low interest rates caused by demographic forces. This insight is obtained in a model in which intangible capital cannot attract external finance, firms are credit constrained, and there is substantial dispersion in productivity. In a tangibles-intense economy with highly leveraged firms, low rates enable more borrowing and faster debt repayment, reduce misallocation, and increase aggregate output. An increase in the share of intangible capital in production reduces the borrowing capacity and increases the cash holdings of the corporate sector, which switches from being a net borrower to a net saver. In this intangibles-intense economy, the ability of firms to purchase intangible capital using retained earnings is impaired by low interest rates, because low rates increase the price of capital and slow down the accumulation of corporate savings.
C71|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C71|Culture and Colonial Legacy: Evidence from Public Goods Games|We conduct a public goods game in three small towns in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Due to historical military conquest, until 1947 these towns were on (barely) opposite sides of a colonial border separating British India from the Princely States. Our research design offers a treatment comparison between the towns of (British) Kekri and (Princely) Sarwar, and a control comparison between (Princely) Sarwar and (Princely) Shahpura. We find no significant difference in contributions to home town groups, but a significant difference in contributions to mixed town groups. Participants in (British) Kekri are more co-operative (i.e., contribute more) in mixed town groups compared to those in (Princely) Sarwar. We find the differences are driven by individuals with family ties to the towns, and we find no differences in the control comparison. Our results highlight the enduring effects of colonial rule on social norms of co-operation
C71|Optimal fund menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the beliefs of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to offer funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset that is not subject to the information friction.
C71|Culture and Colonial Legacy: Evidence from Public Goods Games|We conduct a public goods game in three small towns in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Due to historical military conquest, until 1947 these towns were on opposite sides of a colonial border separating British India from the Princely States. Our research design offers a treatment comparison between the towns of (British) Kekri and (Princely) Sarwar, and a control comparison between Princely Sarwar and Shahpura. We find that participants from (British) Kekri are more co-operative in mixed-town groups. The differences are driven by individuals with family ties to the towns, highlighting the enduring effects of colonial rule on co-operation norms.
C71|When No Bad Deed Goes Punished: Relational Contracting in Ghana and the UK|Experimental evidence to date supports the double theoretical prediction that parties transacting repeatedly punish bad contractual performance by reducing future offers, and that the threat of punishment disciplines opportunistic breach. We conduct a repeated gift-exchange experiment with university students in Ghana and the UK. The experiment is framed as an employment contract. Each period the employer makes an irrevocable wage offer to the worker who then chooses an effort level. UK subjects behave in line with theoretical predictions and previous experiments: wage offers reward high effort and punish low effort; this induces workers to choose high effort; and gains from trade are shared between workers and employers. We do not find such evidence among Ghanaian subjects: employers do not reduce wage offers after low effort; workers often choose low effort; and employers earn zero payoffs on average. These results also hold if we use a strategy method to elicit wage offers. Introducing competition or reputation does not significantly improve workers' effort. Using a structural bounds approach, we find that the share of selfish workers in Ghana is not substantially different from the UK or earlier experiments. We conclude that strategic punishment in repeated labor transactions is not a universally shared heuristic.
C71|Optimal Fund Menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the preferences of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal fund menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to behave as a closet indexer by offering funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset which is not subject to the information friction.
C71|A Two-Period Unionized Mixed Oligopoly Model: Public-Private Wage Differentials and â€œEurosclerosisâ€ Reconsidered|In the present paper we develop a two-period unionized mixed duopoly model, furnished with second period- demand shocks, where decentralized firm-specific wage bargains are struck in each period before product market competition is in place.
C71|Centralized Course Allocation|We present the renegotiable acceptance mechanism in the context of the multi-unit assignment problem. This mechanism combines features of the immediate and deferred acceptance mechanisms and implements the set of stable matchings in both Nash and undominated Nash equilibria under substitutable priorities. In addition, we prove that under slot-specific priorities, the immediate acceptance mechanism also implements the set of stable matchings in Nash and undominated Nash equilibria. Finally, we present modifications of both mechanisms and show that we can dramatically reduce the complexity of the message space when preferences are responsive. Key words:
C71|The Shapley Value for Upstream Responsibility Games|In this paper sharing the cost of emission in supply chains are considered. We focus on allocation problems that can be described by rooted trees, called cost-tree problems, and on the induced transferable utility cooperative games, called upstream responsibility games (Gopalakrishnan et al., 2017). The formal notion of upstream responsibility games is introduced, and the characterization of the class of these games is provided. The Shapley value (Shapley, 1953) is probably the most popular value for transferable utility cooperative games. Dubey (1982) and Moulin and Shenker (1992) show respectively, that Shapley (1953)’s and Young (1985)’s axiomatizations of the Shapley value are valid on the class of airport games. We extend Dubey's and Moulin and Shenker's results onto the class of upstream responsibility games, that is, we provide two characterizations of the Shapley value for upstream responsibility games.
C71|Intuitive Solutions in Game Representations: The Shapley Value Revisited|We show that any transferable utility game can be represented by an assignment of facilities to the players, in which it is intuitively obvious how to allocate the total cost of the facilities. The intuitive solution in the representation turns out to be the Shapley value of the game.
C71|Discounted Solidarity Values|We consider the family of discounted solidarity values Sl^{α}, where α∈[0,1]. We offer strategic support for this family by means of a noncooperative bargaining game. We show that the risk of a breakdown in negotiations and the time discount factor simultaneously determine the value of α. We supplement the analysis with an axiomatic characterization.
C71|Approval voting and Shapley ranking|"Approval voting allows voters to list any number of candidates. Their scores are obtained by summing the votes cast in their favor. Fractional voting instead follows the One-person-one-vote principle by endowing voters with a single vote that they may freely distribute among candidates. In this paper, we show that fairness requires the distribution of votes to be uniform. Uniform fractional voting corresponds to Shapley ranking that was introduced to rank wines as the Shapley value of a cooperative game with transferable utility. Here we analyze the properties of these ""ranking games"" and provide an axiomatic foundation to Shapley ranking. We also analyze Shapley ranking as a social welfare function and compare it to approval ranking."
C71|Centralized Course Allocation|We present the renegotiable acceptance mechanism in the context of the multi-unit assignment problem. This mechanism combines features of the immediate and deferred acceptance mechanisms and implements the set of stable matchings in both Nash and undominated Nash equilibria under substitutable priorities. In addition, we prove that under slot-specific priorities, the immediate acceptance mechanism also implements the set of stable matchings in Nash and undominated Nash equilibria. Finally, we present modifications of both mechanisms and show that we can dramatically reduce the complexity of the message space when preferences are responsive.
C71|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.
C71|The Coleman-Shapley-index: Being decisive within the coalition of the interested|The Coleman Power of the Collectivity to Act (CPCA) is a popular statistic that re flects the ability of a committee to pass a proposal. Applying the Shapley value to this measure, we derive a new power index that indicates each voter's contribution to the CPCA. This index is characterized by four axioms: anonymity, the null voter property, transfer property, and a property that stipulates that sum of the voters' power equals the CPCA. Similar to the Shapley-Shubik index (SSI) and the Penrose-Banzhaf index (PBI), our new index emerges as the expectation of being a pivotal voter. Here, the coalitional formation model underlying the CPCA and the PBI is combined with the ordering approach underlying the SSI. In contrast to the SSI, the voters are not ordered according to their agreement with a potential bill but according to their vested interest in it. Among the most interested voters, the power is then measured in a similar way as with the PBI. Although we advocate the CSI against the PBI to capture a voter's in fluence on whether a proposal passes, the CSI gives new meaning to the PBI. The CSI is the decomposer of the PBI, splitting it into a voter's power as such and a her impact on the power of the other voters by threatening to block any proposal. We apply the index to the EU Council and the UN Security Council.
C71|Solving Becker's assortative assignments and extensions|We analyze assortative assignment games, introduced in Becker (1973) and Eriksson et al. (2000). We study the extreme core points and show an easy way to compute them. We find a natural solution for these games. It coincides with several well-known point solutions, the median stable utility solution (Schwarz and Yenmez, 2011) and the nucleolus (Schmeidler, 1969).We also analyze the behavior of the Shapley value. We finish with some extensions, where some hypotheses are relaxed.
C71|Who gains more power in the EU after Brexit?|Brexit implications are analysed in most cases from the macroeconomic, financial or legal point of view while these areas are not the only ones the economists or governments should pay attention to. In this article we focus on how Brexit influences application of the European procedures, i.e. the results of various voting scenarios in the Council of the European Union. Based on power indices we examine changes of power distribution within the European Union (EU) from the perspective of each EU Member State separately as well as potential coalitions. This analysis covers also projection of power distribution in 2030 and 2060 that takes into account population forecast prepared by the Ageing Working Group. We find that larger countries benefit from the new possible power distribution while the smaller ones lose their power. Moreover, power of coalitions built by the EU Member States, representing different groups of interests in particular voting, e.g. EU budget or enforcement of the EU rules, seems to be vulnerable to the implications of the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the EU. Brexit may influence the quality of institutional and macroeconomic policy, especially in terms of decisions on the strictness of the EU rules.
C71|Axiomatic Foundations of a Unifying Core|We provide an axiomatic characterization of the core of games in effectiveness form. We point out that the core, whenever it applies to appropriate classes of these games, coincides with a wide variety of prominent stability concepts in social choice and game theory, such as the Condorcet winner, the Nash equilibrium, pairwise stability, and stable matchings, among others. Our characterization of the core invokes the axioms of restricted non-emptiness, coalitional unanimity, and Maskin invariance together with a principle of independence of irrelevant states, and uses in its proof a holdover property echoing the conventional ancestor property. Taking special cases of this general characterization of the core, we derive new characterizations of the previously mentioned stability concepts.
C71|Allocating the costs of cleaning a river; estimating responsibilities versus incentive compatibility|We model a river as a segment divided into subsegments, each occupied by one region, from upstream to downstream. The waste is transferred from one region to the next at some rate t. Given that t may be unknown, Alcalde-Unzu et al. (2015) proposed the UR method to allocate the costs of cleaning a river in which each region pays the responsibility that it would have if t was its expected value. We prove in this paper that this allocation di ers from the expected responsibility of each region and propose and characterize a new solution, the EUR, that assigns to each region precisely its expected responsibility. We show that although this new solution improves the estimation of responsibilities, there is a trade-o in terms of incentive compatibility: meanwhile with the EUR solution it is possible that a region can reduce the cost allocated to it by discharging more waste, this could not happen with the UR. Moreover, the UR solution is, between the ones that do not have this problem in a general family, the solution that minimizes the bias with respect to the EUR.
C71|Incentivizing Efficiency in Local Public Good Games and Applications to the Quantification of Personal Data in Networks|A well established principle arms that the privacy of individuals is respected whenever they are entitled to control the dissemination of their personal data and they are fairly compensated. From this perspective, quantifying the value of personal data is a crucial task in the Internet economics. This task is dicult, however, as the privacy attitude of the users is often characterized by a contradictory behavior, known as the privacy paradox, in which they declare to be sensitive to privacy losses but also often release large amounts of data to enjoy free services. In this paper, we model this trade-off as a local public good game and propose some quantifications of the users' personal data depending on their position in the social network, based on enhancing an efficient solution of the local public good model. In a first part, we present some non-cooperative approaches, based on an internalization of the local externalities. In a second part, we extend the model to a cooperative game and we apply some well-known solutions from cooperative game theory to suggest fair ways to compensate the users and to perform a network analysis.
C71|Compromise for the Per Capita Complaint: An Optimization Characterization of Two Equalitarian Values|The main purpose of this article is to introduce two new values for transferable utility (TU) games: the upper and lower optimal complaint values. These are based on two kinds of per capita complaint criteria and each involve a lower and upper bound of the core. In the spirit of the nucleolus, these two values are obtained by lexicographically minimizing a maximal complaint vector associated with each of the per capita complaint criterion. Interestingly, the upper and lower optimal complaint values respectively coincide with the Equal Allocation of Non-Separable Contributions and the Center-of-Gravity of Imputation Set Value for a large class of TU-games. Moreover, a characterization of these two values is achieved by invoking the equal upper and lower maximal per capita complaint properties together with efficiency.
C71|Axiomatic foundations of a unifying concept of the core of games in effectiveness form|We provide an axiomatic characterization of the core of games in effectiveness form. We point out that the core, whenever it applies to appropriate classes of these games, coincides with a wide variety of prominent stability concepts in social choice and game theory, such as the Condorcet winner, the Nash equilibrium, the pairwise stability, and the stable matchings, among others. Our characterization of the core invokes the axioms of non-emptiness, coalitional unanimity, and Maskin monotonicity together with a principle of independence of irrelevant states, and uses in its proof a holdover property echoing the conventional ancestor property. Taking special cases of this general characterization of the core, we derive new characterizations of the previously mentioned stability concepts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C71|Procedural and Optimization Implementation of the Weighted ENSC Value|The main purpose of this article is to introduce the weighted ENSC value for cooperative transferable utility games which takes into account players' selfishness about the payoff allocations. Similarly to Shapley's idea of a one-by-one formation of the grand coalition (Shapley, 1953), we first provide a procedural implementation of the weighted ENSC value depending on players' selfishness as well as their marginal contributions to the grand coalition. Second, in the spirit of the nucleolus (Schmeidler, 1969), we prove that the weighted ENSC value is obtained by lexicographically minimizing a complaint vector associated with a new complaint criterion relying on players' selfishness.
C71|Pairwise stable matching in large economies| We formulate a general model and stability notion for two-sided pairwise matching problems with individually insignificant agents. Matchings are formulated as joint distributions over the characteristics of the populations to be matched. These characteristics can be high-dimensional and need not be included in compact spaces. Stable matchings exist with and without transfers and stable matchings correspond exactly to limits of stable matchings for finite agent models. We can embed existing continuum matching models and stability notions with transferable utility as special cases of our model and stability notion. In contrast to finite agent matching models, stable matchings exist under a general class of externalities. This might pave the way for integrating matching problems in other economic models.
C71|On a class of vertices of the core|It is known that for supermodular TU-games, the vertices of the core are the marginal vectors, and this result remains true for games where the set of feasible coalitions is a distributive lattice. Such games are induced by a hierarchy (partial order) on players. We propose a larger class of vertices for games on distributive lattices, called min–max vertices, obtained by minimizing or maximizing in a given order the coordinates of a core element. We give a simple formula which does not need to solve an optimization problem to compute these vertices, valid for connected hierarchies and for the general case under some restrictions. We find under which conditions two different orders induce the same vertex for every game, and show that there exist balanced games whose core has vertices which are not min–max vertices if and only if n>4.
C71|The core of supermodular games on finite distributive lattices|In this article, we study supermodular functions on finite distributive lattices. Relaxing the assumption that the domain is a powerset of a finite set, we focus on geometrical properties of the polyhedral cone of such functions. Specifically, we generalize the criterion for extremal rays and study the face lattice of the supermodular cone. An explicit description of facets by the corresponding tight linear inequalities is provided
C71|Seqential competition and the strategic origins of preferential attachment|There exists a wide gap between the predictions of strategic models of network formation and empirical observations of the characteristics of socio-economic networks. Empirical observations underline a complex structure characterized by fat-tailed degree distribution, short average distance, large clustering coefficient and positive assortativity. Game theoretic models offer a detailed representation of individuals' incentives but they predict the emergence of much simpler structures than these observed empirically. Random network formation processes, such as preferential attachment, provide a much better fit to empirical observations but generally lack micro-foundations. in order to bridge this gap, we propose to model network formation as extensive games and investigate under which conditions equilibria of these games are observationally equivalent with random network formation process. In particular, we introduce a class of games in which players compete with their predecessors and their successors for the utility induced by the links they form with another node in the network. Such sequential competition games can represent a number of strategic economic interactions such as oligopolistic competition in supply networks or diffusion of influence in opinion networks. we show that the focal equilibrium that emerge in this setting is one where players use probability distributions with full support and target the whole network with probabilities inversely proportional to the utility of each node. Notably, when the utility of a node is inversely proportional to its degree, equilibrium play induces a preferential attachment process
C71|Climate agreements in a mitigation-adaptation game|We analyze the strategic interaction between mitigation (public good) and adaptation (private good) strategies in a climate agreement. We show the fear that adaptation will reduce the incentives to mitigate carbon emissions may be unwarranted. Adaptation can lead to larger self-enforcing agreements, associated with higher global mitigation levels and welfare if it causes mitigation levels between different countries to be no longer strategic substitutes but complements. We argue that our results extend to many public goods. The well-known problem of “easy riding” may turn into “easy matching” if the marginal utility of public good consumption is strongly influenced by private consumption.
C71|Axiomatic Foundations of a Unifying Concept of the Core of Games in Effectiveness Form|We provide an axiomatic characterization of the core of games in effectiveness form. We point out that the core, whenever it applies to appropriate classes of these games, coincides with a wide variety of prominent stability concepts in social choice and game theory, such as the Condorcet winner, the Nash equilibrium, the pairwise stability, and the stable matchings, among others. Our characterization of the core invokes the axioms of non-emptiness, coalitional unanimity, and Maskin monotonicity together with a principle of independence of irrelevant states, and uses in its proof a holdover property echoing the conventional ancestor property. Taking special cases of this general characterization of the core, we derive new characterizations of the previously mentioned stability concepts.
C71|Axiomatic Foundations of a Unifying Core|We provide an axiomatic characterization of the core of games in effectiveness form. We point out that the core, whenever it applies to appropriate classes of these games, coincides with a wide variety of prominent stability concepts in social choice and game theory, such as the Condorcet winner, the Nash equilibrium, pairwise stability, and stable matchings, among others. Our characterization of the core invokes the axioms of restricted non-emptiness, coalitional unanimity, and Maskin invariance together with a principle of independence of irrelevant states, and uses in its proof a holdover property echoing the conventional ancestor property. Taking special cases of this general characterization of the core, we derive new characterizations of the previously mentioned stability concepts.
C71|Axiomatic Foundations of a Unifying Core|We provide an axiomatic characterization of the core of games in effectiveness form. We point out that the core, whenever it applies to appropriate classes of these games, coincides with a wide variety of prominent stability concepts in social choice and game theory, such as the Condorcet winner, the Nash equilibrium, pairwise stability, and stable matchings, among others. Our characterization of the core invokes the axioms of restricted non-emptiness, coalitional unanimity, and Maskin invariance together with a principle of independence of irrelevant states, and uses in its proof a holdover property echoing the conventional ancestor property. Taking special cases of this general characterization of the core, we derive new characterizations of the previously mentioned stability concepts.
C71|A Study on Regime Type and Globalization in Simultaneous Equation Framework|In this study we build a simultaneous equation model in which the measures of different aspects of globalization (attributable to KOF) and different aspects of democracy (attributable to EIU) are related in seven structural equations. A bi-directional relationship between democracy and globalization is visualized. The model is estimated by the conventional 2-SLS as well as a modified 2-SLS in which Shapley value regression is used at the second stage of 2-SLS. On the basis of our analysis, we document several findings. First, we find that democracy and globalization promote each other and hence there is a bi-directional causality with positive relationships running both ways between democracy and globalization. At a national level, there may be various intermediary conditions that modify the relationship as well as set in motion a complex of positive and/or negative feedbacks to accelerate or retard the pace of globalization and democratization in a country-specific manner. However, when a large number of countries are studied, a clear relationship emerges out. Second, there is a need to estimate the structural coefficients of the model cautiously since the regression equations may be suffering from collinearity among the predictor variables. The Shapley value regression based 2-SLS has performed better than the conventional regression in estimating the structural parameters of the model. Third, the system methods of estimation of the model gives better results than what are obtained by the single equation methods of estimation of structural parameters of the model.
C71|A Simultaneous Equation Model of Globalization, Corruption, Democracy, Human Development and Social Progress|This study builds a simultaneous equation model that establishes inter-connections among the measures of globalization, measures of democracy, human development, corruption perception index and per capita income, which in turn jointly influence social progress. The model has eleven equations in which the response variables and the predictor variables are log-linearly related. The empirical data used for estimation of the model pertain to the period 2006-2016 for 116 countries distributed over all the continents. The model has been estimated by the conventional Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) and alternatively by a modified 2-SLS in which, at the second stage, Shapley value regression has been used to ameliorate the detrimental effects of collinearity among the predictor variables. It has been found that the modified 2-SLS outperforms the conventional 2-SLS. Empirically, it has been established that globalization, democracy, human development and low level of corruption are reinforcing each other and they together explain social progress quite well.
C71|Quantum entanglement and the emergence of collaboration in social media|"In this paper we devise a slightly modified version of the Vote with the Wallet Game used by Becchetti et al.(2015, 2017) to the use of Social Media, where the player decides whether to responsibly share social knowledge or not. We follow the point of view of Bennet and Bennet (2010) according to which another social settings may emerge trough the so-called ""process of collaborative entanglement"". In this environment members of a community interact continuously with strong emotional feelings to combine the sources of knowledge and the beneficiaries of that knowledge and move toward a common direction. By applying our model to the quantum game theory we substantially confirm that the cooperative strategy becomes the optimal one depending on frequency of interactions and people cultural, geographical and social reachability and traceablity."
C71|Voting in the Goods and Service Tax Council of India|In 2017, India enacted a new taxation law called the Goods and Services Tax (GST). This law created a GST Council with representatives of the Union government and the Provincial governments. The decision making procedure in the GST Council is specified to be by weighted voting. This work performs a detailed study of such a mechanism using the framework of formal voting games. On a theoretical note, we introduce several new notions regarding blocking dynamics of voting games. These are then applied to the study of voting in the GST context. We identify a set of basic desiderata and propose some modifications to the voting rule in the GST Act.
C71|An environmentally sustainable global economy. A coopetitive model|This paper proposes a model representing a global economy which aims to become environmentally sustainable. The model looks both at the production side and the consumption side of the economy. Regarding the production side, the suggested model considers investment and innovation in climate technologies, whereas on the side of the consumption it takes into account economic and policy instruments to change the patterns of consumption of the households. The model follows a game theory approach and applies a theoretical framework à la Cournot. The results of the paper are the following: the model provides win-win solutions, namely strategic situations in which each country takes advantages by cooperating and competing at the same time within the global economy, and where each country gets a positive return. In fact, the model shows the convenience for each country to cooperate and suggests the implementation of policies in order to satisfy the basic requirements of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in terms of production, consumption and climate change.
C71|Proportional Shapley levels values|The proportional Shapley value (Besner 2016; Béal et al. 2017; Gangolly 1981) is an proportional counterpart to the Shapley value (Shapley 1953b) in cooperative games. As shown in Besner (2017a), the proportional Shapley value is a convincing non-linear alternative, especially in cost allocation, if the stand alone worths of the players are plausible weights. To enable similar properties for cooperative games with a level structure, we generalize this value. Therefore we adapt the proceeding applied to the weighted Shapley values in Besner (2017b). We present, analogous to the four classes of weighted Shapley levels values in Besner (2017b), four different values, the proportional Shapley hierarchy levels value, the proportional Shapley support levels value, the proportional Shapley alliance levels value and the proportional Shapley collaboration levels value, respectively.
C71|Player splitting, players merging, the Shapley set value and the Harsanyi set value|Shapley (1953a) introduced the weighted Shapley values as a family of values, also known as Shapley set. For each exogenously given weight system exists a seperate TU-value. Shapley (1981) and Dehez (2011), in the context of cost allocation, and Radzik (2012), in general, presented a value for weighted TU-games that covers the hole family of weighted Shapley values all at once. To distinguish this value from a weighted Shapley value in TU-games we call it Shapley set value. This value coincides with a weighted Shapley value only on a subdomain and allows weights which can depend on coalition functions. Hammer (1977) and Vasil’ev (1978) introduced independently the Harsanyi set, also known as selectope (Derks, Haller and Peters, 2000), containing TU-values which are referred to as Harsanyi-payoffs. These values are obtained by distributing the dividends from all coalitions by a sharing system that is independent from the coalition function. In this paper we introduce the Harsanyi set value that, similar to the Shapley set value, covers the hole family of Harsanyi payoffs at once, allows not exogenously given share systems and coincides thus also with non linear values on some subdomains. We present some new axiomatizations of the Shapley set value and the Harsanyi set value containing a player splitting or a players merging property respectively as a main characterizing element that recommend these values for profit distribution and cost allocation.
C71|A convexity result for the range of vector measures with applications to large economies|"On a Boolean algebra we consider the topology $u$ induced by a finitely additive measure $\mu$ with values in a locally convex space and formulate a condition on $u$ that is sufficient to guarantee the convexity and weak compactness of the range of $\mu$. This result à la Lyapunov extends those obtained in (Khan, Sagara 2013) to the finitely additive setting through a more direct and less involved proof. We will then give an economical interpretation of the topology $u$ in the framework of coalitional large economies to tackle the problem of measuring the bargaining power of coalitions when the commodity space is infinite dimensional and locally convex. We will show that our condition on $u$ plays the role of the ""many more agents than commodities"" condition introduced by Rustichini and Yannelis in (1991). As a consequence of the convexity theorem, we will obtain two straight generalizations of Schmeidler's and Vind's Theorems on the veto power of coalitions of arbitrary economic weight."
C71|The weighted Shapley support levels values|This paper presents a new class of weighted values for level structures. The new values, called weighted Shapley support levels values, extend the weighted Shapley values to level structures and contain the Shapley levels value (Winter, 1989) as a special case. Since a level structure with only two levels coincides with a coalition structure we obtain, as a side effect, also new axiomatizations of weighted coalition structure values, presented in Levy and McLean (1989).
C71|Two classes of weighted values for coalition structures with extensions to level structures|In this paper we introduce two new classes of weighted values for coalition structures with related extensions to level structures. The values of both classes coincide on given player sets with Harsanyi payoffs and match therefore adapted standard axioms for TU-values which are satisfied by these values. Characterizing elements of the values from the new classes are a new weighted proportionality within components property and a null player out property, but on different reduced games for each class. The values from the first class, we call them weighted Shapley alliance coalition structure values (weighted Shapley alliance levels values), satisfy the null player out property on usual reduced games. By contrast, the values from the second class, named as weighted Shapley collaboration coalition structure values (weighted Shapley collaboration levels values) have this property on new reduced games where a component decomposes in components of lower levels (these are singletons in a coalition structure) if one player of this component is removed from the game. The first class contains the Owen value (Shapley levels value) and the second class includes a new extension of the Shapley value to coalition structures (level structures) as a special case.
C71|Weighted Shapley hierarchy levels values|In this paper we present a new class of values for cooperative games with level structure. We use a multi-step proceeding, suggested first in Owen (1977), applied to the weighted Shapley values. Our first axiomatization is an generalisation of the axiomatization given in Gómez-Rúa and Vidal-Puga (2011), itselves an extension of a special case of an axiomatization given in Myerson (1980) and Hart and Mas-Colell (1989) respectively by efficiency and weighted balanced contributions. The second axiomatization is completely new and extends the axiomatization of the weighted Shapley values introduced in Hart and Mas-Colell (1989) by weighted standardness for two player games and consistency. As a corollary we obtain a new axiomatization of the Shapley levels value.
C71|Sustainability of global feeding.Coopetitive interaction among vegan and non-vegan food firms|In this paper, we face the problem of global feeding sustainability and related environmental issues, with a strong attention to possible public heath improvements. Specifically, we shall consider food producers and sellers of vegan (or vegetarian) and non-vegan (or non-vegetarian) food. We propose possible quantitative agreements among different food producers, in order to develop a sustainable healthier diet for future generations, by using a mathematical co-opetitive approach and game theory. The co-opetitive approach used by the authors provides a game theory model, which could help producers of vegan food an easier entry in global market and obtain a considerable free publicity. Meanwhile, the model could allow big producers/sellers of non-vegetarian food a smooth rapid transaction to more sustainable and healthier vegan or vegetarian production/supply. In particular, we propose an exemplary complex agreement setting among McDonald's and Muscle of Wheat, a small but strongly innovative Italian food producer. We think that, on one hand, Muscle of Wheat cannot enter a global market without the help of a large globalized food producer already present in the market, on the other hand, we think equally difficult that a large static and poorly innovative producer cannot follow credibly and rapidly enough the increasing and challenging issues of global food sustainability. We remark that our game model represents an asymmetric R&D alliance between McDonald's and Muscle of Wheat. The aim of our contribution is twofold. Firstly, we explain the advantages of a vegan diet for the human health, environmental issues, food sustainability, population sustainability; in fact, the model explain how global food producers could improve environmental, social and health conditions of world population. Secondly, we show how game theory normal-form and extensive-form games can be used in coopetition studies in order to increase health conditions of people, address climate change, address hunger in the world, improve welfare in a particular market. The results of the mathematical study prove that we can find win-win solutions for both firms, which are also good for world environment, human healthy, human population sustainability and climate change.
C71|A Dichotomous Analysis of Unemployment Welfare|In an economy which could not accommodate the full employment of its labor force, it employs some labor but does not employ others. The bipartition of the labor force is random, and we characterize it by an axiom of equal employment opportunity. We value each employed individual by his or her marginal contribution to the production function; we also value each unemployed individual by the potential marginal contribution the person would make if the market hired the individual. We then use the aggregate individual value to distribute the net production to the unemployment welfare and the employment benefits. Using real-time balanced-budget rule as a constraint and policy stability as an objective, we derive a scientific formula which describes a fair, debt-free, and asymptotic risk-free tax rate for any given unemployment rate and national spending level. The tax rate minimizes the asymptotic mean, variance, semi-variance, and mean absolute deviation of the underlying posterior unemployment rate. The allocation rule stimulates employment and boosts productivity. Under some symmetry assumptions, we even find that an unemployed person should enjoy equivalent employment benefits, and the tax rate goes with this welfare equality. The tool employed is the cooperative game theory in which we assume many players. The players are randomly bipartitioned, and the payoff varies with the partition. One could apply the fair distribution rule and valuation approach to other profit-sharing or cost-sharing situations with these characteristics. This framework is open to alternative identification strategies and other forms of equal opportunity axiom.
C71|On the gamma-core of asymmetric aggregative games|This paper analyzes the core of cooperative games generated by asymmetric aggregative normal-form games, i.e., games where the payoff of each player depends on his strategy and the sum of the strategies of all players. We assume that each coalition calculates its worth presuming that the outside players stand alone and select individually optimal strategies (Chander & Tulkens 1997). We show that under some mild monotonicity assumptions on payoffs, the resulting cooperative game is balanced, i.e. it has a non-empty gamma-core. Our paper thus offers an existence result for a core notion that is considered quite often in the theory and applications of cooperative games with externalities.
C71|Reassignment-proof rules for land rental problems|We consider land rental problems where there are several communities that can act as lessors and a single tenant who does not necessary need all the available land. A rule should determine which communities become lessors, how much land they rent and at which price. We present a complete characterization of the family of rules that satisfy reassignment-proofness by merging and spliting, apart from land monotonicity. We also define two parametric subfamilies. The first one is characterized by adding a property of weighted standard for two-person. The second one is characterized by adding consistency and continuity.
C71|Cooperative Games with Externalities and Probabilistic Coalitional Beliefs|Cooperative game theory studies situations where groups or coalitions of players act collectively by signing binding agreements. The starting point of the theory is to determine the worth each coalition can achieve when its members act independently of the players outside the coalition. In games with orthogonal coalitions, i.e., coalitions that do not affect one another, this task is quite straightforward, as it suffices to study the actions of the insiders only. However, when orthogonality is absent, or in other words, when there are inter-coalitional externalities, the specification of the worth of a coalition requires the studying of the actions of the players in all coalitions. Therefore, when a number of players contemplate to form a coalition in an environment with externalities they need to have a theory, or a conjecture, about the actions of the players outside the proposed coalition. Clearly, different conjectures lead to different specifications of the worth or value of the coalition, which in turn affects the outcome of the game. In particular, these conjectures determine the core of the cooperative game. The core is the set of all outcomes (allocations of the value that the entire society of players generates) that no coalition has incentive to block and act on its own. Non-emptiness of the core means that cooperation among all players in the game is feasible. The literature on cooperative games with externalities has proposed a number of such coalitional conjectures, each giving rise to a specific core notion. According to Î± and Î²-conjectures (Aumann 1959), the members of a coalition compute their worth assuming that the outside players select their strategies so as to minimize the payoff of the coalition; the Î± and Î²-core are then defined with respect to the resulting coalitional payoffs. According to Î³-conjectures (Chander&Tulkens 1997), it is assumed that the outsiders select individual best strategies, i.e., they form only singleton coalitions; the Î³-core is then accordingly defined. The same approach can be followed under the additional assumption that each coalition assumes for itself the role of Stackelberg leader (Currarini&Marini 2003). The r-theory (Huang&Sjostrom 2003; Koczy 2007) proposes that the members of a coalition compute their worth by looking recursively on the sub-games played among the outsiders; the r-core arises when the solution concept employed in these sub-games is the core itself. Economists often restore to cooperative games with externalities to model various economic environments. Applications include the use of Î± and Î²-core in oligopolistic markets (Zhao 1999; Norde et al. 2002; Lardon 2010); the use of Î³-core in economies with production externalities (Chander&Tulkens 1997; Chander 2007; Helm 2012), in oligopolies (Rajan 1989; Lardon 2010; Lardon 2012) or in extensive-form games (Chander&Wooders 2012); the use of sequential Î³-core for cooperative games with strategic complements (Currarini&Marini 2003) or for economies with enviromental externalities (Marini 2013), etc. The main focus of these papers is to find conditions under which the core is non-empty. The current paper focuses too on cooperative games with externalities but takes a different route. It assumes that when a group of players S contemplate to break off from the rest of the society, they are uncertain about the partition that the players outside S will form. Hence, they assign various probability distributions on the set of all possible partitions. These probabilistic beliefs do not necessarily reflect the behavior of the outsiders, i.e., beliefs need not be consistent with actual choices. Given the beliefs, no natter how they form, one can compute the expected worth of S and define the core of the resulting cooperative game. The task that arises then is to find conditions on the data of the game (i.e., payoff functions and probability distributions) that guarantee the non-emptiness of the core, or, in other words, guarantee that the cooperation of all players in the game is feasible. The motivation of our paper is twofold. First, we are intersted in generalizing (some of) the existing approaches on the definition of the core. For example, the Î³-core notion is a special case of our approach that arises when each coalition assigns probability one to the event that the outsiders will form only singleton coalitions. Secondly, our paper could be read as a work on bounded rationality in its relation to cooperative games. The assignment of a (non-equilibrium) probability distribution on the set of parititions of the outsiders may reflect the cognitive inability of the members of a coalition to accurately deduce the outsiders' equilibrium partition. In this sense, probabilistic beliefs act as a rule of thumb. This approach is particularly relevant for games with a large number of players, where the number of different partitions can be very large. We apply the above framework to cooperative games generated by (symmetric) aggregative normal form games, i.e., games where the payoff of a player depends on his strategy and on the sum of the strategies of all players. Many economic models have an aggregative structure, such as oligopoly models, rent-seeking games, contest games, etc. We focus, in particular, on aggregative games that satisfy the following properties: (a) each player's payoff function has a bilinear form (this gives us the family of linear aggregative games introduced by Martimort&Stole 2010); (b) each player's payoff and marginal payoff decrease in the aggregate value of all players' strategies. The bilinear form assumption, in particular, is used as it allows us to simplify considerably the objective function of each coalition.
C71|Clique games: a family of games with coincidence between the nucleolus and the Shapley value|We introduce a new family of cooperative games for which there is coincidence between the nucleolus and the Shapley value. These so-called clique games are such that agents are divided into cliques, with the value created by a coalition linearly increasing with the number of agents belonging to the same clique. Agents can belong to multiple cliques, but for a pair of cliques, at most a single agent belong to their intersection. Finally, if two agents do not belong to the same clique, there is at most one way to link the two agents through a chain of agents, with any two non-adjacent agents in the chain belonging to disjoint sets of cliques. We provide multiple examples for clique games. Graph-induced games, either when the graph indicates cooperation possibilities or impossibilities, provide us with opportunities to confirm existing results or discover new ones. A particular focus are the minimum cost spanning tree problems. Our result allows us to obtain new correspondence results between the nucleolus and the Shapley value, as well as other cost sharing methods for the minimum cost spanning tree problem.
C71|Stability in Repeated Matching Markets|I develop a framework for studying repeated matching markets, where in every period, a new generation of short-lived agents on one side of the market is matched to a fixed set of long-lived institutions on the other. Within this framework, I characterize self-enforcing arrangements for two types of environments. When wages are rigid, as in the matching market for hospitals and medical residents, players can be partitioned into two sets: regardless of patience level, some players can be assigned only according to a static stable matching; when institutions are patient, the other players can be assigned in ways that are unstable in one-shot interactions. I discuss these results’ implications for allocating residents to rural hospitals. When wages can be flexibly adjusted, I show that with flexible wages, repeated interaction resolves well-known non-existence issues: while static stable matchings may fail to exist with complementarities and/or peer effects, self-enforcing matching processes always exist if institutions are sufficiently patient.
C71|Intergenerational digital activity: A good mixture of education and welfare|"The context of this presentation is the ITAC research project[1], a scientific collaboration between the ICAR and the ELICO research teams and Lyon?s Public Library (BML). Its aim is to study the intergenerational use of digital artifacts at the BML. ITAC focuses on the relational, linguistic, and educational aspects resulting from the interactions. Our study centers on the interactions between a grandmother and her grandson discovering together the games provided on an interactive table. It is also a question of studying the way in which the grandmother transmits to her grandson the manipulative knowledge of communication with the screen. Through a methodological framework inspired by comprehensive ethology (Cosnier, 2001), the analysis will show how both participants benefit from such an activity when it is properly lead by a mediator. In terms of education, the results show that both participants enhanced their digital literacy. In terms of welfare, the senior gets involved in the digital entertainment environment at the same time as she plays with her grandson. It informs us of her degree of appropriation of digital uses. This ease of communication with the screens limits the speeches constantly highlighting the difficulties of seniors to be comfortable with these new technologies. Cosnier. J., 2001. « Entretien avec Jacques Cosnier », Communication et organisation [En ligne], 19 | 2001, mis en ligne le 27 mars 2012, consulté le 08 août 2018. URL : http://journals.openedition.org/communicationorganisation/2537 ; DOI : 10.4000/communicationorganisation.2537 [1] https://impec.sciencesconf.org/resource/page?id=44&forward-action=page&forward-controller=resource&lang=en"
C71|Nonparametric estimation of international R&D spillovers|In a recent paper, Ertur and Musolesi (Journal of Applied Econometrics 2017; 32: 477-503) employ the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach to address the issue of strong cross-sectional dependence while studying international technology diffusion. We carefully revisit this issue by adopting Su and Jin's (Journal of Econometrics 2012; 169: 34-47) method, which extends the CCE approach to nonparametric specifications. Our results indicate that the adoption of a nonparametric approach provides significant benefits in terms of predictive ability. This work also refines previous results by showing threshold effects, nonlinearities and interactions, which are obscured in parametric specifications and which have relevant policy implications.
C71|An Evolutionary Approach to International Environmental Agreements|Our work contributes to explain the origin of the failure or success of international environmental agreements (IEA) and their relation with the actual aggregate global level of greenhouse gas emissions, by including climate risks, cross-country inequalities, and consumer's environmental awareness. We introduce a novel multi-scale framework, composed by two tied games, to show under which conditions a country is able to fulfil the IEA: (i) a one-shot 2x2 Game, with asymmetric countries that negotiate on the maximum share of emissions, and (ii) an Evolutionary Game which describes the economic structure through the interaction of households and rms' strategies.
C71|Information within coalitions: risk and ambiguity|We address economies with asymmetric information where agents are not perfectly aware about the informational structure for coalitions. Thus, we introduce solutions that we refer to as risky core and ambiguous core. We provide existence results and a variety of properties of these cooperative solutions.
C71|Simplifying the Kohlberg Criterion on the Nucleolus: A Disproof by Oneself|(Nguyen 2016) claimed that he has developed a simplifying set of the Kohlberg criteria that involves checking the balancedness of at most (n-1) sets of coalitions. This claim is not true. Analogous to Nguyen and Thomas (2016), he has incorrectly applied the indirect proof. He established in his purported proofs of the main results that a truth implies a falsehood. This is a wrong statement and such a hypotheses must be rejected (cf. Meinhardt (2015,2016a,2016b)). Executing a logical correct interpretation ought immediately lead him to the conclusion that his proposed algorithms are deficient. In particular, he had to detect that the imposed balancedness requirement on the test condition within his proposed methods cannot be appropriate. As a consequence, either a nucleolus with a weakly balanced set will be dismissed by the implemented algorithms or a solution which is not a nucleolus will be selected as a nucleolus. Hence, one cannot expect that one of these algorithms makes a correct selection. The supposed algorithms are wrongly designed and cannot be set in any relation with Kohlberg.
C71|A Theory of Dichotomous Valuation with Applications to Variable Selection|An econometric or statistical model may undergo a marginal gain when a new variable is admitted, and marginal loss if an existing variable is removed. The value of a variable to the model is quantified by its expected marginal gain and marginal loss. Under a prior belief that all candidate variables should be treated fairly, we derive a few formulas which evaluate the overall performance of each variable. One formula is identical to that for the Shapley value. However, it is not symmetric with respect to marginal gain and marginal loss; moreover, the Shapley value favors the latter. Thus we propose a unbiased solution. Two empirical studies are included: the first being a multi-criteria model selection for a dynamic panel regression; the second being an analysis of effect on hourly wage given by additional years of schooling.
C71|Duality in land rental problems|A single tenant demands a particular amount of land from several lessors. The way lessors rent their land can be seen as equivalent to a bankruptcy problem. We extend self-duality in bankruptcy problems to these land rental situations. We provide a complete characterization of the family of rules that satisfy self-duality. Moreover, self-duality is enough to assure that the amount of land is proportionally shared among the lessors. Adding other reasonable properties, we pick up a single rule.
C71|Le Pouvoir de Vote dans les Etablissements Publics de Coopération Intercommunale de la Martinique et de la Guadeloupe<BR>[The Voting Power in the Inter-communal Council of Martinique and Guadeloupe]|This paper deals with the distribution of seats between municipalities in the inter-communal council (EPCI) of Martinique and Guadeloupe. In each of the EPCIs, we calculate the voting power of municipalities using the Shapley-Shubik and Banzhaf indices. Our analysis allows us to show that in almost all the EPCIs of Martinique and Guadeloupe, there is no similarity between the distribution of power indices and the distribution of population percentages. There is also a distortion between the distribution of power indices and the distribution of delegate percentages.
C71|Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, Volume I: Theory. An Introduction|We introduce here the first volume of Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization: Theory, by L. C. Corchón and M. A. Marini (eds.), Edward Elgar, Cheltenam, UK and Northampton, MA, by describing its main aim and its basic structure.
C71|Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, Volume II: Applications. An Introduction|We introduce here the second volume of the Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, by L. C. Corchón and M. A. Marini (ed.), Edward Elgar, Cheltenam, UK and Northampton, MA, describing its main aim and its basic structure.
C71|Almost equi-marginal principle based composite index of globalization: China, India and Pakistan|The present study proposes an alternative method to construct an index of globalization which is based on the principle of almost equi-marginal contributions (AEMC) or Shapley values of the constituent variables to the overall index rather than the correlation coefficients among the constituent variables and the overall index (the KOF index based on the principal component scores). This has been done by minimization of the Euclidean norm of the Shapley values of the constituent variables. As an exercise, secondary time series data (1970-2013) on the measures of globalization in three different dimensions (economic, social and political) of three economies (China, India and Pakistan) have been used. A comparison of the AEMC index with the KOF index reveals that while the former is more inclusive, the latter is more elitist in matters of inclusion of the weakly correlated constituent variables in the overall (composite) index. As a consequence, the AEMC index is more sensitive than the KOF index of globalization. Both indices capture the trends in globalization in the countries under study and are highly correlated between themselves. Thus, AEMC is an alternative or perhaps a better method to construct composite indices.
C71|Globalization under hysteresis: A study of Eastern Bloc Countries, China and India|This study is concerned with a great socio-economic experiment in history that replaced the naturally evolved market economy with the humanly designed command economy to achieve a socialist triumph over capitalism, experienced a setback and ultimately returned to the market economy for managing the material aspects of the society. Efforts to open the subject economies in the aftermath of the said experiment are on the contemporary agenda worldwide. Yet, the past pulls the present causing hysteresis that thwarts the momentum of globalization. Using KOF and AEMC indices of globalization (based on KOF data 1991-2014), the paper concludes that most of the countries to the south of Russian Federation (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan) have performed rather poorly in globalization efforts. On the other hand, the countries in the north-western side of the Russian Federation (except Moldova) have on the whole performed better. In comparison, China has performed fairly while India lags behind. In spite of all proclamations, unless the political will to globalization is there, globalization cannot progress much further. However, such a political will has not been strong in India. India has remained protectionist of vested interests of politicians, industrialists, business houses and perhaps the intelligentsia, a coalition of the dominant proprietary classes that benefit from the status quo or stagnancy of the Indian economy and society. Globalization in India is under a strong spell of hysteresis on account of the pre-1991 pseudo-socialistic nostalgia as well as age-old internal contradictions.
C71|Matrix representation of TU-games for Linear Efficient and Symmetric values|The aim of this article is to present a new tool for assessing TU-game based on a matrix representation. We focus on TU-games with coalition structures and provide a general matrix form of TU-game. We shed light on some useful properties of the matrix representation of TU-game and the general form obtained is applied to describe the representation for some classical TU-game. The facilities provided by such a representation are used to characterize subclasses of Linear Efficient and Symmetric (LES) values.
C71|Measuring degree of globalization of African Countries on almost equimarginal contribution principle|This paper is an exercise in construction of an alternative globalization index for 43 countries in Africa. It has used a new method for measurement of the degree of globalization (or construction of a globalization index) based on minimization of the Euclidean norm of the Shapley values, the concept borrowed from the cooperative game theory. It assigns weights to constituent variables such that their mean expected marginal contribution to the synthetic index is as equitable as possible. Since this index is based on combinatorial logic, it is also less likely to be affected by outlier data points. Globalization index for 43 African countries (for a time series of 45 years, 1970-2014) has been constructed. The new index has been compared with the KOF index of globalization for the countries under study. As its validation, it has been found that the index has stronger correlation (vis-à-vis the KOF index) with Human Development index, Corruption Perception index, Freedom index and the indicators of abject poverty in the African countries. Viewed as such the new index represents globalization closely in connection with other relevant socio-economic measures than its rival (KOF index of globalization) as well as it is based on more plausible theoretical premises based on marginal contribution rather than correlation.
C71|Trends in globalization of select Asian countries|In this study we have constructed a composite index of globalization of select Asian countries during 1970-2014 by minimizing the Euclidean norm of Shapley values of indicator variables contributing to the overall index. As a consequence, the mean expected marginal contributions of constituent variables to the overall index are approximately equal and thus, the overall composite index represents the constituent variables optimally. We call this index the Almost Equal Marginal Contribution (AEMC) index. We find that AEMC index and the KOF index of globalization are highly correlated (Pearson’s r=0.982). We find that Singapore, Cyprus, Israel, Qatar, Malaysia, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, Kuwait, Bahrain and Japan have done very well and scored above 0.7. At the other end, Yemen, Tajikistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Iran, Nepal and Myanmar have scored below 0.5. Trends in globalization are increasing in general, but the rate of globalization, which accelerated after 1991, lost its momentum after 2007. Disparities in globalization, as measured by Gini coefficient over the countries under study, were more or less constant up to 1985 but after that they started declining. We have found that the index of globalization goes well with other socio-economic measures such as Economic Freedom Index, International Innovation Index, Social Progress Index, Human Development Index and Corruption Perception Index, showing high values of Kendall’s Tau and Spearman’s Rho. Its association with Democracy Index is rather weak but positive. It is almost uncorrelated with the Gender Gap Index. We observe, therefore, that globalization index is moving well with the indices of socio-economic condition in the Asian countries.
C71|Sociality is Not Lost with Monetary Transactions within Social Groups|This paper investigates how the group membership fee influences the cooperation rate within the groups formed through the socialization. Our previous findings suggest that socialization, or social interactions in groups, create sociality and, therefore, establish a society with sustained cooperation and fairness. In line with Social Identity Theory, we assert some esteem or value to be gained through group differentiation. What will happen with this additional value once we try to quantify it? For this purpose, we observed two cases: socialized participants should pay the fee to stay in-group; participants should pay the fee to join the group, socialize and stay there. We find that monetary transactions are not determinative on their own; rather the consequences of these transactions can hurt collective action through a forced division of participants into those who paid enough (in-group) and those who did not (out-group). More over, despite the fact that being in-group and out-group is an economically equal situation, participants are willing to pay the fee to stay in their socialized group or pay the fee to join the group before socialization.
C71|Weighted Shapley levels values|This paper presents a collection of four different classes of weighted Shapley levels values. All classes contain generalisations of the weighted Shapley values to cooperative games with a level structure. The first class is an upgrade of the weighted Shapley levels value in Gómez-Rúa and Vidal-Puga (2011), who use the size of components as weights. The following classes contain payoff vectors from the Harsanyi set. Hence they satisfy the dummy axiom, in contrary to the values in the first class in general. The second class contains extensions of the McLean weighted coalition structure values (Dragan, 1992; Levy and McLean, 1989; McLean, 1991). The first two classes satisfy the level game property (the payoff to all players of a component sum up to the payoff to the component in a game where components are the players) and the last two classes meet a null player out property. As a special case, the first three classes include the Shapley levels value and the last class contains a new extension of the Shapley value.
C71|Axiomatizations of the proportional Shapley value|We provide new axiomatic characterizations of the proportional Shapley value, a weighted value with the worths of the singletons as weights. This value satisfies anonymity and therefore symmetry just as the Shapley value and has characterizations which are proportional counterparts to the famous characterizations of the Shapley value in Shapley (1953b), Myerson (1980) and Young (1985a). If the stand alone worths are plausible weights the proportional Shapley value is a convincing alternative to the Shapley value for example in cost allocation. We introduce two new axioms, called proportionality and player splitting respectively. Each of which gives a main difference between the proportional Shapley value and the Shapley value.
C71|Perfect Public Offering: A Process to Provide Perfect Ownership of Businesses to the Entire Public|A process to provide perfect ownership and direction of businesses to the entire public, via non-profit universities. The process enables a nonprofit university to acquire and administer businesses and other important infrastructures within society in a manner where faculty and students of the university can more efficiently and effectively administer their infrastructures to produce and allocate their goods and services to society in a socially and economically competitive manner which provides the greater public education system the leverage to acquire and administer the entire for-profit sector, as well as other important infrastructures within society. The mechanism relies on an iterated prisoner’s dilemma (game theory scenario) established amongst all businesses, created by global externalities produced from the localized interactions of a group of purely reasonable and competitive businesses acquired and administered by a nonprofit university, and those which are undergoing their acquisition process, via the nonprofit university. The results more efficiently and effectively produce and allocate the goods, services, amenities, knowledge, resources and opportunities of society to the public in a manner which reduces and eliminates the operating costs of society and the regular living expenses of the public, while maintaining and nurturing the social and economic order of society via the natural infrastructures and routines of nonprofit universities.
C71|A New Kind of Two-Stage Least Squares Based on Shapley Value Regression|The Two-Stage Least squares method for obtaining the estimated structural coefficients of a simultaneous linear equations model is a celebrated method that uses OLS at the first stage for estimating the reduced form coefficients and obtaining the expected values in the arrays of current exogenous variables. At the second stage it uses OLS, equation by equation, in which the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are used as instruments representing their observed counterpart. It has been pointed out that since the explanatory expected current endogenous variables are linear functions of the predetermined variables in the model, inclusion of such expected current endogenous variables together with a subset of predetermined variables as regressors make the estimation procedure susceptible to the deleterious effects of collinearity, which may render some of the estimated structural coefficients with inflated variance as well as wrong sign. As a remedy to this problem, the use of Shapley value regression at the second stage has been proposed. For illustration a model has been constructed in which the measures of the different aspects of globalization are the endogenous variables while the measures of the different aspects of democracy are the predetermined variables. It has been found that the conventional (OLS-based) Two-Stage Least Squares (2-SLS) gives some of the estimated structural coefficients with an unexpected sign. In contrast, all structural coefficients estimated with the proposed 2-SLS (in which Shapley value regression has been used at the second stage) have an expected sign. These empirical findings suggest that the measures of globalization are conformal among themselves as well as they are positively affected by democratic regimes.
C71|Cryptocurrency Voting Games|This work shows that weighted majority voting games occur in cryptocurrencies. In particular, two such games are highlighted. The first game, which we call the Rule Game, pertains to the scenario where the entities in the system engage in a voting procedure to accept or reject a change of rules. The second game, which we call the Attack Game, refers to the scenario where a group of entities in a cryptocurrency system can form a coalition to engage in double spending. For the Rule Game we provide analysis to argue that the Coleman’s preventive power measure is the appropriate tool for measuring a player’s influence in the game while for the Attack Game, we define a notion of stability based on the notion of minimal winning coalitions. For both the Rule Game and the Attack Game, we show how to analyse the games based on a snapshot of real world data for Bitcoin which is presently the most popular of all the cryptocurrencies.
C71|On some decisive players for linear efficient and symmetric values in cooperative games with transferable utility|The main goal of the paper is to shed light on economic allocations issues, in particular by focusing on individuals who receive nothing (that is an amount of zero allocation or payoff). It is worth noting that such individuals may be considered, in some contexts, as poor or socially excluded. To this end, our study relies on the notion of cooperative games with transferable utility and the Linear Efficient and Symmetric values (called LES values) are considered as allocation rules. Null players in Shapley sense are extensively studied ; two broader classes of null players are introduced. The analysis is facilitated by the help of a parametric representation of LES values. It is clearly shown that the control of what a LES value assigns as payoffs to null players gives significant information about the characterization of the value. Several axiomatic characterizations of subclasses of LES values are provided using our approach.
C71|Startup as a partner of cooperation for big company in the agri-food industry: Analysis of forms of cooperation on examples|Currently obtaining and maintaining a competitive advantage require implementation of innovation in companies. This trend is mainly caused by the rapid development cycle of technologies. Thus, there is a question of adaptability especially regarding introducing innovation. It can be assumed that cooperation between entities at various stages of the business development is increasingly important and large enterprises from the agri-food industry are willing to interact with startups. This interaction may allow startups to overcome the difficulties that are emerging at the early stage of the development such as the problem of delivering the reliable proof of concept. The goal of this paper is an analysis of cooperation and use of the synergies between large enterprises and startups especially in order to address needs of innovation in the economy. The cooperation can take various forms, and this paper will discuss selected types of collaboration between large enterprises and startups, which are related to business acceleration activities, co-development, co-branding, acquisitions, and acqui-hire.
C71|Reliable Electricity: The Effects of System Integration and Cooperative Measures to Make it Work|We investigate the effects of system integration for reliability of supply in regional electricity systems along with cooperative measures to support it. Specifically, we set up a model to contrast the benefits from integration through statistical balancing (i.e., a positive externality) with the risk of cascading outages (a negative externality). The model is calibrated with a comprehensive dataset comprising 28 European countries on a high spatial and temporal resolution. We find that positive externalities from system integration prevail, and that cooperation is key to meet reliability targets efficiently. To enable efficient solutions in a non-marketed environment, we formulate the problem as a cooperative game and study different rules to allocate the positive and negative effects to individual countries. Strikingly, we find that without a mechanism, the integrated solution is unstable. In contrast, proper transfer payments can be found to make all countries better off in full integration, and the Nucleolus is identified as a particularly promising candidate. The rule could be used as a basis for compensation payments to support the successful integration and cooperation of electricity systems.
C71|Who Gains More Power in the EU after Brexit?|Brexit implications are analysed in most cases from the macroeconomic, financial or legal point of view while these areas are not the only ones the economists or governments should pay attention to. In this article we focus on how Brexit influences application of the European procedures, i.e. the results of various voting scenarios in the Council of the European Union. Based on power indices we examine changes of power distribution within the European Union (EU) from the perspective of each EU Member State separately as well as potential coalitions. This analysis covers also projection of power distribution in 2030 and 2060 that takes into account population forecast prepared by the Ageing Working Group. We find that larger countries benefit from the new possible power distribution while the smaller ones lose their power. Moreover, power of coalitions built by the EU Member States, representing different groups of interests in particular voting, e.g. EU budget or enforcement of the EU rules, seems to be vulnerable to the implications of the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the EU. Brexit may influence the quality of institutional and macroeconomic policy, especially in terms of decisions on the strictness of the EU rules.
C71|Investigation of Profit-Loss Sharing and Fixed-Return Contracts Recovery Rate Using Game Theory Approach|In loan contracts with profit-loss sharing (PLS), both sides share not only its expected profit but they both have to bear its probable losses as well. But in fixed interest-based loan contracts, the bank is simply risk natural and transfer all contract risks to borrower. Although in Islamic Sharia only the former contracts are accepted, it is not used that much in practice. In words, common loan contracts even in Islamic countries do not comply with the Sharia. This paper, using a game theory model, attempts to compare profit of banks these two sort of contracts based on recovery rate of borrowers when we have not only adverse selection but also costly state verification. We show that Sharia-compliant contracts (e.g. PLS) have significantly higher recovery rate compared to fixed interest-based contracts.
C71|Equal Awards versus Equal Losses in Bankruptcy Problems|The Constrained Equal Awards and Equal Losses rules are traditional ways to solve bankruptcy problems. These rules are characterized by two parameters α and β that represent, respectively, the maximum amount a claimant receives, or the maximum amount a claimant loses. Moreover, these rules define a partition in the set of agents: those who are equally rationed, and those sustaining a lower rationing (because their maximal award and maximal loss cannot exceed their claim). We investigate the relationship between α and β, and the corresponding partitions they originate in the set of agents, by using a characteristic τ measuring the relative degree of conflict.
C71|Sharing Costs and the Compromise Solution|This paper introduces the Compromise rule for cost sharing problems. This rule fairly combines the equity and the growth-encouraging key principles. The way in which it is described also allows to endogenously identify the agents belonging to a “middle class” depending on how the costs of satisfying individual demands are distributed.
C71|Resource Allocation with Warranties in Claims Problems|The establishing of warranties in order to ensure some minimum awards to each agent involved in an allocation (claims) problem has been analyzed in the body of literature by introducing lower bounds. When focusing on claims problems, four main lower bounds on awards have been defined: the minimal right (Curiel et al., 1987), the fair lower bound (Moulin, 2002), securement (Moreno-Ternero and Villar, 2004) and the min lower bound (Dominguez, 2013). The current approach analyzes the effect of requiring the aforementioned lower bounds in an allocation mechanism. We compare the mechanisms thus obtained together with the use of some additional properties. By doing so, we show that there is a correspondence between lower bounds and claims rules, i.e., associated to each particular lower bound, we find a particular claims rule. Consequently, we provide new characterizations for the constrained equal awards rule, as well as the Ibn Ezra proposal. Finally, a dual analysis, by using upper bounds in awards, provides characterizations of the dual rules of the previous ones: the constrained equal losses rule and the dual of the Ibn Ezra rule.
C71|Fair Division with Uncertain Needs|Imagine that agents have uncertain needs and a resource must be divided before uncertainty resolves. In this situation, waste typically occurs when the assignment to an agent turns out to exceed his realized need. How should the resource be divided in the face of possible waste? This is a question out of the scope of the existing rationing literature. Our main axiom to address the issue is no domination. It requires that no agent receive more of the resource than another while producing a larger expected waste, unless the other agent has been fully compensated. Together with conditional strict endowment monotonicity, consistency, and strong upper composition, we characterize a class of rules which we call expected-waste constrained uniform gains rules. Such a rule is associated with a function that aggregates the two components of cost generated by an agent at an allocation: the amount of the resource assigned to him and the expected waste he generates. The rule selects the allocation that equalizes as much as possible the cost generated by each agent. Moreover, we characterize the subclasses of rules associated with homothetic and linear cost functions. Lastly, to appreciate the role of no domination, we establish all the characterizations with a decomposition of no domination into two axioms: risk aversion and no reversal. They respectively capture that a rule should not ignore the claim uncertainty, and neither should it be too sensitive to the claim uncertainty.
C71|Contracts and domination in incomplete markets: what is a true core?|Abstract The goal of the paper is to propose and study a concept of domination by coalitions for incomplete markets. Previously elaborated in the context of contractual approach, now it is presented in more or less standard terms and style. This concept is described as a set of allocations implemented by the net trades (webs of contracts) that are characterized by a special kind of stability in future markets: (i) for every state of the world inducted allocation has to be Pareto optimal and individually rational and (ii) there is no coalition which is able to dominate the allocation via financially feasible trades in future spot markets using real assets and relative to prices specified by (i) (partial Pareto prices). This core converts into a classical one when the market turns complete. Under perfect competition conditions core allocations are GEI-equilibria. These properties prove the validity of suggested core.
C71|Using the Multilinear Extension to Study Some Probabilistic Power Indices|Abstract We consider binary voting systems modeled by a simple game, in which voters vote independently of each other, and the probability distribution over coalitions is known. The Owen’s multilinear extension of the simple game is used to improve the use and the computation of three indices defined in this model: the decisiveness index, which is an extension of the Banzhaf index, the success index, which is an extension of the Rae index, and the luckiness index. This approach leads us to prove new properties and inter-relations between these indices. In particular it is proved that the ordinal equivalence between success and decisiveness indices is achieved in any game if and only if the probability distribution is anonymous. In the anonymous case, the egalitarianism of the three indices is compared, and it is also proved that, for these distributions, decisiveness and success indices respect the strength of the seats, whereas luckiness reverses this order.
C71|On the nonemptiness of approximate cores of large games|Abstract We provide a new proof of the nonemptiness of approximate cores of games with many players of a finite number of types. Earlier papers in the literature proceed by showing that, for games with many players, equal-treatment cores of their “balanced cover games,” which are nonempty, can be approximated by equal-treatment $$\varepsilon $$ ε -cores of the games themselves. Our proof is novel in that we develop a limiting payoff possibilities set and rely on a fixed point theorem.
C71|A monotonic and merge-proof rule in minimum cost spanning tree situations|Abstract We present a new model for cost sharing in minimum cost spanning tree problems to allow planners to identify how many agents merge. Under this new framework, in contrast to the traditional model, there are rules that satisfy the property of Merge-proofness. Furthermore, strengthening this property and adding some others, such as Population Monotonicity and Solidarity, makes it possible to define a unique rule that coincides with the weighted Shapley value of an associated cost game.
C71|Comparable characterizations of four solutions for permission tree games|Abstract In the field of cooperative games, there is an extensive literature that studies situations of restricted cooperation. In a communication graph game, players can only cooperate if they are connected in an undirected graph representing the communication possibilities. The Myerson value of such a game is obtained by taking the Shapley value of the corresponding restricted game. For the special case that the graph is cycle-free and connected, for each player the corresponding hierarchical outcome yields an alternative solution. In a permission tree game, the player set is enriched with a rooted directed graph (or tree) on the set of players. A coalition is said to be feasible, if for every player in the coalition, except the top (root) player, also its predecessor belong(s) to the coalition. The permission value is obtained by taking the Shapley value of the associated restricted game. In this paper, we modify the Myerson value and hierarchical outcome that are defined for (undirected) communication graph games to a value for permission tree games. We also define a new solution that assigns all payoff to the unique top player in the hierarchy. Then comparable characterizations are given of these three solutions and the known permission value.
C71|The prediction value|Abstract We introduce the prediction value (PV) of player i as the difference between the conditional expectations of v(S) when i cooperates or not in a probabilistic TU game. The latter combines a standard TU game and a probability distribution over the set of coalitions. The PV reflects the importance of information about a given player’s behavior for predicting, e.g., committee decisions that are subject to opinion interdependencies. The PV is characterized by anonymity, linearity, a consistency requirement and two normalization conditions. Every multinomial probabilistic value, hence every binomial semivalue, coincides with the PV for a particular family of probability distributions. So the PV can be regarded as a power index in specific cases. Conversely, some semivalues—including the Banzhaf but not the Shapley value—can be interpreted in terms of informational importance.
C71|An Evolutionary approach to International Environmental Agreements|Our work contributes to explain the observation of two facts at odds: the number of signatories of international environmental agreements (IEA) has grown in time, meanwhile, the aggregate global level of greenhouse gas emissions is increasing at exponential rate. We introduce a novel multi-scale framework, composed by two tied games, to show under which conditions a country is able to fulfill the IEA: an Evolutionary Game which describes the economic structure through the interaction of households and rms' strategies; and a 2x2 one-shot Game, with asymmetric nations that negotiate on the maximum share of emissions. The distance between international environmental targets and country's emissions performances is explained in terms of heterogeneous economic structure, without the need to impose any free-riding behaviour. Consumer's environmental consciousness (micro level) together with global income (and technological) inequality (macro level), are found to be the key variables towards the green transition path. We provide analytical results paired with numerical simulations.
C71|Rational expectations and farsighted stability|In the study of farsighted coalitional behavior, a central role is played by the von Neumann-Morgenstern (1944) stable set and its modification that incorporates farsightedness. Such a modification was first proposed by Harsanyi (1974) and has recently been re-formulated by Ray and Vohra (2015). The farsighted stable set is based on a notion of indirect dominance in which an outcome can be dominated by a chain of coalitional `moves' in which each coalition that is involved in the sequence eventually stands to gain. However, it does not require that each coalition make a maximal move, i.e., one that is not Pareto dominated (for the members of the coalition in question) by another. Consequently, when there are multiple continuation paths the farsighted stable set can yield unreasonable predictions. We restrict coalitions to hold common, history independent expectations that incorporate maximality regarding the continuation path. This leads to two related solution concepts: the rational expectations farsighted stable set (REFS) and the strong rational expectations farsighted stable set (SREFS). We apply these concepts to simple games and to pillage games to illustrate the consequences of imposing rational expectations for farsighted stability.
C71|The Myopic Stable Set for Social Environments|We introduce a new solution concept for models of coalition formation, called the myopic stable set (MSS). The MSS is defined for a general class of social environments and allows for an infinite state space. An MSS exists and, under minor continuity assumptions, it is also unique. The MSS generalizes and unifies various results from more specific applications. It coincides with the coalition structure core in coalition function form games when this set is nonempty; with the set of stable matchings in the Gale–Shapley matching model; with the set of pairwise stable networks and closed cycles in models of network formation; and with the set of pure strategy Nash equilibria in pseudo‐potential games and finite supermodular games. We also characterize the MSS for the class of proper simple games.
C71|Tragedy of the Commons and Evolutionary Games in Social Networks: The Economics of Social Punishment|This study revisits the problem of the tragedy of the commons. Extracting agents participate in an evolutionary game in a complex social network and are subject to social pressure if they do not comply with the social norms. Social pressure depends on the dynamics of the resource, the network and the population of compliers. We analyze the influence the network structure has on the agents’ behavior and determine the economic value of the intangible good - social pressure. For a socially optimal management of the resource, an initially high share of compliers is necessary but is not sufficient. The analysis shows the extent to which the remaining level of the resource, the share of compliers and the size, density and local cohesiveness of the network contribute to overcoming the tragedy of the commons. The study suggests that the origin of the problem – shortsighted behavior - is also the starting point for a solution in the form of a one-time payment. A numerical analysis of a social network comprising 7500 agents and a realistic topological structure is performed using empirical data from the western La Mancha aquifer in Spain.
