C79|Implementable Mechanisms for discrete utility functions, a solution using Tropical Geometry|For mechanisms with two possible outcomes and a unique agent with two posible types, we state sufficient and necessary conditions over the type space that guarantees the existence of an incentive compatible mechanism. By using tropical geometry, we found that these conditions rely only on the relative valuations to be increasing over types. This result extends implementability for discrete utility functions.
C79|Emotions of Altruism, Envy and Guilt: Experimental Evidence|We run an economic experiment in order to find out the preferences of altruism, envy, and guilt at individual level. We extend Andreoni and Miller’s (2002) series of Dictator Experiments and Fisman et al.’s (2007) graphical experiment in order to have additional and more precise data at individual level. We run 55 graphical dictator games including some with a positive relation between the money the Dictator and the Receiver obtain, in order to estimate individual preferences for envy and guilt. Our program is interactive, as it looks for the regions where individuals´ emotions change from altruist to envy, and altruism to guilt, and changes the form of the budget sets. We find that most individuals show the emotion of altruism when facing other individuals that have similar income as themselves. However, some individuals show the emotion of envy when facing other individuals with much higher payoffs than themselves. More surprisingly, some individuals reveal the emotion of guilt when they have much higher payoffs that other individuals.
C79|Virtual implementation by bounded mechanisms: Complete information|"A social choice rule (SCR) F maps preference profiles to lotteries over some finite set of outcomes. F is virtually implementable in (pure and mixed) Nash equilibria provided that for all E > 0, there exists a mechanism such that for each preference profile t, its set of Nash equilibrium outcomes at θ is E-closed to the socially desirable set F(θ). Under a domain restriction, we obtain the following result: When there are at least three agents, any F is virtually implementable in Nash equilibrium, as well as in rationalizable strategies, by a bounded mechanism. No ""tail-chasing"" construction, common in the constructive proofs of the literature, is used to assure that undesired strategy combinations do not form a Nash equilibrium."
C79|Rationalizable Implementation of Social Choice Correspondences|A social choice correspondence (SCC) F is a mapping which associates with every state θ ∈ Θ a non empty subset of a set of outcomes. F is implementable in rationalizable strategies provided that there exists a mechanism such that for each state θ, the support of its set of rationalizable outcomes is equal to the socially desirable set F(θ). We find that r-monotonicity is a necessary condition for the rationalizable implementation of F. When there are at least three agents and F satisfies certain auxiliary conditions, r-monotonicity is also sufficient for rationalizable implementation. Finally, we show that a SCC which is never single valued is rationalizably implementable if and only if it satisfies r-monotonicity.
C79|Performance Cycles|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|Costly Pretrial Agreements|Legal disputes are either settled or end up in Court. Settling a dispute involves some costs (time and money invested in preparations) that the parties have to incur ex-ante, in order for the pretrial negotiation and possible agreement to become feasible. Even in a full information world, if the distribution of these costs is sufficiently mismatched with the distribution of the parties' bargaining powers, a pretrial agreement may never be reached even though actual Court litigation is overall wasteful. As parameters vary, the equilibrium of our full information model with costly pretrial agreements sheds light on two key features of how disputes are initiated and subsequently handled. First, in some cases a Plaintiff may initiate a law suit even though the parties fully anticipate that it will be settled out of Court. Second, the “likelihood” that a given law suit ends up in Court is unaffected by the way trial costs are distributed among the litigants (e.g. English Rule or American Rule). The choice of fee-shifting rule can only affect whether the Plaintiff files a law suit in the first place. It does not affect whether a given suit is settled before trial or litigated in Court.
C79|Legal Efficiency and Consistency|We consider a stylized model of judicial decision making under common and civil law to study whether and why legal institutions affect economic outcomes. Judges are of two types: some judges are conservative and mechanically follow the precedent or the statute, while others maximize social welfare. The civil law and common law traditions have different centers of authority (legislatures vs. judges), but they also differ with respect to the timing of legal decisions (ex-ante vs. ex-post). As a motivating example, we study the enforcement of property rights in courts. We analyze the efficiency and consistency of courts' decisions in both legal systems. We find that legal certainty is higher under common law than under civil law. We show that common law achieves higher expected welfare than civil law regime when the proportion of conservative judges is neither too low nor too high, and judges are sufficiently forward looking. In changing economic environments, civil law courts do not respond to economic shocks. Conversely, common law courts change the law only if shocks are persistent. Shock persistence is what makes common law more likely to dominate civil law because of its greater adaptability.
C79|A qualitative theory of conflict resolution and political compromise|In the present work, we consider a basic model of political structure, given through its agents or forces and the viable configurations of agents as collective bodies of decision making. When the set of all agents is not viable, a compromise must be searched for. We model a political structure as a simplicial complex where a viable configuration is a simplex. A represented compromise is a viable configuration obtained by the withdrawal of some agents in favor of other agents acting as representatives. A delegated compromise is a more elaborated version of a compromise obtained by iteration of the process of delegation. Existence of such compromises depends on the discrete topology of the simplicial complex. In the paper, we study represented and delegated compromises in their dependence on the combinatorial structure of the viable configurations, and in particular we show that existence of a delegated compromise is equivalent to strong contractibility of the simplicial complex.
C79|The Secret Behind The Tortoise and the Hare: Information Design in Contests|"I analyze the optimal information disclosure problem under commitment of a ""contest designer"" in a class of binary action contests with incomplete information about the abilities of the players. If the contest designer wants to incentivize the players to play in equilibrium a particular strategy profile, she can design an information disclosure rule, formally a stochastic communication mechanism, to which she will commit and then use to ""talk"" with the players. The main tool to carry out the analysis is the concept of Bayes Correlated Equilibrium recently introduced in the literature. I find that the optimal information disclosure rules involves private information revelation (manipulation), which is also cost-effective for the designer. Furthermore, the optimal disclosure rule involves asymmetric and in most cases correlated signals that convey only partial information about the abilities of the players."
C79|Have your cake and eat it too: real effort and risk aversion in schoolchildren|There is a large body of evidence documenting gender differences in preferences and their effects on a range of behaviours (including health and risky behaviours) and choices (including education, labour market, savings, marriage, and fertility). A key issue in order to mitigate some of the undesirable effects of these differences (the tendency for boys to engage in more risky behaviours or for girls to avoid choices that might instead benefit them) is establishing how soon such differences arise. Gender differences in competitiveness and risk aversion have been widely documented both in the lab and the field (Falk et al, 2015), and more recently adapting experiments normally performed with adults to children (Samak, 2013; Harbaugh et al., 2002). We advance this literature with a study of primary school children which consists of an innovative two-stage task game addressing both effort and risk: in the first stage a real effort task allows children to accumulate points playing a video game, and in the second they play a lottery game in which probabilities are presented visually. The two-stage task game is designed in order to avoid both the valuation and the probability problems that children normally face in such tasks. Our findings confirm the existence of gender differences in risk aversion once controlling for performance in a gender neutral task in schoolchildren, and contribute a visual way of using lotteries with children that yields results consistent with rational behaviour
C79|Heterogeneity and Unanimity: Optimal Committees with Information Acquisition|This paper studies how the composition and voting rule of a decision-making committee affect the incentives for its members to acquire information. Fixing the voting rule, a more polarized committee acquires more information. If a committee designer can choose the committee members and voting rule to maximize her payoff from the collective decision, she forms a heterogeneous committee adopting a unanimous rule, in which one member moderately biased toward one decision serves as the decisive voter, and all others are extremely opposed to the decisive voter and serve as information providers. The preference of the decisive voter is not perfectly aligned with that of the designer.
C79|Emotions in Civil Litigation|In a civil-litigation game, monetary and emotional variables motivate a plaintiff and a defendant simultaneously to exert costly efforts; the emotional variables capture their relational emotions toward each other, and a non-monetary joy of winning. Based on the litigants’ efforts and exogenous relative advantages, a generally-formulated success function gives their probabilities of success. A cost-shifting rule shifts a proportion of the winner’s costs to the loser. In equilibrium, negative relational emotions (but not positive joy of winning) amplify the effects of cost shifting. Negative relational emotions increase the equilibrium relative effort and probability of success of the more advantageous litigant.
C79|Equilibrium trust|Trusting beliefs can be exploited. A trustful player who is cheated too often, should start trusting less, until her beliefs are correct. For this reason we model trust as an equilibrium phenomenon. Receivers of an offer to transact choose whether or not to cheat. Cheating entails a cost, with an idiosyncratic component and a socially determined one, decreasing with the mass of players who cheat. The model either has a unique equilibrium level of trust (the proportion of transactions not cheated on), or two — one with high and one with low trust. Differences in trust can result from different fundamentals or from different equilibria being realized. Surprisingly, under certain conditions these two alternatives are partially identifiable from an empirical point of view. Our model can be reinterpreted with the cost of cheating arising from an enforcement mechanism that punishes cheaters in a targeted way using limited resources.
C79|Interdependent preferences and strategic distinguishability|We study agents whose expected utility preferences are interdependent for informational or psychological reasons. We characterize when two types can be “strategically distinguished” in the sense that they are guaranteed to behave differently in some finite mechanism. We show that two types are strategically distinguishable if and only if they have different hierarchies of interdependent preferences. The same characterization applies for rationalizability, equilibrium, and any interim solution concept in between. Our results generalize and unify results of Abreu and Matsushima (1992), who characterize strategic distinguishability on fixed finite type spaces, and Dekel et al. (2006, 2007), who characterize strategic distinguishability without interdependent preferences.
C79|The Role of Heterogeneity in a model of Strategic Experimentation|In this paper, I examine a situation where economic agents facing a trade-off between exploring a new option and exploiting their existing knowledge about a safe option, are heterogeneous with respect to their innate abilities in exploring the new option. I consider a two-armed bandit framework in continuous time with one safe arm and one risky arm. There are two players and each has access to an identical safe arm and a risky arm. A player using the safe arm experiences a safe flow payoff whereas the payoff from a bad risky arm is worse than the safe arm and that of the good risky arm is better than the safe arm. Players start with a common prior about the probability of the risky arm being good. I show that if the degree of heterogeneity between the players is high enough, then there exists a Markov perfect equilibrium in simple cutoff strategies. For any degree of heterogeneity, there always exist equilibria where at least one player uses a non-cutoff strategy. When the equilibrium in cutoff strategies exists, it strictly dominates any other equilibria. When there does not exist any equilibrium in cutoff strategies, for some range of heterogeneity we can identify the welfare maximising equilibrium. For very low range of heterogeneity, the ranking among the equilibria is ambiguous.
C79|Meaningful learning in weighted voting games: an experiment|Abstract By employing binary committee choice problems, this paper investigates how varying or eliminating feedback about payoffs affects: (1) subjects’ learning about the underlying relationship between their nominal voting weights and their expected payoffs in weighted voting games; (2) the transfer of acquired learning from one committee choice problem to a similar but different problem. In the experiment, subjects choose to join one of two committees (weighted voting games) and obtain a payoff stochastically determined by a voting theory. We found that: (i) subjects learned to choose the committee that generates a higher expected payoff even without feedback about the payoffs they received; (ii) there was statistically significant evidence of “meaningful learning” (transfer of learning) only for the treatment with no payoff-related feedback. This finding calls for re-thinking existing models of learning to incorporate some type of introspection.
C79|Maximum Entropy Estimation of Statistical Equilibrium in Economic Quantal Response Models|Many problems in empirical economic analysis involve systems in which the quantal actions of a large number of participants determine the distribution of some social outcome. In many of these cases key model variables are un- observed. From the statistical perspective, when observed variables depend non-trivially on unobserved variables the joint distribution of the variables of interest is underdetermined and the model is ill-posed due to incomplete information. In this paper we examine the class of models de ned by a joint distribution of discrete individual actions and an outcome variable, where one of the variables is unobserved, so that the joint distribution is underdetermined. We derive a general maximum entropy based method to infer the underdetermined joint distribution in this class of models. We apply this method to the classical Smithian theory of competition where firms' profit rates are observed but the entry and exit decisions that determine the distribution of profit rates is unobserved.
C79|Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, Volume II: Applications. An Introduction|We introduce here the second volume of the Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, by L. C. Corchón and M. A. Marini (ed.), Edward Elgar, Cheltenam, UK and Northampton, MA, describing its main aim and its basic structure.
C79|Emptiness Existence: A Free-Strategic view|We formulate a theorem on the emptiness existence followed by its matematicall proof, that takes as a base a single axiom named hipoteticity i.e. an element exists iff it has a structure.
C79|A Note on Stable Cartels|In non-cooperative open membership cartel formation games, it is usually assumed that cartel members will maximize their joint payoffs. Through an example, this note shows that this assumption is problematic, because it imposes some unnecessary restrictions on cartel members' actions. We recommend that the cartel agreement should be endogenously determined in future studies.
C79|A Sequential Allocation Problem: The Asymptotic Distribution of Resources|Abstract In this paper, we consider a sequential allocation problem with n individuals. The first individual can consume any amount of a resource, leaving the remainder for the second individual, and so on. Motivated by the limitations associated with the cooperative or non-cooperative solutions, we propose a new approach from basic definitions of representativeness and equal treatment. The result is a unique asymptotic allocation rule for any number of individuals. We show that it satisfies a set of desirable properties.
C79|No-envy and egalitarian-equivalence under multi-object-demand for heterogeneous objects|Abstract We study the problem of allocating heterogeneous indivisible tasks in a multi-object-demand model (i.e., each agent can be assigned multiple objects) where monetary transfers are allowed. Agents’ costs for performing tasks are their private information and depend on what other tasks they are obtained with. First, we show that when costs are unrestricted or superadditive, then there is no envy-free and egalitarian-equivalent mechanism that assigns the tasks efficiently. Then, we characterize the class of envy-free and egalitarian-equivalent Groves mechanisms when costs are subadditive. Finally, within this class, under a bounded-deficit condition, we identify the Pareto-dominant subclass. We show that the mechanisms in this subclass are not Pareto-dominated by any other Groves mechanism satisfying the same bounded-deficit condition.
C79|NTU-Bankruptcy Problems : Consistency and the Relative Adjustment Principle|This paper axiomatically studies bankruptcy problems with nontransferable utility by adequately generalizing and analyzing properties for bankruptcy rules. In particular, we discuss several consistency notions and introduce the class of parametric bankruptcy rules. Moreover, we introduce the class of adjusted bankruptcy rules and study the relative adjustment principle based on relative symmetry, truncation invariance, and minimal rights first.
C79|What situation is this? Coarse cognition and behavior over a space of games|We study strategic interaction between agents who distill the complex world around them into simpler situations. Assuming agents share the same cognitive frame, we show how the frame affects equilibrium outcomes. In one-shot and repeated interactions, the frame causes agents to be either better or worse off than if they could perceive the environment in full detail: it creates a fog of cooperation or a fog of conflict. In repeated interaction, the frame is as important as agentsÕ patience in determining the set of equilibria: for a fixed discount factor, when all agents coordinate on what they perceive as the best equilibrium, there remain significant performance differences across dyads with different frames. Finally, we analyze some tensions between incremental versus radical changes in the cognitive frame.
C79|Choice Complexity and Market Competition|Consumers often find it hard to make correct value comparisons between market alternatives. Part of this choice complexity is the result of deliberate obfuscation by firms. This review synthesizes a theoretical literature that analyzes the role of choice complexity in otherwise competitive markets. I identify two general classes of market models in the literature: (a) The obfuscation strategy of firms is an independent framing device that affects the probability with which consumers make correct comparisons, and (b) market alternatives are multiattribute objects, and obfuscation is captured by lopsided location in attribute space, lowering the probability of being dominated by another market alternative. I address the following key questions: What determines the amount of choice complexity in market equilibrium? What is the relation between choice complexity and payoff-relevant aspects of the market outcome? What is the role of consumer protection measures? The models surveyed in this review suggest that equilibrium obfuscation and choice complexity increase in response to intensified competition, mitigating the positive effect of competition on consumer welfare. However, equilibrium effects can also attenuate the positive welfare effects of regulatory interventions.
C79|Academic Publication Uncertainty and Publishing Behavior: A Game-Theoretic Perspective|This paper incorporates publication uncertainty in a game between researchers and journal editors and examines its effects on quantity and quality of published research. A stylized differential Stackelberg game between journal editors and academic authors is considered, where authors seek to maximize satisfaction from publications, while journal editors try to enhance reputations of their journals. Publication probability depends on the number of academic journals. Results show that greater journal competition, generally leading to reduced publication uncertainty, would increase author payoffs by increasing citations and publications. However, it is not clear whether the quality of published research is enhanced. Thus, changes in competition in publishing markets have the potential to exacerbate the quantity-quantity trade offs in research markets.
C79|Medición y manipulación de normas sociales en juegos experimentales de corrupción|Los estudios experimentales de sobornos investigan los factores que modulan los comportamientos vinculados a estas situaciones de corrupción. Para que capten conductas análogas a la realidad, es necesario que representen de manera apropiada las normas sociales que se ven transgredidas cuando hay corrupción. En esta revisión presentamos críticamente tres técnicas para medir o generar normas sociales en experimentos económicos: el efecto de marco, la estimación de normas mediante un juego de coordinación y el castigo de terceros. Discutimos cómo la complementariedad y el mejoramiento de estas técnicas pueden contribuir a la validez externa de los estudios experimentales de corrupción. ***** Bribery experiments investigate the factors that modulate decisions in corrupt exchanges. To measure behaviours that are representative of decisions in the real world, it is necessary for the social norms that are typically transgressed in corruption to be adequately represented in the experiments. In this review, we critically present three techniques used to measure or generate social norms in economic experiments: Framing effects, the estimation of social norms through a coordination game, and third-party punishment. We discuss ways in which the complementarity and improvement of these techniques can contribute to the external validity of experimental studies on corruption.
C79|On the economics of crisis contracts|We examine the impact of so-called Crisis Contracts on bank managers' risktaking incentives and on the probability of banking crises. Under a Crisis Contract, managers are required to contribute a pre-specified share of their past earnings to finance public rescue funds when a crisis occurs. This can be viewed as a retroactive tax that is levied only when a crisis occurs and that leads to a form of collective liability for bank managers. We develop a game-theoretic model of a banking sector whose shareholders have limited liability, so that society at large will suffer losses if a crisis occurs. Without Crisis Contracts, the managers' and shareholders' interests are aligned, and managers take more than the socially optimal level of risk. We investigate how the introduction of Crisis Contracts changes the equilibrium level of risk-taking and the remuneration of bank managers. We establish conditions under which the introduction of Crisis Contracts will reduce the probability of a banking crisis and improve social welfare. We explore how Crisis Contracts and capital requirements can supplement each other and we show that the efficacy of Crisis Contracts is not undermined by attempts to hedge.
C79|Belief-free rationalizability and informational robustness|We propose an incomplete information version of rationalizability. An action is said to be belief-free rationalizable if it survives the following iterated deletion process. At each stage, we delete actions for a type of a player that are not a best response to some conjectures of the player. The conjecture has to put positive weight only on states, and types and actions of the other players which that type thinks possible, and actions of those types that have survived so far. We analyze some economic applications under this solution concept.
C79|What Are Analytic Narratives?|"The recently born expression ""analytic narratives"" refers to studies that have appeared at the boundaries of history, political science, and economics. These studies purport to explain specific historical events by combining the usual narrative way of historians with the analytic tools that economists and political scientists find in rational choice theory. Game theory is prominent among these tools. The paper explains what analytic narratives are by sampling from the eponymous book Analytic Narratives by Bates, Greif, Levi, Rosenthal, and Weingast (1998) and covering one outside study by Mongin (2008). It first evaluates the explanatory performance of the new genre, using some philosophy of historical explanation and then checks its discursive consistency, using some narratology. The paper concludes that analytic narratives can usefully complement standard narratives in historical explanation, provided they specialize in the gaps that these narratives reveal and that they are discursively consistent, despite the tension that combining a formal model with a narration creates. Two expository modes, called alternation and local supplementation, emerge from the discussion as the most appropriate ones to resolve this tension"
C79|A new characterization of the proportional rule for claims problems|For the problem of adjudicating conflicting claims, we develop a new proof of an important result due to Young (1995), a characterization of the proportional rule, rather, we prove a dual characterization of this rule. Our axioms are composition down, which states the equivalence of two ways of dealing with possible decreases in the amount to divide, and self-duality, according to which, for each problem, a rule divides what is available symmetrically to the way it divides what is missing, that is, the difference between the sum of the claims and the endowment, in the dual problem.
C79|Bounded memory Folk Theorem|We show that the Folk Theorem holds for n-player discounted repeated games with bounded memory (recall) strategies. Our main result demonstrates that any payoff profile that exceeds the pure minmax payoff profile can be approximately sustained by a pure strategy finite memory subgame perfect equilibrium of the repeated game if the players are sufficiently patient. We also show that the result can be extended to any payoff profile that exceeds the mixed minmax payoff profile if players can randomize at each stage of the repeated game. Our results requires neither time-dependent strategies, nor public randomization, nor any communication. The type of strategies we employ to establish our result turn out to have new features that may be important in understanding repeated interactions.
C79|What Are Analytic Narratives?|"The recently born expression ""analytic narratives"" refers to studies that have appeared at the boundaries of history, political science, and economics. These studies purport to explain specific historical events by combining the usual narrative way of historians with the analytic tools that economists and political scientists find in rational choice theory. Game theory is prominent among these tools. The paper explains what analytic narratives are by sampling from the eponymous book Analytic Narratives by Bates, Greif, Levi, Rosenthal, and Weingast (1998) and covering one outside study by Mongin (2008). It first evaluates the explanatory performance of the new genre, using some philosophy of historical explanation and then checks its discursive consistency, using some narratology. The paper concludes that analytic narratives can usefully complement standard narratives in historical explanation, provided they specialize in the gaps that these narratives reveal and that they are discursively consistent, despite the tension that combining a formal model with a narration creates. Two expository modes, called alternation and local supplementation, emerge from the discussion as the most appropriate ones to resolve this tension"
C79|Beneficial and Harmful Addictions: Two sides of the same coin|In this paper we obtain an isomorphism between harmful and beneficial addictions in a discrete-time binary choice context. The equivalence thus established allows us to study both phenomena (harmful and beneficial addictions) as two sides of the same coin. Besides the theoretical insight it provides, this dualism is also particularly useful because it readily allows for the translation of the results obtained in the domain of harmful addictions to the domain of beneficial addictions. Once the dualism is established, we analyze addictions under both timeconsistent and time-inconsistent preferences.
C79|The global carbon budget: a conflicting claims problem|Abstract An effective climate agreement is urgently required, yet conflict between parties prevails over cooperation. Thanks to advances in science it is now possible to quantify the global carbon budget, the amount of available cumulative CO2 emissions before crossing the 2 ∘C threshold (Meinshausen et al. Nature 458(7242):1158–1162, 2009). Countries carbon claims, however, exceed this. Historically such situations have been tackled with bankruptcy division rules. We argue that framing climate negotiations as a classical conflicting claims problem (O’Neill Math Soc Sci 2(4):345–371, 1982) may provide for an effective climate policy. We analyze the allocation of the global carbon budget among parties claiming the maximum emissions rights possible. Based on the selection of some desirable principles, we propose an efficient and sustainable allocation of the available carbon budget for the period 2000 to 2050 taking into account different risk scenarios.
C79|Non-bossiness|Abstract An allocation rule is “non-bossy” if whenever a change in an agent’s preferences does not bring about a change in his assignment, then it does not bring about a change in anybody’s assignment. We discuss the multiple interpretations that have been proposed for this property. We question their validity, arguing that in most cases, non-bossiness either says too little or that it says too much. We also make a case against the property. We propose as its main justification the technical help that it often provides in structuring classes of rules, making characterizations more manageable.
C79|The importance of being honest|This paper analyzes the case of a principal who wants to provide an agent with proper incentives to explore a hypothesis that can be either true or false. The agent can shirk, thus never proving the hypothesis, or he can avail himself of a known technology to produce fake successes. This latter option either makes the provision of incentives for honesty impossible or does not distort its costs at all. In the latter case, the principal will optimally commit to rewarding later successes even though he only cares about the first one. Indeed, after an honest success, the agent is more optimistic about his ability to generate further successes. This, in turn, provides incentives for the agent to be honest before a first success.
C79|Proportionality, Equality, and Duality in Bankruptcy Problems with Nontransferable Utility|This paper analyzes bankruptcy problems with nontransferable utility as a generalization of bankruptcy problems with monetary estate and claims. Following the classical axiomatic theory of bankruptcy, we formulate some appropriate properties for NTU-bankruptcy rules and study their implications. We explore duality of bankruptcy rules and we derive several characterizations of the generalized proportional rule and the constrained relative equal awards rule.
C79|A Sequential Allocation Problem: The Asymptotic Distribution of Resources| In this paper, we consider a sequential allocation problem with n individuals. The first individual can consume any amount of a resource, leaving the remainder for the second individual, and so on. Motivated by the limitations associated with the cooperative or non-cooperative solutions, we propose a new approach from basic definitions of representativeness and equal treatment. The result is a unique asymptotic allocation rule for any number of individuals. We show that it satisfies a set of desirable properties. Keywords: Sequential allocation rule, River sharing problem, Cooperative and non-cooperative games, Dictator and ultimatum games. JEL classification: C79, D63, D74.
C79|Statistical Control Charts: Performances of Short Term Stock Trading in Croatia|Background: The stock exchange, as a regulated financial market, in modern economies reflects their economic development level. The stock market indicates the mood of investors in the development of a country and is an important ingredient for growth. Objectives: This paper aims to introduce an additional statistical tool used to support the decision-making process in stock trading, and it investigate the usage of statistical process control (SPC) methods into the stock trading process. Methods/Approach: The individual (I), exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) and cumulative sum (CUSUM) control charts were used for gaining trade signals. The open and the average prices of CROBEX10 index stocks on the Zagreb Stock Exchange were used in the analysis. The statistical control charts capabilities for stock trading in the short-run were analysed. Results: The statistical control chart analysis pointed out too many signals to buy or sell stocks. Most of them are considered as false alarms. So, the statistical control charts showed to be not so much useful in stock trading or in a portfolio analysis. Conclusions: The presence of non-normality and autocorellation has great impact on statistical control charts performances. It is assumed that if these two problems are solved, the use of statistical control charts in a portfolio analysis could be greatly improved.
C79|Designing Fair Tiebreak Mechanisms for Sequential Team Contests|Economists have long recognized that the effect of the order of actions in sequential contests on performance of the contestants is far from negligible. We model the tiebreak mechanisms, known as penalty shootouts, which have sequential move order and are used in several team- sports contests, as a dynamic mechanism-design problem with a fairness desideratum in mind. In most sports, such as soccer and hockey, the order in which teams take the penalties is fixed, known as ABAB. We first show that even with two balanced teams, this mechanism possesses many symmetric Markov-perfect equilibria giving various asymmetric winning probabilities to the first- and second-moving teams (but favoring the first mover under appropriate refinements) – an observation which also obtained some empirical support for soccer. Following that, we characterize all sequentially fair mechanisms in which two balanced teams have equal chances to win the shootout whenever the score is tied after equal numbers of attempts. Using additional desirable properties, we uniquely characterize practical mechanisms for easy and difficult shootouts, in which the success probability of a penalty kick is uniformly greater than 50% or less than 50%, as in soccer and hockey, respectively.
C79|Beneficial and Harmful Addictions: Two sides of the same coin|Abstract: In this paper we obtain an isomorphism between harmful and beneficial addictions in a discrete-time binary choice context. The equivalence thus established allows us to study both phenomena (harmful and beneficial addictions) as two sides of the same coin. Besides the theoretical insight it provides, this dualism is also particularly useful because it readily allows for the translation of the results obtained in the domain of harmful addictions to the domain of beneficial addictions. Once the dualism is established, we analyze addictions under both timeconsistent and time-inconsistent preferences. Resumen: En este artículo obtenemos un isomorfismo entre las adicciones beneficiosas y las perjudiciales en un contexto de elección binaria en tiempo discreto. La equivalencia obtenida de este modo nos permite estudiar los dos fenómenos (los dos tipos de adicciones) como dos caras de la misma moneda. Además de la visión teórica que proporciona, esta dualidad también resulta particularmente útil porque permite trasladar fácilmente los resultados obtenidos en el campo de las adicciones perjudiciales al campo de las adicciones beneficiosas. Una vez establecido el dualismo, analizamos las adicciones bajo dos tipos de preferencias intertemporales: aquellas que son consistentes y aquellas que no lo son.
C79|Un análisis del mecanismo de subastas de cargo por confiabilidad en el mercado eléctrico colombiano|En el presente trabajo se realizó un estudio del mercado eléctrico colombiano enfocado al cargo por confiabilidad y, en especial, al mecanismo de subastas empleado para la asignación del mismo. El trabajo se divide en cinco partes, en la primera parte se realiza una descripción detallada del funcionamiento del mercado eléctrico en Colombia, en la segunda parte, una descripción del cargo por confiabilidad, en la tercera, una revisión de los mecanismos de asignación del cargo por confiabilidad en Colombia, en la cuarta, un análisis de las fallas presentadas por el mecanismo en el año 2015 y, finalmente, en la quinta parte se exponen las conclusiones obtenidas.
C79|Bargaining under the Illusion of Transparency|An uninformed seller offers an object to a privately informed buyer. The buyer projects information and exaggerates the probability that the seller is informed. Letting the buyer bargain and name her own price raises the seller's payoff above the full-commitment payoff. Under seller-offer bargaining, any positive degree of projection implies a full reversal of the Coasian result in stationary strategies. As delay between offers decreases, the seller raises his initial price and, in the limit, extracts the full surplus from trade. Dynamic bargaining without price-commitment is revenue-optimal. Existing experimental evidence is consistent with the comparative static predictions of the model.
C79|Learning to open up: Capital account liberalizations in the post-Bretton Woods era|The Great Recession has shattered the consensus on the benefits of capital account liberalization. Capital account controls have been introduced in several countries and have even been supported by the International Monetary Fund. In this paper we investigate whether capital account policies in the post-Bretton Woods era can be explained as a process driven by learning by policymakers, who update their beliefs on the basis of their own experience and of the policies adopted by other countries. We emphasize the impact of financial crises on the learning process. The learning model developed in the paper explains more than 90% of the variability of capital account policies. We find that over time beliefs about the growth effects have changed slowly and not smoothly from negative to positive. However, at the outset of the Great Recession beliefs on the positive growth dividends from capital account liberalization were still affected by a significant degree of uncertainty, which suggests that reversals in external liberalizations in the aftermath of the Great Recession are consistent with rational learning by policymakers. Finally, in evaluating the potential benefits and costs of capital controls in a given set of countries, contagion effects through changing beliefs of other countries should be taken into account.
C79|Money as minimal complexity|We consider mechanisms that provide the opportunity to exchange commodity i for commodity j, for certain ordered pairs ij. Given any connected graph G of opportunities, we show that there is a unique “G-mechanism” that satisfies some natural conditions of “fairness” and “convenience”. Next we define time and price complexity for any G-mechanism as (respectively) the time required to exchange i for j, and the information needed to determine the exchange ratio (each for the worst pair ij). If the number of commodities exceeds three, there are precisely three minimally complex G-mechanisms, where G corresponds to the star, cycle and complete graphs. The star mechanism has a distinguished commodity — the money — that serves as the sole medium of exchange and mediates trade between decentralized markets for the other commodities. Furthermore, for any weighted sum of complexities, the star mechanism is the unique minimizer of the sum for large enough m.
C79|Designing fair tiebreak mechanisms: the case of FIFA penalty shootouts|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|Agility in repeated games: An example|I study a repeated matching-pennies game between players having limited “agility”: when player i decides to switch his action, it takes (geometrically distributed) time for the decision to be implemented. I characterize the unique Nash equilibrium in this game when the papers are sufficiently agile. Players obtain the same equilibrium payoff as in the benchmark game with unlimited agility. However, equilibrium behavior displays endogenous hysteresis, which is more pronounced for less agile players.
C79|Theory of Combinatorial Games|Aim: To present a systematic development of the theory of combinatorial games from the ground up. Approach: Computational complexity. Combinatorial games are completely determined; the questions of interest are efficiencies of strategies. Methodology: Divide and conquer. Ascend from Nim to Chess and Go in small strides at a gradient that is not too steep. Presentation: Mostly informal; examples of combinatorial games sampled from various strategic viewing points along scenic mountain trails illustrate the theory. Add-on:Atasteof constraint logic, a new tool to prove intractabilities of games.
C79|Continuous implementation with local payoff uncertainty|Following the notion of continuous implementation, we consider a situation where the social planner is not entirely sure of the validity of his model and thus wants the social choice function to be not only (partially) implemented at all types of the initial model, but also at all types “close” to those types. In addition, we assume that the social planner also has some doubts on the payoffs of the outcomes and thus wants his prediction to be robust when these payoffs are close but not exactly equal to those in the initial model. Under this local payoff uncertainty, the present paper establishes the following full characterization result for finite mechanisms: a social choice function is continuously implementable if and only if it is fully implementable in rationalizable strategies.
C79|Axiomatic and game-theoretic analysis of bankruptcy and taxation problems: An update|A group of agents have claims on a resource but there is not enough of it to honor all of the claims. How should it be divided? A group of agents decide to undertake a public project that they can jointly afford. How much should each of them contribute? This essay is an update of Thomson (2003), a survey of the literature devoted to the study of such problems.
C79|How did distributional preferences change during the Great Recession?|To better understand how support for redistributive policies is shaped by macroeconomic shocks, we explore how distributional preferences changed during the recent “Great Recession.” We conducted identical modified dictator games during both the recession and the preceding economic boom. The experiments capture subjects' selfishness (the weight on one's own payoff) and equality–efficiency tradeoffs (concerns for reducing differences in payoffs versus increasing total payoffs), which we then compare across economic conditions. Subjects exposed to recession exhibit greater selfishness and higher emphasis on efficiency relative to equality. Reproducing recessionary conditions inside the laboratory by confronting subjects with possible negative payoffs [weakly] intensifies selfishness and increases efficiency orientation, bolstering the interpretation that differing economic circumstances drive our results.
C79|Union Duopoly with Heterogeneous Labour: The Effect of Wage Ceilings|This research analyzes the labor market outcome when there are two unions in the industry, representing heterogeneous workers - substitutes or complements in production - and using wage strategies, in the presence of wage regulation. Three strategic environments are considered: symmetric Bertrand-Nash duopoly, Stackelberg duopoly and efficient cooperation between the two unions. We discuss the case of the imposition of a wage ceiling, oriented towards increase employment. In fact, this is the general result obtained. We also inspect if it may be optimal for a Stackelberg leading union to push the other to the bound.
C79|Learning to open up: Capital account liberalizations in the post-Bretton Woods era|The Great Recession has shattered the consensus on the benefits of capital account liberalization. Capital account controls have been introduced in several countries and have even been supported by the International Monetary Fund. In this paper we investigate whether capital account policies in the post-Bretton Woods era can be explained as a process driven by learning by policymakers, who update their beliefs on the basis of their own experience and of the policies adopted by other countries. We emphasize the impact of financial crises on the learning process. The learning model developed in the paper explains more than 90% of the variability of capital account policies. We find that over time beliefs about the growth effects have changed slowly and not smoothly from negative to positive. However, at the outset of the Great Recession beliefs on the positive growth dividends from capital account liberalization were still affected by a significant degree of uncertainty, which suggests that reversals in external liberalizations in the aftermath of the Great Recession are consistent with rational learning by policymakers. Finally, in evaluating the potential benefits and costs of capital controls in a given set of countries, contagion effects through changing beliefs of other countries should be taken into account.
C79|International Environmental Agreements—The Role of Foresight|Abstract The present paper attempts to bridge the gap between the cooperative and the non-cooperative approach employed to examine the size of stable coalitions, formed to address global environmental problems. We do so by endowing countries with foresightedness, that is, by endogenizing the reaction of the coalition’s members to a deviation by one member. We assume that when a country contemplates withdrawing or joining an agreement, it takes into account the reactions of other countries ignited by its own actions. We identify conditions under which there always exists a unique set of farsighted stable IEAs. The new farsighted IEAs can be much larger than those some of the previous models supported but are not always Pareto efficient.
C79|N-Poly Viability and Conglopolistic Competition in Small Emerging Market|The economic catch-up of the East Asian region went hand-in-hand with the emergence and even dominance of large quasi-state or private conglomerates. Such for example were the Zaibatsus in the pre-WWII and the Keiretsus of the post-WWII Japan and the Chaebols of South Korea which enjoyed extensive state sponsorship and the Taipan-led business empires of South and South East Asia which were largely autonomic. The trend continues to this day especially in the People’s Republic of China. This dominance was not just an accidental fixture but the natural result of the economic and social environments prevalent in emerging markets. After reviewing the literature on why a few large private conglomerates tended to dominate the landscape of less developed economies in a rapid catch-up mode, we attempt a game theoretic account for the spread of these firms across different markets. We first define the concept of “n-poly viability” or the number of firms that can profitably Cournot compete in a market of a given the size and fixed capital requirement. We then show that conglopolistic competition (conglomerates competing in many markets) is a subgame perfect equilibrium of an entry game among initial monopolists and that this evolution is consumer welfare-improving. We identify the conditions under which only one firm or no firm benefits from the evolution.
C79|A Mechanism for Optimal Enforcement of Coordination: Sidestepping Theory of Mind|"Mechanisms employing fines and rewards may be introduced in multi-equilibrium situations to enforce a certain equilibrium. The mechanism does two things. First, it produces a signal disrupting the normal dynamics of repeated play; potentially encouraging agents to reconsider their expectations. Secondly, it changes the payoffs. In deciding what behavior to engage in after introduction of a new mechanism a rational agent needs to consider to what degree the signal has been received and convinced others, which in turn depends on what those others believe about the reception of the signal, and so on. The epistemic mess is a challenge for both the agents and for a policy maker interested in facilitating a re-coordination. The latter begs the question: How large must fines and rewards be to ensure re-coordination? We show that the result we get from classic game theory is more ""heavy handed"" than necessary; far less intervention is actually required. Specifically we will outline a mechanism that ensures re-coordination, regardless of the idiosyncratic belief formation processes of the population, while at the same time making minimal interventions."
C79|Elementary game theory|The theory of games (or game theory) is a mathematical theory that deals with the general features of competitive situations. It involves strategic thinking, and studies the way people interact while making economic policies, contesting elections and other such decisions. There are various types of game models, which are based on factors, like the number of players participating, the sum of gains or losses and the number of strategies available. According to strategic reasoning, we can say that the phenomenon where each player responds best to the other is Nash Equilibrium. It is a solution concept of a non-cooperative game comprising of two or more players, in which each player is assumed to know the equilibrium strategies of the other players, and no player has anything to gain by only changing their own strategy. Nash equilibrium is best for both players, if all players abide by it. The normal form game (strategic form) does not incorporate any notion of sequence or time of the action of the players. In a normal form game, both players choose their strategy together without knowing the strategies of other players in the game. While the extensive form game is a game, which makes the temporal structure explicit i.e. it allows us to think more naturally about factors such as time. In an extensive game with perfect information there are no simultaneous moves and every player at any point of time is made aware of all the previous choices of all other players.In coalitional games, our focus is on what group of agents, rather than individual agents can achieve.
C79|A hierarchical network formation model|We present a network formation model based on a particularly interesting class of networks in social settings, where individuals' positions are determined according to a topic-based or hierarchical taxonomy. In this game-theoretic model, players are located in the leaves of a complete b-ary tree as the seed network with the objective of minimizing their collective distances to others in the network. In the grid-based model of Even-Dar and Kearns [3], they demonstrate the existence of small diameter networks with the threshold of a = 2 where the cost of a new link depends on the distance between the two endpoints to the power of a. We show the appearance of small diameter equilibrium networks with the threshold of a = 1/4 in the hierarchical or tree-based networks. Moreover, the general set of equilibrium networks in our model are guaranteed to exist and they are pairwise Nash stable with transfers [2].
C79|Game Theory of Green and Non-green Oriented Productions: Dried Longan Enterprises|Dried longan is one of economic product in the northern of Thailand. It does not only solve the excess supply problem of fresh longan, but increase employment opportunities. Currently, the environmental responsibility is the important issue in which both producers and consumers are interested. Dried longan production system, thus, changes from traditional system using extravagant energy to environmentally friendly system using green technology. However, the green products are accepted in some consumer groups. Consequently, this paper explores the best decision making on green or non-green oriented productions of the dried longan enterprises by applying the game theory. The selected samples are two dried longan enterprise clusters in Chiang Mai and Lamphun provinces for playing in this game. The results represent that the green production system is the best choice of producers. It brings about the high economic payoffs but low physical resource usage. However, the information is necessary for the consumers to perceive value of green consumption and increase demand of green products. This findings are obviously useful for the dried longan enterprises in Thailand to make a decision for changing their production from traditional to green orientation.
C79|For claims problems, compromising between the proportional and constrained equal awards rules|For the problem of adjudicating conflicting claims, we define a family of two-claimant rules that offer a compromise between the proportional and constrained equal awards rules. We identify the members of the family that satisfy particular properties. We generalize the rules to general populations by requiring “consistency”: The recommendation made for each problem should be “in agreement” with the recommendation made for each reduced problem that results when some claimants receive their awards and leave. We identify which members of the two-claimant family have consistent extensions, and we characterize these extensions. Here too, we identify which extensions satisfy particular properties. Finally, we propose and study a “dual” family. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C79|Systematic favorability in claims problems with indivisibilities|We study claims problems with indivisible goods. Due to indivisibilities, in certain situations, two agents with equal claims may have to receive unequal amounts. Our main goal is to find rules that deal with these situations in a consistent way. We propose three “systematic favorability” properties. We define a subfamily of up (down) rules studied in Moulin and Stong (Math Oper Res 27:1–30, 2002 ). We show that the subfamily are the only rules satisfying our first systematic favorability property, composition up, and bilateral consistency. Another family of rules we study are the sequential priority rules. Given a priority order over agents, we satisfy their claims one agent at a time until the resource runs out. These rules are the only ones that satisfy our second systematic favorability property, composition down, and bilateral consistency. Using duality, we also provide another characterization of the sequential priority rules, with our third systematic favorability property. Besides, we provide an alternative characterization of the rules studied in Herrero and Martinez (Soc Choice Welf 30:603–617, 2008 ). Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
C79|Endogenous divorce and human capital production|This paper presents a model of parental decision making where parents care about consumption and the human capital of the children. Preferences over these goods can differ within households. Parents will agree to cooperate (stay married) if the utility they get from coordinating time inputs (ie child care or paid employment) is greater than they would get if they acted independently. The gain to cooperation arises because parental time inputs are not perfect substitutes in the production of the child's human capital, the cost is that when preferences differ, the chosen time allocations under cooperation may be very different to those chosen independently. Our model predicts that the human capital of children can both increase and fall after divorce. Divorce, if it occurs, will be instigated by the parent who cares most about the child, the parent that cares least about the child will never opt for divorce. This can explain the apparent contradiction that mothers are more likely than fathers to initiate divorce beyond infant age even though the traditional household literature presents women as home makers and ever devoted to household production.
C79|Expropriation and the Location of Farmland Investment: a theoretical investigation into the Land Rush|Accompanying a sharp rise in food prices between 2007 and 2008 were reports of land deals in the global South. The sudden rise in land acquisitions in developing countries has drawn the attention of scholars and think tanks. In particular, a set of recent papers by Deininger (2011), Deininger (2013), and Arezki et al. (2013) sought to understand the empirical determinants of the land rush. They find that investors tend to target countries that have weak land-governance institutions, understood as the degree to which local land rights are upheld. This is a puzzle, given the economic literature on investment location. By locating in a country with weak land-governance, investors may be foregoing other advantages that generate more revenue. What does such a result say about both the nature of the investment projects, and the productive characteristics of the target countries? In this paper, I attempt to answer these questions using a game-theoretic model where investors can use expropriation as a credible threat, consistent with case studies and empirical data from actual land deals. I show that the credible threat of expropriation lowers the investor’s cost of locating to a country by reducing the necessary remuneration to smallholders for access to land, resulting in adverse incorporation. Further, I show that investors will locate in countries with weak land governance whenever they anticipate similar levels of revenue among the set of countries they target, or, whenever they can guarantee a similar level of investor protections.
C79|Buridanic competition|We analyze a model of two-attribute competition for a decision maker who follows a non-compensatory choice procedure that only responds to ordinal rankings along the two dimensions. The decision maker has an outside option that functions as a default alternative. In the absence of a dominant alternative, the decision maker may stick to the default even if it is dominated – capturing the phenomenon of choice procrastination in the presence of difficult choices. We show that the prevalence of difficult-choice situations in equilibrium is related to the magnitude of the choice procrastination effect. In general, features of the choice procedure that are typically viewed as biases tend to “protect” the decision maker, in the sense that they encourage competitors to offer higher-value alternatives in equilibrium. We discuss the potential implications of this analysis for recent discussions of “default architecture”.
C79|Preferred Suppliers in Asymmetric Auction Markets|This paper examines preference in procurement with asymmetric suppliers. The preferred supplier has a right-of-first-refusal to obtain the contract at a price equal to the bid of a competing supplier. Despite the inefficiency created by the right-of-first-refusal, preference increases the joint surplus of the buyer and the preferred supplier. The buyer can increase his surplus by holding a pre-auction for the right-of-first-refusal. This is true even when the ex ante stronger supplier wins this pre-auction for preference.
C79|Compliance Dynamics Generated by Social Interaction Rules|We study compliance dynamics generated by a large set of behavioral rules describing social interaction in a population of agents facing an enforcement authority. When the authority adjusts the auditing probability every period, cycling in cheating-auditing occurs: Intensive monitoring induces compliance, but with high compliance there is incentive for lax monitoring; with less monitoring, compliance starts decreasing, and then there is an incentive to intensify monitoring. Thus, the real life phenomenon of compliance fluctuations is ex-plained by the nature of social interaction process rather than by exogenous parameter shifts. For the authority committed to a fixed auditing probability, we derive a sufficient condition for fines to be effective means of deterrence. Our analysis can be applied, among others, to crime, tax evasion, safety regulations, employment and environmental protection.
C79|Minimally complex exchange mechanisms: Emergence of prices, markets, and money|"We consider abstract exchange mechanisms wherein individuals submit ``diversified"" offers in m commodities, which are then redistributed to them. Our first result is that if the mechanism satisfies certain natural conditions embodying ``fairness"" and ``convenience"" then it admits unique prices, in the sense of consistent exchange-rates across commodity pairs ij that equalize the valuation of offers and returns for each individual. We next define integers which represent the ``time"" required to exchange i for j, the ``difficulty"" in determining the exchange ratio, and the ``dimension"" of the offer space in i; and refer to these as time- , price and message- complexity of the mechanism. Our second result is that there are only a finite number of minimally complex mechanisms, which moreover correspond to certain directed graphs G in a precise sense. The edges of G can be regarded as markets for commodity pairs, and prices play a stronger role in that the return to a trader depends only on his own offer and the prices."
C79|Informational Robustness and Solution Concepts|"Consider the following ""informational robustness"" question: what can we say about the set of outcomes that may arise in equilibrium of a Bayesian game if players may observe some additional information? This set of outcomes will correspond to a solution concept that is weaker than equilibrium, with the solution concept depending on what restrictions are imposed on the additional information. We describe a unified approach encompassing prior informational robustness results, as well as identifying the solution concept that corresponds to no restrictions on the additional information; this version of rationalizability depends only on the support of players’ beliefs and implies novel predictions in classic economic environments of coordination and trading games. Our results generalize from complete to incomplete information the classical results in Aumann (1974, 1987) and Brandenburger and Dekel (1987) which can be (and were) given informational robustness interpretations. We discuss the relation between informational robustness and ""epistemic"" foundations of solution concepts."
C79|Informational Robustness and Solution Concepts|We discuss four solution concepts for games with incomplete information. We show how each solution concept can be viewed as encoding informational robustness. For a given type space, we consider expansions of the type space that provide players with additional signals. We distinguish between expansions along two dimensions. First, the signals can either convey payoff relevant information or only payoff irrelevant information. Second, the signals can be generated from a common (prior) distribution or not. We establish the equivalence between Bayes Nash equilibrium behavior under the resulting expansion of the type space and a corresponding more permissive solution concept under the original type space. This approach unifies some existing literature and, in the case of an expansion without a common prior and allowing for payoff relevant signals, leads us to a new solution concept that we dub belief-free rationalizability.
C79|Robust and secure implementation: equivalence theorems|This paper shows that in private value environments, strategy-proofness and the rectangular property are necessary conditions for (full) robust implementation (Bergemann and Morris, 2011). As corollaries, we obtain the equivalence between robust and secure implementation (Saijo et al., 2007), the revelation principle for robust implementation, and characterization of double implementation in robust and secure implementation.
C79|Starting small toward voluntary formation of efficient large groups in public goods provision|We test a mechanism whereby groups are formed voluntarily, through the use of voting. These groups play a public-goods game, where efficiency increases with group size (up to a limit, in one treatment). It is feasible to exclude group members, to exit one's group, or to form larger groups through mergers involving the consent of both merging groups. We find a great degree of success for this mechanism, as the average contribution rate is very high. The driving force appears to be the economies of scale combined with the awareness that bad behavior will result in exclusion or no admission. However, an important additional component is that it is possible for previous outsiders to later redeem themselves by becoming high contributors, typically in efficient large groups.
C79|Uniformity and games decomposition|We introduce the classes of uniform and non interactive games. We study appropriate projection operators over the space of games, in order to propose a novel canonical direct sum decomposition of an arbitrary game into three components, which we refer to as the uniform with zero constant, the non interactive total sum zero and the constant components. Under a natural inner product, we show that the components are orthogonal and we provide explicit expressions for the closet uniform and non interactive games to a given game. We characterize the set of its approximate equilibria in terms of the uniformly mixed and dominant strategies equilibria profiles of its closest uniform and non interactive games respectively
C79|A market for connections|Government or company decisions on whom to hire or whom to give a contract are mostly delegated to politicians, public sector officials or human resource and procurement managers. Due to anti-corruption laws, agents cannot sell contracts that they are delegated to decide upon. Even if bribing is ruled out, those interested in the spoils may invest in a good relationship with the deciding agents in order to be remembered when the decision is made. In this paper, we analyze such markets for connections in the presence of convex costs of networking.
C79|Uniformity and games decomposition|We introduce the classes of uniform and non-interactive games. We study appropriate projection operators over the space of finite games in order to propose a novel canonical direct-sum decomposition of an arbitrary game into three components, which we refer to as the uniform with zero-constant, the non-interactive total-sum zero and the constant components. We prove orthogonality between the components with respect to a natural extension of the standard inner product and we further provide explicit expressions for the closet uniform and non-interactive games to a given game. The, we characterize the set of its approximate equilibria in terms of the uniformly mixed and dominant strategies equilibria profiles of its closet uniform and non-interactive games respectively
C79|Psychological Games in the Theory of Choice: Temptation, Perfectionism, Self-deception|In this paper we give a survey of recent work on game theory devoted to modeling decision making under bounded rationality. An agent's deviation from rational choice understood as maximization of gain can be caused by moral principles (religious beliefs, altruism, patriotism), emotions (envy, wrath, shame, regret, or guilt) or simply by an attempt to comply with several criteria not reducible to a single one. In the first part of the survey we consider the behavior of agents subject to temptation, perfectionists, and persons susceptible to self-deceit.
C79|Psychological Games in the Theory of Choice. II. Shame, Regret, Egoism and Altruism|In this paper we give a survey of recent works on game theory devoted to modeling of decision making process under bounded rationality. An agent's deviation from rational choice understood as maximization of gain can be caused by moral principles (religious beliefs, altruism, patriotism), emotions (envy, wrath, shame, regret, or guilt) or simply by an attempt to comply with several estimation criteria not reducible to a single one. In the second part of the survey we consider the behavior of agents subject to shame and regret, egoists and altruists, and study bargaining solutions in multicriteria settings.
C79|And the Winners Are… An Axiomatic Approach to Selection from a Set|We study here the problem of evaluating whether the selection from a set is close to the ranking determined by a measurable criterion. We propose a number of natural axioms and show that an index exists that satisfies all these axioms. The paper ends with an application of the index to Italian academia.
C79|Minimally Complex Exchange Mechanisms: Emergence of Prices, Markets, and Money|"We consider abstract exchange mechanisms wherein individuals submit ""diversified"" offers in m commodities, which are then redistributed to them. Our first result is that if the mechanism satisfies certain natural conditions embodying ""fairness"" and ""convenience"" then it admits unique prices, in the sense of consistent exchange-rates across commodity pairs ij that equalize the valuation of offers and returns for each individual. We next define certain integers tau_{ij}, pi_{ij}, and k_{i} which represent the ""time"" required to exchange i for j, the ""difficulty"" in determining the exchange ratio, and the ""dimension"" of the offer space in i; we refer to these as time-, price- and message-complexity of the mechanism. Our second result is that there are only a finite number of minimally complex mechanisms, which moreover correspond to certain directed graphs G in a precise sense. The edges of G can be regarded as markets for commodity pairs, and prices play a stronger role in that the return to a trader depends only on his own offer and the prices. Finally we consider ""strongly"" minimal mechanisms, with smallest ""worst case"" complexities tau = max tau_{ij} and pi = max pi_{ij}. Our third main result is that for m > 3 commodities that there are precisely three such mechanisms, which correspond to the star, cycle, and complete graphs, and have complexities (pi,tau) = (4,2), (2,m - 1), (m^{2} - m, 1) respectively. Unlike the other two mechanisms, the star mechanism has a distinguished commodity -- the money -- that serves as the sole medium of exchange. As m approaches infinity it is the only mechanism with bounded (pi,tau)."
C79|Choice of financing mode as a stochastic bounded control problem|In this note I analyze situations where an entrepreneur needs external financing from an outside investor in order to start an investment project that will yield a profit for two consecutive periods. The value of second-period profit is the entrepreneur's private information. I show that the choice of financing mode can be transformed into an optimal stochastic bounded control problem, where the state variable t represents the investor's first-period payoff and the control variable α can be interpreted in terms of the investor's residual profit rights. I then show that under certain general conditions such as the monotonicity and continuity of t (which have clear economic interpretations), an optimal contract is characterized by maximal α under low values of t and minimal α under high values of t. In economic terms this corresponds to debt.
C79|A Sequential Allocation Problem: The Asymptotic Distribution of Resources|In this paper we consider a sequential allocation problem with n individuals. The first individual can consume any amount of some endowment leaving the remaining for the second individual, and so on. Motivated by the limitations associated with the cooperative or non-cooperative solutions we propose a new approach. We establish some axioms that should be satisfied, representativeness, impartiality, etc. The result is a unique asymptotic allocation rule. It is shown for n=2,3,4, and a claim is made for general n. We show that it satisfies a set of desirable properties.
C79|A strategic model for network formation|We study the dynamics of a game-theoretic network formation model that yields large-scale small-world networks. So far, mostly stochastic frameworks have been utilized to explain the emergence of these networks. On the other hand, it is natural to seek for game-theoretic network formation models in which links are formed due to strategic behaviors of individuals, rather than based on probabilities. Inspired by Even-Dar and Kearns' model [8], we consider a more realistic framework in which the cost of establishing each link is dynamically determined during the course of the game. Moreover, players are allowed to put transfer payments on the formation and maintenance of links. Also, they must pay a maintenance cost to sustain their direct links during the game. We show that there is a small diameter of at most 4 in the general set of equilibrium networks in our model. We achieved an economic mechanism and its dynamic process for individuals which firstly; unlike the earlier model, the outcomes of players' interactions or the equilibrium networks are guaranteed to exist. Furthermore, these networks coincide with the outcome of pairwise Nash equilibrium in network formation. Secondly; it generates large-scale networks that have a rational and strategic microfoundation and demonstrate the main characterization of small degree of separation in real-life social networks. Furthermore, we provide a network formation simulation that generates small-world networks.
C79|Why Stare Decisis?|All Courts rule ex-post, after most economic decisions are sunk. This can generate a time-inconsistency problem. From an ex-ante perspective, Courts will have the ex-post temptation to be excessively lenient. This observation is at the root of the rule of precedent, known as stare decisis. Stare decisis forces Courts to weigh the benefits of leniency towards the current parties against the beneficial effects that tougher decisions have on future ones. We study these dynamics and find that stare decisis guarantees that precedents evolve towards ex-ante efficient decisions, thus alleviating the Courts' time-inconsistency problem. However, the dynamics do not converge to full efficiency. (Copyright: Elsevier)
C79|Simulating a sequential coalition formation process for the climate change problem: first come, but second served?|We analyze stability of self-enforcing climate agreements, considering a sequential coalition formation process of heterogeneous and farsighted players. Players can make proposals which are either accepted or countered by alternative proposals. We discuss the conceptual difficulties of implementing and solving such a game and the strategic options arising in a sequential process. This is illustrated with simple examples and with numerical simulations using the CLIMNEG world simulation model (CWSM). Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
C79|Impact of a financial risk-sharing scheme on budget-impact estimations: a game-theoretic approach|In reaction to applying a substantial risk-sharing rebate α on the manufacturer, both players are expected to adjust their budget estimates toward an optimal equilibrium. Increasing α is a better vehicle for reaching the desired equilibrium rather than increasing γ, as the manufacturer’s rebate α substantially influences both players, whereas γ has little effect on the players behavior. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
C79|Expected fair allocation in farsighted network formation|I consider situations in which a group of players extracts a value if they organise themselves in different network structures, and I define a solution concept to describe the decentralised decision that determines the network formation process and the allocation of the value. I demonstrate that there is a solution concept satisfying discounted expected versions of pairwise stability (Jackson and Wolinsky J Econ Theory 71:44–74, 1996 ) and fairness (Myerson Math Oper Res 2:225–229, 1977a ) jointly with the requirement that the allocation rule be component efficient if the players’ discount factor is sufficiently low. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
C79|The reverse self-dual serial cost-sharing rule|In this study we define a cost-sharing rule for cost-sharing problems. This rule is related to the serial cost-sharing rule defined by Moulin and Shenker (Econometrica 60:1009–1037, 1992 ). We give some formulas and axiomatic characterizations for the new rule. The axiomatic characterizations are related to some previous ones provided by Moulin and Shenker (J. Econ. Theory 64:178–201, 1994 ) and Albizuri (Theory Decis. 69:555–567, 2010 ). Copyright Sociedad de Estadística e Investigación Operativa 2014
C79|A Sequential Allocation Problem: The Asymptotic Distribution of Resources| In this paper we consider a sequential allocation problem with n individuals. The first individual can consume any amount of some endowment leaving the remaining for the second individual, and so on. Motivated by the limitations associated with the cooperative or non-cooperative solutions we propose a new approach. We establish some axioms that should be satisfied, representativeness, impartiality, etc. The result is a unique asymptotic allocation rule. It is shown for n = 2; 3; 4; and a claim is made for general n. We show that it satisfies a set of desirable properties. Key words: Sequential allocation rule, River sharing problem, Cooperative and non-cooperative games, Dictator and ultimatum games. JEL classification: C79, D63, D74.
C79|The Equitable Top Trading Cycles Mechanism For School Choice|A particular adaptation of Gale's top trading cycles (TTC) procedure applied to school choice, the so‐called TTC mechanism, has attracted much attention both in theory and practice due to its superior efficiency and incentive features. We discuss and introduce alternative adaptations of Gale's original procedure that can offer improvements over TTC in terms of equity, along with various other distributional considerations. Instead of giving all the trading power to those students with the highest priority for a school, we argue for the distribution of the trading rights of all slots of each school: This allows them to trade in a thick market where additional constraints can be accommodated by choosing an appropriate pointing rule. We propose a particular mechanism of this kind, the equitable top trading cycle (ETTC) mechanism, which is also Pareto efficient and group strategy‐proof just like TTC and eliminates avoidable justified envy situations. ETTC generates significantly fewer justified envy situations than TTC both in simulations and the lab.
C79|Why Blame?|We provide experimental evidence that subjects blame others on the basis of events they are not responsible for. In our experiment an agent chooses between a lottery and a safe asset; payment from the chosen option goes to a principal, who then decides how much to allocate between the agent and a third party. We observe widespread blame: regardless of their choice, agents are blamed by principals for the outcome of the lottery, an event they are not responsible for. We provide an explanation of this apparently irrational behavior with a delegated-expertise principal-agent model, the subjects' salient perturbation of the environment.
C79|Identical Preferences Lower Bound for Allocation of Heterogenous Tasks and NIMBY Problems|We study the allocation of collectively owned indivisible goods when monetary transfers are possible. We restrict our attention to incentive compatible mechanisms which allocate the goods efficiently. Among these mechanisms, we characterize those that respect the identical-preferences lower-bound: each agent should be at least as well off as in an hypothetical economy where all agents have the same preference as hers, no agent envies another, and the budget is balanced.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C79|Giving according to preferences: Decision-making in the group dictator game|We study the decision process in a group dictator game in which three subjects can distribute an initial endowment between themselves and a group of recipients. The experiment consists of two stages; first, individuals play a standard dictator game. Second, individuals are randomly matched into groups of three and communicate via instant messaging regarding the decision in the group dictator game. In contrast to former studies our results show that group decisions do not differ from individual decisions in the dictator game. Furthermore, the analysis of the chat history reveals that players make proposals according to their preferences as revealed in the single dictator game and that these proposals in groups drive the final allocation. This paper has been published 2014 in Soziale Welt 65(1): 139-156 (see http://www.soziale-welt.nomos.de/archiv/2014/heft-2/).
C79|The Fatter the Tail, the Fatter the Climate Agreement - Simulating the Influence of Fat Tails in Climate Change Damages on the Success of International Climate Negotiations|International climate negotiations take place in a setting where uncertainties regarding the impacts of climate change are very large. In this paper, we examine the influence of increasing the probability and impact of large climate change damages, also known as the ‘fat tail’, on the formation of an international mitigation agreement. We systematically vary the shape and location of the distribution of climate change damages using the stochastic version of the applied game-theoretical STACO model. Our aim is to identify how changes to the distributional form affect the stability of coalitions and their performance. We find that fatter upper tails increase the likelihood that more ambitious coalitions are stable as well as the performance of these stable coalitions. Fatter tails thus imply more successful, or ‘fatter’, international climate agreements.
C79|Determinants of relative bargaining power in monetary unions|This paper studies the bargaining power of the debtors versus the creditors in Europe’s Economic and Monetary Union (EMU).
C79|The role of information in contests|Consider a contest for a prize in which each player knows his/her own ability, but may or may not know those of his/her rivals (the complete or incomplete information regimes). Our main result is that, if the value of the prize is high, more effort and output are engendered under incomplete information, whereas, if the value is low, that distinction goes to complete information.
C79|Communication network formation with link specificity and value transferability|We model strategic communication network formation with (i) link specificity: link maintenance lowers specific attention and thus value (negative externality previously ignored for communication) and (ii) value transferability via indirect links for informational but not for social value (positive externality modeled uniformly before). Assuming only social value, the pairwise stable set includes many nonstandard networks under high and particular combinations of complete components under low link specificity. Allowing for social and informational value reduces this set to certain fragmented networks under high and the complete network under low link specificity. These extremes are efficient, whereas intermediate link specificity generates inefficiency.
C79|The price of imperfect competition for a spanning network|A buyer procures a network to span a given set of nodes; each seller bids to supply certain edges, then the buyer purchases a minimal cost spanning tree. An efficient tree is constructed in any equilibrium of the Bertrand game.
C79|A characterization of a family of rules for the adjudication of conflicting claims|We consider the problem of adjudicating conflicting claims, and characterize the family of rules satisfying four standard invariance requirements, homogeneity, two composition properties, and consistency. It takes as point of departure the characterization of the family of two-claimant rules satisfying the first three requirements, and describes the restrictions imposed by consistency on this family and the further implications of this requirement for problems with three or more claimants. The proof, which is an alternative to Moulinʼs original proof [Moulin, H., 2000. Priority rules and other asymmetric rationing methods. Econometrica 68, 643–684], is based on a general method of constructing consistent extensions of two-claimant rules [Thomson, W., 2007. On the existence of consistent rules to adjudicate conflicting claims: a constructive geometric approach. Rev. Econ. Design 11, 225–251], which exploits geometric properties of paths of awards, seen in their entirety.
C79|Surplus extraction with rich type spaces|We characterize revenue maximizing mechanisms in auction settings with ‘rich’ type spaces, where bidders obtain information from sources other than their own valuation. By considering a relaxed problem, we provide an upper bound on revenue extraction that explicitly builds on the richness of the information structure. We provide a condition under which this upper bound is achieved and describe an optimal mechanism. Under this condition, we also show that the optimal revenue can be achieved through dominant strategy implementation.
C79|Population monotonic and strategy-proof mechanisms respecting welfare lower bounds|The significance of population monotonicity and welfare bounds is well-recognized in the fair division literature. We consider the welfare bounds that are central to the fair allocation literature, namely, the identical-preferences lower-bound, individual rationality, the stand-alone lower-bound, and k-fairness. We characterize population monotonic and incentive compatible mechanisms which allocate an object efficiently and respect a welfare lower bound chosen in the fair allocation problem of allocating a collectively owned indivisible good or bad when monetary transfers are possible and preferences are private information.
C79|Faculty Promotion in Academe: Theory and Evidence from U.S. Economics Departments|This study develops a vintage model of the tenure and academic promotion process within the American higher education system. In this process, one’s professional academic achievements and the characteristics of one’s university affiliation work to either increase or reduce the probability of being granted tenure and academic promotion. Aspects related to the academic promotion process developed within our vintage economic model are tested using data from 1,240 individual faculty affiliated with 175 different departments of economics in the United States. Probit estimates presented herein indicate that the number of academic publications is an important consideration for academic promotion across all types of university (institutional) settings, and that different academic generations, one holding PhDs minted prior to 2000 and the other holding PhDs minted after 1999, face different academic promotion practices within their particular institutional affiliations.
C79|Forward-looking Pairwise Stability in Networks with Externalities| We consider cooperation situations where players have network relations. Networks evolve according to a stationary transition probability matrix and at each moment in time players receive payoffs from a stationary allocation rule. Players discount the future by a common factor. The pair formed by an allocation rule and a transition probability matrix is called a forward-looking network formation scheme if, first, the probability that a link is created is positive if the discounted, expected gains to its two participants are positive, and if, second, the probability that a link is eliminated is positive if the discounted, expected gains to at least one of its two participants are positive. The main result is the existence, for all discount factors and all value functions, of a forward-looking network formation scheme. Furthermore, we can always nd a forward-looking network formation scheme such that (i) the allocation rule is component balanced and (ii) the transition probabilities increase in the di erence in payo s for the corresponding players responsible for the transition. We use this dynamic solution concept to explore the tension between e ciency and stability.
C79|Active courts and menu contracts|One of the great successes of the law and economics movement has been the use of economic models to explain the structure and function of broad areas of law. The original contributions to this volume epitomize that tradition, offering state-of-the-art research on the many facets of economic modeling in law.
C79|Network Formation with Heterogeneous Agents and Absolute Friction|We present a model of strategic network formation with absolute friction and heterogeneous agents. The individual payoffs from a given network are determined by the difference of an agent specific utility function that depends on the number of her direct links and the sum of her link-costs. These link-costs decompose in a symmetric function that represents the social distance between the two agents and an agent specific function representing the partner’s quality. From a theoretical point of view, we analyze strong pairwise stable networks (Belleflamme and Bloch, Int Econ Rev 45(2):387–411, 2004 ) and show that our model always has a unique strong pairwise stable network which is also strongly stable (Dutta and Mutuswami, J Econ Theory, 76:322–344, 1997 ). From a practical point of view, we provide an algorithm that reproduces this stable network from information on the individual payoff structure. We illustrate the use of this algorithm by applying it to an informal risk sharing network data set from the village of Nyakatoke in rural Tanzania. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
C79|The Fatter the Tail, the Fatter the Climate Agreement|International climate negotiations take place in a setting where uncertainties regarding the impacts of climate change are very large. In this paper, we examine the influence of increasing the probability and impact of large climate change damages, also known as the ‘fat tail’, on the formation of an international mitigation agreement. We systematically vary the shape and location of the distribution of climate change damages using the stochastic version of the applied game-theoretical STACO model. Our aim is to identify how changes to the distributional form affect the stability of coalitions and their performance. We find that fatter upper tails increase the likelihood that more ambitious coalitions are stable as well as the performance of these stable coalitions. Fatter tails thus imply more successful, or ‘fatter’, international climate agreements. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2013
C79|An aggregation function to solve multicriteria ranking problem involving several decision makers|Multiple Criteria Decision Aiding (MCDA) has been studied in a single decision maker framework for a long time. Nowadays, the need to take into account several conflicting opinions handled by several decisions makers arises. So, researchers are interested with multicriteria problems involving several decision makers. In this context, to solve ranking problem, we develop an aggregation model of several additive value functions. Comparisons with a derivative ELECTRE I method is done on numerical data. Clearly, it appears that the proposed aggregation function is better according to calculation complexity and computation time. Way for further research in this field is proposed.
C79|Biased Bayesian learning with an application to the risk-free rate puzzle|Based on the axiomatic framework of Choquet decision theory, we develop a closed-form model of Bayesian learning with ambiguous beliefs about the mean of a normal distribution. In contrast to rational models of Bayesian learning the resulting Choquet Bayesian estimator results in a long-run bias that reflects the agent's ambiguity attitudes. By calibrating the standard equilibrium conditions of the consumption based asset pricing model we illustrate that our approach contributes towards a resolution of the risk-free rate puzzle. For a plausible parameterization we obtain a risk-free rate in the range of 3.5–5%. This is 1–2.5% closer to the empirical risk-free rate than according calibrations of the rational expectations model.
C79|Partial memories, inductively derived views, and their interactions with behavior|We explore the inductively derived views obtained by players with partial temporal (short-term) memories. A player derives his personal view of the objective game situation from his accumulated (long-term) memories, and then uses it for decision making. A salient feature that distinguishes this paper from others on inductive game theory is partiality of a memory function of a player. This creates a multiplicity of possibly derived views. Although this is a difficulty for a player in various senses, it is an essential problem of induction. Faced with multiple possible views, a player may try to resolve this using further experiences. The two-way interaction between behavior and personal views is another distinguishing feature of the present paper. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
C79|On insider trading and belief evolution|In a market with stochastic demand with seller competition at most one seller can acquire costly information about demand. Other sellers entertain idiosyncratic beliefs about the market demand and the probability that an informed seller is trading in the market. These idiosyncratic beliefs co-evolve with the potential insider’s inclination to acquire information.True demand expectations (in the Bayesian sense) are not evolutionarily stable when beliefs, via revelation, can be used to commit to more aggressive behavior. The commitment effect fades away in large markets and has the same direction for both strategic substitutes and complements. Whether one observes an insider, in the long run, depends on information costs. For strategic substitutes insider activity benefits the whole population whereas the uninformed sellers could gain even more than the insider. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
C79|On the Interpretation of Giving, Taking, and Destruction in Dictator Games and Joy-of-Destruction Games|The literature on dictator [D] and joy-of-destruction [JoD] games demonstrates that people can be nice and nasty. We study, by way of an experiment with between-subjects and within-subjects features, to what extent behaviors are context dependent and consistent. We find that, for one-shot D and JoD games, our participants' niceness and nastiness depend on the choice set. Contradicting the observed altruism and nastiness, participants tend to be selfish but nonetheless make choices that increase social welfare when given the opportunity.
C79|Implementation in multidimensional dichotomous domains|We consider deterministic dominant strategy implementation in multidimensional dichotomous domains in private values and quasi-linear utility setting. In such multidimensional domains, an agent’s type is characterized by a single number, the value of the agent, and a non-empty set of acceptable alternatives. Each acceptable alternative gives the agent utility equal to his value and other alternatives give him zero utility. We identity a new condition, which we call generation monotonicity, that is necessary and sufficient for implementability in any dichotomous domain. If such a domain satisfies a richness condition, then a weaker version of generation monotonicity, which we call 2-generation monotonicity (equivalent to 3-cycle monotonicity), is necessary and sufficient for implementation. We use this result to derive the optimal mechanism in a one-sided matching problem with agents having dichotomous types.
C79|Noisy retrievers and the four-fold reaction to rare events|Previous research documents two pairs of inconsistent reactions to rare events: 1) Studies of probability judgment reveal conservatism which implies overestimation of rare events, and overconfidence which implies underestimation of rare events. 2) Studies of choice behavior reveal overweighting of rare events in one-shot tasks, and the opposite bias in decisions from experience. The current analysis and experimental results demonstrate that the coexistence and relative importance of the four biases can be captured with simple models that share the assumption that judgments and decisions are made based on the information conveyed by small and noisy samples of past experiences.
C79|Simple Adaptive Strategies:From Regret-Matching to Uncoupled Dynamics|This volume collects almost two decades of joint work of Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell on game dynamics and equilibria. The starting point was the introduction of the adaptive strategy called regret-matching , which on the one hand is simple and natural, and on the other is shown to lead to correlated equilibria. This initial finding ¡ª boundedly rational behavior that yields fully rational outcomes in the long run ¡ª generated a large body of work on the dynamics of simple adaptive strategies. In particular, a natural condition on dynamics was identified: uncoupledness , whereby decision-makers do not know each other's payoffs and utilities (so, while chosen actions may be observable, the motivations are not). This condition turns out to severely limit the equilibria that can be reached. Interestingly, there are connections to the behavioral and neurobiological sciences and also to computer science and engineering (e.g., via notions of ¡°regret¡±). Simple Adaptive Strategies is self-contained and unified in its presentation. Together with the formal treatment of concepts, theorems, and proofs, significant space is devoted to informal explanations and illuminating examples. It may be used for advanced graduate courses ¡ª in game theory, economics, mathematics, computer science, engineering ¡ª and for further research. Contents: Correlated Equilibria: Existence of Correlated Equilibria (Sergiu Hart and David Schmeidler) Regret Matching: A Simple Adaptive Procedure Leading to Correlated Equilibrium (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) A General Class of Adaptive Strategies (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) A Reinforcement Procedure Leading to Correlated Equilibrium (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) Regret-Based Continuous-Time Dynamics (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) General Procedures Leading to Correlated Equilibria (Amotz Cahn) Uncoupled Dynamics: Uncoupled Dynamics Do Not Lead to Nash Equilibrium (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) Stochastic Uncoupled Dynamics and Nash Equilibrium (Sergiu Hart and Andreu Mas-Colell) Uncoupled Automata and Pure Nash Equilibria (Yakov Babichenko) How Long to Equilibrium? The Communication Complexity of Uncoupled Equilibrium Procedures (Sergiu Hart and Yishay Mansour) Dynamics and Equilibria: Adaptive Heuristics (Sergiu Hart) Nash Equilibrium and Dynamics (Sergiu Hart) Readership: Graduate students and researchers in game theory, economic theory, econometrics, computer science and engineering. Key Features: Prominent authors (two world-leading game theorists) Significant cutting-edge body of research Novel ideas and insights that are useful and applicable in many areas
C79|Existence Of Correlated Equilibria|AbstractAn elementary proof, based on linear duality, is provided for the existence of correlated equilibria in finite games. The existence result is then extended to infinite games, including some that possess no Nash equilibria.
C79|Existence of Correlated Equilibria|An elementary proof, based on linear duality, is provided for the existence of correlated equilibria in finite games. The existence result is then extended to infinite games, including some that possess no Nash equilibria.
C79|General Procedures Leading To Correlated Equilibria|AbstractHart and Mas-Colell (2000) show that if all players play “regret matching” strategies, i.e., they play with probabilities proportional to the regrets, then the empirical distribution of play converges to the set of correlated equilibria, and the regrets of every player converge to zero. Here we show that if only one player, say player i, plays with these probabilities, while the other players are “not too sophisticated,” then the result that player i's regrets converge to zero continues to hold. The condition of “not too sophisticated” essentially says that the effect of one change of action of player i on the future actions of the other players decreases to zero as the horizon goes to infinity. Furthermore, we generalize all these results to a whole class of “regret-based” strategies introduced in Hart and Mas-Colell (2001). In particular, these simplify the “conditional smooth fictitious play” of Fudenberg and Levine (1999).
C79|Uncoupled Automata And Pure Nash Equilibria|AbstractWe study the problem of reaching a pure Nash equilibrium in multi-person games that are repeatedly played under the assumption of uncoupledness: every player knows only his own payoff function. We consider strategies that can be implemented by finite-state automata, and characterize the minimal number of states needed in order to guarantee that a pure Nash equilibrium is reached in every game where such an equilibrium exists.
C79|How Long To Equilibrium? The Communication Complexity Of Uncoupled Equilibrium Procedures|AbstractWe study the question of how long it takes players to reach a Nash equilibrium in uncoupled setups, where each player initially knows only his own payoff function. We derive lower bounds on the communication complexity of reaching a Nash equilibrium, i.e., on the number of bits that need to be transmitted, and thus also on the required number of steps. Specifically, we show lower bounds that are exponential in the number of players in each one of the following cases: (1) reaching a pure Nash equilibrium; (2) reaching a pure Nash equilibrium in a Bayesian setting; and (3) reaching a mixed Nash equilibrium. We then show that, in contrast, the communication complexity of reaching a correlated equilibrium is polynomial in the number of players.
C79|How long to equilibrium? The communication complexity of uncoupled equilibrium procedures|We study the question of how long it takes players to reach a Nash equilibrium in uncoupled setups, where each player initially knows only his own payoff function. We derive lower bounds on the communication complexity of reaching a Nash equilibrium, i.e., on the number of bits that need to be transmitted, and thus also on the required number of steps. Specifically, we show lower bounds that are exponential in the number of players in each one of the following cases: (1) reaching a pure Nash equilibrium; (2) reaching a pure Nash equilibrium in a Bayesian setting; and (3) reaching a mixed Nash equilibrium. We then show that, in contrast, the communication complexity of reaching a correlated equilibrium is polynomial in the number of players.
C79|Adaptive Heuristics|AbstractWe exhibit a large class of simple rules of behavior, which we call adaptive heuristics, and show that they generate rational behavior in the long run. These adaptive heuristics are based on natural regret measures, and may be viewed as a bridge between rational and behavioral viewpoints. Taken together, the results presented here establish a solid connection between the dynamic approach of adaptive heuristics and the static approach of correlated equilibria.
C79|Adaptive Heuristics| We exhibit a large class of simple rules of behavior, which we call adaptive heuristics, and show that they generate rational behavior in the long run. These adaptive heuristics are based on natural regret measures, and may be viewed as a bridge between rational and behavioral viewpoints. Taken together, the results presented here establish a solid connection between the dynamic approach of adaptive heuristics and the static approach of correlated equilibria. Copyright The Econometric Society 2005.
C79|Nash Equilibrium And Dynamics|AbstractJohn F. Nash, Jr., submitted his Ph. D. dissertation entitled Non-Cooperative Games to Princeton University in 1950. Read it 58 years later, and you will find the germs of various later developments in game theory. Some of these are presented below, followed by a discussion of dynamic aspects of equilibrium.
C79|River Sharing and Water Trade| We analyse river sharing games in which a set of agents located along a river shares the available water. Using coalition theory, we find that the potential benefits of water trade may not be sufficient to make all agents in the river cooperate and acknowledge property rights as a prerequisite for trade. Specifically, a complete market for river water may not emerge if there are four or more agents along the river. Instead, a partial market may emerge where a subset of agents trades river water, with the possibility that other agents take some of the river water that passes their territory.
C79|Efficient Auctions and Interdependent Types|" We consider the efficient allocation of a single good with interdependent values in a quasi-linear environment. We present an approach to modeling interdependent preferences distinguishing between ""payoff types"" and ""belief types"" and report a characterization of when the efficient allocation can be partially Bayesian implemented on a finite type space. The characterization can be used to unify a number of sufficient conditions for efficient partial implementation in this classical auction setting. We report how a canonical language for discussing interdependent types - developed in a more general setting by Bergemann, Morris and Takahashi (2011) - applies in this setting and note by example that this canonical language will not allow us to distinguish some types in the payoff type - belief type language."
C79|Norm Enforcement: Anger, Indignation, Or Reciprocity?|The enforcement of social norms often requires that unaffected third parties sanction offenders. Given the renewed interest of economists in norms, the literature on third party punishment is surprisingly thin, however. In this paper, we report on the results of an experiment designed to evaluate two distinct explanations for this phenomenon, indignation and group reciprocity. We find evidence in favor of both, with the caveat that the incidence of indignation-driven sanctions is perhaps smaller than earlier studies have hinted. Furthermore, our results suggest that second parties use sanctions to promote conformism while third parties intervene primarily to promote efficiency.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C79|Aggregate Uncertainty Can Lead to Incorrect Herds|A continuum of homogeneous rational agents choose between two competing technologies. Agents observe a private signal and sample others' previous choices. Signals have an aggregate component of uncertainty, so aggregate behavior does not necessarily reflect the true state of nature. Nonetheless, agents still find others' choices informative, and base their decisions partly on others' behavior. Consequently, bad choices can be perpetuated: aggregate uncertainty makes agents herd on the inferior technology with positive probability. I derive the optimal decision rule when agents sample exactly two individuals. I also present examples with herds on the inferior technology for arbitrarily large sample sizes.
C79|The Allocation of a Prize|"Consider agents who undertake costly effort to produce stochastic outputs observable by a principal. The principal can award a prize deterministically to the agent with the highest output, or to all of them with probabilities that are proportional to their outputs. We show that, if there is sufficient diversity in agents' skills relative to the noise on output, then the proportional prize will, in a precise sense, elicit more output on average, than the deterministic prize. Indeed, assuming agents know each others' skills (the complete information case), this result holds when any Nash equilibrium selection, under the proportional prize, is compared with any individually rational selection under the deterministic prize. When there is incomplete information, the result is still true but now we must restrict to Nash selections for both prizes. We also compute the optimal scheme, from among a natural class of probabilistic schemes, for awarding the prize; namely that which elicits maximal effort from the agents for the least prize. In general the optimal scheme is a monotonic step function which lies ""between"" the proportional and deterministic schemes. When the competition is over small fractional increments, as happens in the presence of strong contestants whose base levels of production are high, the optimal scheme awards the prize according to the ""log of the odds,"" with odds based upon the proportional prize.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
C79|On The Axiomatics Of Resource Allocation: Interpreting The Consistency Principle|An allocation rule is ‘consistent’ if the recommendation it makes for each problem ‘agrees’ with the recommendation it makes for each associated reduced problem, obtained by imagining some agents leaving with their assignments. Some authors have described the consistency principle as a ‘fairness principle’. Others have written that it is not about fairness, that it should be seen as an ‘operational principle’. We dispute the particular fairness interpretations that have been offered for consistency, but develop a different and important fairness foundation for the principle, arguing that it can be seen as the result of adding ‘some’ efficiency to a ‘post-application’ and efficiency-free expression of solidarity in response to population changes. We also challenge the interpretations of consistency as an operational principle that have been given, and here identify a sense in which such an interpretation can be supported. We review and assess the other interpretations of the principle, as ‘robustness’, ‘coherence’ and ‘reinforcement’.
C79|Continuous Implementation|"It is well-known that mechanism design literature makes many simplifying infor- mational assumptions in particular in terms of common knowledge of the environment among players. In this paper, we introduce a notion of continuous implementation and characterize when a social choice function is continuously implementable. More specif- ically, we say that a social choice function is continuously (partially) implementable if it is (partially) implementable for types in the model under study and it continues to be (partially) implementable for types ""close"" to this initial model. We ?rst show that if the model is of complete information a social choice function is continuously (partially) implementable only if it satis?es Maskin?s monotonicity. We then extend this result to general incomplete information settings and show that a social choice function is continuously (partially) implementable only if it is fully implementable in iterative dominance. For ?nite mechanisms, this condition is also su¢ cient. We also discuss implications of this characterization for the virtual implementation approach.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
C79|Staged investments in entrepreneurial financing|Venture capitalists deliver investments to entrepreneurs in stages. This paper shows staged financing is efficient. Staging lets investors abandon ventures with low early returns, and thus sorts good projects from bad. The primary implication from staging is that it is efficient to invest more in later rounds. The model yields a number of predictions on how the ratio of early to late round financing varies with uncertainty, the outside options of both parties, the value of the venture, the costs of investment, and project difficulty. We test these predictions against data on venture capital financings and find significant empirical support for the theory.
C79|Consumer bounded rationality and rigidity/flexibility retail price patterns|I revisit the model of market competition with boundedly rational consumers due to Spiegler (2006), in which firms compete in price distributions and consumers use a naive sampling procedure to evaluate them. I assume that firms can assign weight to arbitrarily low prices, and consumers have a non-trivial ex ante outside option. In symmetric Nash equilibrium, firms charge a high “regular price” with positive probability, and in addition randomize continuously over an interval of “sale” prices that are bounded away from the regular price. Sales become less frequent but more drastic as the number of competitors increases and as the consumer’s outside option becomes more attractive.
C79|Endogenous household interaction|Most econometric models of intrahousehold behavior assume that household decision making is efficient, i.e., utility realizations lie on the Pareto frontier. In this paper, we investigate this claim by adding a number of participation constraints to the household allocation problem. Short-run constraints ensure that each spouse obtains a utility level at least equal to what they would realize under (inefficient) Nash equilibrium. Long-run constraints ensure that each spouse obtains a utility level at least equal to what they would realize by cheating on the efficient allocation and receiving Nash equilibrium payoffs in all successive periods. Given household characteristics and the (common) discount factor of the spouses, not all households may be able to attain payoffs on the Pareto frontier. We estimate these models using a Method of Simulated Moments estimator and data from one wave of the Panel Study of Income Dynamics. We find that both short- and long-run constraints are binding for sizable proportions of households in the sample. We conclude that it is important to carefully model the constraint sets household members face when modeling household allocation decisions, and to allow for the possibility that efficient outcomes may not be implementable for some households.
C79|Nash equilibria of network formation games under consent|We investigate the Nash equilibria of game theoretic models of network formation based on explicit consent in link formation. These so-called “consent models” explicitly take account of link formation costs. We provide characterizations of Nash equilibria of such consent models under both one-sided and two-sided costs of link formation. We relate these equilibrium concepts to link-based stability concepts, in particular strong link deletion proofness.
C79|Stackelberg Assumption vs. Nash Assumption in Partially Cooperative Games|We deal with n-person normal form games where a subset of players decide to cooperate (signatories) and choose strategies by maximizing the aggregate welfare of the coalition members as in International Environmental Agreements (IEA) context. The non-cooperating (non-signatories) players choose their strategies as a Nash equilibrium. In this paper the partial cooperative equilibrium (PCE) under the Nash-Cournot and the Stackelberg assumptions are considered and presented also in the case of non-signatories multiple decision. Some properties are discussed in both situations, particularly the profit of the players are compared.
C79|Legislative Effort and Career Paths in the Argentine Congress|This paper uses data from the Argentine House of Representatives to study the relationship between legislative effort and political success, as measured by reelection, becoming a leader of the House, and moving to higher political positions. It is found that more effort is associated with a higher probability of being reelected, and also that for those legislators that are reelected, higher effort is positively associated with acquiring leadership positions in the House. This happens in a context of fairly high legislative turnover and in a political context in which career paths of legislators are largely dictated by provincial party leaders. Interestingly, it is found that higher legislative effort is associated with a lower probability of improving politically outside Congress. These findings suggest the presence of various alternative career paths for Argentine politicians, and some degree of sorting. The paper concludes with some speculation on these politician types and with ideas for further research.
C79|Axiomatizing Political Philosophy of Distributive Justice: Equivalence of No-envy and Egalitarian-equivalence with Welfare-egalitarianism|"We characterize welfare-egalitarian mechanisms (that are decision-efficient and incentive compatible) with the two fundamental axioms of fairness: no-envy and egalitarian-equivalence. We consider cases where agents have equal rights over external world resources but are individually responsible for their preferences/costs. Our characterization answers the political philosophy question of what kind of welfare differentials allowed if we respect private ownership rights over self and public ownership over external world. We also relate no-envy and egalitarian-equivalence to ""equality of what"" debate and build a link between resource and opportunity egalitarianism, and welfare-egalitarianism."
C79|Characterizing Welfare-egalitarian Mechanisms with Solidarity When Valuations are Private Information|In the problem of assigning indivisible goods and monetary transfers, we characterize welfare-egalitarian mechanisms (that are decision-efficient and incentive compatible) with an axiom of solidarity under preference changes and a fair ranking axiom of order preservation. This result is in line with characterizations of egalitarian rules with solidarity in other economic models. We also show that we can replace order-preservation with egalitarian-equivalence or no-envy (on the subadditive domain) and still characterize the welfare-egalitarian class. However, if we weaken order preservation to symmetry, mechanisms that are not welfare-egalitarian exist. We also study upper bounds on deficit and welfare lower bounds that characterize subclasses of the welfare-egalitarian class.
C79|Population Monotonic and Strategy-Proof Mechanisms Respecting Welfare Lower Bounds|The significance of population monotonicity and welfare bounds is well-recognized in the fair division literature. We characterize population monotonic and incentive compatible mechanisms which allocate the goods efficiently and respect a welfare lower bound chosen in the fair allocation problem of allocating collectively owned indivisible goods or bads when monetary transfers are possible and preferences are private information. We consider the welfare bounds that are central to the fair allocation literature, namely, the identical-preferences lower-bound, individual rationality, the stand-alone lower-bound, and k-fairness. We also compare the strength and associated budget deficits of and the logical relations between the aforementioned lower bounds.
C79|Price Competition Under Limited Comparability|" This article studies market competition when firms can influence consumers' ability to compare market alternatives through their choice of price ""formats."" In our model, the ability of a consumer to make a comparison depends on the firms' format choices. Our main results concern the interaction between firms' equilibrium price and format decisions and its implications for industry profits and consumer switching rates. In particular, market forces drive down the firms' profits to a ""constrained competitive"" benchmark if and only if the comparability structure satisfies a property that we interpret as a form of ""frame neutrality."" The same property is necessary for equilibrium behavior to display statistical independence between price and format decisions. We also show that narrow regulatory interventions that aim to facilitate comparisons may have an anticompetitive effect. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press."
C79|Robust Mechanism Design: An Introduction|This essay is the introduction for a collection of papers by the two of us on ?Robust Mech- anism Design?to be published by World Scienti?c Publishing. The appendix of this essay lists the chapters of the book. The objective of this introductory essay is to provide the reader with an overview of the research agenda pursued in the collected papers. The introduction selectively presents the main results of the papers, and attempts to illustrate many of them in terms of a common and canonical example, the single unit auction with interdependent values. In addition, we include an extended discussion about the role of alternative assumptions about type spaces in our work and the literature, in order to explain the common logic of the informational robustness approach that uni?es the work in this volume.
C79|Frontier-based performance analysis models for supply chain management; state of the art and research directions|Effective supply chain management relies on information integration and implementation of best practice techniques across the chain. Supply chains are examples of complex multi-stage systems with temporal and causal interrelations, operating multi-input and multi-output production and services under utilization of fixed and variable resources as well as potentially environmental exposure. Acknowledging the lack of system's view, the need to identify system-wide as well as individual effects, as well as the incorporation of a coherent set of performance metrics, the recent literature reports on an increasing, but yet limited, number of applications of frontier analysis models (e.g. DEA) for the performance assessment of supply chains or networks. The relevant models in this respect are multi-stage models with various assumptions on the intermediate outputs and inputs, enabling the derivation of metrics for technical and cost efficiencies for the system as well as the autonomous links. This paper reviews the state of the art in multi-stage or network DEA modeling, along with a critical review of the advanced applications that are reported in terms of the consistency of the underlying assumptions and the results derived. Consolidating the current work in this range using a unified notation and by comparing the properties of the models presented, the paper is closed with recommendations for future research in terms of both theory and application.
C79|Pricing under the Threat of Piracy: Flexibility and Platforms for Digital Goods|"We consider the optimal design of flexible use in a digital-rights-management policy for a digital good subject to piracy. Consumers can acquire the digital good either as a licensed product or as an unlicensed copy. The ease of access to unlicensed copies is increasing in the flexibility accorded to licensed copies. The content provider has to trade off consumers' valuation of a licensed copy against the sales lost to piracy. We enrich the basic model by introducing a ""secure platform"" that is required to use the digital good. We show that the platform allows for the socially optimal provision of flexibility for the digital good but only if both are sold by an integrated firm."
C79|An agent-based model of payment systems|We lay out and simulate a multi-agent, multi-period model of an RTGS payment system. At the beginning of the day, banks choose how much costly liquidity to allocate to the settlement process. Then, they use it to execute an exogenous, random stream of payment orders. If a bank's liquidity stock is depleted, payments are queued until new liquidity arrives from other banks, imposing costs on the delaying bank. We study the equilibrium level of liquidity posted in the system, performing some comparative statics and obtaining insights on the efficiency of alternative system configurations.
C79|How does bargaining power affect remittances?|This paper examines the factors affecting the amount of remittances by migrants to their home countries, in a context of a family bargaining model. Spanish data does not show the same clear relationship between remittances and migrant income that is captured in the theoretical literature and certain empirical papers. Family bargaining models emerge as a useful framework within which to study remittances, and bargaining power is a key element in determining the level of such remittances. As a consequence of the consideration of bargaining power, the effect of income levels on remittances emerges as non-monotonic.
C79|How does bargaining power affect remittances?|This paper examines the factors affecting the amount of remittances by migrants to their home countries, in a context of a family bargaining model. Spanish data does not show the same clear relationship between remittances and migrant income that is captured in the theoretical literature and certain empirical papers. Family bargaining models emerge as a useful framework within which to study remittances, and bargaining power is a key element in determining the level of such remittances. As a consequence of the consideration of bargaining power, the effect of income levels on remittances emerges as non-monotonic.
C79|Unions, government's preference, and privatization|By introducing the government's preference for tax revenues into the theoretical framework of unionized mixed oligopolies, this study investigates the efficiency of privatization. The results are twofold. First, regardless of the government's preference for tax revenues and the number of private firms, the government and the public firm do not always have an incentive to privatize the public firm even if the government places lesser emphasis on the tax revenues than on social welfare. Second, social welfare increases with an increased number of private firms regardless of the government's preference for tax revenues and decreases with the government's preference for tax revenues regardless of the number of private firms. Hence, the government can use tax more efficiently as a commitment device to control the union's wage demand so as to maintain lower wage level under unionized mixed oligopoly.
C79|Robust implementation in general mechanisms|A social choice function is robustly implemented if every equilibrium on every type space achieves outcomes consistent with it. We identify a robust monotonicity condition that is necessary and (with mild extra assumptions) sufficient for robust implementation. Robust monotonicity is strictly stronger than both Maskin monotonicity (necessary and almost sufficient for complete information implementation) and ex post monotonicity (necessary and almost sufficient for ex post implementation). It is equivalent to Bayesian monotonicity on all type spaces.
C79|Price-taking behavior versus continuous dynamic optimizing|In a quantity-competition oligopoly, previous studies have shown that a price-taking firm can outperform any rival with identical technology that produces at a different output level at any intertemporal equilibrium. This research seeks to examine this seemingly counter-intuitive fact in a heterogeneous duopoly consisting of an adaptive price-taker and a dynamic optimizer who dynamically optimizes its either absolute or relative profit stream over an infinite planning horizon. With conventional economic assumptions, the Hamiltonian system always converges to a saddle point. If goal of the dynamic optimizer is absolute profit, the price-taker produces more than the dynamic optimizer at the equilibrium, around which there exists a long-run relative profitability portion for the price-taker. Consequently, the price-taker unconsciously makes higher relative profit than the dynamic optimizer in the long-run. In contrast, if the dynamic optimizer pursues the relative profit, both firms produce at the competitive level at the equilibrium while the whole optimal path lies in the relative profitability regime of the dynamic optimizer so that it will enjoy a higher profit than the price-taker before reaching equilibrium. These results provide economical justification for ever-growing evolutionary game theoretical literatures in appreciating price-taking behavior and additionally clarify possible misunderstandings in interpreting their conclusions.
C79|Price-taking behavior versus continuous dynamic optimizing|Abstract In a quantity-competition oligopoly, previous studies have shown that a price-taking firm can outperform any rival with identical technology that produces at a different output level at any intertemporal equilibrium. This research seeks to examine this seemingly counter-intuitive fact in a heterogeneous duopoly consisting of an adaptive price-taker and a dynamic optimizer who dynamically optimizes its either absolute or relative profit stream over an infinite planning horizon. With conventional economic assumptions, the Hamiltonian system always converges to a saddle point. If goal of the dynamic optimizer is absolute profit, the price-taker produces more than the dynamic optimizer at the equilibrium, around which there exists a long-run relative profitability portion for the price-taker. Consequently, the price-taker unconsciously makes higher relative profit than the dynamic optimizer in the long-run. In contrast, if the dynamic optimizer pursues the relative profit, both firms produce at the competitive level at the equilibrium while the whole optimal path lies in the relative profitability regime of the dynamic optimizer so that it will enjoy a higher profit than the price-taker before reaching equilibrium. These results provide economical justification for ever-growing evolutionary game theoretical literatures in appreciating price-taking behavior and additionally clarify possible misunderstandings in interpreting their conclusions.
C79|Rationalizable Implementation|AbstractWe consider the implementation of social choice functions under complete information in rationalizable strategies. A strict version of the monotonicity condition introduced by Maskin is necessary under the solution concept of rationalizability. Assuming the social choice function is responsive, i.e., in distinct states it selects distinct outcomes, we show that strict Maskin monotonicity is also sufficient under a mild “no worst alternative” condition. In particular, no economic condition is required. We discuss how our results extend when the social choice function is not responsive.
C79|Rationalizable implementation|"We consider the implementation of social choice functions under complete information in rationalizable strategies. A strict version of the monotonicity condition introduced by Maskin is necessary under the solution concept of rationalizability. Assuming the social choice function is responsive, i.e. in distinct states it selects distinct outcomes, we show that strict Maskin monotonicity is also sufficient under a mild ""no worst alternative"" condition. In particular, no economic condition is required. We discuss how our results extend when the social choice function is not responsive."
C79|Robust Monopoly Pricing|AbstractWe consider a robust version of the classic problem of optimal monopoly pricing with incomplete information. In the robust version, the seller faces model uncertainty and only knows that the true demand distribution is in the neighborhood of a given model distribution. We characterize the pricing policies under two distinct decision criteria with multiple priors: (i) maximin utility and (ii) minimax regret. The equilibrium price under either criterion is lower then in the absence of uncertainty. The concern for robustness leads the seller to concede a larger information rent to all buyers with values below the optimal price without uncertainty.
C79|Robust monopoly pricing|We consider a robust version of the classic problem of optimal monopoly pricing with incomplete information. In the robust version, the seller faces model uncertainty and only knows that the true demand distribution is in the neighborhood of a given model distribution. We characterize the pricing policies under two distinct decision criteria with multiple priors: (i) maximin utility and (ii) minimax regret. The equilibrium price under either criterion is lower then in the absence of uncertainty. The concern for robustness leads the seller to concede a larger information rent to all buyers with values below the optimal price without uncertainty.
C79|La oferta laboral de los hogares en México. Modelos de interacción estratégica|This paper discusses, estimates and compares microeconometric strategic interaction models applied to the labor supply of households in Mexico. Because the possibility of decentralized decision-making within the household provides a motivation for a game theoretic framework, the model estimates are based on the assumption that the observed variables represent the outcome of a static discrete game. The models are estimated using data from the Mexican Family Life Survey 2002 (MxFLS). The maximum likelihood estimation, based on the non-cooperative Nash and Stackelberg equilibrium concepts, proved feasible and gave plausible results. The main results suggest the interdependence of individual choices within the household.// Esta investigación analiza, estima y compara modelos microeconométricos de interacción estratégica aplicados a la oferta laboral de los hogares en México. En tanto que la posibilidad de decisiones descentralizadas al interior del hogar proporciona el ímpetu para un marco de teoría de juegos, los modelos estimados se basan en el supuesto de que las variables observadas representan el resultado de un juego discreto estático. Los modelos son estimados con datos de la Encuesta Nacional sobre Niveles de Vida de los Hogares 2002 (ENNViH). La estimación por máxima verosimilitud, basada en los conceptos de equilibrio no cooperativo de Nash y Stackelberg, se probó factible y los resultados producidos son plausibles. Los principales resultados sugieren la dependencia recíproca de las decisiones individuales al interior del hogar.
C79|The Unnoticed Difference between Antitrust and Competition Policy|This paper presents a model which focuses on differences between the competition policy of the EU and antitrust of the U.S. It introduces three versions – Neutral, American, and European. Two-stage game model takes the authority’s perspective and describes options and behavior of antitrust officials when a firm engages in non-price vertical agreement (possibly restraint). Optimal behavior is expressed as expected income of the authority (EIA) which is a function of probability of wrong decision(s) in the course of action. It takes into account specific preferences, different types of errors, fear of those errors, and harm they might cause. Comparison shows some unnoticed features and results slightly in favor of the EU.
C79|Kapita³ spo³eczny a poziom rozwoju gospodarczego w œwietle modelu jastrz¹b-go³¹b| Celem niniejszego artyku³u jest przedstawienie zwi¹zków miêdzy poziomem i charakterem kapita³u spo³ecznego a poziomem rozwoju gospodarczego na przyk³adzie teoretycznego modelu jastrz¹b-go³¹b [Bowles 2004]. Model jastrz¹b-go³¹b zak³ada, Se w gospodarce obecne s¹ dwa typy ludzi (typy spo³eczne): „jastrzêbie” i „go³êbie”. „Jastrzêbie” osi¹gaj¹ korzyœci dziêki pracy „go³êbi”, natomiast „go³êbie” osi¹gaj¹ korzyœci dziêki pracy w³asnej. Podejmowanie tematów poœwiêconych wyjaœnieniu oraz modelowaniu kana³ów transmisji kapita³u spo³ecznego na gospodarkê i jej rozwój nie jest powszechne w literaturze. Ponadto prezentowane podejœcie do modelowania kapita³u spo³ecznego rzadko wykorzystuje formalizm modelowania ekonomicznego, który moSe stanowiæ podstawê oceny sposobu oddzia³ywania kapita³u spo³ecznego w róSnych jego wymiarach na gospodarkê. Z tego wzglêdu zastosowanie modelu teoretycznego wykorzystuj¹cego elementy teorii gier stanowi nowatorskie podejœcie do rozwi¹zania tego typu problemu. Artyku³ sk³ada siê z oœmiu punktów, z których pierwszy poœwiêcono przedstawieniu zagadnieñ zwi¹zanych z kapita³em spo³ecznym. W kolejnych szeœciu punktach przedstawiono autorskie podejœcia do formalnego modelowania kapita³u spo³ecznego i kana³ów jego transmisji na gospodarkê. W punkcie ostatnim zaprezentowano wnioski p³yn¹ce z przedstawionych w punktach wczeœniejszych rozwaSañ teoretycznych oraz uzyskanych wyników.
C79|Motivational Cherry Picking|We construct a simple three person trust game with one trustor and two trustees. The trustor has the possibility to either trust both trustees or none, while the trustees make their decisions either sequentially or simultaneously, depending on the treatment. When trustees play sequentially, follower trustees who are informed about the leader's choice are significantly less kind than in the simultaneous move treatment as well as the leader trustees. These findings can not be explained by models of inequity aversion, pure guilt aversion, or conformity. Instead, follower trustees cherry pick the motivation that serves them best. When the leader trustee played unkind, they tend to conform and play unkind, too. When the leader made a kind choice, followers seem to perceive the duty of reciprocating to the trustor as already fulfilled by the leader. While guilt works well as a motivational force in a dyadic situation, it gets alleviated easily when there is someone to shift responsibility to, like the leader in our three person game.
C79|The strategy versus the direct-response method: a first survey of experimental comparisons|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|Divergent Platforms|A robust feature of models of electoral competition between two opportunistic, purely office-motivated parties is that both parties become indistinguishable in equilibrium. I this short note, I show that this strong connection between the office motivation of parties and their equilibrium choice of identical platforms depends on the following two - possibly counterfactual - assumptions: 1. Issue spaces are uni-dimensional and 2. Parties are unitary actors whose preferences can be represented by expected utility functions. The main goal here is to provide an example of a two-party model in which parties offer substantially different platforms in equilibrium even though no exogenous asymmetries are assumed. In this example, some voters’ preferences over the 2-dimensional issue space are assumed to exhibit non-convexities and parties evaluate their actions with respect to a set of beliefs on the electorate.
C79|Jocul ciclic – Statele Unite ale Americii versus Coreea de Nord din unghiul teoriei mutărilor strategice|It is found that the “Theory of Moves” is adequate in a Cold War scenario, with functionally equal participants, such as the Cuban Missile Crisis. The destabilization of normal incentive systems, under power and information asymmetry, is what prevents an equilibrium from being reached, as one side (North Korea) overleverages its position, while the other side makes unproductive compromises.
C79|Consideration Sets and Competitive Marketing|" We study a market model in which competing firms use costly marketing devices to influence the set of alternatives which consumers perceive as relevant. Consumers in our model are boundedly rational in the sense that they have an imperfect perception of what is relevant to their decision problem. They apply well-defined preferences to a ""consideration set"", which is a function of the marketing devices employed by the firms. We examine the implications of this behavioural model in the context of a competitive market model, particularly on industry profits, vertical product differentiation, the use of marketing devices, and consumers' conversion rates. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press."
C79|Stochastic discounting in repeated games: Awaiting the almost inevitable|This paper studies repeated games with pure strategies and stochastic discounting under perfect information. We consider infinite repetitions of any finite normal form game possessing at least one pure Nash action profile. The period interaction realizes a shock in each period, and the cumulative shocks while not affecting period returns, determine the probability of the continuation of the game. We require cumulative shocks to satisfy the following: (1) Markov property; (2) to have a non-negative (across time) covariance matrix; (3) to have bounded increments (across time) and possess a denumerable state space with a rich ergodic subset; (4) there are states of the stochastic process with the resulting stochastic discount factor arbitrarily close to 0, and such states can be reached with positive (yet possibly arbitrarily small) probability in the long run. In our study, a player’s discount factor is a mapping from the state space to (0,1) satisfying the martingale property. In this setting, we, not only establish the (subgame perfect) folk theorem, but also prove the main result of this study: In any equilibrium path, the occurrence of any finite number of consecutive repetitions of the period Nash action profile, must almost surely happen within a finite time window. That is, any equilibrium strategy almost surely contains arbitrary long realizations of consecutive period Nash action profiles.
C79|Mixed extensions of decision-form games|In this paper we define the canonical mixed extension of a decision form game. We motivate the necessity to introduce this concept and we show several examples about the new concept. In particular we focus our study upon the mixed equilibria of a finite decision form game. Many devel- opments appear possible for applications to economics, physics, medicine and biology in those cases for which the systems involved do not have natural utility functions but are only capable to react versus the external actions.
C79|The Problem of Points|According to Katz [6] some of the basic notions of probability existed in ancient civilizations. In The Talmud and in Roman calculations of annuities there is some evidence of this. However, no record of numerical probability calculations exists. Hald [5], Bernstein [1] and Katz [6] agree that this numerical development was intimately linked to the study of gambling, contracts and profits. These authors also coincide in that the formulation of “The Problem of Points” is a crucial event. The paper is centered on evaluating and explaining the history of the formulation of “The Problem of Points”. The solution to this problem originated the deductive notions of probability [5]. I will center my attention on the formulation and attempt of solution by Pacioli [4], Cardano [2], Tartaglia [14] and Forestani [4]. In this process Cardano began to unveil some principles that are coherent with a modern theory of probability.
C79|Job Loss in the Great Recession: Historial Perspective from the Displaced Workers Survey, 1984-2010|The Great Recession from December 2007 to June 2009 is associated with a dramatic weakening of the labor market from which the labor market is now only slowly recovering. The unemployment rate remains stubbornly high and durations of unemployment are unprecedentedly long. I use data from the Displaced Workers Survey (DWS) from 1984-2010 to investigate the incidence and consequences of job loss from 1981-2009. In particular, the January 2010 DWS, which captures job loss during the 2007-2009 period, provides a window through which to examine the experience of job losers in the Great Recession and to compare their experience to that of earlier job losers. These data show a record high rate of job loss, with almost one in six workers reporting having lost a job in the 2007-2009 period. The consequences of job loss are also very serious dur- ing this period with very low rates of reemployment, difficulty finding full-time employment, and substantial earnings losses.
C79|Robust Mechanism Design: An Introduction|"This essay is the introduction for a collection of papers by the two of us on ""Robust Mechanism Design"" to be published by World Scientific Publishing. The appendix of this essay lists the chapters of the book. The objective of this introductory essay is to provide the reader with an overview of the research agenda pursued in the collected papers. The introduction selectively presents the main results of the papers, and attempts to illustrate many of them in terms of a common and canonical example, the single unit auction with interdependent values. In addition, we include an extended discussion about the role of alternative assumptions about type spaces in our work and the literature, in order to explain the common logic of the informational robustness approach that unifies the work in this volume."
C79|Strategic games beyond expected utility|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|Consistency and its converse: an introduction|"This essay is an introduction to the recent literature on the ""consistency principle"" and its ""converse"". An allocation rule is consistent if for any problem in its domain of definition and any alternative that it selects for it, then for the associated ""reduced problem"" obtained by imagining the departure of any subgroup of the agents with their ""components of the alternative"" and reassessing the options open to that subgroup.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
C79|Intentions, Trust and Frames: A Note on Sociality and the Theory of Games| Psychological Game Theory (PGT) expands classical game theory allowing for the formal analysis of belief-dependent sentiments and emotions such as resentment, pride, shame, gratefulness and the like. PGT incorporates these factors by relating agents' subjective expected utility to players' strategies, to their beliefs about others' strategies, and also to their beliefs about others' beliefs about their strategies, and so on. This paper argues that, thanks to the epistemic implications of this hierarchy of beliefs, PGT is well-endowed to address, and to some extent solve, three of the most challenging problems recently emerged in classical game theory related respectively to the role of players' intentionality, to the self-fulfilling nature of trust and finally to the so-called social framing effects.
C79|On the strategic use of attention grabbers|When a firm decides which products to offer or put on display, it takes into account the products' ability to attract attention to the brand name as a whole. Thus, the value of a product to the firm emanates from the consumer demand it directly meets, as well as the indirect demand it generates for the firms' other products. We explore this idea in the context of a stylzed model of competition between media content providers (broadcast TV channels, internet portals, newspapers) over consumers with limited attention. We characterize the equilibrium use of products as attention grabbers and its implications for consumer conversion, industry profits and (mostly vertical) product differentiation.
C79|Welfare Bounds in a Growing Population|We study the allocation of collectively owned indivisible goods when monetary transfers are possible. We restrict our attention to incentive compatible mechanisms which allocate the goods efficiently. Among these mechanisms, we characterize those that respect welfare lower bounds. The main characterization involves the identical-preferences lower-bound: each agent should be at least as well off as in an hypothetical economy where all agents have the same preference as hers, no agent envies another, and the budget is balanced. This welfare lower-bound grants agents equal rights/responsibilities over the jointly owned resources but insures agents against the heterogeneity in preferences. We also study the implications of imposing variable population axioms together with welfare bounds.
C79|Egalitarian-equivalent Groves mechanisms in the allocation of heterogenous objects|We study the problem of allocating objects when monetary transfers are possible. We are interested in mechanisms that allocate the objects in an efficient way and induce the agents to report their true preferences. Within the class of such mechanisms, first we characterize egalitarian-equivalent mechanisms. Then, we add a bounded-deficit condition and characterize the corresponding class. Finally, we investigate the relations between egalitarian-equivalence and other fairness notions such as nhttps://media.adelaide.edu.au/economics/<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C79|Identifying Strategies and Beliefs without Rationality Assumptions|"In this paper we formulate a solution concept without making assumptions about expected utility maximization, common knowledge or beliefs. Beliefs, strate- gies and the degree to which players are expected utility maximizers are endoge- nously determined as part of the solution. To achieve this, rather than solving the game from the players' point of view, we analyze the game as an ""observer"" who is not engaged in the process of the game. Our approach is an information theoretic one in which the observer utilizes an observation of play and the Maximum Entropy principle. We compare our solution concept with Bayesian Nash equilibrium and over the entropy ratio test as a method for determining the appropriateness of common modeling assumptions. We also demonstrate that the QRE concept can be signicantly generalized when viewed from the observer's perspective. For games of incomplete information we discover that alternative uses of the observer's information lead to alternative interpretations of rationality. These alternative in- terpretations of rationality may prove useful, especially in the context of ex post arbitration, as they indicate who is motivating whom."
C79|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainersâ€™ subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes. Keywords: bargaining; performance information; randomness in production process; entitlements; experiments.
C79|Why Imitate, and if so, How? Exploring a Model of Social Evolution|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|Innovación En Situaciones De Negociación. Herramientas Inventivas Para Crear Valor|En negociación se toman decisiones utilizando heurísticas. Esto explica porqué los negociadores suelen no crear valor. Se realizó un análisis conceptualde cuatro casos de negociación en los que aparecen problemas en los que serecurrió a la aplicación de algunos de los principios inventivos de la Teoríade Solución de Problemas Inventivos2 (TRIZ) como heurísticas alternativaspara superar los resultados satisfactorios3. Se encontró así que en la aplicaciónde estos principios inventivos se produce una aproximación más efectiva alideal de creación de valor de las negociaciones integrativas. Se concluye quees posible emplear procedimientos heurísticos inventivos para contrarrestarlas tendencias heurísticas tradicionales que emplean los negociadores (combatirfuego con fuego).
C79|Networks and collective action|Given a social network, we are interested in the problem of measuring the influence of a group of agents to lead the society to adopt their behavior. Motivated by the description of terrorist movements, we provide a markovian dynamical model for non-symmetric societies, which takes into account two special features: the hard core terrorist group cannot be influenced, and the remaining agents may change from active to non-active and vice versa during the process. In this setting, we interpret the absorption time of the model, which measures how quickly the terrorist movement achieve the support of all society, as a group measure of power. In some sense, our model generalizes the classical approach of DeGroot to consensus formation
C79|Local Identification In Empirical Games Of Incomplete Information|This paper studies identification for a broad class of empirical games in a general functional setting. Global identification results are known for some specific models, e.g., in some standard auction models. We use functional formulations to obtain general criteria for local identification. These criteria can be applied to both parametric and nonparametric models, and also to models with asymmetry among players and affiliated private information. A benchmark model is developed where the structural parameters of interest are the distribution of private information and an additional dissociated parameter, such as a parameter of risk aversion. Criteria are derived for some standard auction models, games with exogenous variables, games with randomized strategies, such as mixed strategies, and games with strategic functions that cannot be derived analytically.
C79|Dynamic Complementarities, Efficiency and Nash Equilibria for Populations of Firms and Workers|We consider an economy with two types of firms (innovative and non-innovative) and two types of workers (skilled and unskilled), where workers' decisions are driven by imitative behavior, and thus the evolution of such an economy depends on the initial distribution of the firms. We show that there exists a continuous of high level steady states and only one low level and asymptotically stable equilibrium. There exists a threshold value on the initial number of firms to be overcome it to located in the basin of attraction of one of the high level equilibrium. We show that in each high level equilibrium there coexists a share of innovative firms with a share of non-innovative firms, and a share of skilled workers (human capital) coexisting with a share of unskilled workers. But if the initial share of innovative firms is lower than the threshold value, then the economy evolves to a low level equilibrium wholly composed by non-innovative firms and unskilled workers. Finally, we characterise the equilibria as the evolutionarily stable strategies against a field.
C79|Hölder Continuous Implementation|" Building upon the classical concept of Holder continuity and the notion of ""continuous implementation""introduced in Oury and Tercieux (2009), we define Hölder continuous implementation. We show that, under a richness assumption on the payo pro les (associated with outcomes), the following full characterization result holds for finite mechanisms: a social choice function is Hölder continuously implementable if and only if it is fully implementable in rationalizable messages."
C79|The Evolutionary Processes for the Populations of Firms and Workers|This paper analyzes the cultural evolution of firms and workers. Following an imitation rule, each firm and worker decides whether to be innovative (or not) and skilled (or unskilled). We apply evolutionary game theory to find the system of replicator dynamics, and characterize the low-level and high-level equilibria as Evolutionarily Stable Strategies (ESS) “against the field.” Hence, we study how a persistent state of underdevelopment can arise in strategic environments in which players are imitative rather than rational maximizers. We show that when the current state of the economy is in the basin of attraction of the poverty trap, players should play against the field if they want to change their status quo. The threshold level to overcome the poverty trap can be lowered if there is an appropriate policy using income taxes, education costs and skill premia. Hence, we study the replicator dynamics with a subsidy and payoff taxation to overcome the poverty trap.
C79|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainers’ subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes.
C79|Returns to networking in academia|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|We-thinking and vacillation between frames: filling a gap in Bacharach’s theory|We-thinking theories allow groups to deliberate as agents. They have been introduced into the economic domain for both theoretical and empirical reasons. Among the few scholars who have proposed formal approaches to illustrate how we-thinking arises, Bacharach offers one of the most developed theories from the game theoretic point of view. He presents a number of intuitions, not always mutually consistent and not fully developed. In this article, I propose a way to complete Bacharach’s theory, generalizing the interdependence hypothesis and building on his intuition about vacillation. It is a simple model of vacillation between the I and we-modes of reasoning, as a way in which we-thinking can come to mind in the face of a decision problem. The vacillation model makes we-reasoning more easily usable in game theory. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2012
C79|A model for coopetitive games|In the present introductory work we propose an original analytical model of coopetitive game. We suggest possible general and feasible solutions; in particular, from a coopetitive perspective, we suggest compromise solutions - for our coopetitive game, by using Kalai-Smorodinsky method.
C79|Social Memory, Evidence, and Conflict|"This paper examines an equilibrium model of social memory -- a society's vicarious beliefs about its past. We show that incorrect social memory is a key ingredient in creating and perpetuating destructive conflicts. We analyze an infinite-horizon model in which two countries face off each period in a game of conflict characterized by the possibility of mutually destructive ""all out war"" that yields catastrophic consequences for both sides. Each country is inhabited by a dynastic sequence of individuals. Each individual cares about future individuals in the same country, and can communicate with the next generation of their countrymen using private messages. Social memory is based on these messages, and on physical evidence -- a sequence of imperfectly informative public signals of past behavior. We find that if the future is sufficiently important for all individuals, then regardless of the precision of physical evidence from the past there is an equilibrium in which the two countries engage in all out war with arbitrarily high frequency, an outcome that cannot arise in the standard repeated game. In our construction, each new generation ""repeats the mistakes"" of its predecessors, leading to an endless cycle of destructive behavior. Surprisingly, we find that degrading the quality of information that individuals have about current decisions may ""improve"" social memory. This in turn ensures that arbitrarily frequent all out wars cannot occur. (Copyright: Elsevier)"
C79|The Structure of Online Consumer Communication Networks|In this paper we study the structure of the bilateral communication links within Online Consumer Communication Networks (OCCNs), such as virtual communities. Compared to the offline world, consumers in online networks are highly flexible to choose their communication partners and little is known about how this affects communication exchange structures. We analyze these structures by using a general approach from the game-theoretic literature of social and economic network formation where individuals trade off the cost of forming and maintaining links against the potential rewards of doing so, which results in a stable network structure. In our analysis, a combination of aspects common to OCCNs is incorporated that has not been investigated in this literature until now. First, the negative externality of communication specificity is included in the sense that the more direct connections an individual has to maintain with other individuals, the less she is able to specify her attention per link within her total time available. Therefore, the additive value per individual of her communications declines with an increasing number of links, and she also derives less additive value per individual from others with an increasing number of links. Second, a distinction is made between the social and informational value of communication, where informational communication value is assumed to be transferable via indirect links, whereas social communication value is not transferable. Analytical results are derived by using the concept of pairwise stability. A tendency towards fragmented pairwise stable structures - consisting of small, disjoint (star) components - is discovered, which can be attributed to the joint effect of the two aspects mentioned. We demonstrate that only some of the pairwise stable structures provide optimal welfare (total payoffs), and that the relative focus on informational versus social value of communication affects this welfare.
C79|On evolutionarily stable strategies and replicator dynamics in asymmetric two-population games|We analyze the main dynamical properties of the evolutionarily stable strategy ESS for asymmetric two-population games of finite size in its corresponding replicator dynamics. We introduce a defnition of ESS for two-population asymmetric games and a method of symmetrizing such an asymmetric game. Then, we show that every strategy profile of the asymmetric game corresponds to a strategy in the symmetric game, and that every Nash equilibrium (NE) of the asymmetric game corresponds to a (symmetric) NE of the symmetric version game. So, we study (standard) replicator dynamics for the asymmetric game and define corresponding (non-standard) dynamics of the symmetric game.
C79|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainers' subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes.
C79|Fairness in Auctions and Task Assignments|We study the problem of allocating objects when monetary transfers are possible. We are interested in mechanisms that allocate the objects in an efficient way and induce the agents to report their true preferences. Within the class of such mechanisms, fist we characterize egalitarian-equivalent mechanisms. Then, we add a bounded-deficit condition and characterize the corresponding class. Finally, we investigate the relations between egalitarian- equivalence and other fairness notions such as no-envy.
C79|Preferred suppliers in auction markets|This article examines agreements between a buyer and one of the suppliers which increase their joint surplus. The provisions of such agreements depend on the buyer's ability to design the rules of the final procurement auction. When the buyer does not have this ability, their joint surplus can be increased by an agreement which grants to the preferred supplier a right of first refusal on the lowest price from the other suppliers. When the buyer has this ability, their joint surplus can be maximized by a revelation game for the cost of the preferred supplier and a reserve price based on that cost.
C79|Robust virtual implementation|In a general interdependent preference environment, we characterize when two payoff types can be distinguished by their rationalizable strategic choices without any prior knowledge of their beliefs and higher order beliefs. We show that two payoff types are strategically distinguishable if and only if they satisfy a separability condition. The separability condition for each agent essentially requires that there is not too much interdependence in preferences across agents. A social choice function, mapping payoff type profiles to outcomes, can be robustly virtually implemented if there exists a mechanism such that every equilibrium on every type space achieves an outcome that is arbitrarily close to the outcome generated by the social choice function. This definition is equivalent to requiring virtual implementation in iterated deletion of strategies that are strictly dominated for all beliefs. The social choice function is robustly measurable if strategically indistinguishable payoff types receive the same allocation. We show that ex post incentive compatibility and robust measurability are necessary and sufficient for robust virtual implementation.
C79|Can Workers' Expectations Account for the Persistence of Discrimination?|The paper explains how workers' expectations of being discriminated against can be self-confirming, accounting for the persistence of unequal outcomes in the labour market even beyond the causes that originally generated them. The theoretical framework used is a two-stage game of incomplete information in which one employer promotes only one among two workers after having observed their productivity, which is used as a signal of their ability. Workers who expect to be discriminated against exert a lower effort on average, because of a lower expected return, thereby being promoted less frequently even by unbiased employers. This implies that achievements of minority groups may not improve when the fraction of discriminatory employers actually decreases, and such a mechanism is robust both to trial work periods and to affirmative actions like quotas.
C79|A game-theoretic model of coalition formation among primates|No abstract is available for this item.
C79|On attitude polarization under Bayesian learning with non-additive beliefs|"Ample psychological evidence suggests that peopleâ€™s learning behavior is often prone to a ""myside bias"" or ""irrational belief persistence"" in contrast to learning behavior exclusively based on objective data. In the context of Bayesian learning such a bias may result in diverging posterior beliefs and attitude polarization even if agents receive identical information. Such patterns cannot be explained by the standard model of rational Bayesian learning that implies convergent beliefs. As our key contribution, we therefore develop formal models of Bayesian learning with psychological bias as alternatives to rational Bayesian learning. We derive conditions under which beliefs may diverge in the learning process despite the fact that all agents observe the same - arbitrarily large - sample, which is drawn from an ""objective"" i.i.d. process. Furthermore, one of our learning scenarios results in attitude polarization even in the case of common priors. Key to our approach is the assumption of ambiguous beliefs that are formalized as non-additive probability measures arising in Choquet expected utility theory. As a specific feature of our approach, our models of Bayesian learning with psychological bias reduce to rational Bayesian learning in the absence of ambiguity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
C79|Evolutionarily stable preferences in contests|No abstract is available for this item.
