C83|Daycare Choice and Ethnic Diversity: Evidence from a Randomized Survey|We study parental daycare choice using a randomized online survey of parents in Copenhagen. The survey respondents were asked to choose between two daycares — structured vs. free-play. In describing these hypothetical choices, the survey used testimonials from (fictive) parents whose child allegedly attended the institution, and we randomized the names of the testifying parents across the sample so that some had typical Danes names, while other names were associated with ethnic minorities. Our main findings point towards discrimination against ethnic minorities. This finding is most pronounced among parents who prefer the structured institution. Adding information about the profession of the testifiers did not significantly alter signs of lower preferences for daycares with ethnic minority names, (cautiously) suggesting that this discrimination is taste-based rather than statistical. Finally, we asked the respondents to report a willingness to travel a further distance to get to their preferred daycare (structured or free-play, respectively). Our results show that willingness to travel to the preferred daycare is higher for parents who prefer the structured daycare when there was an ethnic minority name associated with the free-play daycare.
C83|The long run wage-employment elasticity: Evidence from Colombia| Several years ago, many articles showed that the relationship between wage increases and unemployment rise is not clear in the USA. This USA evidence was important to determine the recommendation of Stiglitz that a 22% increase of the minimum wage in Spain will not reduce the employment in 2018. To our view, the USA evidence is insufficient to consider that this advice can be extended to all countries. Differences in regulations, institutions and welfare systems –mainly unemployment insurance-, among others, may produce around the world different results to the expected outcome in the USA that an increase of the real wages does not provoke an unemployment rise. Colombia as a developing country, with institutions that differ in design and practice from those of the USA, could be a good testing example. In this paper, we analyse the effect of a rise in wages on the demand for employment using Colombian data. Our meta-analysis shows that a 1% real wage increment causes an 0,11% employment fall in the long run. These results stand despite publication biases.
C83|Truths and myths about RMB misalignment : A meta-analysis|We conduct a meta-regression analysis of 69 studies that generated 937 renminbi (RMB) misalignment estimates. The Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) approach is adopted to allow for model selection and sampling uncertainties in assessing effects of study characteristics on these RMB misalignment estimates. Misalignment estimates are found to be influenced by the eight selected study characteristic types in our median probability model. The RMB misalignment estimate from models with various hypothetical combinations of study characteristics, however, is mostly insignificantly different from zero. It is also shown that the set of significant study characteristics is sensitive to the use of the least squares estimation method and the choice of benchmark study characteristics.
C83|Monetary Policy Communications and their Effects on Household Inflation Expectations|We study how different forms of communication influence the inflation expectations of individuals in a randomized controlled trial. We first solicit individuals’ inflation expectations in the Nielsen Homescan panel and then provide eight different forms of information regarding inflation. Reading the actual Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement has about the same average effect on expectations as simply being told about the Federal Reserve’s inflation target. Reading a news article about the most recent FOMC meetings results in a forecast revision which is smaller by half. Our results have implications for how central banks should communicate to the broader public.
C83|Incentives, Search Engines, and the Elicitation of Subjective Beliefs: Evidence From Representative Online Survey Experiments|A large literature studies subjective beliefs about economic facts using unincentivized survey questions. We devise randomized experiments in a representative online survey to investigate whether incentivizing belief accuracy affects stated beliefs about average earnings by professional degree and average public school spending. Incentive provision does not impact earnings beliefs, but improves school-spending beliefs. Response patterns suggest that the latter effect likely reflects increased online-search activity. Consistently, an experiment that just encourages search-engine usage produces very similar results. Another experiment provides no evidence of experimenter-demand effects. Overall, results suggest that incentive provision does not reduce bias in our survey-based belief measures.
C83|How to Handle the Fiscal Crisis in Greece? Empirical Evidence Based on a Survey of Economic Experts|We asked economic experts polled by the CESifo World Economic Survey how to handle the fiscal crisis in Greece in the year 2015. The sample includes about 850 experts from 110 countries. We find systematic differences in experts’ recommendations. Our results suggest that policy advice is related to an expert’s personal and country-level attributes. Country-level characteristics, especially credit default swaps as a measure of fiscal stability, predict views on whether Greece should exit the eurozone. An expert’s educational background, age and professional affiliation predict opinions on the credit programs of the International Monetary Fund. We propose that policymakers who seek balanced policy advice should consult experts from different countries and personal backgrounds.
C83|A Jackknife Model Averaging Analysis of RMB Misalignment Estimates|We adopt the Jackknife Model Averaging (JMA) technique to conduct a meta-regression analysis of 925 renminbi (RMB) misalignment estimates generated by 69 studies. The JMA method accounts for model selection and sampling uncertainties, and allows for non-nested model specifications and heteroskedasticity in assessing effects of study characteristics. The RMB misalignment estimates are found to be systematically affected by the choices of data, the theoretical setup and the empirical strategy, in addition to publication attributes of these studies. These study characteristic effects are quite robust to the choice of benchmark study characteristics, to alternative model averaging methods including the heteroskedasticity-robust Mallows approach, the information criterion approach, and the Bayesian model averaging. In evaluating the probabilistic property of RMB misalignment estimates implied by hypothetical composites of study characteristics, we find the evidence of a misaligned RMB, in general, is weak.
C83|How to Handle the Fiscal Crisis in Greece? Empirical Evidence Based on a Survey of Economic Experts|We asked economic experts polled by the CESifo World Economic Survey how to handle the fiscal crisis in Greece in the year 2015. The sample includes about 850 experts from 110 countries. We find systematic differences in experts’ recommendations. Our results suggest that policy advice is related to an expert’s personal and country-level attributes. Country-level characteristics, especially credit default swaps as a measure of fiscal stability, predict views on whether Greece should exit the eurozone. An expert’s educational background, age and professional affiliation predict opinions on the credit programs of the International Monetary Fund. We propose that policymakers who seek balanced policy advice should consult experts from different countries and personal backgrounds.
C83|Using Survey Questions to Measure Preferences: Lessons from an Experimental Validation in Kenya|Can a short survey instrument reliably measure a range of fundamental economic preferences across diverse settings? We focus on survey questions that systematically predict behavior in incentivized experimental tasks among German university students (Becker et al. 2016) and were implemented among representative samples across the globe (Falk et al. 2018). This paper presents results of an experimental validation conducted among low-income individuals in Nairobi, Kenya. We find that quantitative survey measures - hypothetical versions of experimental tasks - of time preference, attitude to risk and altruism are good predictors of choices in incentivized experiments, suggesting these measures are broadly experimentally valid. At the same time, we find that qualitative questions - self-assessments - do not correlate with the experimental measures of preferences in the Kenyan sample. Thus, caution is needed before treating self-assessments as proxies of preferences in new contexts.
C83|"Les déterminants de la mobilisation des ""gilets jaunes"""|"Cet article présente les résultats d'une étude sur les territoires dont sont originaires les ""gilets jaunes"". Dès le premier samedi de mobilisation le 17 novembre 2018, ce mouvement se démarque par son caractère local et sa couverture nationale. A partir de données inédites de la mobilisation sur Facebook, nous montrons une forte corrélation entre mobilisation online (sur Facebook) et o ine (blocages des ronds-points). Nous réalisons alors une cartographie ne et contrastée de la contestation. L'étude économétrique met en évidence le rôle de la mobilité pour expliquer les origines du mouvement, au travers notamment du passage des routes à 80km/h et des distances domicile-travail."
C83|‘Fear of the State’ in governance surveys? Empirical evidence from African countries|The need to collect data on governance-related issues has been growing since the 1990s. Demand gained momentum in 2015 with the adoption of SDG16 worldwide and Agenda 2063 in Africa. African countries played a key role in the adoption of SDG16 and are now leading the process of collecting harmonised household data on Governance, Peace and Security (GPS). Yet the possibility has recently been raised that sensitive survey data collected by government institutions are potentially biased due to self-censorship by respondents. This paper studies the potential bias in responses to what are seen as sensitive questions, here governance issues, in surveys conducted by public organisations. We compare Afrobarometer (AB) survey data, collected in eight African countries by self-professed independent institutions, with first-hand harmonised GPS survey data collected by National Statistics Offices (NSOs). We identify over 20 similarly worded questions on democracy, trust in institutions and perceived corruption. We first compare responses from AB survey respondents based on who they believe the survey sponsor to be. No systematic response bias is found between respondents who believe the government to be behind the AB survey and those who consider it to be conducted by an independent institution. The absence of a systematic self-censorship or attenuation bias is further evidenced by means of an experimental design, whereby responses from GPS surveys conducted by NSOs (the treatment) are compared with AB surveys sponsored by reportedly independent bodies. Our results provide evidence of the capacity and legitimacy of government-related organisations to collect data on governance as a matter of national interest and sovereignty.
C83|How Does Consumption Respond to News about Inflation? Field Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial|We implement a survey of Dutch households in which random subsets of respondents receive information about inflation. The resulting exogenously generated variation in inflation expectations is used to assess how expectations affect subsequent monthly consumption decisions relative to those in a control group. The causal effects of elevated inflation expectations on non-durable spending are imprecisely estimated but there is a sharp negative effect on durable spending. We provide evidence that this is likely driven by the fact that Dutch households seem to become more pessimistic about their real income as well as aggregate spending when they increase their inflation expectations. There is little evidence to support the idea that the degree to which respondents change their beliefs or their spending in response to information treatments depends on their level of cognitive or financial constraints.
C83|Data Appendix: What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?|"In this appendix, we provide details on the data sources and construction of variables for our analysis in ""What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?"" We also include the auxiliary tables and figures omitted from the main text."
C83|We are all Behavioral, More or Less: Measuring and Using Consumer-level Behavioral Sufficient Statistics|Can a behavioral sufficient statistic empirically capture cross-consumer variation in behavioral tendencies and help identify whether behavioral biases, taken together, are linked to material consumer welfare losses? Our answer is yes. We construct simple consumer-level behavioral sufficient statistics—“B-counts”—by eliciting seventeen potential sources of behavioral biases per person, in a nationally representative panel, in two separate rounds nearly three years apart. B-counts aggregate information on behavioral biases within-person. Nearly all consumers exhibit multiple biases, in patterns assumed by behavioral sufficient statistic models (a la Chetty), and with substantial variation across people. B-counts are stable within-consumer over time, and that stability helps to address measurement error when using B-counts to model the relationship between biases, decision utility, and experienced utility. Conditional on classical inputs—risk aversion and patience, life-cycle factors and other demographics, cognitive and non-cognitive skills, and financial resources—B-counts strongly negatively correlate with both objective and subjective aspects of experienced utility. The results hold in much lower-dimensional models employing “Sparsity B-counts” based on bias subsets (a la Gabaix) and/or fewer covariates, illuminating lower-cost ways to use behavioral sufficient statistics to help capture the combined influence of multiple behavioral biases for a wide range of research questions and applications.
C83|Multilateral Sato-Vartia Index for International Comparisons of Prices and Real Expenditures|The Sato-Vartia (SV) index for bilateral price comparisons has impressive analytical properties and is used intensively in recent international trade and macroeconomic analyses. In this paper we propose several ways of constructing transitive multilateral version of the SV index. We show that the SV index is only one of many logarithmic indices that satisfy the factor reversal test discussed in index number theory. We derive closed form expressions for the generalized SV indices and empirically implement the new indices for making cross-country price comparison using World Bank data from the 2011 International Comparison Program.
C83|Transparency and Trust in Government: Evidence from a Survey Experiment|Does providing information improve citizens’ perception about government transparency? Does all information matter the same for shaping perceptions about the government? This paper addresses these questions in the context of an online randomized survey experiment conducted in Argentina. Results show that providing information to citizens matters for shaping perceptions about transparency, and the content of the information matters for affecting the evaluation people make about the government. Those who received a “positive” treatment (showing that the government was over-performing on its promises) increased their trust in the government more than those who received a “negative” treatment (showing that the government was underperforming). The evidence highlights that the channel between transparency and trust may be mediated by the performance of the government.
C83|A Jackknife Model Averaging Analysis of RMB Misalignment Estimates|We adopt the Jackknife Model Averaging (JMA) technique to conduct a meta-regression analysis of 925 renminbi (RMB) misalignment estimates generated by 69 studies. The JMA method accounts for model selection and sampling uncertainties, and allows for non-nested model specifications and heteroskedasticity in assessing effects of study characteristics. The RMB misalignment estimates are found to be systematically affected by the choices of data, the theoretical setup and the empirical strategy, in addition to publication attributes of these studies. These study characteristic effects are quite robust to the choice of benchmark study characteristics, to alternative model averaging methods including the heteroskedasticity-robust Mallows approach, the information criterion approach, and the Bayesian model averaging. In evaluating the probabilistic property of RMB misalignment estimates implied by hypothetical composites of study characteristics, we find the evidence of a misaligned RMB, in general, is weak.
C83|Minimum wage regulation in Switzerland: Evidence from a direct-democracy experiment|This paper provides a first set of results on the impact of minimum wage regulation in Switzerland. We study the effects of an unexpected Supreme Court ruling mandating the Swiss canton Neuchâtel to enforce a minimum hourly wage of around CHF 20 previously accepted via popular ballot. Given policy discontinuity at cantonal borders, we design a two-wave survey of restaurants to measure wages, employment, workers characteristics, and prices, and administer it in Neuchâtel as well as in geographically proximate districts of neighboring cantons. Our data covers pre- and post-enforcement outcomes for 113 restaurants, with information on more than 800 employees distributed over two survey waves. Difference-in-differences estimation on restaurant-level outcomes and on the distribution of wages in our sample indicates small and statistically insignificant impacts on employment and prices, although we find evidence of disemployment effects as a function of regulatory exposure. Worker-level data further suggests that labor-labor substitution is at work, with negative employment spillovers for workers with wages above the regulatory minimum and some evidence that the share of less-qualified workers increases.
C83|An Empirical Total Survey Error Decomposition Using Data Combination|Survey error is known to be pervasive and to bias even simple, but important estimates of means, rates, and totals, such as poverty statistics and the unemployment rate. To summarize and analyze the extent, sources, and consequences of survey error, we define empirical counterparts of key components of the Total Survey Error Framework that can be estimated using data combination. Specifically, we estimate total survey error and decompose it into three high level sources of error: representation error, item non-response error and measurement error. We further decompose these sources into lower level sources such as a failure to report a positive amount and errors in amounts conditional on reporting a positive value. For error in dollars paid by two large government transfer programs, we use administrative records on the universe of program payments in New York State linked to three major household surveys to estimate the error components we define. We find that total survey error is large and varies in its size and composition, but measurement error is always by far the largest source of error. Our application shows that data combination makes it possible to routinely measure total survey error and its components. The results allow survey producers to assess error reduction strategies and survey users to mitigate the consequences of survey errors or gauge the reliability of their conclusions.
C83|Incentives, search engines, and the elicitation of subjective beliefs: evidence from representative online survey experiments|A large literature studies subjective beliefs about economic facts using unincentivized survey questions. We devise randomized experiments in a representative online survey to investigate whether incentivizing belief accuracy affects stated beliefs about average earnings by professional degree and average public school spending. Incentive provision does not impact earnings beliefs, but improves school-spending beliefs. Response patterns suggest that the latter effect likely reflects increased online-search activity. Consistently, an experiment that just encourages search-engine usage produces very similar results. Another experiment provides no evidence of experimenter-demand effects. Overall, results suggest that incentive provision does not reduce bias in our survey-based belief measures.
C83|Combining Administrative and Survey Data to Improve Income Measurement|We describe methods of combining administrative and survey data to improve the measurement of income. We begin by decomposing the total survey error in the mean of survey reports of dollars received from a government transfer program. We decompose this error into three parts, generalized coverage error (which combines coverage and unit non-response error and any error from weighting), item non-response or imputation error, and measurement error. We then discuss these three sources of error in turn and how linked administrative and survey data can assess and reduce each of these sources. We then illustrate the potential of linked data by showing how using linked administrative variables improves the measurement of income and poverty in the Current Population Survey, focusing on the substitution of administrative for survey data for three government transfer programs. Finally, we discuss how one can examine the accuracy of the underlying links used in the combined data.
C83|Using Survey Questions to Measure Preferences: Lessons from an Experimental Validation in Kenya|Can a short survey instrument reliably measure a range of fundamental economic preferences across diverse settings? We focus on survey questions that systematically predict behavior in incentivized experimental tasks among German university students (Becker et al. 2016) and were implemented among representative samples across the globe (Falk et al. 2018). This paper presents results of an experimental validation conducted among low-income individuals in Nairobi, Kenya. We find that quantitative survey measures -- hypothetical versions of experimental tasks -- of time preference, attitude to risk and altruism are good predictors of choices in incentivized experiments, suggesting these measures are broadly experimentally valid. At the same time, we find that qualitative questions -- self-assessments -- do not correlate with the experimental measures of preferences in the Kenyan sample. Thus, caution is needed before treating self-assessments as proxies of preferences in new contexts.
C83|On the Malleability of Implicit Attitudes Towards Women Empowerment: Evidence from Tunisia|We use an implicit association test (IAT) to measure implicit gender attitudes and examine the malleability of these attitudes using a randomized field experiment and quasi-experimental data from Tunisia. Women that appear most conservative respond to a randomized video treatment by reducing their implicit gender bias. Also, female interviewers invite more conservative responses to the IAT, especially among the male subsample. Perceived religiosity of the interviewer affects self-reported gender attitudes, but not IAT measures, suggesting social desirability may be at work. We discuss the implications of our findings for the use of implicit measures in development research.
C83|How does consumption respond to news about inflation? Field evidence from a randomized control trial|We implement a survey of Dutch households in which random subsets of respondents receive information about inflation. The resulting exogenously generated variation in inflation expectations is used to assess how expectations affect subsequent monthly consumption decisions relative to those in a control group. The causal effects of elevated inflation expectations on non-durable spending are imprecisely estimated but there is a sharp negative effect on durable spending. We provide evidence that this is likely driven by the fact that Dutch households seem to become more pessimistic about their real income as well as aggregate spending when they increase their inflation expectations. There is little evidence to support the idea that the degree to which respondents change their beliefs or their spending in response to information treatments depends on their level of cognitive or financial constraints.
C83|Inferences and descriptive analyses on education, livelihoods, and rural poverty through fieldwork and tailored household survey in Marinduque, the Philippines|This paper spells out the descriptive information of our primary-data collection survey. The survey was conducted in the Marinduque province, the Philippines for researches on exploring male underperformance in education. The province was selected from the regions of typicality with the research topic in the country. The provincial economy is characterized as a rural economy in which primary sectors are prevailing. Self-employment miscellaneous occupations and public servants also prevail in the economy. The male youth in our sample underperform in education not only in academic achievements but also in enrollment status and daily activities as compare to their female counterparts. The male youth stopped or dropout from schooling earlier and more. While the hindrances to schoolings are generally common to both males and females, this paper presents some reported situations they face differently.
C83|Doubly Robust-type Estimation of Population Moments and Parameters in Biased Sampling|"We propose an estimation method of population moments or population parameters in ""biased sampling data"" in which for some units of data, not only the variable of interest but also the covariates, have missing observations and the proportion of ""missingness"" is unknown. We use auxiliary information such as the distribution of covariates or their moments in random sampling data in order to correct the bias. Moreover, with additional assumptions, we can correct the bias even if we have only the moment information of covariates. The main contribution of this paper is the development of a doubly robust-type estimator for biased sampling data. This method provides a consistent estimator if either the regression function or the assignment mechanism is correctly specified. We prove the consistency and semi-parametric efficiency of the doubly robust estimator. Both the simulation and empirical application results demonstrate that the proposed estimation method is more robust than existing methods."
C83|A Meta-Analysis of the Literature on Climate Change and Migration|Recent surveys of the literature on climate change and migration emphasize the important diversity of outcomes and approaches of the empirical studies. In this paper, we conduct a meta-analysis in order to investigate the role of the methodological choices of these empirical studies in finding some particular results concerning the role of climatic factors as drivers of human mobility. We code 45 papers representative of the literature in terms of methodological approaches. This results in the coding of more than 80 variables capturing the methodology of the main dimensions of the analysis. These dimensions include authors’ reputation, type of mobility, measures of mobility, type of data, context of the study, econometric methods and last but not least measures of the climatic factors. We look at the influence of these characteristics on the probability of finding any effect of climate change, of finding a displacement effect, of finding an increase in immobility and of finding evidence in favour of a direct versus an indirect effect. Our results high- light the role of some main methodological choices, such as the frequency of the data on mobility, the level of development, the measures of human mobility and of the climatic factors as well as the econometric methodology.
C83|Monetary Policy Communications and their Effects on Household Inflation Expectations|We study how different forms of communication influence the inflation expectations of individuals in a randomized controlled trial. We first solicit individuals’ inflation expectations in the Nielsen Homescan panel and then provide eight different forms of information regarding inflation. Reading the actual Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement has about the same average effect on expectations as simply being told about the Federal Reserve’s inflation target. Reading a news article about the most recent FOMC meetings results in a forecast revision which is smaller by half. Our results have implications for how central banks should communicate to the broader public.
C83|We Are All Behavioral, More or Less: Measuring and Using Consumer-Level Behavioral Sufficient Statistics|Can a behavioral sufficient statistic empirically capture cross-consumer variation in behavioral tendencies and help identify whether behavioral biases, taken together, are linked to material consumer welfare losses? Our answer is yes. We construct simple consumer-level behavioral sufficient statistics—“B-counts”—by eliciting seventeen potential sources of behavioral biases per person, in a nationally representative panel, in two separate rounds nearly three years apart. B-counts aggregate information on behavioral biases within-person. Nearly all consumers exhibit multiple biases, in patterns assumed by behavioral sufficient statistic models (a la Chetty), and with substantial variation across people. B-counts are stable within-consumer over time, and that stability helps to address measurement error when using B-counts to model the relationship between biases, decision utility, and experienced utility. Conditional on classical inputs—risk aversion and patience, life-cycle factors and other demographics, cognitive and non-cognitive skills, and financial resources—B-counts strongly negatively correlate with both objective and subjective aspects of experienced utility. The results hold in much lower-dimensional models employing “Sparsity B-counts” based on bias subsets (a la Gabaix) and/or fewer covariates, illuminating lower-cost ways to use behavioral sufficient statistics to help capture the combined influence of multiple behavioral biases for a wide range of research questions and applications.
C83|What Do Survey Data Tell Us about U.S. Businesses?|This paper examines the reliability of survey data for research on pass-through businesses activities. Passthrough businesses account for over half of all net income to businesses in the United States and most of the rise in top income shares. We examine all surveys that ask questions about these businesses and compare outcomes across surveys and with aggregated administrative data. We document large inconsistencies in business incomes, receipts, and number of returns. We highlight problems due to non-representative samples and measurement errors. Non-representativeness is reflected in undersampling of businesses, especially in categories of owners with low total incomes. Measurement errors arise because respondents do not refer to relevant documents when answering survey questions and also because some questions are framed in a manner that is confusing to respondents. Finally, we discuss measurement issues for statistics of interest, such as returns and valuations of ongoing private businesses, that are inherently latent and cannot be recovered using either survey or administrative data.
C83|SeaTE: Subjective ex ante Treatment Effect of Health on Retirement|This paper develops an innovative approach to measuring the effect of health on retirement. The approach elicits subjective probabilities of working at specified time horizons fixing health level. Using a treatment-effect framework, within-individual differences in elicited probabilities of working given health yield individual-level estimates of the causal effect of health (the treatment) on working (the outcome). We call this effect the Subjective ex ante Treatment Effect (SeaTE). The paper then develops a dynamic programming framework for the SeaTE. This framework allows measurement of individual-level value functions that map directly into the dynamic programming model commonly used in structural microeconometric analysis of retirement. The paper analyzes conditional probabilities elicited in the Vanguard Research Initiative (VRI)—a survey of older Americans with positive assets. Among workers 58 and older, a shift from high to low health would on average reduce the odds of working by 28.5 percentage points at a two-year horizon and 25.7 percentage points at a four-year horizon. There is substantial variability across individuals around these average SeaTEs, so there is substantial heterogeneity in taste for work or returns to work. This heterogeneity would be normally unobservable and hard to disentangle from other determinants of retirement in data on realized labor supply decisions and health states. The paper’s approach can overcome the problem that estimates of the effect of health on labor supply based on behavioral (realizations) data can easily overstate the effect of health on retirement whenever less healthy workers tend to retire earlier for reasons other than health.
C83|Exposure to Daily Price Changes and Inflation Expectations|We show that, to form aggregate inflation expectations, consumers rely on the price changes they face in their daily lives while grocery shopping. Specifically, the frequency and size of price changes, rather than their expenditure share, matter for individuals’ inflation expectations. To document these facts, we collect novel micro data for a representative US sample that uniquely match individual expectations, detailed information about consumption bundles, and item-level prices. Our results suggest that the frequency and size of grocery-price changes to which consumers are personally exposed should be incorporated in models of expectations formation. Central banks' focus on core inflation - which excludes grocery prices - to design expectations-based policies might lead to systematic mistakes.
C83|Motivation - Opportunity - Ability Nexus: Application to Regional Central Asian Student Mobility|This study analytically distinguishes between motivational, opportunistic and ability (MOA) factors to extract important questions on international student mobility’s decision-making process in its modern configurations. We use primary data from an online questionnaire associated with semi-structured interviews submitted to Central Asian Alumni from five different countries (Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), to test the hypothesis of a significant variation in the MOA to study abroad across five nationalities. Our findings show minimal cross-country differences. The main differences remain modest in scale and are threefold: firstly, Tajik respondents prioritize physical opportunity and capital mobility within the ability factor; Turkmen respondents emphasize the role of constrained educational supply and imaginary experience, while Uzbek respondents are the most intrinsically motivated while deciding to study abroad.
C83|Estimating the Armington Elasticity: The Importance of Data Choice and Publication Bias|A key parameter in international economics is the elasticity of substitution between domestic and foreign goods, also called the Armington elasticity. Yet estimates vary widely. We collect 3,524 reported estimates of the elasticity, construct 34 variables that reflect the context in which researchers obtain their estimates, and examine what drives the heterogeneity in the results. To account for inherent model uncertainty, we employ Bayesian and frequentist model averaging. We present the first application of newly developed non-linear techniques to correct for publication bias. Our main results are threefold. First, there is publication bias against small and statistically insignificant elasticities. Second, differences in results are best explained by differences in data: aggregation, frequency, size, and dimension. Third, the mean elasticity implied by the literature after correcting for both publication bias and potential misspecifications is 3.
C83|Adaptive Analytical Approach to Lean and Green Operations|Recent problems faced by industrial players commonly relates to global warming and depletion of resources. This situation highlights the importance of improvement solutions for industrial operations and environmental performances. Based on interviews and literature studies, manpower, machine, material, money and environment are known as the foundation resources to fulfil the facility's operation. The most critical and common challenge that is being faced by the industrialists is to perform continuous improvement effectively. The needs to develop a systematic framework to assist and guide the industrialist to achieve lean and green is growing rapidly. In this paper, a novel development of an adaptive analytic model for lean and green operation and processing is presented. The development of lean and green index will act as a benchmarking tool for the industrialist. This work uses the analytic hierarchy process to obtain experts opinion in determining the priority of the lean and green components and indicators. The application of backpropagation optimisation method will further enhance the lean and green model in guiding the industrialist for continuous improvement. An actual industry case study (combine heat and power plant) will be presented with the proposed lean and green model. The model is expected to enhance processing plant performance in a systematic lean and green manner.
C83|Do You Know That I Know That You Know...? Higher-Order Beliefs in Survey Data|We implement a new survey of firms, focusing on their higher-order macroeconomic expectations. The survey provides a novel set of stylized facts regarding the relationship between first-order and higher-order expectations of economic agents, including how they adjust their beliefs in response to a variety of information treatments and how these adjustments affect their economic decisions. We show how these facts can be used to calibrate key parameters of noisy-information models with infinite regress as well as to test predictions made by this class of models. The survey also quantifies cognitive limits of agents in the form of level-k thinking. We find little evidence that this departure from infinite regress helps reconcile the data and theory.
C83|Evaluating Energy Efficiency in Residential Buildings: A case study of RDP houses in South Africa|Worldwide, more than one third of energy is used in buildings which account for about 15% of the total greenhouse gas that is emitted globally. Buildings in cities can account to about 80% for carbon monoxide emitted. Therefore, the built environment is a very critical part of the climate change mitigation. Evaluated in this research are energy efficiency measures that can be implemented through regulations and controls. From administered questionnaires, the issues of energy efficiency have become an imperative principle in the building sector and the way it is managed in South Africa. Based on the analysis provided, energy efficient behaviour is the predominant factor that influences energy consumption. According to the PCA results, seven variables (Age of building, number of bedrooms, roofing materials, energy for cooking and heating, window style and brick and concrete wall) were all dominant variables and these variables remain significant after implementing multiple regression models to estimate energy cost.
C83|20 Years of Research in Microfinance: An Information Management Approach|In the last 20 years, microfinance has moved from a promise to reality, although with ups and downs. This paper reviews 1,874 papers published from 1997 to 2017 to perform a scientometric analysis of the microfinance field. The literature review is based on bibliometric data: keyword co-occurrence networks and citation networks were exploited for knowledge mapping. Data analysis shows the two research traditions: papers focusing on clients (welfarists) and papers focusing on microfinance entities themselves (institutionalists). Institutionalism, which had little presence in the early research in microfinance, now exhibits great strength. A chronological analysis reveals the evolution of the topics most interesting to researchers: the first stage described the innovations of the microcredit practices and their impact; the second and very expansive stage in which microfinance institutions’ peculiarities were analyzed; and nowadays the sector is mature but with negative aspects arising, such as mission drift. The keywords analysis discovers emerging research topics, shows the use of sophisticated techniques, and recognizes an emerging trend of the sector: achieving financial inclusion.
C83|Measuring attitudes on gender equality and domestic violence in the Arab context : The role of framing, priming and interviewer effects|Eliciting attitudes on sensitive topics such as women empowerment is subject to a wide range of measurement challenges such as social desirability bias and refusals. Even subtle changes in wording or context can profoundly affect how respondents answer to a question. Using data from two randomised experiments built into a nationwide representative household survey in Tunisia, we analyse the effects of (i) framing and (ii) priming on attitudes towards gender equality and domestic violence in the Arab context. Moreover, we look at impact heterogeneity with respect to the interviewers' gender and perceived religiosity. Our first experiment shows that questions on attitudes towards decision-making power invite stronger responses towards gender inequality when framed in an inequality frame. In our second experiment we find that attitudes towards domestic violence are susceptible to an audio primer. Oral statistical information about the incidence of domestic violence in Tunisia leads to lower support for domestic violence among the male subsample but has no effect on women. Lastly, impacts co-vary with interviewer characteristics. While female interviewers seem to trigger less justification for domestic violence on average, we find the opposite effect for female interviewers wearing a hijab, arguably signalling stronger perceived religiosity and social norms aligned with (more) tolerance of domestic violence. We discuss the implications of our findings for development research on gender attitudes and behaviour in gender-sensitive contexts.
C83|Subjective Probabilistic Expectations, Indoor Air Pollution, and Health: Evidence from cooking fuel use patterns in India|An increasing number of empirical studies have investigated the determinants of cooking fuel choice in developing countries, where health risk from indoor air pollution is one of the most important issues. We contribute to this stream of literature by examining individuals f subjective probabilistic expectations about health risks when using different types of fuel and their influence on cooking fuel usage patterns. We also explore how these patterns, in turn, affect health status. Using data collected from 557 rural Indian households, we find that subjective probabilistic expectations of becoming sick from dirty fuel usage have a negative influence on the fraction of days with dirty fuel usage in the household. The results also show that dirty fuel usage degrades the health of the individual. We then examine the effectiveness of information provision regarding the health risks of dirty/clean fuel usage. Our simulation demonstrates that although the provision of information results in statistically significant changes in the households f cooking fuel usage patterns and in the individuals f health status, the changes may be small in size.
C83|Estimating regional wealth in Germany: How different are East and West really?|More than 25 years after German reunification, key economic indicators for households living in eastern German regions are still below the western German levels. This particularly holds for private net wealth, which reaches only about 40% of the western German level. However, a more granular regional perspective may reveal a more diverse picture. Therefore, this study is designed to develop regional wealth indicators for the 16 federal states and for the 96 regional planning regions (Raumordnungsregionen) in Germany based on the second wave of the Panel on Household Finances (PHF) conducted by the Deutsche Bundesbank in 2014. These estimates are derived by means of a modified Fay-Herriot approach (Fay and Herriot, 1979) dealing with a) the skewness of the wealth distribution using a transformation, b) unit and item non-response, especially the multiple imputation used, and c) inconsistencies of the regional estimates with the national direct estimate. The results show that private wealth in all eastern German regions still remains far below the national average. However, the wealthiest planning regions in the east report higher private wealth figures than the western German regions with the lowest private wealth estimates. Although the paper is particularly focused on Germany, the approach proposed is applicable to surveys with a similar data structure.
C83|Individual Discount Rates: A Meta-Analysis of the Experimental Evidence|We examine 434 estimates of the individual discount rate reported in 27 published studies. The estimates vary substantially across studies with reported mean at the value of 0.4. We detect presence of selective reporting in the discounting literature using a meta-analytical methods. Our results suggest that relevant discounting literature overestimates the discount rate approximately twofold. We apply Bayesian model averaging to explain heterogeneity in the estimates. Discount rate estimates are influenced mainly by the experimental design used for its elicitation. We confirm domain independence and the effect of time horizon presented within the discounting task. Our results support the external validity of experiments conducted on student samples and the utilisation of hypothetical rewards in experiments.
C83|The Elasticity of Substitution between Domestic and Foreign Goods: A Quantitative Survey|A key parameter in international economics is the elasticity of substitution between domestic and foreign goods, also called the Armington elasticity. Yet estimates vary widely. We collect 3,524 reported estimates of the elasticity, construct 34 variables that reflect the context in which researchers obtain their estimates, and examine what drives the heterogeneity in the results. To account for inherent model uncertainty, we employ Bayesian and frequentist model averaging. We present the first application of newly developed non-linear techniques to correct for publication bias. Our main results are threefold. First, there is publication bias against small and statistically insignificant elasticities. Second, differences in results are best explained by differences in data: aggregation, frequency, size, and dimension. Third, the mean elasticity implied by the literature after correcting for both publication bias and potential misspecifications is 3.
C83|Job loss expectations, durable consumption and household finances: Evidence from linked survey data|Job security is important for durable consumption and household savings. Using surveys, workers express a probability that they will lose their job in the next 12 months. In order to assess the empirical content of these probabilities, we link survey data to administrative data with labor market outcomes. Workers predict job loss quite well, in particular those whose job loss is followed by unemployment. Workers with higher job loss expectations acquire cheaper cars, and are less likely to buy new cars. In line with models of precautionary saving, higher job loss expectations are associated with more savings and less exposure to risky assets.
C83|Beliefs as a Means of Self-Control? Evidence from a Dynamic Student Survey|We repeatedly elicit beliefs about the returns to study effort in a panel survey of students of a large university course. A behavioral model of quasi-hyperbolic discounting and malleable beliefs yields the prediction that the dynamics of return beliefs mirrors the importance of exerting self-control, such that return expectations first increase as the exam approaches, and then sharply drop post-exam. Exploiting variation in exam timing to control for common information shocks, we find this prediction confirmed: average subjective expections of returns increase by about 20% over the period before the exam, and drop by about the same amount afterwards.
C83|Predicting innovative firms using web mining and deep learning|Innovation is considered as a main driver of economic growth. Promoting the development of innovation through STI (science, technology and innovation) policies requires accurate indicators of innovation. Traditional indicators often lack coverage, granularity as well as timeliness and involve high data collection costs, especially when conducted at a large scale. In this paper, we propose a novel approach on how to create firm-level innovation indicators at the scale of millions of firms. We use traditional firm-level innovation indicators from the questionnaire-based Community Innovation Survey (CIS) survey to train an artificial neural network classification model on labelled (innovative/non-innovative) web texts of surveyed firms. Subsequently, we apply this classification model to the web texts of hundreds of thousands of firms in Germany to predict their innovation status. Our results show that this approach produces credible predictions and has the potential to be a valuable and highly cost-efficient addition to the existing set of innovation indicators, especially due to its coverage and regional granularity. The predicted firm-level probabilities can also directly be interpreted as a continuous measure of innovativeness, opening up additional advantages over traditional binary innovation indicators.
C83|Identification of heterogeneous treatment effects as a function of potential untreated outcome under the nonignorable assignment condition|We provide sufficient conditions for the identification of hetero- geneous treatment effects (HTE), in which the missing mechanism is nonignorable, when the information on the marginal distribution of untreated outcome is available. It is also shown that, under such a situ- ation, the same result holds for the identification of average treatment effects (ATE). Exposing certain additivity on the regression function of the assignment probability, we reduce the identication of HTE to the uniqueness of a solution of some integral equation, and discuss it borrowing the idea from the literature on statistical inverse prob- lems. Our result contributes to theoretical understandings in causal inference with heterogeneity and also the relaxation of the conditional independence assumption in statistical data fusion or statistical data combination.
C83|Measuring the Diffusion of Innovations with Paragraph Vector Topic Models|Measuring the diffusion of innovations from textual data sources besides patent data has not been studied extensively. However, early and accurate indicators of innovation and the recognition of trends in innovation are mandatory to successfully promote economic growth through technological progress via evidence-based policy making. In this study, we propose Paragraph Vector Topic Model (PVTM) and apply it on technology related news articles to analyze innovation related topics over time and gain insights regarding their diffusion process. PVTM represents documents in a semantic space, which has been shown to capture latent variables of the underlying documents, e.g. the latent topics. Clusters of documents in the semantic space can then be interpreted and transformed into meaningful topics by means of Gaussian mixture modeling. Using PVTM we identify innovation related topics from 170 thousand technology news articles published over a span of 20 years and gather insights about their diffusion state by measuring the topics importance in the corpus over time. Thereby, we find that PVTM diffusion indicators for certain topics are Granger causal to Google Trends indices with matching search terms. Further, our results suggest PVTM is well suited to discover latent topics in (technology related) news articles and that the diffusion of innovations could be assessed using topic importance measures derived from PVTM.
C83|Should Governments Fund Basic Science? Evidence from a Willingness-to-pay Experiment in Five Universities|Tax-payers are usually the ultimate funders of large-scale research infrastructures (RIs), but the expected discoveries of such projects often do not have any known use-value. By interviewing 1,022 undergraduates, we study the drivers of preferences for paying for basic research, which are still little known. We focus on the LHC at CERN, where the Higgs boson was discovered. Income, awareness, and positive attitudes towards science drive a positive willingness-to-pay for science. Students in social sciences and the humanities are willing to contribute to scientific curricula at least as much as their peers. Findings offer support to government funding of basic research as a public good.
C83|Inflation Expectations as a Policy Tool?|We assess whether central banks may use inflation expectations as a policy tool for stabilization purposes. We review recent work on how expectations of agents are formed and how they affect their economic decisions. Empirical evidence suggests that inflation expectations of households and firms affect their actions but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear, especially for firms. Two additional limitations prevent policy-makers from being able to actively manage inflation expectations. First, available surveys of firms’ expectations are systematically deficient, which can only be addressed through the creation of large, nationally representative surveys of firms. Second, neither households’ nor firms’ expectations respond much to monetary policy announcements in low-inflation environments. We provide suggestions for how monetary policy-makers can pierce this veil of inattention through new communication strategies. At this stage, there remain a number of implementation issues and open research questions that need to be addressed to enable central banks to use inflation expectations as a policy tool.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C83|Household Portfolio Underdiversification and Probability Weighting: Evidence from the Field|We explore the relation between probability weighting and household portfolio underdiversification in a representative household survey, using custom-designed incentivized lotteries. On average, people display Inverse-S shaped probability weighting, overweighting the small probabilities of tail events. As theory predicts, our Inverse-S measure is positively associated with portfolio underdiversification, which results in significant Sharpe ratio losses. We match respondents' individual stock holdings to CRSP data and find that people with higher Inverse-S tend to pick stocks with positive skewness and hold positively-skewed equity portfolios. We show that these choices reflect preferences rather than probability unsophistication or limited financial knowledge.
C83|Errors in Survey Reporting and Imputation and Their Effects on Estimates of Food Stamp Program Participation|Benefit receipt in major household surveys is often underreported. This misreporting leads to biased estimates of the economic circumstances of disadvantaged populations, program takeup, and the distributional effects of government programs, and other program effects. We use administrative data on Food Stamp Program (FSP) participation matched to American Community Survey (ACS) and Current Population Survey (CPS) household data. We show that nearly thirty-five percent of true recipient households do not report receipt in the ACS and fifty percent do not report receipt in the CPS. Misreporting, both false negatives and false positives, varies with individual characteristics, leading to complicated biases in FSP analyses. We then directly examine the determinants of program receipt using our combined administrative and survey data. The combined data allow us to examine accurate participation using individual characteristics missing in administrative data. Our results differ from conventional estimates using only survey data, as such estimates understate participation by single parents, non-whites, low income households, and other groups. To evaluate the use of Census Bureau imputed ACS and CPS data, we also examine whether our estimates using survey data alone are closer to those using the accurate combined data when imputed survey observations are excluded. Interestingly, excluding the imputed observations leads to worse ACS estimates, but has less effect on the CPS estimates.
C83|Heterogeneity in Expectations, Risk Tolerance, and Household Stock Shares: The Attenuation Puzzle|This paper jointly estimates the relationship between stock share and expectations and risk preferences. The survey allows individual-level, quantitative estimates of risk tolerance and of the perceived mean and variance of stock returns. These estimates have economically and statistically significant association for the distribution of stock shares with relative magnitudes in proportion with the predictions of theories. Incorporating survey measurement error in the estimation model increases the estimated associations twofold, but they are still substantially attenuated being only about 5 percent of what benchmark finance theories predict. Because of the careful attention in the estimation to measurement error, the attenuation likely arises from economic behavior rather than errors in variables.
C83|Imputation of Pension Accruals and Investment Income in Survey Data|This paper explores the problem of augmenting the data in the UK's Living Costs and Food Survey in order to address two issues. First we are concerned with broadening the definition of income to include accrual of pension rights and secondly we aim to address the point that investment incomes are materially underrecorded. We draw on the Wealth and Assets Survey to address the first point and the Survey of Personal Incomes for the second. We present an approach to stochastic imputation which largely replicates the distributional properties of the source data and show how it can be adapted to address the issue of covariance between the variables imputed. Our initial results suggest that imputation of pension accruals raises both the Gini coefficient and the geometric mean of equivalised household income materially, while the effects of imputing investment income are more marked on the Gini coefficient than on the geometric mean of household income.
C83|Volatility and Growth: A not so straightforward relationship|This paper is motivated by the conflicting theories and empirical evidence regarding the relationship between business cycle volatility and economic growth. The average reported effect of volatility on growth is negative, but the empirical estimates vary substantially across studies. We identify the factors that explain the heterogeneity of the estimates by conducting a meta-analysis. Our evidence suggests that researchers' choices regarding the measure of volatility, the control set of the estimated equation, the estimation methods, and the data characteristics play a significant role in the total outcome. Finally, the literature is found to be free of publication bias.
C83|Foreign Investment and Domestic Productivity in the Czech Republic: A Quantitative Survey|In this paper we take stock of the evidence concerning the effect of foreign direct investment (FDI) on the productivity of locally owned firms in the Czech Republic. To this end, we collect 332 estimates previously reported in journal articles, working papers, and PhD theses. We find that the mean reported externality arising for domestic firms due to the presence of foreign firms (the “FDI spillover”) is zero. There is no evidence of publication bias, i.e., no sign of selective reporting of results that are statistically significant and show an intuitive sign. Nevertheless, we find that the overall spillover effect is positive and large when more weight is placed on estimates that conform to best-practice methodology. Our results suggest that, as of 2018, a 10-percentage-point increase in foreign presence is likely to lift the productivity of domestic firms by 11%. The effect is even larger for joint ventures, reaching 19%.
C83|La mesure du chômage au Maroc : rien n’est moins sûr<BR>[Measuring unemployment in Morocco: a dubious approach]|The Moroccan unemployment figures tell a tale of a statistical misery that hides another one's but more real and painful. First, the purpose of this essay is to highlight the fact that these figures are a product of preemptive arbitrations, in terms of definition and calculation methodology, aimed at putting in perspective their scope and adeptness to cover the subject of unemployment and its multitude of facets. Subsequently, the essay surmises the necessity to strengthen unemployment statistical information with the introduction of the unemployment halo calculation, and its systematic communication, as well as standard simulations of unemployment rates targeted for higher activity levels. The unemployment halo is estimated here at 5.2-11.7 Million people, according to statistical analysis geared towards stay at home wives, and the unemployment rate rises to 30 % for a similar activity ratio that the developed countries. Finally, this essay contends for the right of access to raw survey information, well before the definition, and application, of unemployment criteria in order to allow complementary measures emanating from alternative definitions to emerge.
C83|La mesure du chômage au Maroc : rien n’est moins sûr<BR>[Measuring unemployment in Morocco: a dubious approach]|The Moroccan unemployment figures tell a tale of a statistical misery that hides another one's but more real and painful. First, the purpose of this essay is to highlight the fact that these figures are a product of preemptive arbitrations, in terms of definition and calculation methodology, aimed at putting in perspective their scope and adeptness to cover the subject of unemployment and its multitude of facets. Subsequently, the essay surmises the necessity to strengthen unemployment statistical information with the introduction of the unemployment halo calculation, and its systematic communication, as well as standard simulations of unemployment rates targeted for higher activity levels. The unemployment halo is estimated here at 5.2-11.7 Million people, according to statistical analysis geared towards stay at home wives, and the unemployment rate rises to 30 % for a similar activity ratio that the developed countries. Finally, this essay contends for the right of access to raw survey information, well before the definition, and application, of unemployment criteria in order to allow complementary measures emanating from alternative definitions to emerge.
C83|Explaining Differences In Efficiency: A Meta‐Study On Local Government Literature|This paper reviews the literature on local government efficiency by meta‐reviewing 360 observations retrieved from 54 papers published from 1993 to 2016. The meta‐regression is based on a random‐effects model estimated with the two‐step random‐effects maximum likelihood (REML) technique proposed by Gallet and Doucouliagos. Results indicate that the study design matters when estimating a frontier in local government. We find that studies focusing on technical efficiency provide higher efficiency scores than works evaluating cost efficiency. The same applies when using panel data instead of cross‐section data. Interestingly, studies that use the Free Disposal Hull (FDH) approach yield, on average, higher efficiency scores than papers employing the data envelopment analysis (DEA) method, thereby suggesting that in this literature the convexity hypothesis of the production set is a matter. Finally, the efficiency of local government increases with the level of development of the analysed countries and is positively related to the national integrity of the legal system. The opposite holds when considering the corruption.
C83|Can Online Surveys Represent the Entire Population?|"A general concern with the representativeness of online surveys is that they exclude the ""offline"" population that does not use the internet. We run a large-scale opinion survey with (1) onliners in web mode, (2) offliners in face-to-face mode, and (3) onliners in face-to-face mode. We find marked response differences between onliners and offliners in the mixed-mode setting (1 vs. 2). Response differences between onliners and offliners in the same face-to-face mode (2 vs. 3) disappear when controlling for background characteristics, indicating mode effects rather than unobserved population differences. Differences in background characteristics of onliners in the two modes (1 vs. 3) indicate that mode effects partly reflect sampling differences. In our setting, re-weighting online-survey observations appears a pragmatic solution when aiming at representativeness for the entire population."
C83|Improving Paddy Rice Statistics Using Area Sampling Frame Technique|Traditional sampling strategies for paddy rice statistics rely on outdated list frames, incomplete holding information, or administrative data that are prone to numerous biases. The objective of this study is to test the utility of an area frame developed using remote sensing data in three pilot provinces— Savannakhet (Lao People’s Democratic Republic), Ang Thong (Thailand), and Thai Binh (Viet Nam). Direct estimates of total paddy rice area and production are calculated from area frame using two methods––one involving measurement of plot size using a Global Positioning System instrument and the other utilizing a digitized map of farmer-identified plot boundaries on a high-resolution Google Earth image. A third method involving the calculation of ratio estimates using independent mesh-level measures is compared with the first two methods involving direct estimates, and with the estimates generated from administrative data from the countries. Our study finds that ratio estimation significantly improves the level of precision of paddy rice statistics. Substantial deviations are also observed between official statistics and the statistics generated through direct estimation.
C83|Pc Complex: Pc Algorithm For Complex Survey Data|PC algorithm is one of the most known procedures for Bayesian networks structural learning. The structure is inferred carrying out several independence tests on a database and building a Bayesian network in agreement with the tests results. The PC algorithm is based on the assumption of independent and identically distributed observations. In practice, sample selection in surveys involves more complex sampling designs, then the standard test procedure is not valid even asymptotically. In order to avoid misleading results about the true causal structure the sample selection process must be taken into account in the structural learning process. In this paper, a modi ed version of the PC algorithm is proposed for inferring casual structure from complex survey data. It is based on resampling techniques for nite population. A simulation experiment showing the robustness with respect to departures from the assumptions and the good performance of the proposed algorithm is carried out.
C83|Emotions related to the process of eating behaviour change. The measurement scale|World Health Organization (2018) provides statistics showing that obesity has tripled across the world between 1975 and 2016. The global prevalence of obesity stimulates research on the causes and consequences of overweight and obesity, as well as on the determinants of effective behaviour change. The process of behaviour change is difficult, as it requires ? among others - coping with emotions accompanying the process. Many previous studies have shown that most people who try to change their eating habits fail to achieve their objective. Medical and social scientists try to understand the underlying reasons in order to optimise treatment (both time and cost efficient), both for the patient and for the health care system.To achieve this objective a new scale to measure emotions experienced in the process of behaviour change (Scale on Emotions Related to the Behaviour Change, SEBeCh) has been developed. The psychological theory of emotions by Mehrabian and Russell (1974; Bakker et al., 2014) has been selected as the theoretical background of the scale. The new scale consisted of subscales that referred to various aspects of: 1) cooperation with a health professional (satisfaction with dietary advice, quality of the relationship and the level of freedom in making choices), and 2) diet-related emotions (attributes of a new diet, difficulty to manage the new diet, effectiveness of a new diet, attitude toward a new diet, and satisfaction with a progress and with herself/himself).The aim of this study was to test and validate the newly developed SEBeCh scale. An online study, with 300 participants (50% women and men), who declared passing through the process of eating habits change (40% with support of a health professional) was conducted. Positive and negative emotions related to the cooperation with a health professional reflect two-factor structure (75% of explained variance), elicited in the principal component analysis. The internal consistency of the scales is very high (Cronbach alpha equals respectively 0.98 and 0.97). The scales correlate with Health Care Climate Questionnaire used for validation purposes. Also for the diet change related emotions two factors were found (67% of explained variance), Cronbach alpha for positive and negative emotions subscales equals respectively 0.94 and 0.98. The subscales correlate highly with goal directed emotions (listed by Bagozzi, et al., 1998), which confirms validity of the scales.
C83|On sampling from a rectangular grid|The problem of estimating the population total of a variable of interest by sampling from a finite population with units arranged in a rectangular array is considered. As an alternative to simple random sampling, a two-step sampling procedure is proposed. The procedure first chooses some rows (columns) by simple random sampling without replacement, then some columns (rows) by simple random sampling without replacement and uses the sample consisting of the units corresponding to the intersection of rows and columns selected. An unbiased estimator of the population total, using this step-wise sampling procedure, is proposed. The variance of the estimator is derived and further, an unbiased estimator for that variance is obtained.
C83|Media based sentiment indices as an alternative measure of consumer confidence|The world is currently generating data at an uprecedented rate. Embracing the data revolution, case studies on the construction of alternative consumer confidence indices using large text datasets have started to make its way into the academic literature. These 'sentiment indices' are constructed using text-based analysis. A subfield within computational linguistics. In this paper we consider the feasibility of constructing online sentiment indices using large amounts of media data as an alternative for the conventional survey method in South Africa. A clustering framework is adopted to provide an indication of feasible cadidate sentiment indices that best reflect the traditional survey based confidence consumer index conducted by the BER. The results indicate that the best candidate indices are linked to a single data source with a focus on using specialised financial dictionaries. Finally, composite indices for consumer confidence is constructed using Principle Component Analysis. The resulting indices' high correlation with the traditional consumer confidence index provide motivation for using media data sources to track consumer confidence within an emerging market such as South Africa using sentiment based techniques
C83|Reservation Wages and Labor Supply|We test what survey measures of the reservation wage reveal about individual labor supply, i.e., an individual’s willingness to substitute leisure by consumption. To this end, we combine the reservation wage measure from a large labor market survey with the reservation wage for a one-hour job that we elicit in an online experiment. We find that these two measures are highly correlated. On average, the experimental reservation wage increases by 50 Cents for every Euro increase in the survey measure.
C83|Informal sector innovation in Ghana: Data set and descriptive analysis|While informal enterprises and their activities dominate sub-Saharan African (SSA) economies, data on 'informal' innovation activities remain lacking. This paper presents descriptive statistics from survey data collected in 2016, on the types of innovations informal enterprises adopt and/or adapt in urban Ghana (Accra and Tema). Using zones defined in the Ghana Informal Enterprise Survey (GIFS) of the World Bank as area-based frame, and randomly selecting and canvassing 17 zones, the study identified and interviewed 513 informal enterprises. The analysis reveals that informal enterprises do innovate. Innovations, as found in formal enterprises as well, are not big swings, that is, not radical but incremental, and are found to occur over several years. These suggest that incremental innovations, notwithstanding, are important to the survival of sampled informal enterprises.
C83|Climate Policy Integration on the National and Regional Level: A Case Study for Austria and Styria|Many climate-relevant decisions are taken in other policy areas with only little regard to climate change impacts. In order for climate policy to be successful it has to be integrated in decision-making and legislative processes in basically all policy areas and all levels of government. We analyse the extent of climate policy integration (CPI) in Austrian policy-making via in-depth expert interviews, both on the federal level as well as on the regional level using Styria as case study. The results show a broad range of perceptions regarding the degree of CPI in Austria. The consideration of climate policy issues generally depends on the core competence of the respective institution. Moreover, we found widely diverging views on whether CPI in Austria is too ambitious or too weak. Especially, potential negative impacts of climate policy on competitiveness or employment are seen to hamper a more ambitious implementation of mitigation policies.
C83|“Tracking economic growth by evolving expectations via genetic programming: A two-step approach”|The main objective of this study is to present a two-step approach to generate estimates of economic growth based on agents’ expectations from tendency surveys. First, we design a genetic programming experiment to derive mathematical functional forms that approximate the target variable by combining survey data on expectations about different economic variables. We use evolutionary algorithms to estimate a symbolic regression that links survey-based expectations to a quantitative variable used as a yardstick (economic growth). In a second step, this set of empirically-generated proxies of economic growth are linearly combined to track the evolution of GDP. To evaluate the forecasting performance of the generated estimates of GDP, we use them to assess the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on the accuracy of agents' expectations about the evolution of the economic activity in 28 countries of the OECD. While in most economies we find an improvement in the capacity of agents' to anticipate the evolution of GDP after the crisis, predictive accuracy worsens in relation to the period prior to the crisis. The most accurate GDP forecasts are obtained for Sweden, Austria and Finland.
C83|Uncertainty is Change|This paper provides survey evidence on firms’ subjective uncertainty about future sales growth from a new representative panel data set of the German manufacturing sector. The main finding is that uncertainty reflects change: firms report more subjective uncertainty after either high or low growth realizations. In the cross section of firms, subjective uncertainty differs from statistical measures of uncertainty such as volatility: fast-growing and large firms report lower subjective uncertainty than fast-shrinking and small firms, respectively, even if they face shocks of similar size. In contrast, the substantial time variation in firm-specific subjective uncertainty resembles that in conditional volatility: both measures of uncertainty are mildly persistent and rise more when growth is temporarily low.
C83|Theories, Techniques and the Formation of German Business Cycle Forecasts : Evidence from a survey of professional forecasters|We report results of a survey among active forecasters of the German business cycle. Using data for 82 respondents from 37 different institutions, we investigate what models and theories forecasters subscribe to and find that they are pronounced conservative in the sense that they overwhelmingly rely on methods and theories that have been well-established for a long time, while more recent approaches are relatively unimportant for the practice of business cycle forecasting. DSGE models are mostly used in public institutions. In line with findings in the literature there are tendencies of “leaning towards consensus” (especially for public institutions) and “sticky adjustment of forecasts” with regard to new information. A stable relationship between preferred theories and methods and forecast accuracy cannot be established.
C83|Can stated measures of willingness-to-accept be valid? Evidence from laboratory experiments|Willingness-to-accept (WTA) questions have been largely abandoned in stated preference empirical work in favor of eliciting willingness-to-pay (WTP) responses, mainly due to perceived unreliability of questions that ask respondents for compensation amounts. This paper reassesses whether stated WTA welfare measures can be valid in public and private good contexts. We conduct two sets of laboratory experiments to analyze whether elicitation format, survey design and framing, and follow-up questions can generate truthful responses. For public goods, we adapt the existing WTP incentive compatibility theoretical framework to the WTA context and test the theory using an experiment involving voting. Results are consistent with the WTP literature and suggest that WTA values can be valid as long as responses have consequences for respondents. For the private good experiment, we focus on whether respondents are motivated to affect the price or the provision of the good. We find that strategic behavior is present and in the direction expected by theory. Survey framing and the use of follow-up questions can provide bounds on the value estimates. These findings raise potential concerns with the use of non-incentive compatible elicitation mechanisms in WTA contexts.
C83|“Tracking economic growth by evolving expectations via genetic programming: A two-step approach”|The main objective of this study is to present a two-step approach to generate estimates of economic growth based on agents’ expectations from tendency surveys. First, we design a genetic programming experiment to derive mathematical functional forms that approximate the target variable by combining survey data on expectations about different economic variables. We use evolutionary algorithms to estimate a symbolic regression that links survey-based expectations to a quantitative variable used as a yardstick (economic growth). In a second step, this set of empirically-generated proxies of economic growth are linearly combined to track the evolution of GDP. To evaluate the forecasting performance of the generated estimates of GDP, we use them to assess the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on the accuracy of agents' expectations about the evolution of the economic activity in 28 countries of the OECD. While in most economies we find an improvement in the capacity of agents' to anticipate the evolution of GDP after the crisis, predictive accuracy worsens in relation to the period prior to the crisis. The most accurate GDP forecasts are obtained for Sweden, Austria and Finland.
C83|“A geometric approach to proxy economic uncertainty by a metric of disagreement among qualitative expectations”|In this study we present a geometric approach to proxy economic uncertainty. We design a positional indicator of disagreement among survey-based agents' expectations about the state of the economy. Previous dispersion-based uncertainty indicators derived from business and consumer surveys exclusively make use of the two extreme pieces of information coming from the respondents expecting a variable to rise and to fall. With the aim of also incorporating the information coming from the share of respondents expecting a variable to remain constant, we propose a geometrical framework and use a barycentric coordinate system to generate a measure of disagreement, referred to as a discrepancy indicator. We assess its performance, both empirically and experimentally, by comparing it to the standard deviation of the share of positive and negative responses, which has been used by Bachman et al. (2013) as a proxy for economic uncertainty. When applied in sixteen European countries, we find that both time-varying metrics co-evolve in most countries for expectations about the country's overall economic situation in the present, but not in the future. Additionally, we obtain their simulated sampling distributions and we find that the proposed indicator gravitates uniformly towards the three vertices of the simplex representing the three answering categories, as opposed to the standard deviation, which tends to overestimate the level of uncertainty as a result of ignoring the no-change responses. Consequently, we find evidence that the information coming from agents expecting a variable to remain constant has an effect on the measurement of disagreement.
C83|2017 Methods-of-Payment Survey: Sample Calibration and Variance Estimation|This technical report describes sampling, weighting and variance estimation for the Bank of Canada’s 2017 Methods-of-Payment Survey. Under quota sampling, a raking ratio method is implemented to generate weights with both post-stratification and nonparametric nonresponse weight adjustments. In the end, we estimate variances of weighted means and proportions using bootstrap replicate survey weights. Compared with probability sampling, we find that (i) strong assumptions are required to reduce bias when probabilities of selection are unknown, and (ii) multiple weight adjustments for bias reduction inflate variance. Therefore, it is important to focus more on bias than on variance in the context of nonprobability sampling.
C83|On the Evolution of the United Kingdom Price Distributions|We propose a functional principal components method that accounts for stratified random sample weighting and time dependence in the observations to understand the evolution of distributions of monthly micro-level consumer prices for the United Kingdom (UK). We apply the method to publicly available monthly data on individual-good prices collected in retail stores by the UK Office for National Statistics for the construction of the UK Consumer Price Index from March 1996 to September 2015. In addition, we conduct Monte Carlo simulations to demonstrate the effectiveness of our methodology. Our method allows us to visualize the dynamics of the price distribution and uncovers interesting patterns during the sample period. Further, we demonstrate the efficacy of our methodology with an out-of-sample forecasting algorithm that exploits the time dependence of distributions. Our out-of-sample forecast compares favorably with the random walk forecast.
C83|Bootstrapping Mean Squared Errors of Robust Small-Area Estimators: Application to the Method-of-Payments Data|This paper proposes a new bootstrap procedure for mean squared errors of robust small-area estimators. We formally prove the asymptotic validity of the proposed bootstrap method and examine its finite sample performance through Monte Carlo simulations. The results show that our procedure performs well and outperforms existing ones. We also apply our procedure to the estimation of the total volume and value of cash, debit card and credit card transactions in Canada as well as in its provinces and subgroups of households. In particular, we find that there is a significant average annual decline rate of 3.1 percent in the volume of cash transactions, and that this decline is relatively higher among high-income households living in heavily populated provinces. Our bootstrap estimator also provides indicators of quality useful in selecting the best small-area predictors from among several alternatives in practice.
C83|The Cross-border Household Finance and Consumption Survey: Results from the second wave|This report presents the methodology and main descriptive results of the second wave of the Cross-border Household Finance and Consumption Survey (XB-HFCS) conducted in 2014. The survey provides novel information on the economic and financial situation of households employed in Luxembourg but living in neighbouring countries (cross-border commuters), who contribute substantially to Luxembourg’s economy. We present results on the composition of their assets and liabilities, net wealth, income and consumption. Household net wealth of crossborder commuters is more equally distributed compared to that of employed households resident in Luxembourg. In addition, cross-border commuters have a higher median net wealth and gross income compared to those of the employed population in their country of residence. About 26% of their financial assets and 19% of their liabilities are located in Luxembourg. While the majority of the non-durable expenditures are done in the country of residence, cross-border commuters consume about 20% of their household income in Luxembourg.
C83|Enhancing central bank communications with behavioural insights|In this joint Bank of England and Behavioural Insights Team study, we test the effectiveness of different approaches to central bank communications. Using an online experiment with a representative sample of the UK population, we measure how changes to the Bank of England’s summaries of the Inflation Report impact comprehension and trust in its policy messages. We find that the recently introduced Visual Summary of the Inflation Report improves comprehension of its main messages in a statistically significant way compared to the traditional executive summary. We also find that public comprehension and trust can be further improved by making the Visual Summary more relatable to people’s lives. Our findings thus shed light on how central banks can improve communication with the public at a time when trust in public institutions has fallen, while the responsibilities delegated to central banks have increased.
C83|The Adaptive Liar: An Interactionist Approach of Multiple Dishonesty Domains|An extant debate in the morality literature centers on whether honesty is a stable and generalizable trait or whether honest behavior in one situation is independent from honest behavior in another situation. However, a third possibility is that tendencies toward dishonesty vary according to life domain. We conducted a cross-cultural study with participants in five countries (China, Colombia, Germany, Portugal, and the United States) to test whether dishonest tendencies vary according to domain. We hypothesized that countries vary in dishonesty according to domain, and that individuals’ tendencies toward dishonesty cluster by domain. Our survey asked participants to report the likelihood of engaging in dishonest behaviors across eight domains of life. The data support both our hypotheses. Our results thus corroborate that dishonesty is driven by the interplay of both individual differences and the circumstances surrounding deception.
C83|A Meta-Analysis of the Literature on Climate Change and Migration|Recent surveys of the literature devoted to climate change and migration empha- size the important diversity of outcomes and approaches of the empirical studies. In this paper, we carry out a meta-analysis in order to investigate the role of the vari- ous methodological choices of these empirical studies in finding some particular results concerning the role of climatic factors as drivers of human mobility. To that aim, we code 45 papers representative of the existing literature in terms of methodological approaches. This results in the coding of more than 80 variables capturing the methodology of the main dimensions of the methods. These dimensions include among others authors' reputation, type of mobility, measures of mobility, type of data, context of the study, econometric methods and last but not least measures of the climatic factors. We look at the influence of these characteristics on the probability of finding any effect of climate change, of finding a displacement effect, of finding an increase in immobility and of finding evidence in favour of a direct versus an indirect effect. Our results highlight the role of some main methodological choices, such as the frequency of the data on mobility, the level of development of the covered area, the particular measures of human mobility and of the climate factors as well as the econometric methodology.
C83|Husbands’ and wives’ diverging perceptions on who decides|An emerging literature highlights the importance of empowering women. Female decision-making power is typically measured by surveying only one partner, but the few studies surveying both have documented large differences in perceptions. We analyze these perceptions and their consequences, using survey data from Indonesia. Both male and female respondents systematically report a higher share of decision domains in which they decide. Female labor supply and contraception use are higher when both partners perceive female decision-making power in these domains. Increases in female income share are associated with increases in the perceived female decision-making power.
C83|Household Portfolio Underdiversification and Probability Weighting: Evidence from the Field|We explore the relation between probability weighting and household portfolio underdiversification in a representative household survey, using custom-designed incentivized lotteries. On average, people display Inverse-S shaped probability weighting, overweighting the small probabilities of tail events. As theory predicts, our Inverse-S measure is positively associated with portfolio underdiversification, which results in significant Sharpe ratio losses. We match respondents’ individual stock holdings to CRSP data and find that people with higher Inverse-S tend to pick stocks with positive skewness and hold positively-skewed equity portfolios. We show that these choices reflect preferences rather than probability unsophistication or limited financial knowledge.
C83|SDG 16 on Governance and its measurement: Africa in the Lead|(english) This article provides some elements for reflection on an apparent paradox. On the one hand, Africa appears to be the continent most riddled by problems related to governance and conflict; on the other hand, it is at the forefront in both promoting the issue of governance at the international level and in implementing its statistical measurement, an observation that has gone largely unnoticed until now. Will Africa manage to maintain its lead following the adoption by all countries of Sustainable Development Goal 16 on governance, peace and security, to which the continent contributed greatly?_________________________________ (français) Cet article se propose d’apporter des éléments de réflexion sur un apparent paradoxe : alors que l’Afrique apparaît comme le continent où les questions de gouvernance et de conflits sont les plus problématiques, c’est également celui qui se montre le plus en pointe, à la fois dans la promotion de cette thématique au niveau international et dans la mise en oeuvre de sa mesure statistique, un constat passé largement inaperçu jusqu’ici. Cette avance pourra-t-elle se maintenir avec l’adoption par tous les pays de l’Objectif de Développement Durable 16 sur la gouvernance, la paix et la sécurité, auquel le continent a largement contribué ?e la société malgache. La faible organisation, tant du côté d’élites fragmentées que d’une population atomisée géographiquement et socialement, n’est pas propice à l’émergence de violences politiques. Mais c’est surtout la prégnance d’une violence symbolique systémique qui permet le maintien de l’ordre établi et freine l’émergence de mobilisations susceptibles de remettre en cause l’équilibre de la société. Faiblesse organisationnelle, normes sociales et violence symbolique se conjuguent pour une apparente paix sociale. Celle-ci reflète moins une solidité institutionnelle que la domination symbolique de la classe élitaire.
C83|Responding to the SDG16 Measurement Challenge: The Governance, Peace and Security Survey Modules in Africa|This paper presents an ongoing initiative, built on a practical approach grounded in fieldwork, to produce harmonised statistics on governance, peace and security (GPS) at continental level in Africa. The methodology consists of adding standardised GPS modules to official socioeconomic household surveys. In keeping with the widely promoted principles of inclusiveness and participation, the use of statistical surveys of large, representative samples of the population is a good strategy for voicing citizens’ views and concerns. The adoption of the 2030 agenda, which positions institution‐building and governance issues as a cornerstone of sustainable development, provides a unique opportunity to consolidate this pioneering African experience. Institutionalisation of the production of GPS statistics by national statistics offices in the official statistics field offers a promising means to take up the Goal 16 measurement challenge. The paper describes the main methodological options for doing so and draws lessons and initial evidence from a dozen countries that have piloted the GPS survey module. Selected empirical results illustrate the analytical potential and policy relevance of this approach.
C83|Verifying the internal validity of a flagship RCT: A review of Crépon, Devoto, Duflo and Pariente (American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, 2015)|We replicate a flagship randomised control trial carried out in rural Morocco that showed substantial and significant impacts of microcredit on the assets, the outputs, the expenses and the profits of self-employment activities. The original results rely primarily on trimming, which is the exclusion of observations with the highest values on some variables. However, the applied trimming procedures are inconsistent between the baseline and the endline. Using identical specifications as the original paper reveals large and significant imbalances at the baseline and, at the endline impacts on implausible outcomes, like household head gender, language or education. This calls into question the reliability of the data and the integrity of the experiment protocol. We find a series of coding, measurement and sampling errors. Correcting the identified errors lead to different results. After rectifying identified errors, we still find substantial imbalances at baseline and implausible impacts at the endline. Our re-analysis focused on the lack of internal validity of this experiment, but several of the identified issues also raise concerns about its external validity.
C83|Mehr oder weniger arbeiten? Es kommt darauf an, wie man fragt: Methodische Aspekte der Präferenzmessung gewünschter Arbeitszeiten|Working time preferences of employees have been discussed in scientific and public debates more frequently. Yet, representative studies show controversial results regarding over- and underemployment for Germany. But these differences can only partially be explained by varying definitions of populations or sample selection. By means of data from the Socioeconomic Panel (SOEP) this article highlights the importance of wording and positioning of questions regarding working time preferences. The empirical findings suggest that further methodological research is essential.
C83|Foreign capital and domestic productivity in the Czech Republic|In this paper we take stock of the evidence concerning the effect of foreign direct investment (FDI) on the productivity of locally owned firms in the Czech Republic. To this end, we collect 332 estimates previously reported in journal articles, working papers and PhD theses. We find that the mean reported externality arising for domestic firms due to the presence of foreign firms (the “FDI spillover”) is zero. There is no evidence of publication bias, ie no sign of selective reporting of results that are statistically significant and show an intuitive sign. Nevertheless, we find that the overall spillover effect is positive and large when more weight is placed on estimates that conform to best-practice methodology. Our results suggest that, as of 2018, a 10-percentage-point increase in foreign presence is likely to lift the productivity of domestic firms by 11%. The effect is even larger for joint ventures, reaching 19%.
C83|Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey: Survey Methodology and Performance|The Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey (TSSOS) and Texas Retail Outlook Survey (TROS) are monthly surveys of service sector and retail firms in Texas conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. TSSOS and TROS track the Texas private services sector, including general service businesses, retailers and wholesalers. The surveys provide invaluable information on regional economic conditions—information that Dallas Fed economists and the Bank president use in the formulation of monetary policy. This paper describes the survey’s methodology and analyzes the explanatory and predictive power of TSSOS and TROS indexes with regard to Texas employment growth. Regression analysis shows that several TSSOS and TROS indexes help explain monthly variation in Texas employment. In addition, most TSSOS and TROS indexes are also useful in forecasting Texas employment growth.
C83|Reaching the Hard to Reach with Intermediaries: The Kansas City Fed’s LMI Survey|Reaching hard-to-reach individuals is a common problem in survey research. The low- and moderate-income (LMI) population, for example, is generally hard to reach. The Kansas City Fed’s Low- and Moderate-Income Survey addresses this problem by sampling a database of organizations to serve as proxies for the LMI population. In this paper, I describe why the LMI population can be hard to reach. I then explore potential problems with using a nonrandom survey sample and address the empirical validity of the Kansas City Fed’s LMI Survey. I compare results from the survey using the standard sample to results from the survey using a random sample. I find that the results of the surveys using the standard and random samples are not significantly different and conclude that the use of a nonrandom sample is not a significant problem for the LMI Survey. I find that the series of responses from the LMI Survey are correlated with the things they should be correlated with, suggesting that the survey is empirically valid and does a good job of measuring economic conditions in LMI communities.
C83|Working Paper 08-18 - Comprendre le non-recours aux mesures de réductions de cotisations patronales : une approche méthodologique mixte<BR>[Working Paper 08-18 - De non-take-up van werkgeversbijdrage-verminderingen begrijpen: een gemengde methodologische benadering]|This study seeks to identify the reasons for non-take-up by employers. It uses a mixed methods research: we have first explored the issue through in-depth interviews with key stakeholders, then carried out a quantitative survey among employers and finally sought to enhance the survey results through interviews and focus groups. The interpretation of this phased approach has provided elements for making recommendations to reduce non-take-up.
C83|Gender, risk preferences and willingness to compete in a random sample of the Swedish population|Experimental results from student or other non-representative convenience samples often suggest that men, on average, are more risk-taking and competitive than women. Here we explore whether these gender preference gaps also exist in a simple random sample of the Swedish adult population. Our design comprises four different treatments to systematically explore how the experimental context may impact gender gaps; a baseline treatment, a treatment where participants are primed with their own gender, and a treatment where the participants know the gender of their counterpart (man or woman). We look at willingness to compete in two domains: a math task and a verbal task. We find no gender differences in risk preferences or in willingness to compete in the verbal task in this random sample. There is some support for men being more competitive than women in the math task, in particular in the pooled sample. The effect size is however considerably smaller than what is typically found. We further find no consistent impact of treatment on (the absence of) the gender gap in preferences.
C83|Gender, risk preference and willingness to compete in a random sample of the Swedish population|Experimental results from student or other non-representative convenience samples often suggest that men, on average, are more risk-taking and competitive than women. Here we explore whether these gender preference gaps also exist in a simple random sample of the Swedish adult population. Our design comprises four different treatments to systematically explore how the experimental context may impact gender gaps; a baseline treatment, a treatment where participants are primed with their own gender, and a treatment where the participants know the gender of their counterpart (man or woman). We look at willingness to compete in two domains: a math task and a verbal task. We find no gender differences in risk preferences or in willingness to compete in the verbal task in this random sample. There is some support for men being more competitive than women in the math task, in particular in the pooled sample. The effect size is however considerably smaller than what is typically found. We further find no consistent impact of treatment on (the absence of) the gender gap in preferences.
C83|A Multidimensional Classification For The Information Technology Market|This paper expands the existing informational and analytical opportunities of application of the results of business tendency surveys which solve the problem of the loss of valuable statistical information in its traditional aggregation into simple and composite indicators. Based on methods of multidimensional classification, an algorithm of statistical analysis significantly raises the analytical opportunities for the more wide measurement of trajectories of development and short-term fluctuations of branch of the information technology (IT) is developed and discussed. This allows the construction of behavioral models of business tendency data which improve the understanding of the business cycle in more detail. Furthermore the empirical results confirm the possibility of receiving various information which increases the analytical potential of business tendency surveys
C83|Survey Item-Response Behavior as an Imperfect Proxy for Unobserved Ability: Theory and Application|We develop and test an economic model of the cognitive and non-cognitive foundations of survey item-response behavior. We show that a summary measure of response behaviour - the survey item-response rate (SIRR) - varies with cognitive and less so with non-cognitive abilities, has a strong individual fixed component and is predictive of economic outcomes because of its relationship with ability. We demonstrate the usefulness of SIRR, although an imperfect proxy for cognitive ability, to reduce omitted-variable biases in estimated wage returns. We derive both necessary and sufficient conditions under which the use of an imperfect proxy reduces such biases, providing a general guideline for researchers.
C83|Predicting Retirement Savings Using Survey Measures Of Exponential‐Growth Bias And Present Bias|In a nationally representative sample, we predict retirement savings using survey‐based elicitations of exponential‐growth bias (EGB) and present bias (PB). We find that EGB, the tendency to neglect compounding, and PB, the tendency to value the present over the future, are highly significant and economically meaningful predictors of retirement savings. These relationships hold controlling for cognitive ability, financial literacy, and a rich set of demographic controls. We address measurement error as a potential confound and explore mechanisms through which these biases may operate. Back of the envelope calculations suggest that eliminating EGB and PB would increase retirement savings by approximately 12%. (JEL D91, D14)
C83|“A geometric approach to proxy economic uncertainty by a metric of disagreement among qualitative expectations”|In this study we present a geometric approach to proxy economic uncertainty. We design a positional indicator of disagreement among survey-based agents' expectations about the state of the economy. Previous dispersion-based uncertainty indicators derived from business and consumer surveys exclusively make use of the two extreme pieces of information coming from the respondents expecting a variable to rise and to fall. With the aim of also incorporating the information coming from the share of respondents expecting a variable to remain constant, we propose a geometrical framework and use a barycentric coordinate system to generate a measure of disagreement, referred to as a discrepancy indicator. We assess its performance, both empirically and experimentally, by comparing it to the standard deviation of the share of positive and negative responses, which has been used by Bachman et al. (2013) as a proxy for economic uncertainty. When applied in sixteen European countries, we find that both time-varying metrics co-evolve in most countries for expectations about the country's overall economic situation in the present, but not in the future. Additionally, we obtain their simulated sampling distributions and we find that the proposed indicator gravitates uniformly towards the three vertices of the simplex representing the three answering categories, as opposed to the standard deviation, which tends to overestimate the level of uncertainty as a result of ignoring the no-change responses. Consequently, we find evidence that the information coming from agents expecting a variable to remain constant has an effect on the measurement of disagreement.
C83|The Effects of Day Care on Health During Childhood: Evidence by Age|This paper studies the effects of day care exposure on behavioral disorders and mental and physical health at various ages during childhood. We draw on a unique set of merged population register data from Sweden over the period 1999-2008. This includes merged information at the individual level from the inpatient and outpatient registers, the population register and the income tax register. The outpatient register contains all ambulatory care contacts including all contacts with physicians and therapists. Visits are recorded by day, and comprehensive diagnoses are recorded for each visit. By exploiting variation in day care exposure by age generated by a major day care policy reform, we estimate cumulative and instantaneous effects on child health at different ages. We find a positive cumulative impact on behavior at primary school ages, in particular for children from low socio-economic status households, and substitution of infections from primary school ages to low ages. All this affects health care utilization and leads to a moderate reduction in health care costs. Results are confirmed by analyses based on a sibling design and on regional and household-specific components of day care fees.
C83|Survey item-response behavior as an imperfect proxy for unobserved ability: Theory and application|We develop and test an economic model of the cognitive and non-cognitive foundations of survey item- response behavior. We show that a summary measure of response behaviour – the survey item-response rate (SIRR) – varies with cognitive and less so with non-cognitive abilities, has a strong individual fixed component and is predictive of economic outcomes because of its relationship with ability. We demonstrate the usefulness of SIRR, although an imperfect proxy for cognitive ability, to reduce omitted-variable biases in estimated wage returns. We derive both necessary and sufficient conditions under which the use of an imperfect proxy reduces such biases, providing a general guideline for researchers.
C83|Can Online Surveys Represent the Entire Population?|"A general concern with the representativeness of online surveys is that they exclude the \""offline\"" population that does not use the internet. We run a large-scale opinion survey with (1) onliners in web mode, (2) offliners in face-to-face mode, and (3) onliners in face-to-face mode. We find marked response differences between onliners and offliners in the mixed-mode setting (1 vs. 2). Response differences between onliners and offliners in the same face-to-face mode (2 vs. 3) disappear when controlling for background characteristics, indicating mode effects rather than unobserved population differences. Differences in background characteristics of onliners in the two modes (1 vs. 3) indicate that mode effects partly reflect sampling differences. In our setting, re-weighting online-survey observations appears a pragmatic solution when aiming at representativeness for the entire population."
C83|Monopsony in Labor Markets: A Meta-Analysis|When jobs offered by different employers are not perfect substitutes in the minds of workers, employers gain wage-setting power; the extent of this power can be captured by the elasticity of labor supply that each employer faces. Estimates of this parameter reported by the literature vary broadly. We collect 801 estimates from published studies, record 20 aspects of each study’s design and perform Bayesian Model Averaging to show that this observed variation is systematic and can be attributed to four groups of factors. First, estimates depend on methodologies used by the researchers: different specifications pro- duce systematically different results that are also affected by whether the study employs an identification strategy; the choice between linear and non-linear estimation techniques also matters. Second, estimates vary with the underlying data: labor markets seem to be more competitive in Europe, and less competitive in developing countries - compared to the US, Canada and Australia. The market for medical workers appears to be more monopsonistic compared to others. Third, there is evidence of publication bias in parts of the literature, which results in negative estimates of supply elasticities receiving lower probability of being reported, and a (slightly) exaggerated mean. Fourth, estimates seem to vary with study quality, with top journals publishing higher estimates and studies using larger data sets producing more evidence of competitive behavior.
C83|Insights into survey errors of large scale educational achievement surveys|While educational achievement surveys revolutionised research on education cross-nationally, the surveys have been repeatedly subject of heated debate since first results were published. This paper reviews existing research examining the design and methodology of educational achievement surveys. Results are reported by allocating them to the specific survey error component of achievement estimates they address. Different error components from the design, collection, processing and analysis of survey data constitute the total survey error, which is an error difficult to quantify but important for assessing the overall accuracy of the surveysâ€™ achievement estimates. The review shows that there are many reasons to assume that the total survey error associated with countriesâ€™ educational achievement estimates is likely to be inflated by other errors besides the standard error reported by survey organisers. Given the policy relevance of the surveysâ€™ estimates, policy makers and the research community would greatly benefit from survey organisers providing more transparency on the different potential errors of educational achievement estimates. Without this information the debate about the fitness of educational achievement data for policy making is unlikely to dissolve.
C83|Towards Sustainability: Effective Operations Strategies, Quality Management and Operational Excellence in Banking|This paper sets out to extend and deepen the understanding the ways toward economic sustainability through efficient and effective growth operations strategies, quality management and operational excellence in banking. In this study we define new quality management practices based on developed conceptual architecture of digital platform for operations function in banking. Additionally, we employ decision making framework consisted of two parts: introduction of new operations services using Total Unduplicated Reach and Frequency (TURF) statistical analysis and segregation of core from actual and augmented operations services utilizing Analytic Network Process (ANP) method based on BOCR model. Proposed quality management practices were used for the first time in this paper for particular purposes and have the high potential to impact the excellence in banking business. The study can contribute to operations management, quality management, innovation management, IT management, business process management and decision making in service organizations.
C83|The Power of Big Data : Historical Time Series on German Education|Numerous primary investigators collected and processed long-termed time series on German educational statistics in the context of their studies. As a result, there are a multitude of quantitative empirical studies. On the one hand, there is the project group on German Educational Statistics. 1 Its projects were targeted at describing and analyzing the long-term structural changes of the German educational system on a broad empirical and statistical basis. On the other hand, there are comprehensive data compilations of individual research projects, focusing on a wide variety of special educational research topics. The online database “histat” provides central digital access to these datasets on German educational history. Currently, it offers more than 120,000 long-term time series on the German educational system for a period of 200 years. The striking size of the database shows its key importance for researchers in the field of education. Thus, this paper aims to provide useful insights into the background of the database, the special characteristics of the data compilations and their analytical potential. Additionally, examples are given of how the data have already been used by researchers.
C83|Let the data do the talking: Empirical modelling of survey-based expectations by means of genetic programming|In this study we use agents’ expectations about the state of the economy to generate indicators of economic activity in twenty-six European countries grouped in five regions (Western, Eastern, and Southern Europe, and Baltic and Scandinavian countries). We apply a data-driven procedure based on evolutionary computation to transform survey variables in economic growth rates. In a first step, we design five independent experiments to derive the optimal combination of expectations that best replicates the evolution of economic growth in each region by means of genetic programming, limiting the integration schemes to the main mathematical operations. We then rank survey variables according to their performance in tracking economic activity, finding that agents’ “perception about the overall economy compared to last year” is the survey variable with the highest predictive power. In a second step, we assess the out-of-sample forecast accuracy of the evolved indicators. Although we obtain different results across regions, Austria, Slovakia, Portugal, Lithuania and Sweden are the economies of each region that show the best forecast results. We also find evidence that the forecasting performance of the survey-based indicators improves during periods of higher growth.
C83|The Bank of Canada 2015 Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods: Nonresponse|Nonresponse is a considerable challenge in the Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods conducted by the Bank of Canada in 2015. There are two types of nonresponse in this survey: unit nonresponse, in which a business does not reply to the entire survey, and item nonresponse, in which a business does not respond to particular questions within the survey. Both types may create a bias when computing statistics such as means and weighted totals for different variables. This technical report analyzes solutions to fix the problem of nonresponse in the survey data. Unit nonresponse is addressed through response probability adjustment, in which response probabilities are modelled using logistic regression (a clustering approach for the unit response probabilities is also considered) and are used in the construction of a set of survey weights. Item nonresponse is addressed through imputation, in which the gradient boosting machine (GBM) and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) algorithms are used to predict missing values for variables of interest.
C83|The Bank of Canada 2015 Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods: Sampling|In 2015, the Bank of Canada undertook the large-scale Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods. This paper describes and discusses the sampling methodology used in this survey, with a focus on the challenges of voluntary business surveys. Recommendations for sampling strategies in future retailer surveys are offered.
C83|The Bank of Canada 2015 Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods: Calibration for Single-Location Retailers|Calibrated weights are created to (a) reduce the nonresponse bias; (b) reduce the coverage error; and (c) make the weighted estimates from the sample consistent with the target population in terms of certain key variables. This technical report details our calibration analysis of singlelocation retailers for the Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods. We first compare two types of calibration approaches, consisting of (1) traditional calibration, in which calibration is implemented after explicit nonresponse modelling, and (2) nonresponse-embedded calibration, where the nonresponse correction is automatically built in (Särndal and Lundström, 2005). After carefully selecting auxiliary variables, we find minor differences between these two methods. We also examine the effects of trimming, sample size, smoothing and influential units on the calibrated weights, and show that our calibration is robust in view of these considerations.
C83|The Bank of Canada 2015 Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods: Estimation of the Total Private Cost for Large Businesses|The Bank of Canada 2015 Retailer Survey on the Cost of Payment Methods faced low response rates and outliers in sample data for two of its retailer strata: chains and large independent businesses. This technical report investigates whether it is appropriate to combine these two strata to produce more accurate estimates of the total private cost to large businesses of the main payment methods. It uses two approaches to compute the total cost. First, a sample-based approach assumes consistency of some sample ratios and calibrates the sample to the known population totals of auxiliary variables. Second, a model-based approach uses outlier-robust estimation methods. The results show that, unlike for payments by cash and debit cards, there is relatively little difference between the approaches in determining the cost of payment by credit card. The model-based approach is recommended because it does not allocate the retailer’s total costs in advance between fixed and variable costs, and it uses outlier-robust estimation methods.
C83|Adoption of a New Payment Method: Theory and Experimental Evidence|We model the introduction of a new payment method, e.g., e-money, that competes with an existing payment method, e.g., cash. The new payment method involves relatively lower per-transaction costs for both buyers and sellers, but sellers must pay a fixed fee to accept the new payment method. As a result of the network effects, our model admits two symmetric pure strategy Nash equilibria. In one equilibrium, the new payment method is not adopted and all transactions continue to be carried out using the existing payment method. In the other equilibrium, the new payment method is adopted and completely replaces the existing payment method. The equilibrium involving only the new payment method is socially optimal as it minimizes total transaction costs. Using this model, we study the question of equilibrium selection by conducting a laboratory experiment. We find that, depending on the fixed fee charged for the adoption of the new payment method and on the choices made by participants on both sides of the market, either equilibrium can be selected. More precisely, a lower fixed fee for sellers favors very quick adoption of the new payment method by all participants, while for a sufficiently high fee, sellers gradually learn to refuse to accept the new payment method and transactions are largely conducted using the existing payment method. We also find that an evolutionary learning model captures the dynamics of the experimental data well.
C83|The Luxembourg Household Finance and Consumption Survey: Results from the 2nd wave|This report presents the main results and the underlying methodology of the 2nd wave of the Luxembourg Household Finance and Consumption Survey (LU-HFCS) and compares them to those obtained in the 1st wave in 2010. This survey is conducted among private households resident in Luxembourg and is part of the Eurosystem Household Finance and Consumption Survey, which provides detailed individual and household data on assets, liabilities, income and consumption. This individual-level information on households provides a view on the distribution of assets and liabilities that complements the aggregate data on the household sector in the financial accounts.
C83|Cyber attacks: preliminary evidence from the Bank of Italy's business surveys|This paper presents preliminary evidence on cyber risk in the Italian private sector based on the Bank of Italy’s annual surveys of Italian industrial and service firms. The information collected, albeit only covering the incidence of cyber attacks and some aspects of security governance, is the first of its kind for Italy. The results are striking: even though a mere 1.5 per cent of businesses do not deploy any cybersecurity measures, 30.3 per cent – corresponding to 35.6 per cent of total employees – report at least some damage from a cyber attack between September 2015 and September 2016. Once data are corrected to account for unwillingness to report or inability to detect attacks on the part of some respondents, these figures climb to 45.2 and 56 per cent respectively, with large, high-tech and internationally exposed businesses faring worse than average. The economy-wide risk level is likely to be higher still; the financial sector, healthcare, education and social care are excluded from the sample, but they are known from other sources to be particularly appealing to attackers. Further research is needed on the correlation between firm-level vulnerability and investment in cyber defence, and on the cost of cyber breaches.
C83|The price of cyber (in)security: evidence from the Italian private sector|This paper presents evidence on the economic dimension of cyber risk in the Italian private non-financial sector, based on Bank of Italy survey data. In 2016, the median amount spent on preventing cyber attacks was a modest €4,530, i.e. 15 per cent of a typical worker’s annual gross wages. A wide variation exists across sectors and size classes, reflecting differences in how appealing a target a firm is to attackers and firms’ awareness of threats: median values range from €3,120 for small firms to €19,080 in the ICT sector and €44,590 for large firms. The market for cyber defence in our reference universe is worth at least €570 million. Having been attacked in the past proves to be a strong incentive to invest in security. The majority of breached firms suffered damages worth less than €10,000; 0.1 per cent reported costs of at least €200,000. Neither the sampling design nor the questionnaire were geared towards the measurement of tail events: underestimation of large incidents is likely. More information is needed before the economy-wide cost can be estimated.
C83|Variance Estimator in Complex Surveys using Linear Regression with Expansion Factor as Independent Variable|In probability sampling, variance estimation of an estimated mean or total requires developing a mathematical expression that depends on the design used to extract a sample. These formulae can be difficult to build and sometimes involve computation of joint inclusion probabilities of selection, which can be hard to obtain. For some sampling designs it is not possible to obtain an unbiased estimator of the variance. These designs include the selection of one element or one large primary sampling unit within some strata, or systematic selection of units or primary sampling units within strata. The problem of variance estimation may also arise from an analytical perspective, while estimating means or totals in unplanned domains, it is possible to arrive at only one unit or cluster within some strata. In this article, we propose a linear regression variance estimator which is very simple to compute and gives a solution to the aforementioned problems. Some examples using different designs are given.
C83|Los Costos de Comerciar en Colombia – Resultados de la Encuesta de Comercio Exterior del Banco de la República|Este trabajo presenta la estimación de costos y tiempos de comerciar en Colombia para cada eslabón de la cadena logística. Los resultados se derivan de la encuesta aplicada por el Banco de la República a agentes especializados en la logística de comercio exterior afiliados a la Federación Colombiana de Agentes Logísticos en Comercio Internacional (FITAC). La colaboración de FITAC y sus miembros fue fundamental para generar esta información, dado su conocimiento sobre las actividades de importación y exportación y su papel estratégico en integrar los eslabones de la cadena logística. Para las importaciones los costos se calculan para 13 categorías de servicios logísticos desde el puerto de embarque en el país de procedencia hasta la bodega del importador, y en el caso de las exportaciones desde la bodega del productor hasta el puerto colombiano donde se embarca la mercancía. Adicionalmente, se presentan cifras sobre el tiempo que toma importar y exportar una mercancía.
C83|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern und Prospects for Cooperation|Summary: The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
C83|Embedding as a pitfall for survey‐based welfare indicators: evidence from an experiment|Welfare measurement using multiple indicators requires knowledge about how individuals weight different aspects of wellbeing. The better life index provides a way of resolving this individual level weighting issue. It invites people to weight 11 dimensions, embedding measurable indicators. Ideally, the specific embedding of the same indicators should not change their weights in a welfare function. Our experiment shows, however, that varying the embedding structure decisively affects people's weightings, i.e. we observe strong embedding effects. The better life index hence fails to measure citizens’ true preferences. Embedding thus opens a gateway to manipulating survey‐based welfare measures.
C83|Central Bank Financial Strength and Inflation: A Meta-Analysis|Several empirical studies have reported that financially weak central banks tend to tolerate systematically higher inflation. If the effect were genuine, central banks would have to pay attention to their capital levels and could not treat them as a residuum. In this note, we take stock of this literature using the statistical techniques of meta-analysis. We collect 176 estimates of the effect of central bank financial strength on inflation and observe that 86% of them are negative, suggesting that low capital levels indeed lead to higher inflation. However, we show that the literature is plagued by publication bias, the preferential reporting of intuitive and significant results. When we correct the literature for this bias, we obtain no evidence for any interplay between central bank financial strength and inflation. The result is robust to employing various meta-regression and nonparametric selection models.
C83|Wage Dynamics and Financial Performance: Evidence from Czech Firms|This paper examines how the financial performance of a firm affects its wage policy. For this purpose, we match data on Czech firms from the Wage Dynamics Network survey covering the period 2010-2013 with balance sheet data. Controlling for a number of firm-specific characteristics and the environment in which firms operate, we find that financial performance matters for wage setting: contractual wages are more likely to grow in firms with a higher ratio of cash flow to total assets and in firms that invest more. Conversely, firms that froze or cut contractual wages during the survey period had lower cash flow over total assets, but not necessarily a lower investment ratio. The flexible wage component exhibits a similar pattern, but is more sensitive to demand shocks and firms' financial conditions.
C83|I sell my vote, and so what? A new database and evidence from Colombia|Exchanging one's vote for particularistic benefits - practices usually grouped under `clientelism' - is often thought to weaken programmatic links between citizens and politicians and disincentivize public good provision, as well as undermine voter autonomy and the ideal role of elections. However, empirically analyzing this key phenomenon for the working of democracies entails formidable challenges. We conduct list experiments on a large sample of households to estimate the incidence of clientelistic vote buying, as well as the extent to which respondents refrain from openly recognizing this behavior. Nearly one out of every five respondents engage in clientelism and, surprisingly, they do not feel ashamed to admit it. Using the literature to guide our analysis, we examine the robust correlates of clientelism, finding that vote buying increases with poverty, reciprocity, disregard for the rule of law and, challenging several theories, interest in politics.Keywords: Clientelism, vote buying, social desirability bias, list experiments.
C83|I evade taxes, and so what? A new database and evidence from Colombia|Tax evasion lies at the core of the relationship between citizens and the state: it reflects the level of trust in the state and compliance with society's implicit `social contract'. However, empirically analyzing it is challenging, with few direct and reliable measures. This has hampered the advancement of the theoretical and empirical literature, which is especially underdeveloped in the case of indirect tax evasion. We conduct list experiments on a large sample of households to estimate the incidence of value added tax (VAT) evasion, as well as the extent of social desirability bias in respondent answers. Around 20% of respondents engage in evasion and, surprisingly, they are not ashamed to recognize this openly. Evasion is more prevalent in places with more informality and less physical presence of the state, as well as among poorer, less educated individuals, and those who disregard the rule of law.
C83|A Theory of Threshold Contracts|We consider an in nitely repeated reappointment game in a principal- agent relationship. Typical examples are voter-politician or government- public servant relationships. The agent chooses costly effort and enjoys being in office until he is deselected. The principal observes a noisy signal of the agent's effort and decides whether to reappoint the agent or not. We analyse the stationary Markovian equilibria of this game and examine the consequences of threshold contracts, which forbid reappointment if the principal's utility is too low. We identify the circumstances under which such threshold contracts are welfare-improving or beneficial for the principal.
C83|Intégration européenne et politiques du marché du travail : quel consensus entre parlementaires français et allemands ?|This paper presents the results of a survey on the future of European integration conducted in the national parliaments of both France and Germany. In particular, we collected the opinions of members of national parliaments on more involvement of the European Union in labor market policies of Member States. We also asked them about their views on the creation of a common unemployment insurance and whether more flexibility is needed in national labor markets. After reporting descriptive and summary statistics, we show that for the majority of questions the answers reflect more of an ideological (left/right) division than a French/German one.
C83|Counting What Counts: Africa’s Seminal Effort to Produce Harmonized Official Statistics on Governance, Peace and Security|(english) The paper documents the practical experience of eleven African national statistical offices that tested and eventually institutionalized a methodology for producing official harmonized statistics in the area of governance, peace and security statistics between 2012 and 2017. This took place whilst the rest of the world was still debating the rationale for including this new domain in the next global development agenda. It situates Africa’s successful GPS-SHaSA experiment in the context of the continent’s long-standing commitment to “achieve political sovereignty through data autonomy”. The paper also presents some strategic advantages of the GPS-SHaSA methodology, provides illustrations using selected targets of Africa’s Agenda 2063 and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16 on how the four types of data generated by the methodology can inform policymaking. It finally concludes by identifying a number of methodological, institutional, financial and communicational investments necessary for GPS statistical production by NSOs to be sustainable, in Africa and beyond. _________________________________ (français) Cet article présente l’expérience concrète des instituts nationaux de la statistique (INS) de onze pays africains qui ont testé en pratique et institutionnalisé une méthodologie harmonisée pour produire des statistiques officielles dans le champ de la gouvernance, la paix et la sécurité (GPS) entre 2012 et 2017. Cette expérience s’est déroulée alors que le reste du monde était encore en train de débattre de la pertinence d’inclure ce nouveau champ thématique comme une composante à part entière de l’agenda global du développement post 2015. Le papier montre comment le succès de l’expérience GPS-SHaSA s’inscrit dans un engagement de longue date de l’Afrique pour « atteindre sa souveraineté politique à travers l’autonomie des données ». Il décrit également les avantages stratégiques de la méthodologie GPS-SHaSA, et offre quelques illustrations tirées de cibles particulières de l’Agenda 2063 de l’Afrique et de l’Objectif du Développement Durable (ODD) 16 pour montrer comment les quatre types de données produites par le projet peuvent informer les politiques publiques et le processus de décision. Il conclut en identifiant un certain nombre de défis méthodologiques, institutionnels, financiers et en termes de communication à relever pour que la production de données GPS par les INS puisse être durable, en Afrique et au-delà.
C83|Dimensions of Quality of Life in Germany: Measured by Plain Text Responses in a Representative Survey (SOEP)|"This paper demonstrates how quality of life can be measured by plain text in a representative survey, the German Socio Economic Panel Study (SOEP). Furthermore, the paper shows that problems that are difficult to monitor, especially problems like the state of the European Union, long-term climate change but also the national debt or problems with the quality of consumer goods (like food) and services (like medical treatment), are not issues of particular importance to the majority of people. Developments and risks that are difficult to monitor and only have long-term effects should be left primarily to the discourse conducted by experts and the politically-minded ""elites"", the avant garde. And in representative democracies it is ultimately the parliamentarians who must decide. Parliamentarians are likely able to make somewhat better decisions using modern representative surveys and national dialogues than they would be without these instruments of civic participation. Nevertheless, improved civic participation cannot replace parliaments."
C83|Worries across Time and Age in Germany: Bringing Together Open- and Close-Ended Questions|We investigate how worries in Germany change across time and age, drawing on both closed-ended questions (which typically list a number of worry items) and open-ended questions answered in text format. We find that relevant world events influence worries. For example, worries about peace peaked in 2003, the year of the Iraq War, with a considerable number of respondents also referring to the Iraq war in their text responses. Furthermore, we found that – controlling for these historical effects – worries about various topics such as health and the general economic situation increase with age. With increasing age, respondents also became more likely to answer the open-ended question. This suggests that the age increases in worries we found are not merely a result of an age-biased choice of worry items, but instead also hold for worries self-generated by the respondents.
C83|Biased by success and failure: How unemployment shapes stated locus of control|Due to its extraordinary explanatory power for individual behavior, the interest in the concept of locus of control (LOC) has increased substantially within applied economic research. But, even though LOC has been found to affect economic behavior in many ways, the reliability of these findings is at risk as they commonly rely on the assumption that LOC is stable over the life course. While absolute stability has been generally rejected, the extent to which LOC and thus personality changes is, nonetheless, strongly debated. We contribute to this discussion by analyzing the effect of unemployment on LOC. Based on German panel data, we apply a difference-in-difference approach by using an involuntary job loss as trigger for unemployment. Overall, we find a significant shift in stated LOC due to unemployment. Because the effect is observable during unemployment only and not heterogeneous with respect to individual characteristics or unemployment duration, we conclude that only the stated LOC is biased during unemployment but the underlying personality trait itself is not affected.
C83|Worries across Time and Age in Germany: Bringing Together Open- and Close-Ended Questions|We investigate how worries in Germany change across time and age, drawing on both closed-ended questions (which typically list a number of worry items) and open-ended questions answered in text format. We find that relevant world events influence worries. For example, worries about peace peaked in 2003, the year of the Iraq War, with a considerable number of respondents also referring to the Iraq war in their text responses. Furthermore, we found that – controlling for these historical effects – worries about various topics such as health and the general economic situation increase with age. With increasing age, respondents also became more likely to answer the open-ended question. This suggests that the age increases in worries we found are not merely a result of an age-biased choice of worry items, but instead also hold for worries self-generated by the respondents.
C83|Consumer preferences for second-generation bioethanol|This study investigates the consumer responses toward fuel from second-generation, nature-inspired lignocellulose processing systems. Data was collected via in-person consumer surveys across in three major U.S. cities with two different information treatments. A dichotomous-choice contingent valuation methodology is utilized to estimate consumers' willingness to pay for this product and analyze factors that affect consumer choice. The results suggest that the average respondent was willing to pay an 11% premium for second-generation nature-inspired bioethanol compared to conventional fuel. The willingness to pay was the highest in Portland, Oregon (17%), followed by Minneapolis (9%) and then Boston (8%). Driving distance was found to have a negative effect on consumer willingness to pay. Consumers who purchase more organic foods were more willing to pay a premium for the product. Risk attitude had heterogeneous effects in different locations. The effect of information regarding the second-generation, nature-inspired lignocellulose process was found to be significantly positive.
C83|Price volatility and residential electricity decisions: Experimental evidence on the convergence of energy generating source|The recent trend in most developed countries has been toward greater reliance on renewable or “green” energy sources. This paper investigates how price volatility in residential electricity rates impacts consumers' preferences for green power. Using a choice-based experiment, we present respondents with choice scenarios that feature two electric utility plans: (i) a conventional plan where electricity is generated from either coal or natural gas, and (ii) a green plan where electricity is generated renewably from either wind or solar. We then systematically vary the monthly price volatility of each plan across choice scenarios. Our results suggest that price volatility in monthly rates significantly impacts respondents' plan choices and, specifically, their decision to adopt the green power plan. In particular, increased volatility in the green power plan reduces the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan, while increased volatility in the conventional plan increases the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan. Moreover, the documented effects of price volatility are robust across different price premiums for the green power plan.
C83|A meta-analysis on the price elasticity of energy demand|Price elasticities of energy demand have become increasingly relevant in estimating the socio-economic and environmental effects of energy policies or other events that influence the price of energy goods. Since the 1970s, a large number of academic papers have provided both short and long-term price elasticity estimates for different countries using several models, data and estimation techniques. Yet the literature offers a rather wide range of estimates for the price elasticities of demand for energy. This paper quantitatively summarizes the recent, but sizeable, empirical evidence to facilitate a sounder economic assessment of (in some cases policy-related) energy price changes. It uses meta-analysis to identify the main factors affecting short and long term elasticity results for energy, in general, as well as for specific products, i.e., electricity, natural gas, gasoline, diesel and heating oil.
C83|Quantifying the social costs of nuclear energy: Perceived risk of accident at nuclear power plants|The preferences expressed in voting on nuclear reactor licenses and the risk perceptions of citizens provide insights into social costs of nuclear power and decision making in energy policy. We show analytically that these costs consist of disutility caused by unnecessary anxiety - due to misperceived risks relating to existing reactors - and where licenses for new nuclear reactors are not granted, delayed or totally lost energy production. Empirical evidence is derived from Finnish surveys eliciting explicitly the importance of risk perceptions on preferences regarding nuclear power and its environmental and economic impacts. We show that the estimated marginal impact of a high perceived risk of nuclear accident is statistically significant and that such a perception considerably decreases the probability of a person supporting nuclear power. This result holds across a number of robustness checks including an instrumental variable estimation and a model validation by observed voting behavior of the members of Parliament. The public's risk perceptions translate into a significant social cost, and are likely to affect the revenues, costs and financing conditions in the nuclear power sector in the future.
C83|The productivity paradox: A meta-analysis|The impact of information and communication technology (ICT) on economic performance has been the subject of academic research for several decades, and despite the remarkable and significant innovation in computer technology, usage, and investments, only a small growth in productivity has been observed. This observations has been coined the productivity paradox. This paper uses meta-analytical methods to examine publication bias and the size of ICT elasticity. The empirical part is based on a collection of more than 800 estimates of ICT payoff effects from more than 70 studies written in the last 20 years. The meta-analysis reveals a strong presence of publication bias within the ICT productivity literature and, using a mixed effect multilevel model, estimates the ICT elasticity to be only 0.3%, which is more than ten times smaller than what was reported by a previous meta-analysis from 10 years ago.
C83|Measuring the Income Elasticity of Water Demand: The Importance of Publication and Endogeneity Biases|We present the first study that examines the effects of publication selection in the literature estimating the income elasticity of water demand. Paradoxically, more affected by publication selection are the otherwise preferable estimates that control for endogeneity. Attempting to correct simultaneously for publication and endogeneity biases, we find that the mean underlying elasticity is approximately 0.15 or less. The result is robust to controlling for more than 30 characteristics of the estimates and accounting for model uncertainty. The differences in the reported estimates are systematically driven by differences in the tariff structure, regional coverage, data granularity, and control for temperature.
C83|Battery order effects on relative ratings in Likert scales|Likert-scale batteries, sequences of questions with the same ordinal response choices, are often used in surveys to collect information about attitudes on a related set of topics. Analysis of such data often focuses on the study of relative ratings or the likelihood that one item is given a lower (or higher) rating than another item. This work studies how different orderings of the items within a battery and, in particular, the relative location of items affect relative rating distributions. We take advantage of data from the 2012–2014 Survey of Consumer Payment Surveys, in which item order in six Likert-scale batteries is varied among respondents. We find that ordering effects are real and consistent across years. The most prominent effect relating to relative locations of items is that the farther one item is placed after another item, the more likely that item is to have a lower rating.
C83|Heaping at Round Numbers on Financial Questions : The Role of Satisficing|Survey responses to quantitative financial questions frequently display strong patterns of heaping at round numbers. This paper uses two studies to examine variation in rounding across questions and by individual characteristics. Rounding was more common for respondents low in ability, for respondents low in motivation, and for more difficult questions, all consistent with theories of satisficing. Questions that require more difficult information retrieval and integration of information exhibit more heaping. The use of records, which lowers task difficulty, reduces rounding as well. Higher episodic memory is associated with less rounding, and standard measures of motivation are negatively associated with rounding. These relationships, along with the fact that longer response latencies are associated with less rounding, all support the idea that rounding is a manifestation of satisficing on open-ended financial questions. Rounding patterns also appear remarkably similar across the two studies, despite being fielded in different modes and employing different question order and wording.
C83|Lining Up : Survey and Administrative Data Estimates of Wealth Concentration|"The Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) has a dual-frame sample design that supplements a standard area-probability frame with a sample of observations drawn from statistical records derived from tax returns. The tax-based frame is stratified on the basis of a ""wealth index"" constructed largely from observed income flows, with the intent of heavily oversampling wealthy households. Although the SCF is not specifically designed to estimate wealth concentration, the design arguably provides sufficient support to enable such analysis with a reasonable level of credibility. Similar estimates may also be made by using tax-based data directly, as in [1], by using a construct very close to a key part of the SCF wealth index. Such an approach has appeal as a way of tapping a much larger set of information to improve SCF estimates. Not surprisingly, there are differences in the two approaches, largely as a result of conceptual differences or complications in the survey implementation. This paper focuses on the top 1 percent of the wealth distribution, the group most intensively covered by the SCF list sample and it explores the stability of the relationship between the patterns of concentration in the survey data and parallel patterns in tax-based estimates and considers how those patterns differ across survey participants, the full sample and the entire survey frame. In addition, the paper makes as series of recommendation for further research on the technical support of the survey."
C83|Can a Repeated Opt-Out Reminder remove hypothetical bias in discrete choice experiments? An application to consumer valuation of novel food products|Recent papers have suggested that use of a so-called Repeated Opt-Out Reminder (ROOR) might mitigate hypothetical bias in stated Discrete Choice Experiments (DCE), but evidence so far has only been circumstantial. We provide the first comprehensive test of whether a ROOR can actually mitigate hypothetical bias in stated DCE. The data originates from a field experiment concerning consumer preferences for a novel food product made from cricket flour. Utilizing a between-subject design with three treatments, we find significantly higher marginal willingness to pay values in hypothetical than in nonhypothetical settings, confirming the usual presence of hypothetical bias. Comparing this to a hypothetical setting where the ROOR is introduced, we find that the ROOR effectively eliminates hypothetical bias for one attribute and significantly reduces it for the rest of the attributes. Our results further suggest that these reductions of hypothetical bias are brought about by a decrease in the tendency to ignore the price attribute.
C83|Working Paper 06-17 - Accrued-to-date pension entitlements in Belgium|Supplementary table 29, “Accrued-to-date pension entitlements in social insurance” for Belgium will be published for the first time in 2017. This table covers the pension schemes in social insurance: statutory pensions and occupational pensions, whether they are funded or not. Table 29 shows the pensions entitlements on an accrued-to-date basis. These are present values of the pension entitlements of the retired population and the part of pension entitlements that is already accrued by the future beneficiaries. As such, accrued-to-date liabilities do not represent public debt and are not an indicator of the fiscal or financial sustainability of the pension systems and are only appropriate for national accounts purposes. Accrued-to-date liabilities should only be interpreted as an asset from the households in national accounts' terminology. An assessment of the sustainability of the pension systems can be found in the reports of the Ageing Working Group or the Belgian Study Commission for Ageing.
C83|Estimating Rationality in Economics: A History of Statistical Methods in Experimental Economics|"Experimental economists increasingly apply econometric techniques to interpret their data, as suggested the emergence of ""experimetrics"" in the 2000's (Camerer, 2003; Houser, 2008; Moffatt, 2015). Yet statistics remains a minor topic in experimental economics' (EE) methodology. This article aims to study the historical roots of this present paradox. To do so, we analyze the use of statistical tools in EE from early economics experiments of the 1940's-1950's to the present days. Our narrative is based on qualitative analysis of published papers for the earliest periods and on bibliometric and quantitative approaches for the more recent time period. Our results reveal a significant change in EE' statistical methods, from purely descriptive methods to more sophisticated and standardized techniques. Statistics now plays a decisive role in the way EE estimates rationality, particularly in structural modeling approaches, but it is still considered as a non-methodological, because purely technical, matter. Our historical analysis shows that this technical conception was the result of a long-run evolution of research tactics in EE, that notably allowed experimental economists to escape from psychologist's more re exive culture toward statistics."
C83|Replication in Experimental Economics: A Historical and Quantitative Approach Focused on Public Good Game Experiments|"We propose a historical perspective on replication in experimental economics focused on public good games. Our intended contribution is twofold: in terms of method and in terms of object. Methodologically, we blend traditional qualitative history of economics with a less traditional quantitative approach using basic econometric tools to detect unnoticed historical patterns of replication. In terms of our object, we highlight a type of replication that we call ""baseline replication"", which is not present in explicit methodological discussions, yet central in the specificity of experimental economics regarding replication in economics."
C83|Theories, techniques and the formation of German business cycle forecasts: Evidence from a survey among professional forecasters|The paper reports results of a survey among active forecasters of the German business cycle. Relying on 82 respondents from 37 different institutions, we investigate what models and theories forecasters subscribe to and find that they are pronounced conservative in the sense, that they overwhelmingly rely on methods and theories that have been well-established for a long time, while more recent approaches are relatively unimportant for the practice of business cycle forecasting. DSGE models are mostly used in public institutions. In line with findings in the literature there are tendencies of “leaning towards consensus” (especially for public institutions) and “sticky adjustment of forecasts” with regard to new information. We find little evidence that the behaviour of forecasters has changed fundamentally since the Great Recession but there are signs that forecast errors are evaluated more carefully. Also, a stable relationship between preferred theories and methods and forecast accuracy cannot be established.
C83|How Can Contingent Valuation Inform the Bioethics Debate? Evidence from a Survey on Hereditary Cancers in France|BRCA1/2 carriers have a higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer at a younger age.?Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal diagnosis (PND) are two of the few options available to avoid transmitting the mutation.?To inform the bioethics debate about authorization, a contingent valuation survey elicited preferences regarding access to PGD and PND from a sample of 460 unaffected by cancer BRCA1/2 carriers (GENEPSO cohort).?We find that the respondents can be classified into three groups: one opposed to PGD/PND (28.3%), one strongly in favour of PGD/PND (45.8%), and one in an intermediate position (25.9%).?We look for the determinants of these preferences, especially of the willingness to pay for PGD/PND.?Overall, we find that BRCA1/2 carriers support access to PGD/PND, which has implications for recommendations to decision-makers. JEL Codes: C01, C83, D04, D79, I19.
C83|Public Transport Authorities’ use of Cost-Benefit Analysis in practice|Given the Swedish national goals for transport and infrastructure, economic efficiency is essential also in public transport. In 2003, Ljungberg (2007) sought to answer to which extent PTAs use Cost-Benefit analyses (CBA), a methodology to assess economic efficiency, in their planning of operations and infrastructure. It was found that CBA was seldom used. This paper tries to answer the same question, but for year 2016. The aim of this paper is to see to what extent PTAs are using CBA at the time of the survey, and investigate whether there are any changes with the previous study.
C83|Research Grants in Russian Science: Evidences of an Empirical Study|The paper discusses the results of a survey devoted to the role of research grants for the modern Russian academic community. Researchers’ motives to apply for grants, the strategies used in grant contests, the factors decisive for grant success are presented. Also the extent of Russian scientists’ trust to the main research foundations in the country is discussed. The study has demonstrated that the symbolic value of grants for Russian scientists play a secondary role in comparison to their economic meaning: participation in grant contests is mainly motivated not by the aspiration for professional recognition, but the need for financial support. The paper might be of interest for sociologists of science and others interested in current transformations of scientific field in the country. Above all, an overview of academic literature on the topic – both foreign and Russian – is presented in the paper, what can make a significant contribution to any research on grant science: its evolution, national peculiarities of grant systems, grants’ influence on researchers’ work and life worldwide.
C83|Does participating in a panel survey change respondents' labor market behavior?|"""Panel survey participation can bring about unintended changes in respondents' behavior and/or reporting of behavior. Using administrative data linked to a large panel survey, we analyze changes in respondents' labor market behavior. We estimate the causal effect of panel participation on the take-up of federal labor market programs using instrumental variables. Results show that panel survey participation leads to a decrease in respondents' take-up of these measures. These results suggest that panel survey participation not only affects the reporting of behavior, as previous studies have demonstrated, but can also alter respondents' actual behavior."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
C83|Misreporting in Sensitive Health Behaviors and Its Impact on Treatment Effects: An Application to Intimate Partner Violence|A growing literature seeks to identify policies that could reduce intimate partner violence. However, in the absence of reliable administrative records, this violence is often measured using self-reported data from health surveys. In this paper, an experiment is conducted comparing data from such surveys against a methodology that provides greater privacy to the respondent. Non-classical measurement error in health surveys is identified as college-educated women, but not the less educated, underreport physical and sexual violence. The paper provides a low-cost solution to correct the bias in the estimation of causal effects under non-classical measurement error in the dependent variable.
C83|“Let the data do the talking: Empirical modelling of survey-based expectations by means of genetic programming”|In this study we use agents’ expectations about the state of the economy to generate indicators of economic activity in twenty-six European countries grouped in five regions (Western, Eastern, and Southern Europe, and Baltic and Scandinavian countries). We apply a data-driven procedure based on evolutionary computation to transform survey variables in economic growth rates. In a first step, we design five independent experiments to derive the optimal combination of expectations that best replicates the evolution of economic growth in each region by means of genetic programming, limiting the integration schemes to the main mathematical operations. We then rank survey variables according to their performance in tracking economic activity, finding that agents’ “perception about the overall economy compared to last year” is the survey variable with the highest predictive power. In a second step, we assess the out-of-sample forecast accuracy of the evolved indicators. Although we obtain different results across regions, Austria, Slovakia, Portugal, Lithuania and Sweden are the economies of each region that show the best forecast results. We also find evidence that the forecasting performance of the survey-based indicators improves during periods of higher growth.
C83|Correcting Measurement Errors in Transition Models Based on Retrospective Panel Data|We propose in this paper a dynamic n-state transition model to correct for measurement error, that could arise for example from recall and/or design bias, in retrospective panels. Our model allows the correction of measurement errors, when very little auxiliary information is available, over a long period of time taking into consideration the conjuncture fluctuations. The technique suggested shows that it is sufficient to have population moments (for at least one point in time) to correct over- or under-reporting biases. Using a Simulated Method of Moments, one can estimate a transition- and time-specific correction matrix for the labor market flows in a biased retrospective panel. Using retrospective and contemporaneous data from Egypt, we estimate the model and show the significance and robustness of our correction. We show through a reform evaluation that neglecting measurement error in the data would have produced significantly different and misleading results.
C83|Adoption of a New Payment System: Theory and Experimental Evidence|We model the introduction of a new payment method that competes with an existing payment method. Due to network adoption effects, there are two symmetric pure strategy equilibria in which only one of the two payment methods is used. The equilibrium where only the new payment method is used is socially optimal. In an experiment, we find that, depending on the fixed fee for acceptance of the new payment method and on the choices made by participants on both sides of the market, either equilibrium can be selected. An evolutionary learning model provides a good characterization of our experimental data.
C83|Dimensions of Quality of Life in Germany: Measured by Plain Text Responses in a Representative Survey (SOEP)|This paper demonstrates how quality of life can be measured by plain text in a representative survey, the German Socio Economic Panel study (SOEP). Furthermore, the paper shows that problems that are difficult to monitor, especially problems like the state of the European Union, long-term climate change but also the national debt or problems with the quality of consumer goods (like food) and services (like medical treatment), are not issues of particular importance to the majority of people. Developments and risks that are difficult to monitor and only have long-term effects should be left primarily to the discourse conducted by experts and the politically-minded “elites”, the avant garde. And in representative democracies it is ultimately the parliamentarians who must decide. Parliamentarians are likely able to make somewhat better decisions using modern representative surveys and national dialogues than they would be without these instruments of civic participation. Nevertheless, improved civic participation cannot replace parliaments. In diesem Beitrag wird gezeigt, dass es heutzutage gut möglich ist, die Wichtigkeitgesellschaftlicher Ziele und dem Stand der Lebensqualität in der Bevölkerung mit Hilfe einesrepräsentativen Surveys (hier: dem Sozio-oekonomischen Panel, SOEP) mit offenen Fragenund Klartextantworten zu erheben und sinnvoll auszuwerten. Dabei zeigt sich, dasslangfristig wichtige, aber zugleich aktuell wenig spürbare Themen wie Klimawandel,Staatsverschuldung oder die Europäische Unionkaum genannt werden. Wir ziehen dieSchlussfolgerung, dass langfristig wirkende Entwicklungen und Gefahren auch weiterhinvorwiegend dem Diskurs der Fachleute und der politisch denkenden „Avantgarde“zugewiesen werden sollten. Undam Ende müssen in einer repräsentativen Demokratie dieParlamente entscheiden. Auf Basis von modernen repräsentativen Erhebungen undBürgerdialogen können Parlamente vermutlich etwas besser entscheiden als ohne dieseInstrumente der Bürgerbeteiligung. Aber auch eine noch so effektive Bürgerbeteiligung kannParlamente nicht ersetzen.
C83|Equal Opportunity through Higher Education: Theory and Evidence on Privilege and Ability|We model a higher education system that admits students according to their admission signal (e.g., matriculation GPA, SAT), which is, in turn, affected by their cognitive ability and socioeconomic background. We show that subsidizing education loans increases neither human capital stock nor aggregate consumption, but only yields income redistribution mainly among the upper class. We show that the policies aimed at compensating for poor socioeconomic background result in a higher aggregate consumption, as well as income redistribution from top to bottom. We test the model using a unique dataset that includes proxies of socioeconomic background and cognitive ability. Results show that the high school matriculation GPA is a weak predictor of academic achievements. We demonstrate that, while the high school matriculation GPA is explained by proxies of cognitive ability and socioeconomic background, academic GPA is solely explained by cognitive ability proxies. Finally, the lack of a matriculation certificate is associated with a poor socioeconomic background.
C83|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern and Prospects for Cooperation|The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
C83|The Reliability of Students' Earnings Expectations|Eliciting expectation and introducing probabilistic questions into surveys have gained important interest. In this study, we focus on the reliability of students’ earnings expectations. To what extent is observed log earnings expectations affected by random measurement error (noise)? A test-retest method is applied and reliability is found to be fairly low; about 0.59 in 2015 and about 0.67 in 2016. Particularly homogeneous samples exaggerate problems of measurement error. The analysis show how these measures of reliability can be adjusted to become more suitable to other studies, where different degrees of homogeneity are present.
C83|Comparing retrospective and panel data collection methods to assess labor market dynamics|Abstract There is potential for measurement problems in both retrospective and panel microdata. In this paper, we compare results on basic indicators related to labor markets and their dynamics from retrospective and panel survey data in Egypt, in order to determine the conditions under which results are similar or different. Specifically, we (1) assess the consistency of reporting of time-invariant characteristics in different waves of the panel, (2) compare the retrospective and panel data results on past labor market statuses, (3) assess the consistency of estimates of labor market transition rates across two specific dates by comparing panel and retrospective data, (4) assess the consistency of estimates of the level and trends of annual labor market transition rates across retrospective data from different waves of the survey, and (5) assess whether retrospective data can provide accurate trends of labor market aggregates, such as unemployment rates. We find that it is possible to garner useful information on labor market dynamics from retrospective data, but one must be cautious about which information to trust and at what level of detail. We conclude with a discussion of implications for future research as well as future survey design. JEL Classification: C83, C81, J01, J62, J64
C83|Re-assessing the merits of measuring tax evasion through business surveys: an application of the crosswise model|Abstract Self-assessments by respondents in surveys are often the only available measure of tax evasion in developing countries at the microeconomic level. However, they suffer from the reluctance of respondents to reveal their own illicit behavior. This paper evaluates whether this weakness of self-assessments can at least partially be overcome through a novel questioning method, the crosswise model, which allows estimating the prevalence of tax evasion, but not identifying whether the individual respondent engages in tax evasion or not. Using evidence from Serbia, we show that crosswise model-based estimates of the share of firms which significantly underreport sales exceed those obtained from conventional methods by around 10 % points or more. With respect to wage underreporting to evade payroll tax and social security contributions, we do not find differences. These results appear to be robust to a number of modifications, and we explore various potential causes that lead to these results.
C83|Divide, Allocate et Impera: Comparing Allocation Strategies via Simulation|In stratified sampling, the problem of optimally allocating the sample size is of primary importance, especially when reliable estimates are required both for the overall population and for subdomains. To this purpose, in this paper we compare multiple standard allocation mechanisms. In particular, standard allocation methods are compared with an allocation method that has been recently adopted by the Italian National Statistical Institute: the Robust Optimal Allocation with Uniform Stratum Threshold (ROAUST) method. Standard allocation methods considered in this comparison are: (i) the optimal Neyman allocation, (ii) the multivariate Neyman allocation, (iii) the Costa allocation, (iv) the Bankier allocation, and (v) the Interior Point Non Linear Programming (IPNLP) allocation. Results show that the optimal Neyman allocation method outperforms the ROAUST method at the overall sample level, whereas the latter method performs better at the stratum level. Some results on the Nonlinear Programming method are particularly interesting.
C83|Willingness-to-Pay for Science as a Public Good: A Contingent Valuation Experiment|Every year a significant amount of money is invested by governments on large-scale research infrastructures such as particle accelerators, telescopes, robotic space probes, biological data banks, oceanographic vessels, etc. The majority of these projects is funded through general taxation, and hence taxpayers are implicitly called to contribute to scientific discovery. Against the actual tax burden, how much the general public is actually willing to pay for investment in science? This paper explores the attitudes of young science-outsiders (the taxpayers of tomorrow) by the design of a pilot experiment involving a sample of undergraduate students in economics at University of Milan. We were interested in building a replicable survey setting aimed at eliciting the willingness to pay (WTP) for the discovery potential of a basic science project. Our case study is the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the most powerful particle accelerator worldwide. The experiment takes the form of a Contingent Valuation Referendum-like in depth interview. Both parametric and non-parametric estimators were used to calculate the mean WTP. Our results suggest that the sample mean WTP for the LHC discoveries ranges from EUR 23 to 28 per person annually. This is a relatively high result, several times in excess of the actual average tax-burden for supporting the CERN budget by Italian taxpayers, but can be compared with several previous empirical findings about the WTP for the non-use value of specific cultural and environmental goods. Building on this pilot experiment, we discuss possible future research avenues in order to extend to representative samples of taxpayers the empirical analysis of WTP for scientific discovery.
C83|Challenges in Constructing a Survey-Based Well-Being Index|How should a survey-based measure of well-being be implemented? How could it be constructed in a systematic and politically neutral way? These questions should be approached by economists with the same level of care that has been taken in the theoretical and practical development of GDP. We focus on two essential requirements for implementation: formulating a list of different aspects of well-being that is theoretically valid and can be measured accurately via surveys, and choosing and interpreting the survey response scales. We discuss progress to date on these issues, remaining challenges, and some possible approaches to overcoming them.
C83|Using Aggregated Relational Data to Feasibly Identify Network Structure without Network Data|Social network data is often prohibitively expensive to collect, limiting empirical network research. Typical economic network mapping requires (1) enumerating a census, (2) eliciting the names of all network links for each individual, (3) matching the list of social connections to the census, and (4) repeating (1)-(3) across many networks. In settings requiring field surveys, steps (2)-(3) can be very expensive. In other network populations such as financial intermediaries or high-risk groups, proprietary data and privacy concerns may render (2)-(3) impossible. Both restrict the accessibility of high-quality networks research to investigators with considerable resources. We propose an inexpensive and feasible strategy for network elicitation using Aggregated Relational Data (ARD) – responses to questions of the form “How many of your social connections have trait k?” Our method uses ARD to recover the parameters of a general network formation model, which in turn, permits the estimation of any arbitrary node- or graph-level statistic. The method works well in simulations and in matching a range of network characteristics in real-world graphs from 75 Indian villages. Moreover, we replicate the results of two field experiments that involved collecting network data. We show that the researchers would have drawn similar conclusions using ARD alone. Finally, using calculations from J-PAL fieldwork, we show that in rural India, for example, ARD surveys are 80% cheaper than full network surveys.
C83|Measures of interpersonal trust: Evidence on their cross-national validity and reliability based on surveys and experimental data|Interpersonal trust (i.e. trust in other people) is an issue of high interest to both policy-makers and researchers seeking to understand what drives social and economic outcomes. However, for trust to usefully inform policy and analysis it is necessary to have valid and reliable measures of it. Despite a large body of evidence on the relationship between trust and other social and economic outcomes, evidence on the validity of trust from experimental data is conflicting. In particular, while many studies find no correlation between survey measures of trust and experimental measures at an individual level, other studies suggest a significant, if modest, correlation at the country level. This article examines the relationship between survey and experimental measures of trust in others using a large dataset containing aggregate experimental and survey measures of trust from 167 studies conducted in 36 countries. Importantly, the dataset also includes individual measures of both survey and behavioural trust in seven countries, and data from two panel studies with repeated survey measures of trust. Using these multiple data sources, the paper investigates the degree to which survey measures of interpersonal trust are valid at both an individual and cross-country level. The paper shows the existence of a significant correlation between survey and experimental measures of interpersonal trust at the country-level. Evidence on measurement errors in existing small-scale studies underscores the importance of developing better quality data from both surveys and experiments.
C83|Assessing News Contagion in Finance|The analysis of news data in the financial context has gained a prominent interest in the last years. This because of the possible predictive power of such content especially in terms of associated sentiment/mood. In this paper we focus on a specific aspect of financial news analysis: how the covered topics modify according to space and time dimensions. To this purpose, we employ a modified version of topic model LDA, the so called Structural Topic Model (STM), that takes into account covariates as well. Our aim is to study the possible evolution of topics extracted from two well known news archive - Reuters and Bloomberg - and to investigate a causal effect in the diffusion of the news by means of a Granger causality test. Our results show that both the temporal dynamics and the spatial differentiation matter in the news contagion.
C83|Deep Learning Bank Distress from News and Numerical Financial Data|In this paper we focus our attention on the exploitation of the information contained in financial news to enhance the performance of a classifier of bank distress. Such information should be analyzed and inserted into the predictive model in the most efficient way and this task deals with all the issues related to text analysis and specifically analysis of news media. Among the different models proposed for such purpose, we investigate one of the possible deep learning approaches, based on a doc2vec representation of the textual data, a kind of neural network able to map the sequential and symbolic text input onto a reduced latent semantic space. Afterwards, a second supervised neural network is trained combining news data with standard financial figures to classify banks whether in distressed or tranquil states, based on a small set of known distress events. Then the final aim is not only the improvement of the predictive performance of the classifier but also to assess the importance of news data in the classification process. Does news data really bring more useful information not contained in standard financial variables? Our results seem to confirm such hypothesis.
C83|Piyasa ekonomisine geçiş süreci ve sonrasında Türkiye'de GINI katsayılarının analizi: Alternatif GINI formülü yaklaşımı<BR>[During and after the process of transition to market economy, an analysis of income distribution in Turkey: An alternative GINI formula approach]|This study considers the Gini 1 and alternative Gini 2 coefficients for households’ % income shares from 1963 to 2015 in Turkey. Throughout regarding calibrations, one might see that, despite the existence of some deviations from trend and some Gini 1 and Gini 2 coefficients’ differences, (a) there exists an improvement in the distribution of income until 2011, except for the year 2009 when the global crisis was experienced, but an average deterioration in the distribution for 2011-2015 period is experienced, (b) the geographical regions of the Turkish economy reveal different outcomes. For the period 2006-2015, it is observed that in the regions of Istanbul, West Marmara, Central Anatolia and North East Anatolia, the Lorenz curve has moved away from full equilibrium line, but in the regions of Aegean, Eastern Marmara and Eastern Black Sea, on the average, a convergence towards the equilibrium from the Lorenz curve has appeared. In other three regions, the Gini coefficients improve on average in Western Anatolia, Mediterranean and Western Black Sea regions. The Gini coefficients are increasing in the period 2006-2011 in the Middle East Anatolia and falling in 2015. In the South East Anatolia Region, there is no progress in the period 2006-2011, but, there happens to be a recovery in income distribution in 2015.
C83|Using Simulation and Six-Sigma Tools in Improving Process Flow in Outpatient Clinics|It is apparent that outpatient clinics are becoming complex and need to be optimized and improved on a daily basis. In this project, we used several methods including discrete event simulation, quality function deployment (QFD), and failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA) to optimize and improve these clinics. We conducted this study at a major suburban outpatient clinic to propose main recommendations which most likely apply to a vast majority of such clinics. Firstly, the simulation-based modeling that we ran assisted us in recognizing optimum staff number which would result in decreasing waiting times that patients usually spend and making the process flow at the facility smoother. Secondly, QFD approach for analyzing outpatient clinic requirement is also proposed and realized through a case study. It is realized that the proposed approach can adjust service quality toward customer requirements effectively. Lastly, the health care failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA) that we implemented as a novel method to discover conditions and active failures and to prioritize these based on the potential severity of risks associated with them.
C83|Willingness to Pay for Government-Certified Agri-Products in South Korea|This study investigated the value that government-issued certification labels adds to agricultural products. Using a face-to-face questionnaire administered in the Greater Seoul area, it assessed consumers’willingness to pay for government certification labels on four types of agri-products. Our results indicated that the premium for goods with these labels ranged from 7 to 32 per cent above the prices of non-certified products of the same types, while organic certificates for meat products earned higher willingness-to-pay scores than other certificate types. This clearly indicates the importance of such certification schemes to South Korean consumers. 본 연구에서는 다양한 정부인증마크가 부착된 농축산물에 대한 소비자 지불의도를 파악하고자 하였다. 이를 위해 수도권 지역 주부 소비자 306 명을 설문지를 이용한 대면면접 방식으로 조사하였다. 조사대상 농축산물은 곡류(쌀), 과일(사과), 채소(배추), 축산물(쇠고기)를 선정하고 인증마크가 없는 농축산물의 기준가격을 제시한 다음 유기농 마크와 우수농산물마크(GAP), 지리적 표시(GIS) 생산자이력추적 표시(APTMS)가 부착된 농축산물에 대한 추가지불의도(WTP)를 각각 측정하였다. 조사결과 인증마크가 부착된 농축산물에 대한 추가지불의도는 인증마크 미부착 농축산물에 비해 7~32% 높게 나타났다. 인증마크별로는 유기농 인증에 대한 지불의사가 가장 높았고 품목별로는 축산물에 대한 지불의사가 가장 높았다. 인증마크와 품목별 지불의사에 영향을 미치는 요소들도 또한 분석하였다.
C83|Are Perceptions of Corruption Matching Reality? Theory and Evidence from Microdata|Some criticism has been raised on the actual capability of corruption perception-based indices to gauge the essence of concepts they aim to measure. One can argue that perceptions about corruption are not matching reality and could be the re?ection of distorted truth. Based on this evidence we provide a theoretical ground for the corruption decision-making process (objective corruption) and the corruption perception-making process (subjective corruption) which accounts for the role of media attention. From the theoretical model we are able to derive testable implications for the empirical analysis, i.e. whether socio and cultural norms can explain the gap between the two measures of corruption across Europe. We employ a generalised setting of the structural equation models to build latent indices of objective and subjective corruption from our microdata exploiting the information on various economic, geographic and socio-demographic factors that can a¤ect the perception and the experience of corruption practices. The resulting indices allow us to define country rankings for both types of corruption and draw a geopolitical picture of the phenomenon across Europe. We also show that countries where the quality of media is higher are associated with lower di¤erences between perceived and real corruption.
C83|Causal Inference Using Potential Outcomes for a General Assignment Scheme|Recent years have witnessed a significant surge of interest in causal inference under a potential outcomes framework, with applications to such diverse fields as sociology, behavioral sciences, biomedical sciences, and so on. In a finite population setting, we consider causal inference on treatment contrasts from an experimental design using potential outcomes. Adopting an approach that integrates such causal inference with finite population sampling, this is done with reference to a general scheme for assigning experimental units to treatments, along with general linear unbiased estimators of the treatment means. The assignment scheme allows the possibility of randomization restrictions, such as stratification, and unequal replications. We examine how tools from finite population sampling can be employed to develop a unified theory for our general setup. As a major breakthrough, it is shown that unbiased estimation of the sampling variance of any treatment contrast estimator is possible under conditions milder than Neymannian strict additivity. The consequences of departure from such conditions are also touched upon. Our approach applies readily to the situation where the treatments have a general factorial structure.
C83|The views of prospective teachers regarding the incivility level of the teaching staff|Workplace incivility is low-intensity deviant behavior with ambiguous intent to harm the target, in violation of workplace norms for mutual respect. ?ncivility behaviors are characteristically rude and discourteous, displaying a lack of regard for others. Incivility constitutes rude, insensitive, disrespectful, and thoughtless behavior with ambiguous intent to harm that is directed toward individuals (Pearson et al., 2000), teams, groups, and organizations. For example, talking down to others, not listening, belittling others, withholding information, paying little attention or showing little interest in others? opinions, making demeaning or derogatory remarks to someone and avoiding someone.The purpose of this work, determining the views of teacher candidates for incivility level of teaching staff. In the study, data will collect from 300 prospective teachers. Research applications and data analysis is underway.
C83|The advantages of using Best-Worst Model for hybrid products|Purpose-the aim of this paper is to highlight the advantages of using Best-Worst Model to find out the importance of country of origin of hybrid products for specialistsDesign/Methodology/Approach-quantitative methods: questionnaires. SPSS was used for computing the scores and to check out if the gender or age has an influence on the scores.Findings- for specialists or consumers familiar with products, country of origin is of low importance, it is less important comparing to price or quality and it doesn?t have a significant effect on buying intention.Practical implications-the paper is very for researchers, it was proved that Best-Worst Model is more objective than other types of survey.Originality/Value-the application of the Best-Worst Model on specific categories of goods.
C83|The External Validity of Consequential Stated Preference Studies: a comment|Mounting evidence suggests that Consequential Discrete Choice Experiments (CDCEs) are internally valid i.e. they elicit a de-facto revealed preference. This comment asks whether CDCEs are always externally valid. For instance, when it comes to existence values, policy makers require a valuation of the benefit that derives from passively experiencing the continued existence of a good, whereas CDCEs measure the value that derives from actively intervening to maintain or increase the supply of a good. We show that CDCEs will recommend suboptimal levels of Pigovian taxes and public goods provision. We suggest potential alternatives to CDCEs that future research should consider.
C83|Can Survey Participation Alter Household Saving Behaviour?|We document an effect of survey participation on household saving. Indentification comes from random assignment to modules within a population-representative internet panel. The saving measure is based on linked administrative wealth data. Households that responded to a detailed questionnaire on needs in retirement reduced their non-housing saving rate by 3.5 per- centage points, on a base of 1.5%. The survey may have acted as a salience shock, possibly with respect to reduced housing costs in retirement. Our findings present an important challenge to survey designers. They also add to the evidence of limited attention in household financial decision making.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C83|Experimentally validated general risk attitude among different ethnic groups in Vietnam|"In this paper, we compare experimentally measured individual risk attitudes and survey-based risk items for rural households in the province of Dak Lak in Southern Vietnam. In particular, we test whether the survey-based measure can be validated by a risk experiment among different ethnic groups. Albeit we find that ethnic minorities are on average more risk averse than the ethnic majority, our results show similar correlations between risk attitudes and socio-economic characteristics among the two ethnic groups. Testing the explanatory power of the survey-based risk item shows the validity of this measure among different ethnic groups. Our findings have potentially important implications. First, the survey-based item is effective to measure risk attitudes of a multiethnic community. Second, our findings also suggest that the assumption of a ""self-reinforcing culture of poverty"" which is often attributed to minority group of Vietnam should be challenged in the light of these results."
C83|Improving Drinking Quality in South Korea: A Choice Experiment|Increased pollution leads to a constant decrease of drinking water quality worldwide. Due to safety concerns, unpleasant taste and odour only about 3% of the population in South Korea is drinking untreated tap water. The present study uses choice experiments and cost-benefit analysis to investigate the feasibility of installing advanced water treatments in Cheongju waterworks in South Korea. The waterworks is situated in the middle of the country and is providing more than half a million people with drinking water. The study shows that the lower bound of the median WTP for installing a new advanced water treatment system is about $2 US/month, which is similar to the average expenditures for bottled water per household in South Korea. Scenarios under which the instalment of the advanced water treatments is feasible are discussed together with environmental solutions in the long-run.
C83|The Reliability of Studentsâ€™ Earnings Expectations| Eliciting expectation and introducing probabilistic questions into surveys have gained important interest. In this study, we focus on the reliability of studentsâ€™ earnings expectations. To what extent is observed log earnings expectations affected by random measurement error (noise)? A test-retest method is applied and reliability is found to be fairly low; about 0.59 in 2015 and about 0.67 in 2016. Particularly homogeneous samples exaggerate problems of measurement error. The analysis show how these measures of reliability can be adjusted to become more suitable to other studies, where different degrees of homogeneity are present. JEL: C46; C83; I26 Keywords: Earnings expectations, reliability, measurement error.
C83|Diversification of Research on Economic Awareness and Education of Poles|The principal objective of this review is to determine whether the conducted studies provide a diagnosis of the Poles’ economic awareness and of economic education actions undertaken in Poland. To make this evaluation we first analysed the issues which the studies are focused on and synthetically presented their key results. We further analysed which groups participate in those studies and what institutions commission such research. The summary, in addition to conclusions resulting from the presented considerations, offered initial recommendations which, if implemented, could contribute to better verification of the Poles’ economic awareness and knowledge in empirical studies. The authors first reviewed the literature, which resulted in defining conceptual boundaries of terms critical to the topic of this paper. The core research material was constituted by selected reports from studies of economic awareness and education of Poles and an analysis of those studies.
C83|Measuring Efficiency of Statistical Methods Use in Enterprises: Development of a System of Indicators|The paper introduces a system of indicators for measuring statistical methods use efficiency in enterprises. The indicators are formed based on the questionnaire, which is used to inspect the attitude of employees towards statistical methods use in Croatian enterprises. With the purpose of understanding statistical methods use effectiveness better, indicators are classified into two groups: comparative and individual indicators. These indicators were used in the construction of the E-score indicator, which can be used to predict if an enterprise will achieve a positive net income due to an effective use of statistical methods or not. The system of indicators of statistical methods use efficiency developed within this research can be easily used by any enterprise. Using these indicators an enterprise can estimate its competitive position compared to other enterprises and it can predict if the difference will increase or decrease. Despite the existence of many business systems of indicators, the impact of statistical methods use used to be neglected. This paper corrects this and introduces statistical methods as a very important part of business decision making and continuous monitoring of business processes.
C83|What are the drivers of tax complexity for multinational corporations? Evidence from 108 countries|All over the world, firms and governments are increasingly concerned about the rise in tax complexity. To manage it and develop effective simplification measures, detailed information on the current drivers of complexity is required. However, research on this topic is scarce. This is surprising as the latest developments - for example, triggered by the BEPS project - give rise to the conjecture that complexity drivers may have changed, thus questioning the findings of prior studies. In this paper, we shed light on this issue and provide a global picture of the current drivers of tax complexity that multinational corporations face based on a survey of 221 highly experienced tax practitioners from 108 countries. Our results show that prior complexity drivers of the tax code are still relevant, with details and changes of tax regulations being the two most influential complexity drivers. We also find evidence for new relevant complexity drivers emerging from different areas of the tax framework, such as inconsistent decisions among tax officers (tax audits) or retroactively applied tax law amendments (tax enactment). Based on the responses of the practitioners, we develop a concept of tax complexity that distinguishes two pillars, tax code and tax framework complexity, and illustrates the various aspects that should be considered when assessing the complexity of a country's tax system.
C83|Evaluating how child allowances and daycare subsidies affect fertility|We compare the cost effectiveness of two pronatalist policies: (a) child allowances; and (b) daycare subsidies. We pay special attention to estimating how intended fertility (fertility before children are born) responds to these policies. We use two evaluation tools: (i) a dynamic model on fertility, labor supply, outsourced childcare time, parental time, asset accumulation and consumption; and (ii) randomized vignette-survey policy experiments. We implement both tools in the United States and Germany, finding consistent evidence that daycare subsidies are more cost effective. Nevertheless, the required public expenditure to increase fertility to the replacement level might be viewed as prohibitively high.
C83|Biased by Success and Failure: How Unemployment Shapes Stated Locus of Control|Due to its extraordinary explanatory power for individual behavior, the interest in the concept of locus of control (LOC) has increased substantially within applied economic research. But, even though LOC has been found to affect economic behavior in many ways, the reliability of these findings is at risk as they commonly rely on the assumption that LOC is stable over the life course. While absolute stability has been generally rejected, the extent to which LOC and thus personality changes is, nonetheless, strongly debated. We contribute to this discussion by analyzing the effect of unemployment on LOC. Based on German panel data, we apply a difference-in-difference approach by using an involuntary job loss as trigger for unemployment. Overall, we find a significant shift in stated LOC due to unemployment. Because the effect is observable during unemployment only and not heterogeneous with respect to individual characteristics or unemployment duration, we conclude that only the stated LOC is biased during unemployment but the underlying personality trait itself is not affected.
C83|Bridging the digital divide in the G20: Skills for the new age|The digital divide in general, and between women and men in particular, is a manifestation of exclusion, poverty and inequality, and is likely to continue because of the effects of unemployment, poorly functioning digital skilling programmes and socio-cultural norms in some economies, and further depriving women equal access to digital services. Digital skills provide the poor a catalyst to break out of the cycle of poverty and empower themselves. This paper considers a three-pronged digital skills strategy that will be required for developing countries to break out of the digital divide trap: (1) Monitor the evolving set of digital skills required for employment (2) incorporate a holistic digital skills development strategy into national education programmes, and (3) contextualize skilling programs within prevailing socio-cultural norms that will shape the uptake and impact of digital skilling programs.
C83|Bridging the digital divide: Measuring digital literacy|To promote digital transformation, equal emphasis needs to be placed on digital skills development as to infrastructure development. Integral to investment in digital skills development is the subsequent management and evaluation of digital training programmes. This paper assesses mechanisms to ensure digital training programmes are adequately managed using a standardized data collection framework to measure an internationally accepted digital literacy index. Such an index must be defined by an agile definition of digital literacy responsive to the fluid nature of the digital economy. The paper also explores the extent to which a G20 advisory body may inform a nationally representative data collection strategy within the context of a data collection process that is cognizant of the evolving demands of businesses and users alike.
C83|Generalization in the Tropics – Development Policy, Randomized Controlled Trials, and External Validity|When properly implemented, Randomized Controlled Trials (RCT) achieve a high degree of internal validity. Yet, if an RCT is to inform policy, it is critical to establish external validity. This paper systematically reviews all RCTs conducted in developing countries and published in leading economic journals between 2009 and 2014 with respect to how they deal with external validity. Following Duflo, Glennerster, and Kremer (2008), we scrutinize the following hazards to external validity: Hawthorne effects, general equilibrium effects, specific sample problems, and special care in treatment provision. Based on a set of objective indicators, we find that the majority of published RCTs does not discuss these hazards and many do not provide the necessary information to assess potential problems. The paper calls for including external validity dimensions in a more systematic reporting on the results of RCTs. This may create incentives to avoid overgeneralizing findings and help policy makers to interpret results appropriately.
C83|An investigation of record linkage refusal and its implications for empirical research|Linking survey data to administrative records provides access to large quantities of information such as full employment biographies. Although this practice is becoming increasingly common, only a small number of studies in the field of social sciences have thus far investigated the variables associated with linkage consent. These studies have produced diverging results with regard to the relevance of certain characteristics for the provision or non-provision of linkage consent. In this study, we analyze two comparable German datasets, thereby shedding new light on the possible reasons for previously inconsistent results. This is also the first study in which possible linkage consent bias is investigated in applied models, via the replication of an existing study for the sample in which respondents did not consent to data linkage. Whilst similar results are found between standard sociodemographic variables and linkage consent, there are considerable inconsistencies between the comparable datasets in terms of variables such as individual personality traits and work satisfaction. Overall, however, the results are promising - results do not differ much where respondents who did not provide linkage consent are considered.
C83|Measuring short and rare activities – Time diaries in criminology|Motivated by recent time use studies in criminology, this study examined whether time diaries are suitable for measuring short and rare activities such as offending. The study compared time diary data collected among 843 adolescents from the conurbation of The Hague (the Netherlands) with stylized questionnaire data from the same respondents, and with stylized questionnaire data from another sample that is representative for Dutch adolescents (N = 1849). Based on the reported offenses in the diaries (N = 101), findings indicate that time diaries may underestimate population offense rates and may not capture offenses committed by low-frequent offenders. On the other hand, time diaries seem able to measure changes in individuals’ involvement in offending over time and to capture most of the situational conditions under which offenses occur. The study concludes with suggestions for dealing with the problems associated with measuring short and rare activities.
C83|A cross-sectoral analysis of climate change risk drivers based on companies’ responses to the CDP’s climate change information request|Companies are increasingly concerned with current and future climate change risks that have the potential to generate a substantial change in their business operations, revenue and/or expenditure. Therefore, the paper focusses on the companies’ perspective and aims to create a higher awareness of companies’ risk drivers when it comes to specific challenges of different sectors as well as each company within its sector. Based on companies’ responses to the CDP’s climate change information request 2013, including 125 companies from Germany, Austria and Switzerland, the paper presents a detailed companies´ perspective on climate-related risk-drivers, comprising i) changes in regulation, ii) changes in physical climate parameters and iii) changes in other climate-related developments. Hence, the paper provides insights into climate change and adaptation related risks for companies. Furthermore, the results also facilitate a comparison of risk drivers between and within sectors. This also enables companies to i) position themselves regarding the potential threat they might be facing now and in the future, ii) assess their competitive advantages and disadvantages as well as prioritize risk drivers they have to deal with by evaluating their own position within the sector-specific analysis. Regarding specific threats companies are facing, they furthermore have the possibility to take good practices and innovative ideas from companies out of different sectors into consideration, aiming for an efficient and effective adaptation to climate change. Thus, the study’s findings can also serve as an innovative starting point for further research as well as the practical implementation of adaptation measures.
C83|Willingness to Pay for Basic Research: A Contingent Valuation Experiment on the Large Hadron Collider|An increasing number of countries and institutions are investing in large-scale research infrastructures (RIs) and in basic research. Scientific discoveries, which are expected thanks to RIs, may have a non-use value, in analogy with environmental and cultural public goods. This paper provides, for the first time, an empirical estimation of the willingness to pay (WTP) for discoveries in basic research by the general public. We focus on the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the largest particle accelerator worldwide, where in 2012 the Higgs boson was discovered. Nobody knows the practical value of such discovery, beyond knowledge per se. The findings of our study are based on a dichotomous choice contingent valuation (CV) survey carried out in line with the NOAA guidelines. The survey involved 1,022 undergraduate students enrolled in more than 30 different degrees (including the humanities) at five universities located in four countries (Italy, France, Spain, UK). We ask two main research questions: Which are the determinants of the WTP for the LHC discoveries? What is the average contribution that the respondents would be willing to pay? Our results confirm that income, interest and attitudes towards basic research are positively associated with the WTP, while other potential explanatory variables play a limited role. The estimated mean of WTP for basic research in particle physics is EUR 7.7 per person una-tantum. Although this is a small amount compared to other CV studies for environmental and cultural goods, it points to positive social attitudes for basic science as a public good.
C83|A Professional Premium for LHC Students: Perceptions from within|More than 36,000 students and post-docs will be involved in experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) until 2025. Do they expect that their learning experience will have an impact on their professional future? By drawing from earlier salary expectations literature, this paper proposes a framework aiming at explaining the professional expectations of early career researchers (ECR) at the LHC. The model is tested by data from a survey involving 318 current and former students (now employed in different jobs) at LHC. Results from different ordered logistic models suggest that experiential learning at LHC positively correlates with both current and former students’ salary expectations. At least two not mutually exclusive explanations underlie such a relationship. First, the training at LHC gives early career researchers valuable expertise, which in turn affects salary expectations; secondly, respondents recognise that the LHC research experience per se may act as signal in the labour market. Respondents put a price tag on their experience at LHC, a ‘salary premium’ ranging from 5% to 11% in terms of their future salaries compared with what they would have expected without such experience
C83|Energie Sisma Emilia. Guida all'utilizzo dei database dell'indagine 'Energie_I400'|After the series of earthquakes that occurred in Emilia-Romagna (Italy) in May 2012, the research team based in the Department of Economics of the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia started research activities to investigate the socio-economic impact due to the shock. When analysing the effects of the earthquake on the living and working conditions of the population, a critical issue is the availability of relevant data. Thus, within the applied research ‘Energie Sisma Emilia’, in 2015 the research team realized a survey on a sample of 400 families living in the area affected by the earthquake. The survey was based on the same questionnaire adopted in the previous research ICESmo3 (carried on in Summer 2012) investigating the socio-economic conditions of families living in the same area. The 2015 questionnaire includes additional sections on the effects of the earthquake on social capital and consumption behaviour. Data are under analysis and will be presented in public events and publications. The dataset will be made available on request at the end of the research project. The goal of this paper is to return the main methodological aspects, and to present the principles that guided management of data and that drive the use of databases. Section I describes the main issues addressed by the ‘Energie Sisma Emilia’ project. Section II introduces the general survey settings; the sample characteristics; and the elaboration of sample weights. Section III describes the details of the informational basis (organization of specific databases, codebook and command files developed to generate databases in format Stata13). Section IV presents the criteria that align the databases and the questionnaire: variables management was originally handled to allow researchers to easily retrieve information from the syntax of the variable labels, and to automatize future elaborations. Section V concludes with operational indications in using ‘Stata Survey’ to produce inferential analysis.
C83|On Historical Household Budgets|The paper argues that household budgets are the best starting point for investigating a number of big questions related to the evolution of the living standards during the last two-three centuries. If one knows where to look, historical family budgets are more abundant than might be suspected. And statistical techniques have been developed to handle the associated problems of small, incomplete, and unrepresentative samples. We introduce the Historical Household Budgets (HHB) Project, aimed at gathering data and sources, but also at creating an informational infrastructure that provides i) reliable storage and easy access to historical family budget data, along with ii) tools to configure the data as it is entered so as to harmonise it with present-day surveys.
C83|Household Budget Studies in the British Dominions, 1873-1939|Household budget studies in the autonomous British dominions (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa) were carried out sporadically before World War II. The similar history of household budget studies in the dominions reflects the similarity of the dominions' statistical infrastructure and the existence of other data sources that reduced the need to collect household budget studies. The budget studies that were conducted were influenced by the statistical school, and were similar in quality to contemporary European and American surveys. Statistical summaries of results are available, but only limited microdata survives in archives or publications.
C83|Developing and validating a macro-ergonomic compatibility questionnaire|This paper presents the development of a Macro-ergonomic Compatibility Questionnaire (MCQ), which focuses on collecting data about the implementation of macro-ergonomic principles which are related to human capital factors, organization, tasks, tools, technology as well as environmental conditions in manufacturing systems. The MCQ includes 3 sections: demographic data, application of macro-ergonomic principles and their importance. The questions are created according to the literature review, which are designed to be answered in ordinal scale. The MCQ validation is performed by a factorial analysis and experts’ opinion. This instrument was administered to 188 manufacturing systems’ employees and 6 ergonomics experts. The employees’ results showed that only 8 of the 23 variables analyzed presented a value of Cronbach's alpha
C83|Learning from Potentially-Biased Statistics: Household Inflation Perceptions and Expectations in Argentina|When forming expectations, households may be influenced by the possibility that the information they receive is biased. In this paper, we study how individuals learn from potentially-biased statistics using data from both a natural and a survey-based experiment obtained during a period of government manipulation of inflation statistics in Argentina (2006-2015). This period is interesting because of the attention to inflation information and the availability of both official and unofficial statistics. Our evidence suggests that rather than ignoring biased statistics or navively taking them at face value, households react in a sophisticated way, as predicted by a Bayesian learning model, effectively de-biasing the official data to extract all its useful content. We also find evidence of an asymmetric reaction to inflation signals, with expectations changing more when the inflation rate rises than when it falls. These results are useful for understanding the formation of inflation expectations in less extreme contexts than Argentina, such as the United States and Europe, where experts may agree that statistics are unbiased but households do not.
C83|Difficulty to Reach Respondents and Nonresponse Bias: Evidence from Large Government Surveys|How high is unemployment? How low is labor force participation? Is obesity more prevalent among men? How large are household expenditures? We study the sources of the relevant official statistics—the Current Population Survey (CPS), the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), and the Consumer Expenditure Survey (CEX)—and find that the answers depend on whether we look at easy- or at difficult-to-reach respondents, measured by the number of call and visit attempts made by interviewers. A challenge to the (conditionally-)random-nonresponse assumption, these findings empirically substantiate the theoretical warning against making population-wide estimates from surveys with low response rates.
C83|Possibilities for Improvement of the Statistical Confidentiality Methods and Approaches|In the process of the official statistical data provision from the national statistical institutes to their consumers there is always some tension. The ‘producers’ of the statistical ‘products’ aim to provide data with the best quality, considering the legal regulations on the data confidential­ity. From other perspective, the statistical data consumers would like to obtain more detailed information about the studied events and phe­nomenon including microdata about the individ­ual statistical units, which is a precondition for a breach of the data confidentiality. The National statistical institute (NSI) of Bulgaria observes all legal recommendations and regulations and provides high level of protection of the personal information of its respondents while producing high quality data. This paper considers a less discussed theme in Bulgaria on the statistical data confidentiality and delivers a critical review of the present situation in the statistical disclo­sure control approaches application in the NSI. Detailed description of the possible improve­ments and cost-effectiveness is also provided.
C83|Trade Patterns and Endogenous Institutions: Global Evidence|We proposeanovel way to measure the rule of law intensity of exports at the goods level based on nearly 100 million disaggregated bilateral trade flows around the globe. We categorise goods into three groups: fragmented, primary and other. The theoretical literature on hold-up problems connected to incomplete or incompletely enforceable contracts or property rights predicts that goods resulting from fragmented production processes should be the most rule of law intensive. However, we find that the rule of law intensity of other goods is, on average, only slightly lower than that of fragmented goods. We examine how exogenous variation in countries’ trade patterns influences the quality of institutions. Our regressions show that trade flows generated by fragmented and other processes of production improve rule of law, while trade flows generated by primary production do not.
C83|Women's organisations, maternal knowledge, and social capital to reduce prevalence of stunted children: Evidence from rural Nepal| This study analyses behaviour of women's community-based organisations in rural Nepal in reducing prevalence of child malnutrition in member households drawing upon the survey data collected in 2000. The induced institutional innovation hypothesis is tested: are capabilities of women organisations reflecting 'structured social capital' positively associated with improved child nutritional status? The effectiveness of outside interventions is also tested. Econometric results based on 2SLS show that higher capabilities of the autonomous group are associated with lower underweight. We also demonstrate that enhanced knowledge diffusion, combined with growth promotion, represents an effective instrument for empowering rural women in acting to reduce the prevalence of chronic malnutrition.
C83|Redundancy, Unilateralism and Bias beyond GDP – results of a Global Index Benchmark|Eight out of ten leading international indices to assess developing countries in aspects beyond GDP are showing strong redundancy, bias and unilateralism. The quantitative comparison gives evidence for the fact that always the same countries lead the ranks with a low standard deviation. The dependency of the GDP is striking: do the indices only measure indicators that are direct effects of a strong GDP? While the impact of GDP can be discussed reverse as well, the standard deviation shows a strong bias: only one out of the twenty countries with the highest standard deviation is among the Top-20 countries of the world, but 11 countries among those with the lowest standard deviation. Let’s have a look at the backsides of global statistics and methods to compare their findings. The article is the result of a pre-study to assess Social Capital for development countries made for the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The study leaded to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) project World Social Capital Monitor.
C83|Online labour index: Measuring the online gig economy for policy and research|Labour markets are thought to be in the midst of a dramatic transformation, where standard employment is increasingly supplemented or substituted by temporary work mediated by online platforms. Yet the scale and scope of these changes is hard to assess, because conventional labour market statistics and economic indicators are ill-suited to measuring this “online gig work”. We present the Online Labour Index (OLI), an experimental economic indicator that approximates the conventional labour market statistic of new open vacancies. It measures the utilization of online labour across countries and occupations by tracking the number of projects and tasks posted on major online gig platforms in near-real time. The purpose of this article is to introduce the OLI and describe the methodology behind it. We also demonstrate how it can be used to address previously unanswered questions about the online gig economy. To benefit policymakers, labour market researchers and the general public, our results are published in an interactive online visualisation which is updated daily.
C83|Cattle farmers’ perceptions of risk and risk management strategies|This study analyzes cattle farmers’ perceptions of risk and risk management strategies in Tigray, Northern Ethiopia. We use survey data from a sample of 356 farmers based on multistage random sampling. Factor analysis is employed to classify scores of risk and management strategies, and multiple regression is then used to investigate the relationship of scores and farmers’ characteristics. The results demonstrate that shortage of family labor, high price of fodder and limited farm income were perceived as the most important risks. Use of veterinary services, parasite control and loan utilization were perceived as the most important strategies to manage risks. Livestock disease and labor shortage were perceived as less of a risk by farmers who adopted the practice of zero grazing compared to other farmers, pointing to the potential of this practice for risk reduction. We find strong evidence that farmers engage in multiple risk management practices in order to reduce losses due to cattle morbidity and mortality. The results suggest that government strategies that aim at reducing farmers’ risk need to be tailored to specific farm and farmer characteristics. Findings from this study have potentially important policy implications for risk management strategies in developing countries.
