C99|Econometric Ways to Estimate the Age and Price of Abalone|Abalone is a rich nutritious food resource in the many parts of the world. The economic value of abalone is positively correlated with its age. However, determining the age of abalone is a cumbersome as well as expensive process which increases the cost and limits its popularity. This article proposes very simple ways to determine the age of abalones using econometric methods to reduce the costs of producers as well as consumers.
C99|Measuring attitudes on gender equality and domestic violence in the Arab context : The role of framing, priming and interviewer effects|Eliciting attitudes on sensitive topics such as women empowerment is subject to a wide range of measurement challenges such as social desirability bias and refusals. Even subtle changes in wording or context can profoundly affect how respondents answer to a question. Using data from two randomised experiments built into a nationwide representative household survey in Tunisia, we analyse the effects of (i) framing and (ii) priming on attitudes towards gender equality and domestic violence in the Arab context. Moreover, we look at impact heterogeneity with respect to the interviewers' gender and perceived religiosity. Our first experiment shows that questions on attitudes towards decision-making power invite stronger responses towards gender inequality when framed in an inequality frame. In our second experiment we find that attitudes towards domestic violence are susceptible to an audio primer. Oral statistical information about the incidence of domestic violence in Tunisia leads to lower support for domestic violence among the male subsample but has no effect on women. Lastly, impacts co-vary with interviewer characteristics. While female interviewers seem to trigger less justification for domestic violence on average, we find the opposite effect for female interviewers wearing a hijab, arguably signalling stronger perceived religiosity and social norms aligned with (more) tolerance of domestic violence. We discuss the implications of our findings for development research on gender attitudes and behaviour in gender-sensitive contexts.
C99|When Good Advice is Ignored : The Role of Envy and Stubbornness|We present results from an experiment involving 1,500 participants on whether, when and why good advice is ignored, focusing on envy and stubbornness. Participants performance in skill-based and luck-based tasks generated a probability of winning a bonus. About a quarter ignored advice that would have increased their chance of winning. Good advice was followed less often when the adviser was relatively highly remunerated or the task was skill-based. More envious advisees took good advice more often in the skill-based task, but higher adviser remuneration significantly reduced this effect. Susceptibility to the sunk cost fallacy reduced the uptake of good advice.
C99|Gender differences in altruism on Mechanical Turk: Expectations and actual behaviour|Whether or not there are gender differences in altruistic behaviour in Dictator Game experiments has attracted considerable attention in recent years. Earlier studies found women to be more altruistic than men. However, this conclusion has been challenged by more recent accounts, which have argued that gender differences in altruistic behaviour may be a peculiarity of student samples and may not extend to other groups. Here we study gender differences in altruisticbehaviour and, additionally, in expectations of altruistic behaviour, in a sample of Amazon Mechanical Turk crowdworkers living in the US. In Study 1, we report a mega-analysis of more than 3, 500 observations and we show that women are significantly more altruistic than men. In Study 2, we show that both women and men expect women to be more altruistic than men.
C99|Honesty in the digital age|Modern communication technologies enable efficient exchange of information, but often sacrifice direct human interaction inherent in more traditional forms of communication. This raises the question of whether the lack of personal interaction induces individuals to exploit informational asymmetries. We conducted two experiments with 866 subjects to examine how human versus machine interaction influences cheating for financial gain. We find that individuals cheat significantly more when they interact with a machine rather than a person, regardless of whether the machine is equipped with human features. When interacting with a human, individuals are particularly reluctant to report unlikely favorable outcomes, which is consistent with social image concerns. The second experiment shows that dishonest individuals prefer to interact with a machine when facing an opportunity to cheat. Our results suggest that human interaction is key to mitigating dishonest behavior and that self-selection into communication channels can be used to screen for dishonest people.
C99|Ignoring Good Advice|We ran an experiment where 1,503 subjects (advisees) completed tasks, and then had the choice to submit either their own score or the score of other subjects (advisers). The observed data are irreconcilable with rational behaviour. First, good advice was ignored: about 25% of the time, advisees chose to submit their own score instead of the higher score of an adviser, reducing their payoff. Second, when the adviser was superior in skill, good advice was ignored more often. Third, when the adviser was relatively highly paid, subjects were less likely to make use of them. We offer an explanation of the data focused on two behavioral forces: envy and the sunk cost fallacy. The role of envy was complex: more envious advisees, as measured using a dispositional envy scale, opted to follow advisers more often in the skill-based task revealing a positive, motivational effect of envy. However, higher adviser remuneration reduced this effect, revealing a negative side of envy as a constraint on rational decision-making. Susceptibility to the sunk cost fallacy, measured using a novel scale we developed, had a negative impact on the uptake of good advice. This is consistent with the idea that subjects feel resistant to changing their answers when they put in effort to formulate them. We also present findings from a new survey of 3,096 UK voters who took part in the national referendum on EU membership, consistent with some of our experimental results.
C99|Everybody's a Victim? Global Terror, Well-Being and Political Attitudes|Terror has become a global issue. Terror acts perpetuated by religious, nationalist or political groups around the globe can propagate distress rapidly through different channels and possibly change political attitudes. This paper suggests the first evaluation of the impact of global terror on human welfare. We combine panel datasets for Australia, Germany, Russia, Switzerland, the UK and the US. Individual well-being information for 750,000 individual x year observations, recorded on precise dates, is matched with daily information on the 70,000 terror events that took place worldwide during 1994–2013. High-frequency data and quasi-random terror shocks of varying intensity provide the conditions for robust inference, while external validity is guaranteed by the use of large representative samples. We find a significantly negative effect of global terror on well-being, with a money-metric cost of around 6%–17% of national income. Among diffusion channels, stock markets and economic anticipations play a minimal role, while traditional media filter the most salient events. The effect is greatly modulated by the physical, genetic or cultural proximity to the terror regions/victims. For a subset of countries, we also show that global terror has significantly increased the intention to vote for conservative parties. Heterogeneity analyses point to the mediating effect of risk perception: individuals who exhibit stronger emotional responses to terror – possibly more exposed to potential threats – are also more likely to experience a conservative shift.
C99|Everybody's a Victim? Global Terror, Well-Being and Political Attitudes|Terror has become a global issue. Terror acts perpetuated by religious, nationalist or political groups around the globe can propagate distress rapidly through different channels and possibly change political attitudes. This paper suggests the first evaluation of the impact of global terror on human welfare. We combine panel datasets for Australia, Germany, Russia, Switzerland, the UK and the US. Individual well-being informationfor 750,000 individualxyear observations, recorded on precise dates, is matched with daily information on the 70,000 terror events that took place worldwide during 1994-2013. High-frequency data and quasi-random terror shocks of varying intensity provide the conditions for robust inference, while external validity is guaranteed by the use of large representative samples. We find a significantly negative effect of global terror on well-being, with a money-metric cost of around 6% - 17% of national income. Among diffusion channels, stock markets and economic anticipations play a minimal role, while traditional media filter the most salient events. The effect is greatly modulated by the physical, genetic or cultural proximity to the terror regions/victims. For a subset of countries, we also show that global terror has significantly increased the intention to vote for conservative parties. Heterogeneity analyses point to the mediating effect of risk perception: individuals who exhibit stronger emotional responses to terror possibly more exposed to potential threats - are also more likely to experience a conservative shift.
C99|Amazon Mechanical Turk Workers Can Provide Consistent and Economically Meaningful Data|We explore the consistency of the characteristics of individuals who participate in studies posted on Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT). The primary individuals analyzed in this study are subjects who participated in at least two of eleven experiments that were run on AMT between September of 2012 to January of 2018. We demonstrate subjects consistently report a series of demographic and personality characteristics. Further, subjective willingness to take risk is found to be significantly correlated with decisions made in a simple lottery experiment with real stakes - even when the subjective risk measure is reported months, sometimes years, in the past. This suggests the quality of data obtained via AMT is not significantly harmed by the lack of control over the conditions under which the responses are recorded.
C99|When Good Advice is Ignored: The Role of Envy and Stubbornness|We present results from an experiment involving 1,500 participants on whether, when and why good advice is ignored, focusing on envy and stubbornness. Participants performance in skill-based and luck-based tasks generated a probability of winning a bonus. About a quarter ignored advice that would have increased their chance of winning. Good advice was followed less often when the adviser was relatively highly remunerated or the task was skill-based. More envious advisees took good advice more often in the skill-based task, but higher adviser remuneration significantly reduced this effect. Susceptibility to the sunk cost fallacy reduced the uptake of good advice.
C99|Quality certification for nonprofits, charitable giving, and donor's trust: Experimental evidence|In an experiment, we test the impact of quality certificates on donations to a charity. Compared to the control group, participants presented with a quality certificate chose higher donations by around 10% and reported higher trust in the same charity. The choice of donation values over time shows strong persistence such that the difference between the two groups remained even after all participants were informed about the certificate. Since the initially uninformed donors did not adjust their donations upwards to a sufficient extent, we conclude that quality certification is less likely to affect giving by existing donors. Finally, we find no significant negative effect of information about certificate fees.
C99|Honesty in the Digital Age|Modern communication technologies enable efficient exchange of information, but often sacrifice direct human interaction inherent in more traditional forms of communication. This raises the question of whether the lack of personal interaction induces individuals to exploit informational asymmetries. We conducted two experiments with 866 subjects to examine how human versus machine interaction influences cheating for financial gain. We find that individuals cheat significantly more when they interact with a machine rather than a person, regardless of whether the machine is equipped with human features. When interacting with a human, individuals are particularly reluctant to report unlikely favorable outcomes, which is consistent with social image concerns. The second experiment shows that dishonest individuals prefer to interact with a machine when facing an opportunity to cheat. Our results suggest that human interaction is key to mitigating dishonest behavior and that self-selection into communication channels can be used to screen for dishonest people.
C99|Why Do Women Favor Same-Gender Competition? Evidence from a Choice Experiment|This paper addresses the behavioral puzzle of women’s preference for competition when competitors are also women. Using a framed field experiment with 883 non-standard subjects, we show that none of the determinants of competitive behavior in general, including ability, self-confidence and risk aversion, provide a satisfying explanation for women’s substantive gender-related selection into competition. Nonetheless, women who are overconfident, i.e. over-estimate own abilities in performing a task, enter competition regardless of the gender-mix. Hence, the gender-pairing phenomenon is driven by women who correctly estimate or under-estimate own ability. We concluded that this is due to stereotypes about women’s underperformance compared to men.
C99|Experimental methods: When and why contextual instructions are important|An important methodological issue in experimental research is the extent to which one should use context-rich or abstract language in the instructions for an experiment. The traditional use of abstract context in experimental economics is commonly viewed as a way to achieve experimental control. However, there are some advantages to using context-framed instructions, such as “employer and worker” instead of “player 1 and player 2.” Meaningful context can enhance understanding of an environment and reduce confusion among participants, particularly when a task requires sophisticated reasoning, and hence may yield responses of better quality. In emotionally-charged research questions, such as pollution or bribes, contextual instructions may affect behavior in the experiment, but this effect may be appropriate as it relates to the research question. Our review of the evidence from the literature indicates that in the great majority of cases meaningful language is either useful or produces no change in behavior. Nevertheless, a few important considerations are worth keeping in mind when using rich context. Finally, we see the choice of context as being an expansion of the experimenter’s toolkit and a factor to consider in experimental design.
C99|The effect of third party intervention in the trust game|The literature suggests that in the trust game setting a third party may have an impact on trust and trustworthiness. This may be done through monitoring alone, as well as through punishment or reward. We examine the impact of these three factors in both fixed and random partner settings. We find evidence that third party intervention is sensitive to participant actions and can result in changes in investment and return behavior, although not necessarily in the intended direction. Despite this individual impact, adding punishment or reward capabilities to the third party monitor has no significant effect in the aggregate. The increase in contributions in the presence of a third party can primarily be attributed to third party monitoring.
C99|How does the use of in-store discount coupons affect retail revenues?|Few studies have addressed how discount coupons placed in stores affect retailers. By conducting a field experiment in 16 grocery stores in Sweden, we investigate how in-store discount coupons for Wrigley’s chewing gums affect sales at the product, brand, product-category, and category-assortment levels. When calculating the impact of the coupon campaign on revenues, we find that there is an increase in revenues for the retailer of between 30 748 SEK and 39 691 SEK during a 30 day coupon campaign depending on if the face value of the coupon is 2 SEK or 3 SEK, respectively. The in-store coupon campaigns under study thus increased retailer revenues even after considering product-, brand- and category level cannibalization effects.
C99|Why Bother? Understanding the Impact of Financial Obligations on Wage Selectivity|"Approximately 80 percent of Americans have a significant financial obligation. A substantial fraction of these individuals rely almost solely on labor income to meet these needs. Using a two-period model we demonstrate that when agents are risk averse, increasing the level of financial obligation will have a differential effect on the likelihood a wage offer is accepted depending on the initial size of the obligation. Increasing financial obligations from low levels is found to reduce wage selectivity, while increasing it beyond a certain threshold reverses this effect. We test our theory using online experiments. We confirm our theoretical results in the form of a statistically significant ""dip"" in wage selectivity for risk averse subjects assigned moderate financial obligations. This non-monotonic effect suggests that heterogeneity in financial obligations may exacerbate income and wealth inequality through individuals' labor market decisions. Policy makers interested in distributional effects should consider this feedback mechanism when designing policies related to loan forgiveness or debt discharge."
C99|Information and Women’s Intentions: Experimental Evidence About Child Care|Abstract We investigate the effect of providing information about the benefits to children of attending formal child care when women intend to use formal child care so they can work. We postulate that the reaction to the information differs across women according to their characteristics, specifically their level of education. We present a randomized experiment in which 700 Italian women of reproductive age with no children are exposed to positive information about formal child care through a text message or a video, while others are not. We find a positive effect on the intention to use formal child care and a negative effect on the intention to work. This average result hides important heterogeneities: the positive effect on formal child care use is driven by high-educated women, while the negative effect on work intention is found only among less-educated women. These findings may be explained by women’s education reflecting their work–family orientation, and their ability to afford formal child care.
C99|Framing individual choice behaviour in uncertain environmental settings: An analysis of tourist preferences in the face of global warming|Unlike current stated preference studies, this paper examines the existence of framing effects from varying information about the environmental features characterizing the decision-making context where respondents are asked to state their preferences. Thus, it adds to the existing literature on framing effects which has usually been focused on analysing the welfare impacts derived from changing information relating to substitute goods and individuals’ budget constraint, the attributes defining the good to be valued and the complexity of the choice task. In particular, and through a novel choice experiment design, the paper investigates the impacts on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) from varying information about the degree of uncertainty over an expected global warming-derived increase in the temperature of a traditional summer holiday destination. Results show that the WTP increases with the magnitude of the expected temperature change and its associated probability of occurrence. Thus, they evidence that the degree of uncertainty over an expected environmental phenomenon can affect preferences for policies aimed at adapting to the environmental conditions resulting from such phenomenon. The implications of the results for decision-making in traditional sun and beach tourism destinations are also discussed.
C99|Belief-based and taste-based gender discrimination. Evidence from a game show|Gender discrimination, based on taste or on perception of competence, remains to be a likely contributor to females’ lower wages and slower professional advancement. In this project we use a novel data set of decisions made by participants of the Ten to One TV show. During the game, contestants repeatedly nominate the next person to answer a question. Being nominated reduces one’s probability of eventually winning the game. General tendency to nominate one gender more often than the other signifies taste-based discrimination against this gender. The construction of the game makes it relatively more profitable to nominate the most competent rather than the least competent opponents in some strategic circumstances, which allows to identify biased perception of the two genders’ competence. Having analyzed over 6000 decisions from 117 episodes aired in the last 21 years we find clear evidence of belief-based discrimination against females, yet taste-based in favor of them.
C99|Be a man or become a nurse: Comparing gender discrimination by employers across a wide variety of professions|We investigate gender discrimination and its variation between firms, occupations, and industries with a factorial survey design (vignette study) for a large sample of German firms. Short CVs of fictitious applicants are presented to human resource managers who indicate the likelihood of the applicants being invited to the next step of the hiring process. We observe that women are evaluated worse than men on average, controlling for all other attributes of the CV, i.e., school grades, age, information about activities since leaving school, parents' occupations etc. Discrimination against women varies across industries and occupations, and is strongest for occupations with lower educational requirements and of lower occupational status. Women receive worse evaluations when applying for male-dominated occupations. Overall, the share of women in an occupation explains more of the difference in evaluations than any other occupation- or firm-related variable.
C99|Behavioral Constraints on Pricing: Experimental Evidence on Price Discrimination and Customer Antagonism|In this study, we investigate behavioral constraints on pricing by using a novel laboratory experiment in which actual consumption goods are traded. We test different models and provide several insights into pricing and reactions to price discrimination. First, we identify the extent to which sellers voluntarily and strategically avoid price discrimination. Second, we find that sellers strategically overprice low value customers to avoid antagonizing high value customers. Third, we observe that customers are not generally antagonized by price discrimination: while they are less likely to buy if they are charged a higher price than another customer even if they are underpriced, they are more likely to buy if they are charged a lower price even if they are overpriced. These findings are consistent with a reference point model, which assumes that prices for other customers constitute reference points. Finally, we show that our findings hold regardless of whether sellers are monopolists or compete against other sellers. The observed behavioral patterns suggest a novel explanation for sticky prices and impulse purchase behavior.
C99|Bringing a Natural Experiment into the Laboratory: the Measurement of Individual Risk Attitudes|Controlled laboratory experiments have become a generally accepted method for studying economic behavior, but there are two issues that regularly arise with such work. The first pertains to the ability to generalize experimental results outside the laboratory. While laboratory experiments are typically designed to mimic naturally occurring situations, ceteris paribus comparisons are rare. Using data from a promotional campaign by a bank and a matching laboratory experiment, we find similar patterns of risk taking behavior controlling for gender and age. The second issue pertains to the impact that the payment procedure in an experiment has on observed risk taking behavior. Specifically, we compare behavior on a risk taking task where that is the only task and payment is assured, where it is one of several similar tasks of which one will be randomly selected for payment, and where it is the only task but there is only a small probability of receiving payment. We find similar behavior across these three payment procedures.
C99|Experimental methods: Pay one or pay all|In some experiments participants make multiple decisions; this feature facilitates gathering a considerable amount of incentivized data over the course of a compact session. A conservative payment scheme is to pay for the outcome from every decision made. An alternative approach is to pay for the outcome of only a subset of the choices made, with the amount at stake for this choice multiplied to compensate for the decreased likelihood of that choice’s outcome being drawn for payoff. This “pay one” approach can help to avoid wealth effects, hedging, and bankruptcy considerations. A third method is to pay only a subset of the participants for their choices, thereby minimizing transactions costs. While the evidence on differences across payment methods is mixed, overall it suggests that paying for only a subset of periods or individuals is at least as effective as the “pay all” approach and can well be more effective. We further the discussion about how to best choose an incentive structure when designing an experiment.
C99|Gordon Tullock and experimental public choice|Abstract In this paper, I discuss Gordon Tullock’s views on Experimentation in Economics, his own research experiment, and his influence on the field of experimental public choice. I argue that Tullock can credibly claim to have been an early supporter of the method and that his work is cited more often than that of other public choice scholars active in the same period. His work on rent seeking forms the basis of an extensive experimental literature and studies on trust, demand revelation and voter turnout have been strongly influenced by Tullock’s work.
C99|Shrieking Sirens. Schemata, Scripts, and Social Norms: How Change Occurs|This paper investigates the causal relationships among scripts, schemata, and social norms. The authors examine how social norms are triggered by particular schemata and are grounded in scripts. Just as schemata are embedded in a network, so too are social norms, and they can be primed through spreading activation. Moreover, the expectations that allow a social norm’s existence are inherently grounded in particular scripts and schemata. Using interventions that have targeted gender norms, open defecation, female genital cutting, and other collective issues as examples, the authors argue that ignoring the cognitive underpinnings of a social norm doom interventions to failure.
C99|Television and voting in Catalonia|To what extent can be electoral results in Catalonia explained by the exposure of individuals to television? This paper sheds light on this question by looking into the effect of TV3 on two distinguished political outcomes in the 1984 Catalan Parliamentary election. The outcomes of interest are voter turnout and the vote share of Convergència i Unió (CiU), one of the strongest political forces in Catalonia who has mainly driven the channel since its creation. We resort to a natural experiment based on the geographically differentiated expansion of TV3 in Catalonia. Using a Difference-in-Differences Kernel matching method, we found that the introduction of TV3 caused an increase both in the voter turnout and the CiU vote share in the 1984 Catalan parliamentary elections.
C99|The Time for Austerity: Estimating the Average Treatment Effect of Fiscal Policy|Elevated government debt levels in advanced economies have risen rapidly as sovereigns absorbed private sector losses and cyclical deficits blew up in the Global Financial Crisis and subsequent slump. A rush to fiscal austerity followed but its justifications and impacts have been heavily debated. Research on the effects of austerity on macroeconomic aggregates remains unsettled, mired by the difficulty of identifying multipliers from observational data. This paper reconciles seemingly disparate estimates of multipliers within a unified framework. We do this by first evaluating the validity of common identification assumptions used by the literature and find that they are largely violated in the data. Next, we use new propensity score methods for time-series data with local projections to quantify how contractionary austerity really is, especially in economies operating below potential. We find that the adverse effects of austerity may have been understated.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|The future’s so bright, I gotta wear sunscreen: Dispositional optimism and preferences for prioritizing health care|Priority setting in health care involves many complex social value judgments. Whereas a wide body of empirical research has emerged that describe how people make these judgments, little is known about the psychological background against which they are made. In this study, we investigate whether the character trait of dispositional optimism, i.e. anticipating a positive or negative future, influences the way people think about priority setting in health care. We do this by linking a representative sample of the Belgian population’s (N=750) responses on the Revised Life Orientation Test to their responses to a discrete choice experiment (DCE) about priority setting. We find that more pessimistic individuals are on average in worse (self-reported) health, are younger, are more likely to smoke and are less likely to have a university degree than their more optimistic counterparts. Controlling for these respondent characteristics, we find that dispositional optimism indeed matters to priority setting. “Pessimists” are less willing to invest limited resources in prevention and are less in support of prioritizing younger generations over older ones.
C99|Effciency and equilibrium in network games: An experiment|"The tension between efficiency and equilibrium is a central feature of economic systems. In many contexts, social networks mediate this trade-off: an individual's network position determines equilibrium play, and social relations allow coordination on an efficient norm. We examine this trade-o in a network game with a unique Nash equilibrium, but such that agents can achieve a higher payoff by following a ""collaborative norm"". Subjects establish and maintain a collaborative norm in the circle, but the norm weakens with the introduction of one asymmetric node in the wheel. In complex and asymmetric networks of 15 and 21 nodes, the norm disappears and subjects' play converges to Nash on every node. We provide evidence that subjects base their decisions on their degree, rather than the overall network structure. Methodologically, the paper shows the capabilities of UbiquityLab: a novel platform to conduct interactive experiments online with a large number of participants."
C99|The Role of Temperature in Economic Exchange - An Empirical Analysis|As a synthesis of economics and physics and an attempt to apply the methods and models of statistical physics to economics, econophysics is presently a new, growing and very dynamic branch of modern science. Therefore, the subject of this paper is to analyse the relationship and interdependence between thermodynamics and economics, and it aims to show similarities, analogies and correspondence between the main categories, methods and models of thermodynamics on one hand, and economics on the other. The paper analyses the relation between economics and thermodynamics, as well as the probability distribution in the kinetic theory of gases corresponding to money, income and wealth distribution, connects entropy with utility and the principle of operation of the thermal engine with economic exchange. The final part of the paper empirically analyzes temperature differences in the exchange between Serbia and the selected EU countries. There are differences in temperature between Serbia and the group of selected countries. Results of the empirical analysis shows that the exchange between countries is based on principles of thermodynamics and that developed countries generate more profits and benefits from exchange.
C99|What if women earned more than their spouses? An experimental investigation of work-division in couples|Abstract Female specialization on household work and male specialization on labor-market work is a widely observed phenomenon across time and countries. This absence of gender neutrality with respect to work-division is known as the “work-division puzzle”. Gender differences regarding characteristics (preferences, productivity) and context (wage rates, social norms) are generally recognized as competing explanations for this fact. We experimentally control for context and productivity to investigate preferences for work-division by true co-habiting couples, in a newly developed specialization task. Efficiency in this task comes at the cost of inequality, giving higher earnings to the “advantaged” player. We compare behavior when men (or women) are in the advantaged position, which corresponds to the traditional (or power) couple case where he (or she) earns more. Women and men contribute equally to the household public good in all conditions. This result allows us to rule out some of the standard explanations of the work-division puzzle.
C99|Life Satisfaction and Endogenous Aspirations|"Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (N = 13,145), we investigate the effects of (not) achieving aspirations on subjective well-being. We match individual-level data about life satisfaction aspirations with their subsequent realizations and we jointly estimate two panel-data equations, the first depicting the effects that (not) achieving initial aspirations exerts on the subsequent level of life satisfaction, and the second describing the endogenous adjustment process followed by aspirations as a function of beaten and unmet targets. We find that while achieving aspirations exerts weak effects on life satisfaction, failing to match aspired conditions significantly reduces subsequent realizations of life satisfaction. Moreover, our analysis supports a ""hedonic adaptation"" explanation of the previous results, as we find that aspirations significantly adjust to beaten targets, while they remain almost unchanged in case of unmet targets."
C99|Cognitive skills, personality, and economic preferences in collegiate success|We collected multiple measures from 100 students at a small public undergraduate liberal arts college in the Midwestern US and later assessed their academic success. The “proactive” (hard-working, persistent) aspect of the Big Five trait of Conscientiousness and not its “inhibitive” (organized, careful) aspect is a large positive predictor for two graduation outcomes and grade point average (GPA). The Big Five trait of Agreeableness (“pro-sociality”) is a large and negative predictor for graduation outcomes. A non-standard cognitive skill measure (a backward-induction game) positively predicts graduation outcomes, in parallel with its success in predicting vocational student job success (Burks et al., 2009). Patient time preferences predict one graduation outcome and GPA.
C99|Anchoring effects in an experimental auction – Are farmers anchored?|Auctioning goods is a widespread practice, particularly in the agricultural sector. The outcome of auctions can be affected by various factors. One of these factors can be anchoring effects, which describe the influence of present available information on numerical values in human decisions. However, the influence of anchoring effects in auctions carried out offline – that is, live events that are not taking place on the internet – is largely unknown. For this reason, we analyze anchoring effects of exogenously provided values using an experimental common value auction with entrepreneurs. In total, 48 groups each made of five farmers participate in a series of four auctions for envelopes containing a €10 banknote with a 50% probability of occurrence. Our results indicate that anchoring based on exogenously presented values can either result in negative adjustment in open bid auctions, or no adjustment in closed-seal bid auctions. Furthermore, the results show that previous bids affect following bids, which may also be an anchoring effect.
C99|Pathos & ethos: emotions and willingness to pay for tobacco products|In this article we use data from a multi-country Randomized Control Trial study on the effect of anti-tobacco pictorial warnings on an individual’s emotions and behavior. By exploiting the exogenous variations of images as an instrument, we are able to identify the effect of emotional responses. We use a range of outcome variables, from cognitive (risk perception and depth of processing) to behavioural (willingness to buy and willingness to pay). Our findings suggest that the odds of buying a tobacco product can be reduced by 80% if the negative affect elicited by the images increases by one standard deviation. More importantly from a public policy perspective, not all emotions behave alike, as eliciting shame, anger, or distress proves more effective in reducing smoking than fear and disgust.
C99|Accessibility of internet services for visually impaired persons by means of Text-To-Speech technology. Benefits-costs perspective|Access of the persons with disabilities to services provided by the Internet is an important aspect of everyday existence of these people with special needs. In the particular case of blind people, the Internet offers unprecedented opportunities for an independent living, the fundamental challenge for any disabled person. In this paper we present some aspects of Internet accessibility via Text-To-Speech (TTS) technology, from a benefits-costs perspective. This assistive technology transforms into speech the texts gathered from accessing of web and email services of the Internet.
C99|The price elasticity of charitable giving: does the form of tax relief matter?|We use a survey-based approach to compare the effects of alternative forms of tax relief on donations—a tax rebate for the donor and a matched payment to the charity. On accounting grounds these two are equivalent but, in line with earlier experimental studies, we find that charitable contributions are significantly more responsive to a match than to a rebate. The difference can largely be explained by the fact that a majority of donors do not adjust their nominal donations in response to a change in subsidy. We relate our findings to the growing literature on behavioural tax policy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
C99|How are firms affected by exchange rate shocks?|This paper studies the effects of a change in the Swiss franc/euro exchange rate floor, as introduced by the Swiss National Bank in September 2011 using a survey based impulse responses analysis. Survey based impulse responses incorporate experimental settings into representative firm surveys, expose firm executives to treatment or shock scenarios and evaluate the effects of the shocks on executives' expected firm-level out- comes. Our results suggest that a change in the exchange rate floor from 1.20 to 1.10 Swiss francs per euro and a subsequent appreciation of the Swiss franc by the same magnitude considerably decreases expected turnovers, costs and profits of Swiss firms. Manufacturing turnover decreases by 3.3% within six months and by 4.3% within 18 months. Total costs decline by 1.3% within six months and 2.0% within 18 months, while profits shrink by 3.3% within six months. The effects are substantially lower for the service and the construction sector, but exhibit large variation across sub-sector industries. Panel regression analysis reveals that firm-specific export shares and inter- mediate goods import shares are key determinants of firms' turnover, costs and profits reactions.
C99|Macro and micro level impulse responses: A survey experimental identification procedure|This paper analyzes the effects of macroeconomic shocks on prices and output at different levels of aggregation using a bottom up approach. We show how to generate firm level impulse responses by incorporating experimental settings into surveys and by exposing firm executives to treatment scenarios. Aggregation then results in industry level and economy wide impulse responses. We further show that the effects obtained from survey experiments can be mapped into impulse responses retrieved from VARs. We apply the procedure to study the effects of oil price shocks using a representative sample of over 1000 Swiss firms. At the aggregate and industry level our findings confirm, with some notable exceptions, results from a standard VAR. At the micro level we analyze the driving forces behind firm specific impulse responses, controlling for several firm characteristics via panel data analysis and thereby solving existing puzzles.
C99|muCap: Connecting FaceReader™ to z-Tree|μCap (muCap) is a software package (citeware) for economic experiments enabling experimenters to analyze emotional states of subjects using z-Tree and FaceReader™. μCap is able to create videos of subjects on client computers based on stimuli shown on screen and restrict recording material to relevant time frames. Another feature of μCap is the creation of time stamps in csv format at prespecified screens (or at prespecified points in time) during the experiment, measured on the client computer. The software makes it possible to import these markers into FaceReader™ easily. Until recently, connecting z-Tree and FaceReader™ was only possible using workarounds or by undertaking many successive actions manually. μCap is the first program that significantly simplifies this process with the additional benefit of extremely high precision. This paper describes the usage, underlying principles as well as advantages and limitations of μCap. Furthermore, we give a brief outlook of how μCap can be beneficial in other contexts.
C99|Cooling Off in Negotiations: Does it Work?|Negotiations frequently end in conflict after one party rejects a final offer. In a large-scale Internet experiment, we investigate whether a 24-hour cooling-off period leads to fewer rejections in ultimatum bargaining. We conduct a standard cash treatment and a lottery treatment, where subjects receive lottery tickets for several large prizes. In the lottery treatment, unfair offers are less frequently rejected, and cooling off reduces the rejection rate further. In the cash treatment, rejections are more frequent and remain so after cooling off. We also study the effect of subjects' degree of icognitive reflectionj on their behavior.
C99|Simulation Methods Comparison in Business Process Domain|The main goal of this paper is to compare the results of an agent-based and Monte Carlo simulation experiments in business process negotiation between sellers and customers of a simple trading commodity. The motivation of the presented research is to find suitable method for predicting key performance indicators of a business company. The intention is to develop a software module in the future which might help the management of business companies to support their decisions. Microeconomic demand functions were used as a core element in the negotiation. Specifically, Marshallian demand function and Cobb-Douglas utility functions is introduced. The paper firstly presents some of the principles of agent-based and Monte Carlo simulation techniques, and demand function theory. Secondly, we present a conceptual model of a business company in terms of a simulation framework. Thirdly, a formalization of demand functions and their implementation in a seller-to-customer negotiation is introduced. Lastly, we discuss some of the simulation results in one year of selling commodities. The results obtained show that agent-based method is more suitable than Monte Carlo in the presented domain, and the demand functions could be used to predict the trading results of a company in some metrics.
C99|Harnessing stem cell potential for regenerative medicine and cell-based therapy|Stem cells have an interesting history, hugely replete with varied discourse, debate and controversy. Researchers, in mid 1800s, discovered that cells were basically the building blocks of life, and that some cells had the ability to produce other cells. Later on, owing to several years of relentless thinking and efforts, mammalian eggs could be fertilised outside of the human body. In the early 1900s, cells with remarkable ability to generate blood cells were identified. After a gap of 8-9 decades, researchers discovered blood producing stem cells, called as hematopoietic stem cells, followed by another resident of bone marrow stem cells, named as mesenchymal stem cells. Furthermore, during the first decade of 21st century, scientists successfully programmed differentiated somatic cells into stem cell-like cell that was called as induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). The greatest advantages of the iPSCs, apart from being a potential prospective candidate for cell therapy, is the lack of any ethical concerns like other category of stem cells, such as embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Besides, stem cells are also being used to generate multiple functional organs in vitro to study, and explicitly decipher the structural organisation and concerted working of these vital organs in the human body, which will further help in deepening the insight, understanding and designing new therapeutic strategy to ameliorate and cure the multiple diseases. Recent findings have proved that the stem cells may offer shining rays of hope, and be explored for treatment of deadly degenerative and incurable diseases in years to come.
C99|How to reform western care payment systems according to physicians, policy makers, healthcare executives and researchers: A discrete choice experiment|Background: Many developed countries are reforming healthcare payment systems in order to limit costs and improve clinical outcomes. Knowledge on how different groups of professional stakeholders trade off the merits and downsides of healthcare payment systems is limited. Methods: Using a discrete choice experiment we asked a sample of physicians, policy makers, healthcare executives and researchers from Canada, Europe, Oceania, and the United States to choose between profiles of hypothetical outcomes on eleven healthcare performance objectives which may arise from a healthcare payment system reform. We used a Bayesian D-optimal design with partial profiles, which enables studying a large number of attributes, i.e. the eleven performance objectives, in the experiment. Results: Our findings suggest that (a) moving from current payment systems to a value-based system is supported by physicians, despite an income trade-off, if effectiveness and long term cost containment improve. (b) Physicians would gain in terms of overall objective fulfillment in Eastern Europe and the US, but not in Canada, Oceania and Western Europe. Finally, (c) such payment reform more closely aligns the overall fulfillment of objectives between stakeholders such as physicians versus healthcare executives. Conclusions: Although the findings should be interpreted with caution due to the potential selection effects of participants, it seems that the value driven nature of newly proposed and/or introduced care payment reforms is more closely aligned with what stakeholders choose in some health systems, but not in others. Future studies, including the use of random samples, should examine the contextual factors that explain such differences in values and buy-in.
C99|The Prince and the Pauper: Fairness through Thick and Thin Veils of Ignorance|This paper uses a twin construct to test how the thickness of the veil of ignorance (VOI) affects the perception of fairness and redistributional choices. A fortune reversal is generally perceived to be fair behind a thick VOI, but deemed unfair behind a transparent VOI, particularly if one is currently in a stronger social position. A significant association exists between the perception of fairness and the certainty levels about social position. A 50-50 split is preferred with thicker VOI; whilst the status quo is favoured with thinner VOI. Regardless of the VOI’s thickness, few opt for a winnertake-all redistribution.
C99|Do Sympathy Biases Induce Charitable Giving? The Effects of Advertising Content|We randomize advertising content motivated by the psychology literature on sympathy generation and framing effects in mailings to about 185,000 prospective new donors in India. We find significant impact on the number of donors and amounts donated consistent with sympathy biases such as the “identifiable victim,” “in-group” and “reference dependence.” A monthly reframing of the ask amount increases donors and amount donated relative to daily reframing. A second field experiment targeted to past donors, finds that the effect of sympathy bias on giving is smaller in percentage terms but statistically and economically highly significant in terms of the magnitude of additional dollars raised. Methodologically, the paper complements the work of behavioral scholars by adopting an empirical researchers’ lens of measuring relative effect sizes and economic relevance of multiple behavioral theoretical constructs in the sympathy bias and charity domain within one field setting. Beyond the benefit of conceptual replications, the effect sizes provide guidance to managers on which behavioral theories are most managerially and economically relevant when developing advertising content.
C99|Pro-social preferences and self-selection into jobs: Evidence from South African nurses|Although a growing body of economic work has looked at the role of pro-social motives to explain self-selection into public or not-for-profit sector jobs, in particular in the delivery of social services, no attention has been given to the role of pro-social preferences in the decision to take up posts in rural and isolated areas. Yet there are reasons to believe that such choices involve a degree of self-sacrifice, in particular in developing countries where rural regions typically combine geographic hostile environment, high levels of poverty, low educational opportunities, limited access to basic services and worse career opportunities. On the other hand, as shortage of qualified staff is higher in rural areas, the returns on the presence of a health worker, and the benefits to the populations, are likely to be higher. Using data from a longitudinal study of nurses in South Africa this paper tests this hypothesis by linking experimental measure of pro-social preferences and revealed preferences outcomes. Three measures of pro-social preferences are constructed based on donations made by study participants in a dictator game played at baseline. Job choices are observed three years later for more than 97% of the initial sample. We show that the more dedicated the nurses – measured by their generosity towards patients in the dictator game – the more likely they are to have chosen a rural job. This result is robust to the inclusion of various demographic controls and to different econometric specifications. This finding contributes to the literature on role of pro-social values as an intrinsic motivation factor in labour supply decisions and it has policy implications for the provision of social services in difficult settings.
C99|Spite and cognitive skills in preschoolers|Other-regarding preferences in adults have been examined in depth in the literature. Research has shown that spiteful preferences play a crucial role in the development of human large-scale cooperation. However, there is little evidence of the factors explaining spiteful behavior in children. We investigate the relationship between children’s cognitive skills and spiteful behavior in a sample of 214 preschoolers aged 5–6 and their mothers. Here, other-regarding behavior in children is elicited through four simple allocation decisions. A key advantage of our study is that we have information about children’s cognitive and non-cognitive skills as well as maternal and household characteristics. We find that higher cognitive skills are associated with more spiteful behavior in children. This relationship is even more pronounced among boys. Moreover, we find further gender differences that depend on the measure of cognitive skills and the degree of spite displayed.
C99|Pro-social preferences and self-selection into jobs: Evidence from South African nurses|Although a growing body of economic work has looked at the role of pro-social motives to explain self-selection into public or not-for-profit sector jobs, in particular in the delivery of social services, no attention has been given to the role of pro-social preferences in the decision to take up posts in rural and isolated areas. Yet there are reasons to believe that such choices involve a degree of self-sacrifice, in particular in developing countries where rural regions typically combine geographic hostile environment, high levels of poverty, low educational opportunities, limited access to basic services and worse career opportunities. On the other hand, as shortage of qualified staff is higher in rural areas, the returns on the presence of a health worker, and the benefits to the populations, are likely to be higher. Using data from a longitudinal study of nurses in South Africa this paper tests this hypothesis by linking experimental measure of pro-social preferences and revealed preferences outcomes. Three measures of pro-social preferences are constructed based on donations made by study participants in a dictator game played at baseline. Job choices are observed three years later for more than 97% of the initial sample. We show that the more dedicated the nurses – measured by their generosity towards patients in the dictator game – the more likely they are to have chosen a rural job. This result is robust to the inclusion of various demographic controls and to different econometric specifications. This finding contributes to the literature on role of pro-social values as an intrinsic motivation factor in labour supply decisions and it has policy implications for the provision of social services in difficult settings.
C99|"Can't Touch This! Similarity And Willingness to Keep ""Dirty Money"""|Traditionally, larger than equilibrium allocations by proposers in Dictator Games (gifts) have been explained by aspects of altruism, reciprocity, and fairness. However, this assumes the gift to be mutually desirable to the proposer and responder. Giving may also be driven by a desire of the proposer to rid herself of the gift or to generate obligation on the part of the responder. We examine this by using three sources to generate the endowment in a Dictator Game:(1) undergraduate students, (2) Amazon Mechanical Turk workers, and (3) users of a racially/ethnically charged web forum. This endowment is provided to subjects in a traditional laboratory experiment. We find no significant cant differences in the proposer allocation decisions across the three sources. Rather we find that proposer affect toward the source of the endowment affects the allocation decision. Our results suggest that decision making can be strongly influenced by the provider of income shocks.
C99|Axiomatization and Measurement of Quasi-Hyperbolic Discounting|This article provides an axiomatic characterization of quasi-hyperbolic discounting and a more general class of semi-hyperbolic preferences. We impose consistency restrictions directly on the intertemporal trade-offs by relying on what we call “annuity compensations.” Our axiomatization leads naturally to an experimental design that disentangles discounting from the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. In a pilot experiment we use the partial identification approach to estimate bounds for the distributions of discount factors in the subject pool. Consistent with previous studies, we find evidence for both present and future bias. JEL Codes: C10, C99, D03, D90.
C99|Moving Ahead by Thinking Backwards: Cognitive Skills, Personality, and Economic Preferences in Collegiate Success|"We collected personality (Big Five) and demographic characteristics, and ran incentivized experiments measuring cognitive skills (non-verbal IQ, numeracy, backward induction/planning), and economic (time, risk) preferences, with 100 students at a small public undergraduate liberal arts college in the Midwestern US as part of a larger study that collected the same measures from 1,065 trainee truckers. Using standardized (z-score) versions of our variables we analyze their relative power to predict (1) timely graduation (four years or less), (2) graduation in six years or less, and (3) final GPA. The proactive aspect of Conscientious (but not the inhibitive one) has a large and robust positive effect on all three outcomes, and Agreeableness has a robust negative effect on both graduation outcomes, but not on GPA. Economic time preferences predict graduation in four years, and GPA. Cognitive skill measures predict as expected if entered individually in a multivariate model, but when all variables compete it is only our backward induction measure (""Hit15"") that weakly predicts graduation in four years, and strongly predicts graduation in six years. Trainee truckers work in a different vocational setting and their results are appropriately different, but there is a common element: Hit15 also predicts job success (completing a one year employment contract that makes training free). We interpret Hit15 as capturing a specific part of the cognitive skills required for selfmanagement in non-routine settingsâ€”thinking backward from future goals to make the best current choiceâ€”that is not well measured by existing instruments, and suggest this deserves further scientific and institutional scrutiny"
C99|Moving Ahead by Thinking Backwards: Cognitive Skills, Personality, and Economic Preferences in Collegiate Success|"We collected personality (Big Five) and demographic characteristics, and ran incentivized experiments measuring cognitive skills (non-verbal IQ, numeracy, backward induction/ planning), and economic (time, risk) preferences, with 100 students at a small public undergraduate liberal arts college in the Midwestern US as part of a larger study that collected the same measures from 1,065 trainee truckers. Using standardized (z-score) versions of our variables we analyze their relative power to predict (1) timely graduation (four years or less), (2) graduation in six years or less, and (3) final GPA. The proactive aspect of Conscientious (but not the inhibitive one) has a large and robust positive effect on all three outcomes, and Agreeableness has a robust negative effect on both graduation outcomes, but not on GPA. Economic time preferences predict graduation in four years, and GPA. Cognitive skill measures predict as expected if entered individually in a multivariate model, but when all variables compete it is only our backward induction measure (""Hit15"") that weakly predicts graduation in four years, and strongly predicts graduation in six years. Trainee truckers work in a different vocational setting and their results are appropriately different, but there is a common element: Hit15 also predicts their job success (completing a one year employment contract that makes training free). We interpret Hit15 as capturing a specific part of the cognitive skills required for self-management in non-routine settings – thinking backward from future goals to make the best current choice – that is not well measured by existing instruments, and suggest this deserves further scientific and institutional scrutiny."
C99|Bayesian D-optimal choice designs for mixtures|Consumer products and services can often be described as mixtures of ingredients. Examples are the mixture of ingredients in a cocktail and the mixture of different components of waiting time (e.g., in-vehicle and out-of-vehicle travel time) in a transportation setting. Choice experiments may help to determine how the respondents' choice of a product or service is affected by the combination of ingredients. In such studies, individuals are confronted with sets of hypothetical products or services and they are asked to choose the most preferred product or service from each set. However, there are no studies on the optimal design of choice experiments involving mixtures. We propose a method for generating an optimal design for such choice experiments. To this end, we first introduce mixture models in the choice context and next present an algorithm to construct optimal experimental designs, assuming the multinomial logit model is used to analyze the choice data. To overcome the problem that the optimal designs depend on the unknown parameter values, we adopt a Bayesian D-optimal design approach. We also consider locally D-optimal designs and compare the performance of the resulting designs to those produced by a utility-neutral (UN) approach in which designs are based on the assumption that individuals are indifferent between all choice alternatives. We demonstrate that our designs are quite different and in general perform better than the UN designs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|Heterogeneity in Rent-Seeking Contests with Multiple Stages: Theory and Experimental Evidence|This paper investigates how heterogeneity in contestants’ investment costs affects the competition intensity in a dynamic elimination contest. Theory predicts that the absolute level of investment costs has no effect on the competition intensity in homogeneous interactions. Relative cost differences in heterogeneous interactions, however, reduce equilibrium expenditures. Evidence from lab experiments for treatments with homogeneous participants is qualitatively in line with the theoretical prediction. The effect of cost differences on expenditures is positive rather than negative, however, in all heterogeneous treatments.
C99|The Difficult Case of Persuading Women: Experimental Evidence from Childcare|Gender stereotypes are well established also among women. Yet, a recent literature suggests that learning from other women experience about the effects of maternal employment on children outcomes may increase female labor force participation. To further explore this channel, we design a randomized survey experiment, in which 1500 Italian women aged 20 to 40 are exposed to two informational treatments on the positive consequences of formal childcare on children future educational attainments. Surprisingly, we find that women reduce their intended labor supply. However, this result hides strong heterogenous effects: high educated non-mothers are persuaded by the informational treatments to increase their intended use of formal child care (and to pay more); whereas low educated non-mothers to reduce their intended labor supply. These findings are consistent with women responding to monetary incentive and/or having different preferences for maternal care. These heterogenous responses across women send a warning signal about the true effectiveness – in terms of take up rates – of often advocated public policies regarding formal child care.
C99|¿Es posible una gestión dinámica de la cooperación en dilemas sociales de gran escala?: el caso de la crisis de electricidad de Colombia de 1992|Este artículo presenta cómo una gestión dinámica de la cooperación puede enfrentar la dependencia a las condiciones iniciales que caracterizan al mecanismo de cooperación basado en la confianza, lo que permitiría promover y sostener la cooperación con la que los grupos pueden superar los dilemas sociales. Para esto, se elaboró un constructo siguiendo los lineamientos metodológicos de la Dinámica de Sistemas que da cuenta de la gestión de la cooperación aplicada durante la crisis de electricidad de Colombia de 1992. A partir de los resultados, se concluye que la gestión de la cooperación basada en mecanismos dinámicos es posible en dilemas de gran escala y puede ser utilizada para hacer efectiva y sostenible la cooperación basada en la confianza en dichas situaciones.
C99|The Difficult Case of Persuading Women: Experimental Evidence from Childcare|Gender stereotypes are well established also among women. Yet, a recent literature suggests that learning from other women experience about the effects of maternal employment on children outcomes may increase female labor force participation. To further explore this channel, we design a randomized survey experiment, in which 1500 Italian women aged 20 to 40 are exposed to two informational treatments on the positive consequences of formal childcare on children future educational attainments. Surprisingly, we find that women reduce their intended labor supply. However, this result hides strong heterogenous effects: high educated non-mothers are persuaded by the informational treatments to increase their intended use of formal child care (and to pay more); whereas low educated non-mothers to reduce their intended labor supply. These findings are consistent with women responding to monetary incentive and/or having different preferences for maternal care. These heterogenous responses across women send a warning signal about the true effectiveness – in terms of take up rates – of often advocated public policies regarding formal child care.
C99|How wrong can you be, without noticing? Further evidence on speci cation errors in the Conditional Logit|Discrete choice models such as the conditional logit model are widely used tools in applied econometrics and, particularly, in the eld of environmental valuation and welfare measurement in order to provide policymakers with sound information for making strategic choices. Monte Carlo simulations are used in this study to analyze biases due to omitted relevant variables and functional form misspeci cation in the conditional logit model. Using an easy-to-estimate speci cation test is effective to reduce the risks for large biases. One somewhat discouraging result is, however, that a moderate bias can be found even when the omitted variable is orthogonal to the explanatory variables included. This result is particularly interesting considering the increasing interest in using randomized experiments to obtain causal interpretations of key parameters. Randomization, with independence between included and omitted variables, does not guarantee unbiased estimates in the conditional logit model.
C99|Experimental methods: Extra-laboratory experiments-extending the reach of experimental economics|We propose a new organizing scheme for classifying types of experiments. In addition to the standard categories of laboratory and field experiments, we suggest a new category: “extra-laboratory experiments.” These are experiments that have the same spirit as laboratory experiments, but are conducted in a non-standard manner. We also suggest some organizing principles to distinguish amongst the three types of experiments.
C99|Not all financial speculation is treated equally: Laypeople’s moral judgments about speculative short selling|Since the recent financial crisis, regulators and the general public have focused on financial speculation as one of its potential causes. In addition to the roles played by rating agencies and complicated financial engineering, speculative short sales have been put into question. However, laypeople’s moral judgments about this type of financial speculation have rarely been investigated in economic psychology. The present study aims to fill this gap. Across four studies, we find that laypeople’s moral judgments of short selling are significantly harsher than their judgments of long positions. Both successful (Study 1) and unsuccessful (Study 2) short selling receives harsher moral judgments. In addition, studies which manipulate the moral character of the shorted asset (Study 3) or the time horizon of the investment strategy (Study 4) support the conclusion that short selling is considered less moral than taking a similar long position. The results present consistent support for a judgment bias of economic laypeople in the domain of financial economics.
C99|And the winner is…? The motivating power of employee awards|This paper reports the findings from a survey experiment conducted online at IBM to assess the impact of employee awards on behavior in the workplace. We document that the introduction of a hypothetical award has statistically significant effects on the stated willingness to contribute to a public good. Our design allows us to estimate the impact of different award characteristics related to, for example, how public or how valuable the award is. The stated willingness to share important information with colleagues increases monotonically with the value of the monetary payment or gift that comes with the award and is lower for gifts than payments of equal value. Moreover, publicity has a substantial positive effect: a ceremony increases stated contributions by as much as increasing the value of the award from $0 to $1000.
C99|A technical note on the precise timing of behavioral events in economic experiments|The increasing use of physiological recordings in experimental economics requires a precise timing of interesting events, such as the presentation of a set of choices, the decision-making moment and the reception of feedback through the display of a decision outcome. In this note we provide a simple, accurate and inexpensive solution based on the use of external photo-sensors that detect changes in light intensity on the participants’ screens occurring in synchrony with experimental events. This system ensures an accurate communication between standard programs broadly used to run behavioral economic experiments, such as z-Tree, and biosignal acquisition systems recording physiological variables, such as skin conductance, heart rate and electroencephalogram. An example is briefly discussed, offering specific guidelines for the application of this methodology in economic contexts with strategic interaction.
C99|The constitutional political economy of virtual worlds|In virtual worlds, a social order able to coordinate the actions of tens of thousands of people emerges in a non-predetermined but designed way. The central puzzle the developers of such worlds have to solve is the same political economists face: to establish a well-functioning set of rules allowing for the thriving of the regulated community. The purpose of this paper is to provide a discussion of the particularities of the constitutional political economy of virtual worlds: their institutions, the prevalent beliefs of the players, and their organizations. The main reason why we should care about doing research on virtual worlds is the huge potential for research in virtual worlds. Virtual worlds present a middle ground in the debate between the greater control of laboratory experiments and the higher external validity of the field. Besides being an important cultural phenomenon per se, they emerge as the researchers’ tool to conduct experiments on a truly social level with tens of thousands of subjects. To show the usefulness of such environments for research in political economy in an exemplary but concrete fashion, the paper also presents some findings difficult to be produced elsewhere: data on an astonishingly high percentage of altruistic behavior in a Hobbesian natural state drawn from a dictator game played online. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
C99|Quantifying Systemic Risk|No abstract is available for this item.
C99|Matching using semiparametric propensity scores|This paper considers the application of semiparametric methods to estimate propensity scores or probabilities of program participation, which are central to certain program evaluation methods. To evaluate the practical benefits, we first conduct a Monte Carlo study. Second, we use data from the NSW experiment, CPS, and PSID. We compare treatment effect and evaluation bias estimates using propensity scores estimated from parametric logit, semiparametric single index, and semiparametric binary quantile regression models. Our results suggest that it is important to account for very general forms of heterogeneity in (semiparametric) estimation of the propensity score, particularly when the treatment effects vary in an unsystematic manner with the true propensity score. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
C99|Propensity score matching and variations on the balancing test|Balancing tests are diagnostics designed for use with propensity score methods, a widely used non-experimental approach in the evaluation literature. Such tests provide useful information on whether plausible counterfactuals have been created. Currently, multiple balancing tests exist in the literature but it is unclear which is the most useful. This article highlights the poor size properties of commonly employed balancing tests and attempts to shed some light on the link between the results of balancing tests and bias of the evaluation estimator. The simulation results suggest that in scenarios where the conditional independence assumption holds, a permutation version of the balancing test described in Dehejia and Wahba (Rev Econ Stat 84:151–161, 2002 ) can be useful in applied study. The proposed test has good size properties. In addition, the test appears to have good power for detecting a misspecification in the link function and some power for detecting an omission of relevant non-linear terms involving variables that are included at a lower order. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
C99|Price convergence in an online virtual world|This paper tests for the existence of price convergence using a unique data set from the largest online game, World of Warcraft. It provides a controlled setting without the usual obstacles that make testing price convergence difficult. These difficulties include trade barriers, transportation costs, imperfections and restrictions in capital markets, and differences in productivity growth. The data set consists of eight structurally identical copies, or worlds, of a virtual macroeconomy. We use the non-linear convergence test developed by Phillips and Sul (Econometrica 75(6):1771–1855, 2007 ), and find price convergence in all eight worlds. We further develop our own simple band of inaction test for price convergence, and under reasonable parameters find price convergence in all eight worlds. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
C99|Favouring Friends|Ideally we would like subjects of experiments to be perfect strangers so that the situation they face at the lab is not just a part of a long run interaction. Unfortunately, it is not easy to reach those conditions and experimenters try to mitigate any effects coming form these out-of- the-lab relationships by, for instance, randomly matching subjects. However, even if this type of procedure is used, there is a positive probability that a subject faces a friend or an acquaintance. We find evidence that social proximity among subjects is irrelevant for experiments’ results in dictator games. Thus, although ideal conditions are not met, relations among subjects are not contaminating the experiments’ results.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|Vacancy Referrals, Job Search, and the Duration of Unemployment: A Randomized Experiment|One goal of the public employment service is to facilitate matching between unemployed job seekers and job vacancies; another goal is to monitor job search so as to bring search efforts among the unemployed in line with search requirements. The referral of job seekers to vacancies is one instrument used for these purposes. We report results from a randomized Swedish experiment where the outcome of referrals is examined. To what extent do unemployed individuals actually apply for the jobs they are referred to? Does information to job seekers about increased monitoring affect the probability of applying and the probability of leaving unemployment? The experiment indicates that a relatively large fraction (one third) of the referrals do not result in job applications. Information about intensified monitoring causes an increase in the probability of job application, especially among young people. However, we find no significant impact on the duration of unemployment.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|Structural Interactions and Long Run Growth. An Application of Experimental Design to Agent Based Models|We propose an agent-based computational model defining the following dimensions of structural change?organisation of production, technology of production, and product on the supply side, and income distribution and consumption patterns on the demand side?at the microeconomic level. We define ten different parameters to account for these five dimensions of structural change. Building on existing results we use a full factorial experimental design (DOE) to analyse the size and significance the effect of these parameters on output growth. We identify the aspects of structural change that have the strongest impact. We study the direct and indirect effects of the factors of structural change, and focus on the role of the interactions among the different factors and different aspects of structural change. We find that some aspects of structural change?income distribution, changes to production technology and the emergence of new sectors?play a major role on output growth, while others?consumption shares, preferences, and the quality of goods?play a rather minor role. Second, these major factors can radically modify the growth of an economy even when all other aspects experience no structural change. Third, different aspects of structural change strongly interact: the effect of a factor that influences a particular aspect of structural change varies radically for different degrees of structural change in other aspects. These results on the different aspects of structural change provide a number of insights on why regions starting from a similar level of output and with initial small differences grow so differently through time.
C99|Everyone Wants a Chance : Initial Positions and Fairness in Ultimatum Games|Fairness emerges as a relevant factor in redistributive preferences in surveys and experiments. We study experimentally the impact of varying the probability with which players are assigned to initial positions in Ultimatum Games (UGs). In the baseline case players have equal opportunities of being assigned the proposer position –arguably the more advantaged one in UGs. Chances become increasingly unequal across three treatments. We also manipulate the inter-temporal allocation of opportunities over rounds. We find that : (1) The more initial chances are distributed unequally, the lower the acceptance rates of a given offer ; consequently, offers increase ; (2) Being assigned a mere 1% chance of occupying the proposer role compared to none, significantly increases acceptance rates and decreases offers ; (3) Players accept even extreme amounts of unequal chances within each round in exchange for overall equality of opportunities across rounds. Procedural fairness – both static and dynamic - has clear relevance for individuals.
C99|Momentum trading strategy and investment horizon: an experimental study|Purpose - Existing empirical studies that document momentum trading strategies do not provide any insight on how investors choose the time horizon that is used to compute the past stock returns. Indeed, since past returns over overlapping time periods are positively correlated, it is hard to identify the exact historical time period on which investors base their trading strategies and to investigate whether such a period is unique. The purpose of this paper is to investigate this and reach some conclusions. Design/methodology/approach - In this paper the author uses experimental setting to analyze how investors choose which of the past returns to use as a basis for their trading strategies and whether this choice depends on their investment horizon. The advantage of this experimental setting over the existing empirical research is the ability to control for the investment horizon of the subjects and the ability to provide the subjects with a hand-picked set of stocks with uncorrelated past returns over overlapping time periods. In the study subjects were asked to make short-term investment decisions based on historical short-term realized returns over two time intervals of different lengths. In each treatment the subjects were divided into two groups based on the lengths of their investment horizons, which were set to match the lengths of time intervals used to compute the historical returns. Findings - It was found that subjects followed momentum trading strategies based on both historical returns provided to them and paid more attention to the historical returns over the shorter time period. In addition, some evidence was found that subjects with longer investment horizons rely less on momentum strategies. Originality/value - A wide sample was used to create an original set of observations and conclusions.
C99|Everyone Wants a Chance: Initial Positions and Fairness in Ultimatum Games|Fairness emerges as a relevant factor in redistributive preferences in surveys and experiments. We study experimentally the impact of varying the probability with which players are assigned to initial positions in Ultimatum Games (UGs). In the baseline case players have equal opportunities of being assigned the proposer position ñ arguably the more advantaged one in UGs. Chances become increasingly unequal across three treatments. We also manipulate the inter-temporal allocation of opportunities over rounds. We Önd that: (1) The more initial chances are distributed unequally, the lower the acceptance rates of a given o§er; consequently, o§ers increase; (2) Being assigned a mere 1% chance of occupying the proposer role compared to none, significantly increases acceptance rates and decreases o§ers; (3) Players accept even extreme amounts of unequal chances within each round in exchange for overall equality of opportunities across rounds. Procedural fairness both static and dynamic - has clear relevance for individuals.
C99|Egalitarian Envy: Cross-cultural Variation in the Development of Envy in Children|While envy has been studied extensively in adults, the question how envy develops during childhood has not received much attention. To address this gap, we report the results of an artefactual field experiment that investigates and compares the prevalence and development of destructive envy in children aged seven to ten. The experiment took place in the children's natural environment - their schools. We also checked for cultural variability of our results by conducting our study with German children and with children from a highly egalitarian society: the Eastern Penan of northern Borneo. We found that envious behavior was prevalent already at a young age, even when it was costly. An egalitarian upbringing did not appear to mitigate this prevalence. Furthermore, we found strong evidence of cultural variability in the development of envy in children. For instance, in contrast with the German sample, gender was not associated with envy in the Penan sample and the age pattern of envy differed across our two groups. Together, this suggests that there does not appear to be a straightforward relationship between the development of envy and the natural development of the human mind with age, e.g. through better mentalizing ability. Rather, the acquisition pattern of envy is modulated by socio-cultural context. Further research is needed to identify what, then, drives the development of envy during childhood.
C99|Model for reputational risk for subsidiaries of non-public group with reciprocal shareholding|The paper presents the model for reputational risk for subsidiaries of non-public group with reciprocal shareholding within the Basel Accord. A test for lack of reputation risk is presented. Proposal for quantification of the non-measurable risk has been outline first for the case of the effective public market, than a limited model has been presented for the non-consolidated level in case of the lack of public benchmark.
C99|Optimal Tax Salience|Recent empirical work suggests that how an individual responds to a tax depends at least in part on the tax's salience. The more salient a tax is, the more taxpayers adjust their demand in response to changes in the taxed good's after-tax price. If tax salience affects behavior, a natural question follows: How salient should a government's revenue collection system be? I investigate this question by considering the problem faced by a benevolent government choosing between high- and low-salience commodity taxes to meet a revenue constraint. I show that low-salience taxes introduce two offsetting welfare effects: on the one hand, they reduce the excess burden traditionally associated with distortionary taxation by dampening consumers' substitution away from the taxed good; on the other hand, low-salience taxes introduce new welfare costs by causing consumers to make optimization errors when deciding how much of each good to purchase. Under certain conditions, I show that governments can utilize a combination of high- and low-salience commodity taxes to achieve the first-best welfare outcome, even without employing a lump-sum tax. I also derive a simple and intuitive formula that characterizes the optimal mix between high- and low-salience taxes needed to obtain this outcome. Under the optimal policy, the low-salience tax is strictly non-zero, and the ratio of low- to high-salience taxes is 1) increasing in the compensated own-price elasticity of demand for the taxed good, 2) decreasing in the income-sensitivity of the taxed good, and 3) decreasing in the taxed good's share of the budget. Finally, high-salience taxes tend to be efficient when consumption of the taxed good generates negative externalities.
C99|Introducing the Bonn Experiment System (BoXS)|Computerised experiments play a vital part in the modern economic and social sciences. As the technology advances, more complex and sophisticated experiments become feasible. Fast internet connections are widely available today and mobile devices have become capable of running complex graphical applications. The Bonn Experiment System (BoXS) was designed to provide a platform for designing and conducting computerised experiments which is both easy to approach and use, as well as flexible in its possible applications. It does not require installation and uses a lean client which runs on Windows, MacOS and Linux and only requires a web browser and a Java Runtime Environment to execute. This paper intends to highlight the main features and limitations of the BoXS and provide some guidance for experimenters getting started with it. It also discusses some of the design decisions and provides in-depth information on technical aspects of the system. The appendix includes both the documentation and full code examples.
C99|An investigation of the endowment effect using a factorial design|The endowment effect is interpreted as evidence that we may ‘over value’ objects we already own. In this study we introduce a novel approach to investigating the endowment effect, the factorial survey design, which enables manipulation of variables potentially influencing the endowment effect. We consider the value and uniqueness of the possession, whether it is a gift from a close friend and whether the trade is with a stranger. We find a higher endowment effect for possessions received as gifts from a close friend and this effect is entirely due to responses from women. Furthermore, we find significantly higher endowment effects for valuable possessions. Our results suggest there is ample scope for broadening the range of methods applied to this area of economic research.
C99|"""Repugnant"", ""Not Repugnant at All"": How the Respective Epistemic Attitudes of Georges Lemaitre and Sir Arthur Eddington Influenced How Each Approached the Idea of a Beginning of the Universe"|This paper investigates how the different epistemic attitudes held by scientists George LemaÃ®tre and Sir Arthur Eddington decidedly influenced how they conducted their research on cosmology. It demonstrates the degree to which epistemic attitudes matter in scientific research. Though both scientists were Christian, a belief in God or in biblically inspired narratives does not explain satisfactorily why these two Christians remained at such opposite ends of thinking with regard to the idea of a beginning of a universe, especially considering LemaÃ®tre and Eddington each put forth his case in a scientific manner. The paper finds that had both entered into a dialogue on each other's epistemic attitude, a great amount of needless energy spent on arguing might have avoided.
C99|Economics in the Kingdom of Loathing: Analysis of Virtual Market Data|We analyze a unique data set from a massively-multiplayer online video game economy called The Kingdom of Loathing to assess the viability of these markets in conducting economic research. The data consist of every transaction in a market with over one million players over three years of real time. We find that 1) the game markets are efficient, 2) the complexity of the product determines information diffusion times, and 3) we can classify which and how players participate in trade.
C99|Reward Prediction Error in Online Game Trades|We use trade data from an online game economy to test the 'dopaminergic reward prediction error' (DRPE) hypothesis: upon buying a game item at a price which is obviously too low, a player should become more active in the trading market. We find that players are more willing to buy goods in the in-game market after such an trade incident. Hence, the effect predicted by the DRPE model is visible. Yet, contrary to the prediction of DRPE, the magnitude of the prediction error does not have any effect on the post-error trading activity.
C99|Social Capital and Online Games|We use data from an online game economy and econometric matching methods to test whether social capital of players has an impact on game success. Membership in a 'clan', a voluntary organization of players, positively impacts game success. Hence, social capital has a positive effect on outcomes. Yet, top performers do not gain from access to this social capital.
C99|The Quantification of Systemic Risk and Stability: New Methods and Measures|No abstract is available for this item.
C99|The Quantification of Systemic Risk and Stability: New Methods and Measures|We address the question of the prediction of large failures, busts, or system collapse, and the necessary concepts related to risk quantification, minimization and management. Answering this question requires a new approach since predictions using standard financial techniques and statistical distributions fail to predict or anticipate crises. The key points are that financial markets, systems, trading and manoeuvres are not just about money, debt, stocks, instruments and assets but reflect the actions and motivations of humans, which includes the presence or absence of learning effects. Therefore we have the possibility of failures or rare or low frequency events due to human involvement. The rare or unknown event is directly due to human influence, and reflects both learning and risk taking, with the presence of the finite and persistent human error contribution while taking or exposed to risk. This presence of humans in the marketplace explains the failure of present purely statistical methods to correctly estimate, predict or determine the onset of financial crises, busts and collapses. In this essay, we unify the concepts for predicting financial systemic risk with the general theory for outcomes, trends and measures already derived for other technical and social systems with human involvement. We replace words and qualitative reasoning with measures and quantitative predictions. The paper is therefore written with an introductory section devoted to the measures relevant to risk prediction in other modern technological systems; and is then extended and applied specifically to risk prediction for financial and business systems. The resulting measures also provide useful guidance for risk governance.
C99|Travel Impacts and Adjustment Strategies of the Collapse and the Reopening of the I-35W Bridge| On August 1st, 2007, the I-35W bridge crossing the Mississippi river fell into the Mississippi river. In addition to the human tragedy that it caused, the bridge failure also impacted how people moved in the area. The bridge carried 140,000 cars daily. As such it required a significant amount of traffic find new routes to reach their destinations. Traffic impacts may also have led to changes in mode, time, or some trips being foregone. Those who changed routes were not just the ones that previously used the bridge. With the I-35 traffic using alternate routes, those who saw or anticipated higher traffic also found it necessary to re route their trips. In this study we ask a sample of people that were recruited for another study, if their travels had been impacted by the failure of the bridge, how they coped and what impacts it had on their travels and other activities.
C99|Symposium: Experience and Confidence in an Internet-Based Asset Market Experiment|The experience effect in asset markets is one that was thought to be settled. As subjects gained experience with the interface and each other, they typically exhibit fewer instances of mispricing and at lower magnitudes. But questions regarding trading experience are not easy to address in the lab with the typical subject pool since the kind of experience one can typically generate in the lab is experience with the experimental environment itself—not with external environments. However, in virtual worlds asset markets are highly evolved, providing a subject pool with skilled and experienced traders that can be accessed via the Internet. This study compares experimental asset markets with participants recruited from virtual world trading groups to experimental markets with participants recruited from the virtual world at large. I further examine trader performance and trading behavior within markets. The findings indicate that asset markets with virtual world participants recruited from trading groups are more prone to exhibit bubbles than are markets with virtual world participants recruited at large. Within condition, experienced traders are less likely to follow fundamentals and more likely to engage in strategies that result in loss of earnings. Excess confidence is rejected as an explanation for this pattern, as confidence is found to be related to higher earnings and fundamental value trading strategies.
C99|Symposium: Trust in Second Life|In this article, some issues are raised with regard to conducting economic decision-making experiments in virtual worlds. I make suggestions for addressing these issues. The issues are illustrated via a visit to an experimental laboratory in Second Life.
C99|Design effect and interviewer effects: Evidence from the Spanish ESS3-2006 Data|In 2007 the first Quality Enhancement Meeting on sampling in the European Social Survey (ESS) took place. The discussion focused on design effects and inteviewer effects in face-to-face interviews. Following the recomendations of this meeting the Spanish ESS team studied the impact of interviewers as a new element in the design effect in the response’s variance using the information of the correspondent Sample Design Data Files. Hierarchical multilevel and cross-classified multilevel analysis are conducted in order to estimate the amount of responses’ variation due to PSU and to interviewers for different questions in the survey. Factor such as the age of the interviewer, gender, workload, training and experience and respondent characteristics such as age, gender, renuance to participate and their possible interactions are also included in the analysis of some specific questions like “trust in politicians” and “trust in legal system”. Some recomendations related to future sampling designs and the contents of the briefing sessions are derived from this initial research.
C99|Perceptions of Fairness and Allocation Systems|This paper explores the conditions of acceptability of differing allocation systems under scarcity and evaluates what makes a price system more or less fair. We find that fairness in an allocation arrangement depend on the institutional settings inherent in the situation, such as information, transparency and competition and the perceived institutional quality (e.g., fiscal exchange and institutional trust). Results also indicate that the solution “weak people first” is seen as the fairest approach to an excess demand situation, followed by “first come, first serve”, the price system and an auction system. On the other hand, a random procedure or an allocation through the government is not perceived to be fair. Moreover, economics students seemed to be less sceptical towards the price system than other subjects although we observe that female students are more sceptical than male students.
C99|Is the veil of ignorance only a concept about risk? An experiment|We implement the Rawlsian veil of ignorance in the laboratory. Our design allows analyzing the effects of risk and social preferences behind the veil of ignorance. Behind the veil of ignorance subjects choose more equal distributions than in front of the veil, but only a minority acts according to maximin preferences. Many subjects prefer more equal allocations not only for insurance purposes but also due to impartial social preferences for equality. Our results imply that behind the veil of ignorance maximin preferences are compatible with any degree of risk aversion if impartial social preferences for equality are sufficiently strong.
C99|Is the psychology of high profits favorable to industrial renewal? Experimental evidence for the theory of transformation pressure and Schumpeterian economics|The theory of transformation pressure sheds light on the importance of negative driving forces for economic growth and the countercyclical movement in innovations and productivity growth. The theory suggests that firms have a status-quo bias in periods of increasing profits leading to lower productivity growth. Firm agents are governed by changes in current profits through historical relativism, the peak-end rule and overconfidence. They will first abandon a status-quo bias after an actual decline in profits though both under- and overreaction is possible. On the other hand Schumpeterian economics stress that firm renewal is speeded up during recoveries, e.g. by psychological reasons. The two contradicting hypotheses were tested by a role play where a group of university students in economics completed a questionnaire acting as managers for an established company. The students had the opportunity to choose between different growth strategies and define the underlying psychological mechanism. The questionnaire also provided room for rational considerations. The role play confirmed the theory of transformation pressure more than Schumpeterian economics but primarily that the students expected that they would have reacted rationally as managers.
C99|Envy and Altruism in Children|Envy and altruism have been studied extensively in adults. Here, we report data from an experiment studying envious and altruistic behavior in children. We study a sample of German school children aged seven to ten in a natural setting. We run two treatments. One treatment investigates envy, the other one studies altruism. Additionally, we collect data on the children's cognitive and social skills, and on their socio-demographic background. Controlling for these factors, we find that older children are significantly more altruistic. Boys care more about their relative position than girls. Socio-demographic information have limited predictive power in both treatments.
C99|Measuring Preferences: from Conjoint Analysis to Integrated Conjoint Experiments = Medición de preferencias: desde el Análisis Conjunto a los Experimentos Conjuntos Integrados|When there are many attributes, experiments with Conjoint Analysis include problems of information overload that affect the validity of such experiments. The impact of these problems can be avoided or reduced by using Hierarchical Information Integration (HII). The present work aims to demonstrate how the integrated experimentscan resolve the limitations arising in Conjoint Analysis and HII, and to further establish ways to proceed in these types of situations. A variation of Louviere's (1984) original HII model, proposed by Oppewal et al. (1994), is applied in this work for the selection of mobile phones. Los experimentos de Análisis Conjunto con muchos atributos incluyen problemas de sobrecarga de información que afectan a la validez de dichos experimentos. El impacto de esos problemas puede ser evitado o reducido utilizando la Integración de Información Jerárquica (HII). El objetivo de este trabajo es mostrar cómo los experimentos integrados pueden resolver las limitaciones planteadas en el Análisis Conjunto y en el HII, estableciendo una forma de actuar para este tipo de situaciones. Una variante del modelo original de HII de Louviere (1984), propuesta por Oppewal et al. (1994), se aplica en este trabajo a la elección de teléfonos móviles.
C99|Development of the overconfidence measurement instrument for the economic experiment|In this article results of the two experiments, aimed at the development of the instrument (test) that would enable construction of the comprehensive measure of individual overconfidence for the use in economic overconfidence experiments, are presented. Instrument was obtained in a two-stage procedure. In the first experimental phase, a pilot test, consisting of fifty general-knowledge questions of the unknown difficulty, was conducted to divide the items into three difficulty levels: hard, average-difficulty and easy questions. The second phase was aimed at verification of the replicability of results. Statistical tests supported the existence of the hard-easy effect, verified the success of categorization of questions into three levels of difficulty, and showed that gender was not associated with overconfidence in the developed instrument. The average group overconfidence measures obtained from both experimental phases did not differ from each other significantly. Instrument’s internal consistency was found to be good and acceptable for the use in social research. Compared to the tests used in the foregoing economic experiments, the obtained test is believed to result in the improvement of the overconfidence measurement quality.
C99|Development of the overconfidence measurement instrument for the economic experiment|In this article results of the two experiments, aimed at the development of the instrument (test) that would enable construction of the comprehensive measure of individual overconfidence for the use in economic overconfidence experiments, are presented. Instrument was obtained in a two-stage procedure. In the first experimental phase, a pilot test, consisting of fifty general-knowledge questions of the unknown difficulty, was conducted to divide the items into three difficulty levels: hard, average-difficulty and easy questions. The second phase was aimed at verification of the replicability of results. Statistical tests supported the existence of the hard-easy effect, verified the success of categorization of questions into three levels of difficulty, and showed that gender was not associated with overconfidence in the developed instrument. The average group overconfidence measures obtained from both experimental phases did not differ from each other significantly. Instrument’s internal consistency was found to be good and acceptable for the use in social research. Compared to the tests used in the foregoing economic experiments, the obtained test is believed to result in the improvement of the overconfidence measurement quality.
C99|Multidisciplinary Household Panel Studies under Academic Direction|This paper concentrates on the trends in peer-reviewed longitudinal panel studies under scientific direction. Household panel studies have succeeded in broadening their disciplinary scope. Numerous innovations such as questions dealing with psychological concepts, and age-specific topical modules, physical health measures, measures of cognitive capabilities, behavioral experiments have been incorporated into various panel studies or are soon to be introduced. In the UK, the household panel study Understanding Society comprising 40,000 households was launched in 2009 and recently added an “innovation sample”; in the Netherlands, the new LISS household panel study launched in 2006 with over 5,000 households will be used for the testing of innovative measurement methods. The microdata from household panel studies like PSID (US Household Panel Study), BHPS (the predecessor of UK HLS), HILDA (Australian Panel Study), and SOEP (German Socio-Economic Panel) are in continuously high demand by the research and policy advisory community. More important than “discovering” entirely new survey areas is “tailoring” the details of existing survey content to new, more specific (theoretical) questions, and thus maintaining proven and widely used elements of survey content. In the years to come, “tailoring” survey content will be the real challenge facing surveys that are integrated into the existing research infrastructure like HILDA, LISS, PSID, SHP (Swiss Panel), SOEP, and Understanding Society. We argue that, in the future, household panel studies should be designed to take the “margins” of the life course more fully into account. Indeed, household surveys are ideally suited to gather comprehensive data on these life phases. They can be improved, on the one hand, by including specific topics about the fetal phase of life and early childhood of children born into the panel, and on the other hand, by including better information about late life and death. In the middle of the life course, improved questions on income, savings, consumption, and wealth, as well as psychological constructs will play a central role, as will specific “event-triggered” questionnaires on central life occurrences such as marriage, divorce, and entry into and exit from unemployment. In order to substantially improve the statistical power of long-term longitudinal data, we propose an absolute minimum number of observations of about 500 persons per birth and age cohort. As of now, only the British Understanding Society will meet this target. A positive side-effect of such an enlargement is a significantly improved potential for analyses of relatively small groups within the population: for example, lone parents or specific immigrant groups. Another positive side-effect would be an improved potential for regional analyses. For example, in Germany, a cohort size of about 500 persons implies a survey sample size of about 20,000 households, which is large enough for analyses in the majority of federal states. Multidisciplinary panel studies will become even more important if they are accepted as reference datasets for specialized surveys that are independent of the original panel study (e.g., observational studies such as twin studies and laboratory or intervention studies). To enhance this important function, new types of service are needed, including advice on special surveys and possibly also data preparation for special surveys.
C99|The Influence Of Gender On Economic Behavior In A Standard Trust Game Experiment| My paper tries to see if there are any economic behavioral differences between male and female senders/receivers in a standard one-shot trust game played by international students at Università degli Studi di Brescia, Italy. During twenty-four experimental sessions, participants, both senders and receivers, have not discriminated against when playing with partners of different gender.
C99|Virtual trust: An experimental approach|This paper reports decision-making experiments designed to assess to what extent trade in virtual environments can reduce the trust deficit commonly associated with traditional e-commerce compared with ÔphysicalÕ trade. Our approach is based on previous findings that trust is related to the degree of social presence the electronic interface permits. We compare the behaviour of incentivised subjects in trust games conducted in physical laboratory, virtual world and website settings. While the web interface is characterised by least trust and trustworthiness of the three, there is no evidence for lower trust in virtual environments. These results suggest a role for v-commerce in combining the social presence benefits of physical trading environments with the information economies of e-commerce.
C99|Developing SOEPsurvey and SOEPservice: The (Near) Future of the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP)|After 25 years as a multidisciplinary household panel containing information on all individuals residing in panel households and thus covering all age cohorts, the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) has become a true cohort study as well. The increasing success of the SOEP research infrastructure comes above all from the increasing analytical power that longitudinal studies attain with each successive survey year. In the case of SOEP, a long series of innovations in surveying, data preparation, and user service have also played a major role. For this reason, it is important to consider how the scientific capacity of SOEP can be further enhanced— not least of all since the SOEP can form a key point of reference (or “anchor”) for new, specialized panel studies (such as the National Educational Panel and the family panel PAIRFAM, funded by the German Research Foundation). Furthermore SOEP can become a kind of “control sample” for intervention studies, for example, in the field of child development. The SOEP survey and its governance structures must be prepared for these new tasks. The numerous innovations introduced into SOEP in recent years—questions dealing with psychological concepts, physical health measures (grip strength), measures of cognitive capabilities, and behavioral experiments—have been incorporated into other panel studies as well, and thus provided with a larger sample base. In the UK, the “Understanding Society“ household panel study was launched with 40,000 households; in the Netherlands, the MESS household panel study of over 5,000 households offered a new basis for testing innovative measurement methods. The results of the SOEP survey are in continuing high demand in the research and policy advisory community. From our point of view, the large-scale consultation process conducted to define the content of the UK survey “Understanding Society“ failed to identify any fundamentally new survey content that the SOEP either did not already contain or that was not already being discussed for the SOEP. More important than “discovering” entirely new survey areas is “tailoring” the details of existing survey content to address new, more specific (theoretical) questions, and thus maintaining proven and widely used elements of survey content. The “tailoring” of survey content will be the real challenge facing infrastructure surveys like PSID, “Understanding Society,” and the SOEP in the coming years. In the future, the “margins” of the life course should play a stronger role in survey content, since household panels are able to provide outstanding data of these life phases. The SOEP, and other household panel surveys, can be improved, on the one hand, by including the fetal phase of life and early childhood for children born into the panel, and on the other, by including late life and death. In the middle of the life course, improved questions on income, savings, and wealth as well as psychological constructs will play a central role, as will specific questions (in “eventtriggered” questionnaires) on central life occurrences such as marriage, divorce, and entry into and exit from unemployment. Current plans for SOEP foresee the addition of an “Innovation Sample” that will make it possible to better address theory-based research questions required for testing new measurement concepts (e.g., the surveying of biomarkers, qualitative surveys, but also experiments and targeted intervention studies). In order to exploit the power of longitudinal data from the outset, we plan to incorporate two smaller SOEP subsamples that have been running since 1998 and 2006 (Subsamples E and H, respectively) into the Innovation Sample. In order to decisively improve the statistical power of long-term longitudinal data, we believe that a minimum case number of about 500 persons per birth and age cohort is required. In order to reach this goal, the case number in the SOEP standard samples needs to be increased. A positive side-effect of this enlargement would be a significantly improved potential for analyses of relatively small groups within the population: for example, lone parents or specific immigrant groups. Another positive side-effect would be an improved potential for regional analyses: for example, for the majority of federal states. In recent times, the importance of SOEP as a “reference dataset” for specialized surveys which are independent from SOEP (observational studies such as twin studies, and laboratory and intervention studies) has become strikingly evident. To enhance this important function, new types of service are needed (advice on special surveys, possibly also data preparation for special surveys), which could become part of a Data Service Center. Das Sozio-oekonomische Panel (SOEP) ist als multidisziplinäres Haushaltspanel, das Informationen zu allen Personen, die in einem Panel-Haushalt leben, erhebt und damit alle Altersjahrgänge abdeckt, nach 25 Jahren Laufzeit auch zu einer Kohorten- Studie geworden. Der zunehmende Erfolg der Forschungsinfrastruktur-Einrichtung SOEP speist sich in erster Linie daraus, dass die Analysekraft von Längsschnittstudien mit jedem weiteren Erhebungsjahr zunimmt. Hinzu kommen im Falle des SOEP seit Beginn an eine lange Reihe von Innovationen bei der Erhebung, Datenaufbereitung und Nutzer-Service. Deswegen gilt es zu überlegen, wie die wissenschaftliche Power des SOEP weiter gestärkt werden kann. Nicht zuletzt auch, da es für neue, spezialisierte Panel-Studien (wie das Nationale Bildungspanel oder das DFG-geförderte Familienpanel PAIRFAM) eine Referenz und ggf. Verankerung der Hochrechnung darstellt. Zudem kann das SOEP künftig eine größere Rolle als „Kontroll-Stichprobe“ für Interventions-Studien spielen; etwa im Bereich der Kindheitsentwicklung. Auf diese neuen Rollen muss es vorbereitet sein. Die im SOEP in den letzten Jahren realisierten Erhebungsinnovationen wie z. B. die Inkorporation psychologischer Konzepte, physische Gesundheitsmessungen (Greifkraft), die Messung kognitiver Fähigkeiten und die Erprobung von Verhaltens- Experimenten werden in anderen Panel-Studien aufgegriffen und auf eine größere Stichprobenbasis gestellt. Im UK wird mit „Understanding Society“ ein Haushaltspanel mit 40.000 Haushalten begonnen; in den Niederlanden wird mit MESS ein Haushaltspanel von über 5.000 Haushalten für innovative Messmethoden zur Verfügung gestellt. Die Erhebungsinhalte des SOEP werden von den Forschungs- und Politikberatungs-Communities unverändert stark nachgefragt. In UK hat ein für „Understanding Society“ breit angelegter Konsultationsprozess keine grundsätzlich neuen Befragungsinhalte zu Tage gefördert, die das SOEP nicht bereits enthält oder die für das SOEP ohnehin im Gespräch sind. Wichtiger als die „Entdeckung“ völlig neuer Erhebungsinhalte ist das thematische wie zeitliche „Zuschneiden“ der Details von Befragungsinhalten auf (zugespitzte) neue (theoretische) Fragestellungen und dabei gleichzeitig bewährte sowie viel genutzte zentrale Befragungsinhalte und deren Befragungsrhythmen beizubehalten. Das „Maßschneidern“ von Erhebungsinhalten wird in den nächsten Jahren die eigentliche Herausforderung für Infrastruktur- Erhebungen wie die PSID, „Understanding Society“ und das SOEP sein. Bei den Erhebungsinhalten sollten die „Ränder“ des Lebenslaufs eine größere Rolle spielen, da diese von Haushalts-Panels besonders gut erfasst werden können. Diese Verbesserungen der Erhebungen beziehen sich einerseits auf die fötale Phase von in das SOEP hineingeborenen Kindern und die (frühe) Kindheit, andererseits auf die letzte Lebensphase und das Sterben. In der Mitte des Lebenslaufs werden verbesserte Fragen zum Einkommen, Sparen und Vermögen sowie auch psychologische Konstrukte eine zentrale Rolle spielen, außerdem gezielte Fragen (event triggered questionnaires) in Verbindung mit zentralen Lebensereignissen wie z. B. Eheschließung, Scheidung, Eintritt in und Austritt aus Arbeitslosigkeit. Es wird die Etablierung einer SOEP-“Innovations-Stichprobe“ vorbereitet, um theoriegeleitete Forschungsfragen gezielter unterstützen zu können. Dazu wird es auch notwendig sein, neue Messkonzepte zu erproben (z. B. die Erhebung von Biomarkern, qualitative Erhebungen, aber auch Experimente und gezielte Interventionsstudien). Um die Power von Längsschnittdaten von Anfang an für die Innovations-Stichprobe ausnutzen zu können, ist geplant, zwei kleinere Teilstichproben des SOEP, die seit 1998 bzw. 2006 laufen (Subsamples E und H), in die Innovationsstichprobe zu überführen. Um die statistische Power langlaufender Längsschnittdaten entscheidend zu verbessern, schätzen wir eine Mindestfallzahl von etwa 500 Personen pro Geburtsund Alterskohorte für ausreichend ein. Um dieses Ziel zu erreichen, muss die Fallzahl des SOEP-Standard-Samples erhöht werden. Als „Nebeneffekt“ werden dadurch wesentlich bessere Analysen für relativ kleine Gruppen in der Bevölkerung möglich; etwa für allein Erziehende oder bestimme Immigrantengruppen. Außerdem verbessern sich als weiterer „Nebeneffekt“ auch regionale Analysemöglichkeiten, z. B. für die meisten Bundesländer und in großen Bundesländern bis hin zu Regierungsbezirken (oder ähnlich abgegrenzten regionalen Einheiten). In letzter Zeit wird immer deutlicher, welche große Bedeutung das SOEP als „Referenz-Datensatz“ für spezialisierte und vom SOEP völlig unabhängige Erhebungen hat (neben Beobachtungsstudien, wie etwa Zwillings-Studien, auch Labor- und Interventions-Studien). Zur Unterstützung dieser Funktion ist eine neue Art von Service, der in Deutschland bislang nicht vorgehalten wird, notwendig (Beratung von Spezial-Erhebungen; ggf. Datenaufbereitung von längsschnittlichen Spezial-Erhebungen), der auch in ein Datenservicezentrum eingebracht werden könnte.
C99|Virtual world experimentation: An exploratory study|We explore the scientific potential of virtual worlds for experimental economics in terms of the subject pools and experimental platforms they present. Our results offer tentative, qualified support for virtual world experimentation. Overall, the behaviour of virtual subjects recruited, incentivised and observed within Second Life across a range of five standard experimental games was not found to differ significantly from established standard results. In addition, we identify certain methodological opportunities and challenges which confront virtual world experimenters.
C99|The lab versus the virtual lab and virtual field--An experimental investigation of trust games with communication|We study trust games in a virtual world environment and contrast results with laboratory studies, with and without personal interaction enabled by the virtual world platform. Particular attention is given to the motives that drive behavior in the various environments and to issues that are context dependent, particularly communication and social distance. We find that allowing for personal interaction through a virtual world interface increases the amount sent relative to laboratory results, but that subjects recruited in the virtual world give and return less than the laboratory control group with the same virtual world interface.
C99|An understanding of influence on human behavior|We describe a candid model for learning, why and how learning transpires. We investigate the original as well as the leading conditions of the learning process. We provide an insight into the realm of beliefs and their formation, their interaction and influence with the actor’s environment. In addition, we provide to our terms (and terminology) real definitions, thus differentiating between nominal and real definitions. Having this approach, the same terminology can be employed by other models, theories or frameworks without creating ‘expert language’ barriers. Moreover, we provide an understanding of the influence that learning in general has on human behavior.
C99|Cooperation in Virtual Worlds|This article reports the results of a controlled lab experiment that studies the effects of strategically irrelevant “cheap talk” via 3D world audio communication and 2D text messaging. I also analyze the effects of technical information richness, experience with a communication medium, social distance and collective orientation on cooperation. The findings indicate that persons in a situational setting that allows them to hope that the partner will respond in a cooperative manner show a higher degree of cooperation when engaging in cheap-talk computer-mediated-communication. The results show also that low social distance, collective orientation and experience with a medium is favorable for demonstrating trust, trustworthiness and cooperation.
C99|A Test of the Law of Demand in a Virtual World: Exploring the Petri Dish Approach to Social Science|We report results of an experiment on prices and demand in a fantasy-based virtual world. A virtual world is a persistent, synthetic, online environment that can be accessed by many users at the same time. Because most virtual worlds are built around a fantasy theme, complete with magic, monsters, and treasure, there is considerable skepticism that human behavior in such environments is in any way “normal”. Our world, “Arden”, was designed to test whether players in a typical fantasy environment were economically “normal.” Specifically, we tested whether fantasy gamers conform to the Law of Demand, which states that increasing the price of a good, all else equal, will reduce the quantity demanded. We created two exactly equivalent worlds, and randomly assigned players to one or the other. The only difference in the two worlds was that the price of a single good, a health potion, was twice as high in the experimental world than in the control. We allowed players (N = 43) to enter and play the environment for a month. We found that players in the experimental condition purchased 43.1 percent fewer of the potions, implying a demand elasticity of -0.431. This finding is well within the range one expects for normal economic agents. We take this as evidence that the Law of Demand holds in fantasy environments, which suggests in turn that fantasy gamers may well be economically normal. If so, it may be worthwhile to conduct controlled economic and social experiments in virtual worlds at greater scales of both population (thousands of users) and time (many months).
C99|Did the 2006 covenants reduce school dropout in the Netherlands?|Early school-leaving is considered to be one of the major problems in Dutch education. In order to reduce the number of dropouts in the school year 2006-2007 the Dutch government has offered a financial incentive scheme to 14 out of 39 regions. This scheme provides a reward of 2000 euro per school dropout less in 2006-07. The target of the scheme was a reduction of the total number of school dropouts by at least 10 percent in one year. This paper evaluates the effectiveness of this school dropout policy by comparing the change in school dropout in these 14 regions with the change in the remaining 25 regions before and after the introduction of the policy. We observe a modest decline in the probability of dropping out in the 14 covenants regions. However, the decline in the non-covenant regions was equally large. We therefore find no significant effect on the probability of dropping out in the post-covenant year. In both regions, the number of dropouts has fallen by 3 percent in the year after the covenants. This nationwide decline can be largely assigned to changes in the student populations among the pre- and post-covenant year. The covenants also gave a reward to regions for a successful reintegration of dropouts in order to reduce school dropout in that way. However, estimates for the effect on the re-enrolment of previous dropouts are statistically insignificant as well. We conclude that 2006 covenant policy has not been effective in reducing early school-leaving.
C99|Awards as Incentives|Non-monetary incentives in the form of awards have so far escaped the attention of economists despite their widespread use. This paper presents an experiment conducted online at IBM to assess the impact of these kinds of extrinsic incentives. Introducing a hypothetical award has statistically significant effects on stated contributions to a public good. Our design allows the estimation of the impact of different award characteristics related to, for example, how public or how valuable the award is. We illustrate these findings by providing predictions about the behavior induced by a new award at IBM.
C99|Competition and well-being: does market competition make people unhappy?|Empirical research on the role of economic institutions for subjective well-being is still widely lacking, while recent economic-experimental outcomes suggest that experienced utility may depend on the intensity of market competition. This paper is the first to empirically analyze the implication of market competition for subjective well-being using real-life survey data on 80,000 individuals in more than 60 countries from the World Values Survey 1997-2001. In support of our hypothesis, we find that market competition aggravates the impact of individual’s bargaining position in economic transactions on her subjective well-being – compared to the least powerful in society. Put differently, we find that market competition enlarges the happiness differences caused by cleavages in socio-economic position. Our results also suggest that competition induced welfare changes are not gender-specific, while a stronger rule of law appears to prevent the generation of such additional benefits or losses. Particularly the latter results call for further economic-experimental corroboration in the laboratory, but also bear important policy implications.
C99|Yesterday's expectation of tomorrow determines what you do today: The role of reference-dependent utility from expectations|The paper introduces the concept of adjustment utility, that is, reference-dependent utility from expectations. It offers an explanation for observed preferences that cannot be explained with existing models, and yields new predictions for individual decision making. The model gives a simple explanation for, e.g., why people are reluctant to change their plans even when these turn out to be unexpectedly costly; people's aversion towards positive but false information, which cannot be explained with previous models; and the increasing acceptance of risks when people get used to them.
C99|Incorporating Discontinuous Preferences into the Analysis of Discrete Choice Experiments|: Data from a discrete choice experiment on improvements of rural landscape attributes are used to investigate the implications of discontinuous preferences on willingness to pay estimates. Using a multinomial error component logit model, we explore differences in scale and unexplained variance between respondents with discontinuous and continuous preferences and condition taste intensities on whether or not each attribute was considered by the respondent during the evaluation of alternatives. Results suggest that significant improvements in model performance can be achieved when discontinuous preferences are accommodated in the econometric specification, and that the magnitude and robustness of the willingness to pay estimates are sensitive to discontinuous preferences.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|The epistemic value of rationality|Models of rational choice use different definitions of rationality. However, there is no clear description of the latter. We recognize rationality as a conceptual conglomerate where reason, judgment, deliberation, relativity, behavior, experience, and pragmatism interact. Using our definition, the game theoretic idealized principle of rationality becomes absolute. Our model gives a more precise account of the players, of their true behavior. We show that the Rational Method (RM) is the only process that can be used to achieve a specific goal. We also provide schematics of how information, beliefs, knowledge, actions, and purposes interact with and influence each other in order to achieve a specific goal. Furthermore, ration, the ability to think in the RM framework, is a singularity in time and space. Having a unilateral definition of rationality, different models and theories have now a common ground on which we can judge their soundness.
C99|How “Point Blindness” Dilutes the Value of Stock Market Reports|The stock index “point” is a focal component of financial news reports. Though many reports draw attention to point changes in major indices, few people realize that the value of a stock index “point” changes frequently. We call this perceptual phenomenon “point blindness.” We examine causes of point blindness and then propose alternate ways of reporting stock market information to counter it. The alternatives are easy to implement and can help citizens draw important inferences about stock values. An experiment shows that alternate modes of presentation have significant effects on public perceptions of the stock market.
C99|Virtual Worlds as Petri Dishes for the Social and Behavioral Sciences|The next tool for social science experimentation should allow for macro level, generalizable, scientific research. In the past devices such as rat mazes, Petri dishes and supercolliders have been developed when scientists needed new tools to do research. We believe that Virtual Worlds are the modern equivalent to supercolliders for social scientists, and feel they should be the next area to receive significant attention and funding. The advantages provided by virtual worlds research outweigh the costs. Virtual worlds allow for societal level research with no harm to humans, la rge numbers of experiments and participants, and make long term and panel studies possible. Virtual worlds do have some drawbacks, in that they are expensive and time consuming to build. These obstacles can be overcome, however, by adopting the models of revenue and maintenance practiced by the current game industry. The returns from virtual worlds being used as scientific tools could reach levels that would self fund future search for decades to come. However, at the beginning an investment of funding agencies seems to be necessary.
C99|Are Expectations Formed by the Anchoring-and-adjustment Heuristic? – An Experimental Investigation|Previous experimental investigations have shown that expectations are not perfectly rational due to bias. Traditional adaptive models, however, in many cases do not perfectly describe the formation of expectations either. This paper makes two contributions to the experimental literature on the formation of expectations: First, we investigate whether subjects who have more information about the economic model than in previous studies also form biased expectations. Second, we argue that in some cases macroeconomic expectations might be formed by the anchoring-and-adjustment heuristic, which is well known in psychology. We find that subjects' expectations are biased although the design might be more favorable to rational expectations. The anchoring-and-adjustment model of expectations gets some support by our data, but the best model encompasses both the anchoring-and-adjustment model and the traditional adaptive model.
C99|Awards as Incentives|Non-monetary incentives in the form of awards have so far escaped the attention of economists despite their widespread use. This paper presents an experiment conducted online at IBM to assess the impact of these kinds of extrinsic incentives. Introducing a hypothetical award has statistically significant effects on stated contributions to a public good. Our design allows the estimation of the impact of different award characteristics related to, for example, how public or how valuable the award is. We illustrate these findings by providing predictions about the behavior induced by a new award at IBM.
C99|Under-Diversification And The Role Of Best Reply To Pattern|Three experiments are presented that compare alternative explanations to the coexistence of risk aversion and under-diversification in investment decisions. The participants were asked to select one of several assets under two feedback conditions. In each case, one asset was a weighted combination of the other assets, allowing for lower volatility. The frequency of choice of the composite asset was highly sensitive to feedback condition. The composite asset was the least popular asset when the feedback included information concerning forgone payoffs, and increased in frequency when the feedback was limited to the obtained payoff. These results support the assertion that under-diversification can be a product of learning from feedback and in particular best reply to pattern.
C99|Administration of Sales Force Tasks under Field Conditions|There are two perspectives on controlling the performance of salespeople - an outcome based perspective and behavior based perspective. The former process focuses on the objective measures of results while the latter perspective on performance control of salespeople incorporates complex and often subjective assessments of the attributes of sales people. A balance of these implications provides strong support for laying controls and evaluating the performance of sales people in varied socio-cultural selling situations. This study has been conducted in Mexico with which discusses the impact of sales territory design and compensation to salespeople as predictors of performance of sales unit effectiveness.
C99|The Exchange Rate Regime and International Trade|The study of the relation between the exchange rates regime and international trade is done using an inter-disciplinary vision that contains knowledge from four different disciplines: economics, history, mathematics and computer sciences. In the case of pure theory of international trade, there is made an abstraction of the fact that international trade is done using money. The theoretical analysis of international trade including the monetary factor deals with static equilibrium and linear models. We conceived a macroeconomic model of the world economy and used this model to make three simulation experiments. The conclusion of these experiments is that a broader exchange rate band has a negative impact over the volume of world trade. This conclusion is confirmed by the historical analysis.
C99|Exclusionary Bundling and the Effects of a Competitive Fringe|The traditional analysis of exclusionary bundling examines the impact of a monopolist bundling product A with another product B, which is competitively provided. Using experimental posted-offer markets, we investigate the exclusionary and welfare implications of having a fringe competitor in the A market. We find that the fringe seller increases the consumer surplus while decreasing the seller surplus and that the fringe seller does not affect the consumer surplus extracted from the bundle despite a decrease in the bundle transaction price. The consumer surplus gains generated by the fringe seller erode if the dominant seller has a lower average cost.
C99|Deceleration: Revealed Preference in Society and Win-Win-Strategy for Sustainable Management|"Until recently ""deceleration"" has been little recognized as a technical term or as an idea, but now it seems to be getting more attention. Despite time is a decisive factor for the productivity and competitive advantages of companies continual acceleration may well be counter-productive and lead to an ""acceleration paradox"" – more of it not always is better. Three levels of the emergence and spread of the acceleration phenomenon can be distinguished: the macroeconomic, the microeconomic, and the motivational and behavioural level, all of them bearing, however, the danger of an ""acceleration trap"". Despite possible damages of acceleration deceleration processes usually seem only to be accepted if they are win-win strategies, i.e., if they have a positive impact on ecological and human targets and foster company interests at the same time. The study provides three case studies where win-win situations are realized. Going one step further, however, one can also find a preference for deceleration of agents if deceleration and economic goals are conflicting. How can the agents' willingness to pay for deceleration in such trade-off situations be measured? We do a first step in his direction with three experiments which were conducted at the Technical University of Dresden. In the first experimental setting the subjects are confronted with a trade-off between gaining a possibly higher financial reward by solving mental exercises more quickly and decelerating by taking refreshment brakes during the exercises at the expense of a potentially lower reward. In the second and the third settings subjects are virtually offered an accelerated and a decelerated alternative (more stress for higher income; more stress for faster technical progress of personal computers). The empirical evidence of all three experiments are fully consistent with the expectation that deceleration has a positive value to the subjects."
C99|Minimal group identity and gender in ultimatum games|Social identity, or group membership, affects economic outcomes. However, this influence may differ according to the nature of the groups involved. Investigating the weakest group cohesion necessary to influence individual behaviors, we undertook three linked ultimatum game experiments involving a minimal categorization process. Three main results are presented here: (i) Belonging to a minimal group affects behaviors; (ii) Men and women differ systematically in the nature of this influence and (iii) The ‘label’ given to a minimal group is in itself not neutral.
C99|Analysis of Effective Control Practices in Sales Management: A Comparative Study in Developing Countries|There are two perspectives on controlling the performance of salespeople - an outcome based perspective and behavior based perspective. The former process focuses on the objective measures of results while the latter perspective on performance control of salespeople incorporates complex and often subjective assessments of the attributes of sales people. A balance of these implications provides strong support for laying controls and evaluating the performance of sales people in varied socio-cultural selling situations. This study has been conducted in two developing countries in India and Mexico with varied socio-cultural selling situations. The study discusses the impact of sales territory design on these consequences in reference to the underlying rationale of management control, incentive pay, and territory design as predictors of performance and sales unit effectiveness and attempts to examine the relationships between incentive pay and management control and their impact on salesperson performance and sales organization effectiveness.
C99|Non-linear effects in knowledge production|The generation of technological knowledge is paramount to our present development. Economic science concentrates on representing the functions of production applied to all sectors, e.g., the well known Cobb-Douglas model, associated with parameters such as capital and labor. Based on the paradigm, demonstrated in another paper, that the production of technological knowledge is governed by the same Cobb-Douglas type model, by the means of research and the intelligence level replacing capital, respectively labor, we are exploring the basic behavior of present days economies that are producing technological knowledge, along with the 'usual' industrial production. Considering the intercorrelations of technology and industrial production we determine a basic behavior that turns out to be a 'Henon attractor', well known as one of the first analyzed systems that present chaotic behavior confined to strange attractors. The behavior inside the basin of the attractor's dynamic shows some interesting features such as the fact that too little effort in technological knowledge production is associated to low industrial production, while too much resource allocation to technological production is also reaching an area of low industrial production. This effect clearly shows that too little allocation of resources to research is equivalent to a disproportionate allocation of resources to research, namely that both hamper the industrial production. Moreover, there is an area of large industrial production that corresponds to a certain rate of technology production that, in some way, optimizes development. Measures are introduced for the gain of technological knowledge and the information of technological sequences that are based on the underlying multi-valued logic of the technological research and on nonlinear thermodynamic considerations. We have witnessed in the last decades several cases of economies, e.g., Ireland and Finland, in Europe, the Asian tigers and China in Asia, which had had a moment in their history when research (both means and intelligence) was a main priority. Luckily, the globalization acted as a stabilizer that kept them close to the optimum of 'As High As Reasonably Acceptable' technological production. By contrast to ALARA (as low as reasonably acceptable) principle, that applies in risk analysis, here we may introduce the AHARA principle resulting from the nonlinear behavior of technological production vs. industrial production.
C99|Teaching Nash Equilibrium and Dominance: A Classroom Experiment on the Beauty Contest| Abstract: The authors' aim in this article was to show how the use of classroom experiments may be a good pedagogical tool to teach the Nash equilibrium (NE) concept. The basic game is a version of the beauty contest game (BCG), a simple guessing game in which repetition lets students react to other players' choices and converge iteratively to the equilibrium solution. The authors perform this experiment with undergraduate students with no previous training in game theory. After four rounds, they observe a clear decreasing tendency in the average submitted number in all groups. Thus, the findings show that by playing a repeated BCG, students quickly learn how to reach the NE solution.
C99|A Data Set Generation Algorithm in Combinatorial Auctions|The generation of realistic data sets in a Combinatorial Auction may be a challenging problem. Well-formed data sets are very useful in the evaluation of algorithms trying to solve the winner determination problem. In this paper a general data set generation scheme is presented, both from an algorithmic and economic point of view. As a case study, a possible auction setting is discussed where the goods on sale are connections between points in space.
C99|Herding and Contrarian Behavior in Financial Markets: An Internet Experiment|We report results of an Internet experiment designed to test the theory of informational cascades in financial markets (Christopher Avery and Peter Zemsky, 1998). More than 6,400 subjects, including a subsample of 267 consultants from an international consulting firm, participated in the experiment. We find that the presence of a flexible market price prevents herding. The presence of contrarian behavior distorts prices, however, and even after 20 decisions, convergence to the fundamental value is rare. We also report some interesting differences with respect to subjects' fields of study. Reassuringly, the behavior of the consultants turns out to be not significantly different from that of the remaining subjects.
C99|Creating a Vision for XYZ Research Corporation: A Case Study| A strategic analysis was developed for XYZ Research Corporation (the true company's name is disguised). The strategic analysis involved a series of visits to the company to conduct focus groups with its employees and management. Five focus groups were carried out at XYZ Research Corporation. This method proved to be effective and valuable when aiming to gather detailed information on the specifics of a firm's operation. Information and insights on the company and its business that would not become evident through any kind of meticulous financial or economic analysis of the company's and industry's numbers - which in fact were unavailable or scarce - was efficiently obtained by personal communication from the employees in the interviews. The focus group and interview method is recommended as a valid alternative to gathering detailed data and information when facing limited availability of reliable quantitative economic data on sales, size, and other information on the industry. The amount and quality of person-to-person information gathered in the interviews made the questionnaire a more powerful tool versus the alternative of simply mailing it. In the process of developing a strategic plan for XYZ, data and information used to write an undergraduate level teaching case study was gathered. The focus group method allowed for digging out intricate functional relationships within the company and between the company and the industry, which allowed for writing a more complete and educationally interesting case study.
C99|An Econometric Model of CGE Simulations| CGE models are widely used tools for economic assessments of trade policy changes. However, overall confidence in their results tends to be low. We employ the methodological framework of meta-analysis in order to approach a quantitative comparison of CGE-based simulation results. Therefore, we compile a dataset of twelve recent Doha simulations and fit a linear regression model that explains the variance between simulation results on the regional level as a function of various modeling characteristics. The estimates are broadly in range with documented qualitative knowledge about modeling assumptions. The size of the sample limits general conclusions; however, an ongoing research project will extend the approach to a larger sample.
C99|Negative Stereotypes and Willingness to Change Them: Testing Theories of Discrimination in South Africa|This paper proposes a new test to distinguish between the two leading theories of discrimination: preference versus information. Discrimination based on preferences occurs when people behave as if they refuse to change their stereotypes about the capabilities of discriminated individuals. Those who discriminate based on information are willing to alter their stereotypes. Using data from a quasi- experiment in South Africa, I test for discrimination against women and non-whites. The preliminary results show no discrimination against the former. In the case of racial discrimination, players’ stereotypes benefit non-whites instead of white opponents, but they are reluctant to change their impression for the former. However, they are willing to change their initial impression about white opponents. This has severe implications about the permanency of affirmative action policies.
C99|Impacto De Transmilenio En El Crimen De La Avenida Caracas Y Sus Vecindades|En este estudio se toma la puesta en marcha del sistema de transporte masivo Transmilenio en la Avenida Caracas, una vía con altos índices de criminalidad en la ciudad de Bogotá, como un experimento natural para romper la simultaneidad entre crimen y políticas para combatirlo y para medir el impacto de la transformación urbana de la Avenida Caracas sobre el crimen de esta vía y de sus vecindades. Haciendo uso de modelos de econometría espacial y utilizando una metodología de diferencias en diferencias, se miden los cambios en el comportamiento de nueve diferentes tipos de crimen en 65 zonas geográficas de Bogotá aledañas a la Avenida Caracas. Se construyeron series de datos que contienen información de la ubicación geográfica exacta de los eventos de los nueve crímenes objeto de estudio para el período 1999-2002, en las 65 zonas mencionadas. Se encuentra que a lo largo de la Avenida Caracas la actividad criminal presentó caídas pronunciadas, aunque para el resto de la región objeto de estudio los resultados varían según el tipo de crimen y la proximidad a la Avenida. Se encuentra evidencia ya sea de disuasión o de desplazamiento para cada crimen específico y ausencia de efectos espaciales intertemporales en los homicidios.
C99|The Evolution of Our Preferences: Evidence from Capuchin-Monkey Trading Behavior|Behavioral economics has demonstrated systematic decision-making biases in both lab and field data. But are these biases learned or innate? We investigate this question using experiments on a novel set of subjects — capuchin monkeys. By introducing a fiat currency and trade to a capuchin colony, we are able to recover their preferences over a wide range of goods and risky choices. We show that standard price theory does a remarkably good job of describing capuchin purchasing behavior; capuchin monkeys react rationally to both price and wealth shocks. However, when capuchins are faced with more complex choices including risky gambles, they display many of the hallmark biases of human behavior, including reference-dependent choices and loss-aversion. Given that capuchins demonstrate little to no social learning and lack experience with abstract gambles, these results suggest that certain biases such as loss-aversion are an innate function of how our brains code experiences, rather than learned behavior or the result of misapplied heuristics.
C99|Negative Stereotypes and Willingness to Change Them: Testing Theories of Discrimination in South Africa| This paper proposes a new test to distinguish between the two leading theories of discrimination: preference versus information. Discrimination based on preferences occurs when people behave as if they refuse to change their stereotypes about the capabilities of discriminated individuals. Those who discriminate based on information are willing to alter their stereotypes. Using data from a quasi-experiment in South Africa, I test for discrimination against women and non-whites. The preliminary results show no discrimination against the former. In the case of racial discrimination, players' stereotypes benefit non-whites instead of white opponents, but they are reluctant to change their impression for the former. However, they are willing to change their initial impression about white opponents. This has severe implications about the permanency of affirmative action policies.
C99|Do experimental subjects favor their friends?|Ideally we would like subjects of experiments to be perfect strangers so that the situation they face at the lab is not just a part of a long run interaction. Unfortunately, it is not easy to reach those conditions and experimenters try to mitigate any effects coming form these out-of- the-lab relationships by, for instance, randomly matching subjects. However, even if this type of procedure is used, there is a positive probability that a subject faces a friend or an acquaintance. We find evidence that social proximity among subjects is irrelevant for experiments’ results in dictator games. Thus, although ideal conditions are not met, relations among subjects are not contaminating the experiments’ results.
C99|Classroom Games: Candidate Convergence|This article details an experiment that is easily run in the classroom. It demonstrates how two-candidate elections quickly converge to an equilibrium. It points out that the equilibrium is centered on the median voter. Finally, it illustrates what happens when preferences or institutions change. Material associated with conducting the experiment is provided, as is supplemental material for classroom instruction.
C99|Experimental Designs for Environmental Valuation with Choice-Experiments: A Monte-Carlo Investigation|We review the practice of experimental design in the environmental economics literature concerned with choice experiments. We then contrast this with advances in the field of experimental design and present a comparison of statistical efficiency across four different experimental designs evaluated by Monte Carlo experiments. Two different situations are envisaged. First, a correct a priori knowledge of the multinomial logit specification used to derive the design and then an incorrect one. The data generating process is based on estimates from data of a real choice experiment with which preference for rural landscape attributes were studied. Results indicate the D-optimal designs are promising, especially those based on Bayesian algorithms with informative prior. However, if good a priori information is lacking, and if there is strong uncertainty about the real data generating process - conditions which are quite common in environmental valuation - then practitioners might be better off with conventional fractional designs from linear models. Under misspecification, a design of this type produces less biased estimates than its competitors.
C99|Negative Stereotypes and Willingness to Change Them: Testing Theories of Discrimination in South Africa|This paper proposes a new test to distinguish between the two leading theories of discrimination: preference versus information. Discrimination based on preferences occurs when people behave as if they refuse to change their stereotypes about the capabilities of discriminated individuals. Those who discriminate based on information are willing to alter their stereotypes. Using data from a quasi-experiment in South Africa, I test for discrimination against women and non-whites. The preliminary results show no discrimination against the former. In the case of racial discrimination, players' stereotypes benefit non-whites instead of white opponents, but they are reluctant to change their impression for the former. However, they are willing to change their initial impression about white opponents. This has severe implications about the permanency of affirmative action policies.
C99|Simulating the New Economy|The IT, the Internet, or the Computing & Communications (C&C) technology revolution has been central to the economic discussion for several decades. Before the mid-1990s the catchword was the “productivity paradox” coined by Robert Solow, who stated in 1987 that “computers are everywhere visible, except in the productivity statistics”. Then the New Economy and fast productivity growth fueled by C&C technology suddenly became the catchword of the very late 1990s. Its luster however, faded almost as fast as it arrived with the dot.com deaths of the first years of the new millennium. With this paper we demonstrate that the two paradoxes above are perfectly compatible within a consistent micro (firm) based macro theoretical framework of endogenous growth. Within the same model framework also a third paradox can be resolved, namely the fact that the previous major New Industry creation, the Industrial Revolution, only involved a handful of Western nations that had got their institutions in order. If the New Economy is a potential reality, one cannot take for granted that all industrial economies will participate successfully in its introduction. It all depends on the local receiver competence to build industry on the new technology. We, hence, also demonstrate within the same model the existence of the risk of failing altogether to capture the opportunities of a New Economy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|Opinions on Tax Deductions and the Consensus Effect in a Survey-Experiment|We present the results of a survey-experiment using a representative sample of the Dutch population in which we relate respondents' opinion about the tax deductibility of mortgages to their estimates about other people's opinion.The experiment employs three treatment variables: monetary incentives, the provision of arguments pro and contra, and ambiguity of the question posed.We find that respondents are characterized by a significant consensus effect.Respondents estimates of others opinions are strongly related to their own opinion.The size of the effect, however, is not affected by ambiguity of the question posed. Information by means of the provision of arguments pro and contra the tax provision does reduce the consensus effect significantly, though.Monetary incentives appear to have only a weak effect.We also find a strong effect of house ownership.Not only are house owners more in favor of the tax provision, they are also characterized by a significantly stronger consensus effect.These results suggest that both cognitive factors and motivational factors are responsible for the consensus effect.
C99|Teaching Nash Equilibrium and Strategy Dominance: A Classroom Experiment on the Beauty Contest|The aim of this investigation is to display how the use of classroom experiments may be a good pedagogical tool to teach the Nash equilibrium (NE) concept. The basic game for our purposes is a repeated version of the Beauty Contest Game (BCG), a simple guessing game whose repetition lets students react to other players’ choices and to converge iteratively to the equilibrium solution. We performed this experiment with undergraduate students without any previous knowledge about game theory. After four rounds, we observed in all groups a clear decreasing tendency in the average chosen number. So, our findings prove that, by playing a repeated BCG, students quickly learn how to reach the NE solution.
C99|University admission marks in Catalonia: Some highlights from the empirical research|The results of the examinations taken by graduated high school students who want to enrol at a Catalan university are here studied. To do so, the authors address several issues related to the equity of the system: reliability of grading, difficulty and discrimination power of the exams. The general emphasis is put upon the concurrent research and empirical evidence about the properties of the examination items and scores. After a discussion about the limitations of the exams' format and appropriateness of the instruments used in the study, the article concludes with some suggestions to improve such examinations.
C99|Between utility and cognition: the neurobiology of relative position|A positive correlation between relative position and the neurotransmitter serotonin exists in non-human primates, within an optimal range. This paper explores the reasons of this correlation. The main function of serotonin appears cognitive: it determines how optimally agents perceive and behave in game theoretical interactions, and this can explain the correlational finding. Among humans, within the optimal range serotonin works as a form of human capital, capable of improving the work functioning of agents who respond to serotonergic promoter treatment. Limitations of the existing evidence are also discussed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
C99|Tax Liability-Side Equivalence in Experimental Posted-Offer Markets|In theory, the incidence of a tax should be independent of the side of the market on which it is levied. This principle of liability-side equivalence underlies virtually all theories of tax incidence. Policy discussions, however, tend to place great emphasis on the legal division of tax payments. We use computerized experimental posted-offer markets to test liability-side equivalence. We find that market outcomes are essentially the same when the tax is levied on sellers as when it is levied on buyers. Thus, we cannot reject liability-side equivalence.
C99|Internet Auctions with Artificial Adaptive Agents|The growing number of auction sites on the internet enable game theorists to ask strategic questions on rationality of the observed bidding behavior. The most popular of them (eBay, Amazon.com, AuctionWatch.com and Yahoo!, etc.) operate under similar sets of rules with seemingly small differences. They implement types of ascending-bid auctions and can strategically differ from a single-round sealed-bid second-price auction.\t The major difference between auction formats is about their ending procedures (as described in the paper). Most of the bidding activity is observed in the final hour of the auctions. Hence, the seemingly small difference in auction ending can cause later bids in the eBay auctions than Amazon.com. In this paper, I try to investigate the evolution of bidding patterns in internet auctions. I investigate evolutionary stability of late and multiple bidding in the private-value and common-value frameworks. I use adaptive artificial agent markets in the analysis. I seek similarities between the simulation data and actual human bidding behavior. I implement discrete finite time, sequential and repeated auctions in our simulations. In this paper, I show that common- and private-value auctions can evolutionarily lead to multiple and late bidding. I observe that artificial agent late bidding is in much more frequency in eBay auctions than Amazon.com in the private-value format (i.e. computer auctions). With common values (i.e. antique auctions), expert artificial bidders bid later more frequently than naive ones. The eBay auctions stage more frequent late bidding in the eBay auctions than in Amazon.com when there is a single naive bidder. Otherwise, auctions in Amazon.com cause more late bidding. I observe that eBay auctions generate in general less average revenue for sellers. They also cause more average profit for bidders in the private-value model. For the common-value model, bidders are indifferent betIen the two formats: each can dominate the other for different number of bidders. I also test the robustness of the results under different sets of parameters.\t
C99|The Role of Institutional Support in Energy Technology Diffusion in Rural China|In the past China's rural areas, home to 70% of its population, suffered energy shortages.China's indigenous energy resources are limited, with the exception of coal.The widespread use of coal requires large investments in production and transport -making it costly-, and degrades the environment.As a result the Chinese government has implemented an energy policy that aims at the use of renewable energy resources and increasing energy efficiency.For this the Chinese government has reorganised its institutional framework, which now aims at learning and improving profitability to diffuse technologies.Simultaneously the decision to use a technology has been shifted from officials to the consumers and profitability of a technology has become the main decision criterion.This paper analyses the effect of learning and profitability in technology diffusion and looks at the effectiveness of the institutional efforts.
C99|Experimental Economics: Hard Science or Wasteful Tinkering?|"I take it that in raising the question ""What have we learned from experimental economics"" under the broader umbrella of ""controversy"" the point is not to solicit a catalogue of experimental findings, but rather to signal the more pointed question: are we learning anything at all, or at least much that is very useful form experimentation in economics. As a practising experimentalist, I am convinced that experiments do have the potential to make a significant contribution to knowledge in economics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
C99|Experiments in economics: should we trust the dismal scientists in white coats?| Is the rapid growth of experimental research in economics evidence of a new scientific spirit at work or merely fresh evidence of a misplaced desire to ape the methods of natural sciences? It is often argued that economic experiments are artificial in some sense that tends to render the results problematic or uninteresting. In the early part of this paper I argue that this artificiality critique does not provide a convincing philosophical objection to experimentation in economics. Later sections of the paper argue that methodological discourse in relation to experiments has become somewhat polarized: experimentalists have promoted a position that seeks to defuse objections to experiments; theorists have taken up positions that insulate theory from experimental challenge. I argue that these strategies are overly defensive and tend to stifle rather than promote the goals of economic enquiry.
C99|Modelos estadísticos y evaluación: tres estudios en educación|"The educational system in Spain is undergoing a reorganization. At present, high-school graduates who want to enroll at a public university must take a set of examinations Pruebas de Aptitud para el Acceso a la Universidad (PAAU). A ""new formula"" (components, weights, type of exam,...) for university admission is been discussed. The present paper summarizes part of the research done by the author in her PhD. The context for this thesis is the evaluation of large-scale and complex systems of assessment. The main objectives were: to achieve a deep knowledge of the entire university admissions process in Spain, to discover the main sources of uncertainty and to promote empirical research in a continual improvement of the entire process. Focusing in the suitable statistical models and strategies which allow to high-light the imperfections of the system and reduce them, the paper develops, among other approaches, some applications of multilevel modeling."
C99|Monitoring the university admissions process in Spain|The examinations taken by high-school graduates in Spain and the role of the examination in the university admissions process are described. The following issues arising in the assessment of the process are discussed: reliability of grading, comparability of the grades and scores(equating), maintenance of standards, and compilation and use of the grading process, and their integration in the operational grading are proposed. Various schemes for score adjustment are reviewed and feasibility of their implementation discussed. The advantages of pretesting of items and of empirical checks of experts' judgements are pointed out. The paper concludes with an outline of a planned reorganisation of the higher education in Spain, and with a call for a comprehensive programme of empirical research concurrent with the operation of the examination and scoring system.
C99|A Multiple-Factor Approach to Comparing Technical Performance for Risk Assessment|This paper describes an approach to assessing the technical performance of a candidate system by means of comparison to a reference system of known performance characteristics.
C99|Informational Herding as Experimentation Deja Vu|We prove that the recently proposed informational herding models are but special cases of a standard single person experimentation model with myopia. We then re-interpret the incorrect herding outcome as a familiar failure of complete learning in an optimal experimentation problem.
C99|Innovation, Performance and Export in French Manufacturing: An Empirical Analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
C99|The Labor Supply of Married Men: A Switching Regressions Model| According to the family utility function approach, the labor supply functions of married men should differ according to whether their wives also work. In this paper the author explicitly models the switching nature of labor supply while also accounting for the endogeneity of the labor force participation decision of the wife, using an endogenous switching regressions model based on the quadratic family utility function. The model is estimated from a cross section of 1,210 married couples from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.
C99|Fed Cattle Marketing: A Field Experiment| To improve meat quality and consistency, cattle feeders have moved towards implementing marketing strategies based on visual estimates of physiological characteristics (e.g. 0.5 inches backfat). Recognizing that physiological targets will not necessarily result in profit maximization; this research aims to develop a market timing method accounting for animal growth, output price and cost dynamics to enhance the likelihood of maximizing profit on an individual basis. A natural field experiment in Iowa is utilized to evaluate the potential for the new methodology. One hundred twenty three cattle are randomly assigned into each treatment. The first treatment consists of marketing an individual when it attains a visual estimate of 0.5 inches of backfat (EPM). The second treatment consists of marketing an individual when its value of the marginal product equals marginal factor costs (PMR). Profit between treatments is compared utilizing three methods: realized, uniform carcass base price, and uniform cash prices.
C99|Ambiguity in Performance Pay: An Online Experiment|Many incentive plans are inherently ambiguous, lacking an explicit mapping between performance and compensation. Using an online labor market, Amazon Mechanical Turk, we study the effect of ambiguity on willingness to accept contracts to do a real-effort task as well as completion and performance of this task. Ambiguity about the relationship between performance and compensation affects the willingness of individuals to accept contracts and the likelihood of quitting before completion, but not performance. These effects are non-monotonic in the level of ambiguity. Information about ability at the task reduces willingness to accept and increases quitting, but does not affect performance.
C99|A Group-based Wellness Intervention in the Laboratory|The enormous cost of health care in the United States has sparked increasing interest in innovative and alternative approaches to both physical and emotional wellness. We demonstrate the value of an easy-to-implement, stress-reducing and wellness-enhancing methodology. In our study, undergraduate students who participated in a weekly meeting over the course of two months had, relative to a control group, a significant decrease in the resting-pulse rate over time, as well as significant improvement in several measures of wellness. Our results suggest that simple lifestyle-oriented wellness-promotion interventions may have significant benefits in terms of increasing health and productivity, as well as diminished medical costs.
