D00|Risk aversion, patience and intelligence: Evidence based on macro data|Using the new macro data on risk aversion and patience by Falk et al. (2018), I show that risk aversion and patience are related to intelligence: high-IQ populations are more patient and more risk averse than low-IQ populations. The correlation between patience and intelligence corroborates previous results based on micro data. Intelligent people tend to be patient because they have long time horizons. The correlation between risk aversion and intelligence supports new micro data studies based on dynamically optimized sequential experimentation (Chapman et al. 2018).
D00|The endowment effect, discounting and the environment|There is a considerable body of evidence showing that our preferences exhibit both reference dependence and loss aversion, a.k.a. the endowment effect. In this paper, we consider the implications of the endowment effect for discounting, with a special focus on discounting future improvements in the environment. We show that the endowment effect modifies the discount rate via (i) an instantaneous endowment effect and (ii) a reference-updating effect. Moreover we show that these two effects often combine to dampen the preference to smooth consumption over time. What this implies for discounting future environmental benefits may then depend critically on whether environmental quality is merely a factor of production of material consumption, or whether it is an amenity. On an increasing path of material consumption, dampened consumption smoothing implies a lower discount rate. But on a declining path of environmental quality and where we derive utility directly from environmental quality, it implies a higher discount rate. On non-monotonic paths, loss aversion specifically can give rise to substantial discontinuities in the discount rate.
D00|Should We Tax Sugar-Sweetened Beverages? An Overview of Theory and Evidence|Taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages are growing in popularity and have generated an active public debate. Are they a good idea? If so, how high should they be? Are such taxes regressive? People in the United States and some other countries consume remarkable quantities of sugar-sweetened beverages, and the evidence suggests that this generates significant health costs. Building on recent work, we review the basic economic principles that determine the socially optimal sugar-sweetened beverage tax. The optimal tax depends on (1) externalities, or uninternalized health system costs from diseases caused by sugary drink consumption; (2) internalities, or costs consumers impose on themselves by consuming too many sugary drinks due to poor nutrition knowledge and/or lack of self-control; and (3) regressivity, or how much the financial burden and the internality benefits from the tax fall on the poor. We summarize the empirical evidence about the key parameters that determine how large the tax should be. Our calculations suggest that sugar-sweetened beverage taxes are welfare enhancing and indeed that the optimal sugar-sweetened beverage tax rate may be higher than the 1 cent per ounce rate most commonly used in US cities. We end with seven concrete suggestions for policymakers considering a sugar-sweetened beverage tax.
D00|Análisis de los Patrones de Demanda en el Sector Textil Español<BR>[Demand Analysis of Clothing Sector in Spain]|In this study we wanted to analyze the demand for textile goods (clothing and footwear) in Spain. We have considered studying the demand through an AIDS model, as well as a Rotterdam model. The model chosen that best suits the demand of this type of goods is the dynamic Rotterdam model with two delays. The direct elasticities, Marshallian as Hicksian, indicate that clothing and footwear have a normal demand. However, through the Marshallian we see that the clothes have an elastic demand, while that of the shoes is inelastic. Finally, the two goods behave as luxury and, as could be observed in the evolution of their income elasticity, this would increase with the passage of time, being especially relevant the increase after the crisis occurred in 2008.
D00|Determinants of Manufacturing Sector Performance and Its Contribution To Gross Domestic Product In Nigeria|The Manufacturing sector is regarded as a very important sector in an economy because of its capacity to foster wide and efficient backward and forward linkages among other sectors of the economy. This study examines the determinants of manufacturing sector performance and its contribution to gross domestic product in Nigeria using a time series data from 1981 to 2015 using Johansen Cointegration and the Vector Error Correction Model. The study found that while labour force, gross fixed capital formation and exchange rate showed a positive long run relationship with the manufacturing value added, the average manufacturing capacity utilisation, lending interest rate and government expenditure showed a long run negative relationship. The study recommends that policies should be geared towards making the exchange rate, lending interest rate and government capital expenditure more favourable and productive in the manufacturing sector.
D00|Social power as a solution to the Bertrand Paradox|We show that in a duopoly with homogeneous consumers, if these are negatively influenceable by each other behavior (e.g. congestion/ snob/ Veblen/ network effects), a pure price equilibrium with positive profits for both firms exists. Furthermore, even in the case products are undifferentiated, an equilibrium where firms charge different (positive) prices and have different profits exists. Thus, when firms engage in uniform price competition, heterogeneity, and in particular non-atomicity in the distribution of preferences, is neither a necessary condition to ensure existence, nor to achieve asymmetries. We further show that in the case products are differentiated, social differentiation overcomes the effect of standard differentiation in creating price asymmetries.
D00|An Unfortunate Effect of Rising Tuition Costs: Soaring Debt for Vulnerable Students|The cost of college tuition has increased by over 300% since 2000, far outpacing rising prices of virtually all other goods and services in the US, including healthcare. Unfortunately for nearly 70% of undergraduates in the US, their student loan debt has increased even faster, outpacing both rising auto and credit card debt. A student with an average loan debt of over $35,000 typically carries this debt for more than 2 decades, is less likely to save for retirement or buy a home, and with disastrous financial consequences fully 25% default on their student loans. Significant media attention has highlighted the magnitude and some of the consequences of rising student debt, yet we know little about the characteristics that make students vulnerable to accumulating so much debt. This study provides new information about the characteristics and circumstances of students at risk for high loan debt. We estimate a selection bias corrected regression using a sample of more than 13,500 graduates from large public university in the United States. We find that the decision to take out student loans and the amount of debt accrued differs across income, ethnicity, support networks and chosen major. Interestingly, our results show new information about a billion dollar publicly funded program in Florida, Florida Bright Futures Scholarship (FBF). We find that FBF plays a key role in reducing recipient?s debt burdens. Whereas previous research has shown the merit-based FBF scholarships benefit higher income households disproportionately, our results show it is the lower income households that benefit most from FBF in terms or reduced loan burdens at graduation.
D00|An exploratory study into consumers? perspective for establishing price strategies that maintaining consumers' good will|This research related to meal price of food truck service business. Descriptive data was collected through a questionnaire survey. Respondents were Thai people age 16 ? 35 up years. The vast majority of 226 respondents were in the age group between 21-25 years with 45.2 percent respondents. There were male 35.8 percent and female respondents 64.2 percent. This research indicated the maximum willing to pay was the maximum price at 150 baht. On the other hand, minimum willing to pay was the minimum price at 25 baht. The range of acceptable prices was between 25 - 150 baht. The resulting distribution enabled the researcher to determine upper and lower price limits for western food. The results showed that consumers considered the food to be cheap at 65 baht. If the price fell below 33 baht, the lower limit could cause the item to be judged as being of questionable quality. The consumers considered the highest price at 119 baht. If the price rose over 180 baht, the upper limit can cause the item to be judged as being too expensive, suggesting quality levels and attributes exceeding those desired by the consumers. They felt the food was cheap as felt it was expensive at 50 baht (indifference price). In term of the price stress, the indifference price (50 baht) was greater than the optimal price (35 baht). They felt some stress over price, since the price that they would most like to pay was lower than the price they view as cheap.
D00|Legitimacy and Incentives in a Labour Relationship|We design a two-stage model where the winner of a tournament becomes the executive of his former opponent. We call procedural legitimacy, the legitimacy an executive obtains if he is promoted through a competition with no unfair treatment. The aim of this paper is to study how effort may paradoxically bolster or undermine this type of legitimacy with respect to technological assumptions. Besides we show that, in bayesian terms, winning the competition reinforces the belief of having been advantaged but it also reinforces the belief that the looser will be disadvantaged in the future and thus be less productive. This will tend to make winning the competition by being advantaged much less profitable. To incentivize more effort during the competition, the firm has to design a procedure where opponents are not evaluated by their peers but by neutral and external people. Thus the competition will not bring information on a potential inequality of treatment in the future. We argue civil servant examination in public administration and human resources departments are designed partially for this reason..
D00|Which kind of ability bolsters legitimacy?|The aim of this paper is to study in a theoretical perspective how the choice of the ability on which an executive is evaluated to be promoted may be a crucial stake. We show that a procedure where an executive is selected on a managerial ability will allow to increase his own wage, compared to a procedure where he needs to demonstrate ability on the same task than his employee. The intuition is that it would neutralize the issue of rivalry with the employee by preserving the self confidence of the employee in spite he has failed at being promoted, making him easier to incentivize. The consequence is that selecting leaders on their ability to outperform their employee will tend to favor the emergence of a leadership culture of humility during the promotion process in a sense that opponents will strategically reduce their performance to preserve the self-confidence of their employee and then make him less costly to incentivize. On the contrary, selecting leaders on managerial ability will favor the emergence of a leadership culture of demonstration of strength.
D00|The Hidden Effect of Meritocratic Promotion Procedure: Experimental Evidence|The aim of this experimental paper is to show how the willingness of an employee to accept inequality of wages between him and his executive will depend on the ability on which the executive is evaluated when he is promoted. This willingness to accept inequality is captured by the minimum wage enough to incentivize to work for his executive. We show that selecting an executive on his ability to outperform his employee at his own task will be counterproductive to make employee accepting inequality of wages. We argue that the efficiency of “merit-based” promotion procedure may be challenged by this result.
D00|Let’s meet as usual: Do games on non-frequent days differ? Evidence from top European soccer leagues|Balancing the allocation of games in sports competitions is an important organizational task that can have serious financial consequences. In this paper, we examine data from 9,930 soccer games played in the top German, Spanish, French, and English soccer leagues between 2007/2008 and 2016/2017. Using a machine learning technique for variable selection and applying a semi-parametric analysis of radius matching on the propensity score, we find that all four leagues have a lower attendance as the share of stadium capacity in games that take place on non-frequently played days compared to the frequently played days. In addition, we find that in all leagues except for the English Premier League, there is a significantly lower home advantage for the underdog teams on non-frequent days. Our findings suggest that the current schedule favors underdog teams with fewer home games on non-frequent days. Therefore, to increase the fairness of the competitions, it is necessary to adjust the allocation of the home games on non-frequent days in a way that eliminates any advantage driven by the schedule. These findings have implications for the stakeholders of the leagues, as well as for coaches and players.
D00|How Much Does It Cost to Complete Medical School? Evidence from Cost Analysis of Kabul Medical School|Background: Efficient and effective investments in developing human resources for health are essential. Kabul Medical University, a public institution, plays a pivotal role in producing and supporting high quality health workforce for Afghanistan’s health system. This report describes the first ever costing exercise of Kabul Medical University (KMU). The results intend to assist university managers and government to improve the efficiency of their programs by understanding the various costs associated with specific activities and faculties within the university. Methodology: Step-down Cost Accounting approach was used for generating costs and unit costs. Two cost centers were identified for apportioning costs: 1) Support Cost Center and 2) Service Cost Center. A Microsoft Excel spreadsheet was used to enter cost data and obtain estimations. Data were collected by HEFD over a period of 1.5 months in collaboration with KMU management. Findings: In 1390 (March 2011 – March 2012), the total cost of all faculties at KMU is $3,436,995 USD. The cost per student for each faculty include: $18,476 USD for Curative; $5,534 USD for Nursing; $1,199 USD for Public Health; and $16,543 USD for Stomatology. The largest proportion of costs for supporting cost center activities are attributed to administrative and supportive staff (26.1%), trainings (31.2%), and teaching hospitals (21.6%). The distribution of costs among teaching staff is highest among the latter classes. Conclusions: Based on this study, the majority of costs for 1390 (2012) went to the Curative faculty for services. Additionally, the majority of support costs went to training 19 teaching staff (donor supported) and salaries for administration and supportive staff. The Nursing and Stomatology faculties are largely skewed towards female students. At the same time, the proportion of women in Curative faculty is very low given the needs of female health workers, especially doctors, in the health sector. As the government moves towards a model of self-sustained financing, stronger financial accounting mechanisms are needed to ensure the appropriate use of public funds. This report serves as a baseline for KMU costs, which can now be monitored in the future in light of limited resources.
D00|Globalization and the Concentration of Talent|We analyze the allocation of talent across teams in large matching markets with competition for rank. We show that under general conditions globalization in the form of a convex transformation of payoffs promotes the concentration of talent, i.e. it makes positive assortative matching more likely and negative assortative matching less likely. This is in line with recent trends in European football (soccer) leagues.
D00|Separating Predicted Randomness from Noise|Given observed stochastic choice data and a model of stochastic choice, we offer a methodology that enables separation of the data representing the model's inherent randomness from residual noise, and thus quantify the maximal fraction of the data that are consistent with the model. We show how to apply our approach to any model of stochastic choice. We then study the case of four well-known models, each capturing a different notion of randomness. We conclude by illustrating our results with an experimental dataset.
D00|Kinship Systems, Cooperation, and the Evolution of Culture|An influential body of psychological and anthropological theories holds that societies exhibit heterogeneous cooperation systems that differ both in their level of in-group favoritism and in the tools that they employ to enforce cooperative behavior. According to some of these theories, entire bundles of functional psychological adaptations – religious beliefs, moral values, negative reciprocity, emotions, and social norms – serve as “psychological police officer” in different cooperation regimes. This paper uses an anthropological measure of the tightness of historical kinship systems to study the structure of cooperation patterns and enforcement devices across historical ethnicities, contemporary countries, ethnicities within countries, and among migrants. The results document that societies with loose ancestral kinship ties cooperate and trust broadly, which appears to be enforced through a belief in moralizing gods, individualizing moral values, internalized guilt, altruistic punishment, and large-scale institutions. Societies with a historically tightly knit kinship structure, on the other hand, cheat on and distrust the out-group but readily support in-group members in need. This cooperation regime in turn is enforced by communal moral values, emotions of external shame, revenge-taking, and local governance structures including strong social norms. These patterns suggest that various seemingly unrelated aspects of culture are all functional and ultimately serve the same purpose of regulating economic behavior.
D00|What are axiomatizations good for?|Abstract Do axiomatic derivations advance positive economics? If economists are interested in predicting how people behave, without a pretense to change individual decision making, how can they benefit from representation theorems, which are no more than equivalence results? We address these questions. We propose several ways in which representation results can be useful and discuss their implications for axiomatic decision theory.
D00|Relational Incentive Contracts and Performance Measurement|This paper analyzes relational contracts under moral hazard. We first show that if the available information (signal) about effort satisfies a generalized monotone likelihood ratio property, then irrespective of whether the first-order approach (FOA) is valid or not, the optimal bonus scheme takes a simple form. The scheme rewards the agent a fixed bonus if his performance index exceeds a threshold, like the FOA contract of Levin (2003), but the threshold can be set differently. We next derive a sufficient and necessary condition for non-verifiable information to improve a relational contract. Our new informativeness criterion sheds light on the nature of an ideal performance measure in relational contracting.
D00|Relational Contracting, Negotiation, and External Enforcement|We study relational contracting and renegotiation in environments with external enforcement of long-term contractual arrangements. An external, long-term contract governs the stage games the contracting parties will play in the future (depending on verifiable stage-game outcomes) until they renegotiate. In a contractual equilibrium, the parties choose their individual actions rationally, they jointly optimize when selecting a contract, and they take advantage of their relative bargaining power. Our main result is that in a wide variety of settings, in each period of a contractual equilibrium the parties agree to a semi-stationary external contract, with stationary terms for all future periods but special terms for the current period. In each period the parties renegotiate to this same external contract, effectively adjusting the terms only for the current period. For example, in a simple principal-agent model with a choice of costly monitoring technology, the optimal contract specifies mild monitoring for the current period but intense monitoring for future periods. Because the parties renegotiate in each new period, intense monitoring arises only off the equilibrium path after a failed renegotiation.
D00|Understanding Preference Imprecision|The term ‘preference imprecision’ seems to have different meanings to different people. In the literature, one can find references to a number of expressions. For example: vagueness, incompleteness, randomness, unsureness, indecisiveness and thick indifference curves. Some of these are theoretical constructs, some are empirical. The purpose of this paper is to survey the various different approaches and to try to link them together: to see if they are all addressed to the same issue, and to come to some conclusions. In the course of this survey, we report on evidence concerning the existence of preference imprecision, and its impact on theoretical and empirical work.
D00|Who are the Joneses that You are Keeping up with? A Study about how Reference Groups are Determined|This study empirically investigates who is chosen as the reference group in the standard of living comparison and how it is chosen in Japan and the United States. The results show that majority people will compare to their neighbor instead of the average people in the nation (which is often assumed in the macro and finance literature), colleagues or friends (reference groups in income comparison) in both countries. This paper suggests that people may use the routine standards when facing the selection of reference groups in relative standard of living. In addition, this paper tests the influence of reference group itself on the standard of living. The result unveils that those who compare to their neighbor will rate the relative standard of living higher than the others.
D00|Fair Competition Design|We study the impact of two basic principles of fairness on the structure of competition systems and perform our analysis by focus-ing on sports competitions. The first principle states that equally strong players should have the same chances of being final winner, while the second principle requires that the competition system should not favor weaker players. We apply these requirements to a class of competitions which includes, but is not limited to, the sport tournament systems that are most commonly used in practice, such as round-robin tournaments and di fferent kinds of knockout competitions, and we characterize the structures satisfying these requirements. In our results, a new competition structure that we call an antler is found to play a referential role. Finally, we show that the class of fair competition systems becomes rather small when both fairness principles are jointly applied.
D00|The Economic Limits of Bitcoin and the Blockchain|The amount of computational power devoted to anonymous, decentralized blockchains such as Bitcoin's must simultaneously satisfy two conditions in equilibrium: (1) a zero-profit condition among miners, who engage in a rent-seeking competition for the prize associated with adding the next block to the chain; and (2) an incentive compatibility condition on the system's vulnerability to a “majority attack”, namely that the computational costs of such an attack must exceed the benefits. Together, these two equations imply that (3) the recurring, “flow”, payments to miners for running the blockchain must be large relative to the one-off, “stock”, benefits of attacking it. This is very expensive! The constraint is softer (i.e., stock versus stock) if both (i) the mining technology used to run the blockchain is both scarce and non-repurposable, and (ii) any majority attack is a “sabotage” in that it causes a collapse in the economic value of the blockchain; however, reliance on non-repurposable technology for security and vulnerability to sabotage each raise their own concerns, and point to specific collapse scenarios. In particular, the model suggests that Bitcoin would be majority attacked if it became sufficiently economically important — e.g., if it became a “store of value” akin to gold — which suggests that there are intrinsic economic limits to how economically important it can become in the first place.
D00|The reconstruction of capital theory: the true meaning of capital in a production function|The purpose of the present article is to explore the possibilities of a reconstruction of a Theory of Capital capable of taking into account the Reswitching phenomenon. In Section 1 a new measure of capital-time, for neoaustrian processes of production, is introduced. The main outcome of the use of this proposed new measure of capital is this: it can be shown that, even when Reswitching occurs, there is still always an inverse relationship between the rate of interest or profit and the quantity of capital-time. In Section 2 the results of Section 1 are extended for the case of two good technologies examples. In Section 3 a surrogate production process is introduced. By developing this surrogate production process it can be shown that in general there is an inverse relationship between the interest rate and the quantity of surrogate capital per man, the surrogate capital/output ratio, and between the interest rate and the newly defined steady-state consumption per capita. Section 4 presents further comments on the results of the previous sections. Section 5 introduces numerical examples.
D00|The effectiveness of Feminine and Masculine Leadership styles in relation to contrasting gender's performances|This paper focuses on the impact and effectiveness of feminine and masculine styles of leadership on contrasting genders in four different economies namely; India, Canada, Pakistan, and United Kingdom's IT Sector. By combining probability and non-probability sampling techniques, the data has been gathered from 248 respondents via semi-structured 5-points scale survey questionnaire. The findings have shown that employees irrespective gender are significant positively affected by feminine leadership style. Additionally, in developing countries; Pakistan and India there is significant use of feminine leadership while developed economies namely; Canada and the UK have higher preference for masculine leadership style. Nevertheless, overall male workers do not have higher preference to work under masculine leadership style while females have higher preference for both masculine and feminine leadership styles. Interestingly, feminine style of leadership is highly demonstrated by males in Pakistan while in other three economies, it is exhibited by female line-managers. Moreover, female line-managers in the UK have shown higher masculine style of leadership in contrast to other economies. There is significant positive relationship between style of leadership and contrasting genders in distinctive economies. Additionally, feminine leadership style is more effective than the masculine leadership style. Feminine leaders demonstrate higher people-orientation and participative style of management whereas masculine leaders rely on task-orientation and autocratic style.
D00|Estimación del Modelo de Demanda de Rotterdam para España: evolución de las elasticidades<BR>[Estimation of the Rotterdam Model in Spain: the Evolution of Elasticities]|Este trabajo analiza las últimas tres décadas de la demanda de cinco agregados básicos en España con el objetivo de comparar la situación actual con el pasado y mostrar cómo la demanda ha ido evolucionando en los últimos años (1980-2015). El propósito de este trabajo contribuye a mostrar los diferentes factores económicos que han conducido a niveles altos o bajos de demanda sobre la base delos datos recopilados de OCDE. Esta información estará vinculada a la situación histórico-económica particular de España. Además se procederá al análisis econométrico de estos datos estimando el modelo de Rotterdam para representar las preferencias de la población española. Alimentos, y Vivienda y electricidad se vienen comportando como bienes de primera necesidad, mientras que se comportan como bienes de lujo el Transporte y las comunicaciones, y Otros bienes y servicios. Las elasticidades precio-directas, todas ellas negativas, indican demandas normales decrecientes.
D00|Beyond behavioral economics: who is the economic man|There are two reasons to go beyond Behavioral Economics. The first reason is that humans, as presented by this school, do not explain many critical economic problems. Behavioral Economics is not an alternative paradigm to traditional economics. It is only one of the New Schools of thought, that has risen due to the failure of the contemporary Neoclassical School to show that markets have a unique maximum welfare full employment equilibrium. Therefore, in order to delimit Behavioral Economics ́ contributions we need to look at the whole paradigm in economics, which today includes: the contemporary neoclassical paradigm plus all the New Schools of thought. The second reason is that humans, as described by Behavioral Economics, are not a good representation of mans ́ evolutionary characteristics. For Behavioral Economics, humans are emotional beings which often do not know what is best for them, and need the help of the government to make the choices which are truly convenient; and they display altruistic and social cooperative behavior, even in monetary transactions. But evolutionarily we are neither design to be emotional or rational, nor to be selfish or altruistic and socially cooperative. We are design to be flexible for survival purposes, and to display a wide range of behaviors.
D00|Can we beat the Random Walk? The case of survey-based exchange rate forecasts in Chile|We examine the accuracy of survey-based expectations of the Chilean exchange rate relative to the US dollar. Our out-of-sample analysis reveals that survey-based forecasts outperform the Driftless Random Walk (DRW) in terms of Mean Squared Prediction Error at several forecasting horizons. This result holds true even when comparing the survey to a more competitive benchmark based on a refined information set. A similar result is found when precision is measured in terms of Directional Accuracy: survey-based forecasts outperform a “pure luck” benchmark at several forecasting horizons. Differing from the traditional “no predictability” result reported in the literature for many exchange rates, our findings suggest that the Chilean peso is indeed predictable.
D00|Poverty and unemployment in Spain during the 2008's financial crises|The main objective of this paper is to examine the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in the level of poverty and income inequality during and after the 2008 global financial crisis in Spain. Secondary household survey data from the European Union database (EU_SLIC) for 2008 and 2014 was used for the descriptive and inferential statistics. The two years are chosen purposely since 2008 was the year that the global financial crisis began, and 2014 was the year that unemployment rate was very high and Spain's economy was starting to revive from the crisis. Binary Logistic regression is used for inferential statistics since the dependent variable (being poor) is a binary variable and basic activity status(with four categorical variables), citizenship (with three categorical variables) and a number of workers in the household (as a ratio of the total number of individuals in the household) are used as explanatory variables. Based on the descriptive and inferential statistics results, the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in poverty rate and income inequality was high in Spain during and after the 2008 global financial crisis. The probability of being poor for unemployed increases from 0.18 in 2008 to 0.255 in 2014. Being unemployed, being inactive households, and being from other citizens are more likely to poor compared with workers, and local citizens respectively.
D00|Poverty, income inequality and unemployment in Spain in the 2008's Financial Crises|The main objective of this paper is to examine the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in the level of poverty and income inequality during and after the 2008 global financial crisis in Spain. Secondary household survey data from the European Union database (EU_SLIC) for 2008 and 2014 was used for the descripitive and inferential statistics. The two years are chosen purposely since 2008 was the year that the global financial crisis began, and 2014 was the year that unemployment rate was very high and Spain's economy was starting to revive from the crisis. Binary Logistic regression is used for inferential statistics since the dependent variable (being poor) is a binary variable and basic activity status (with four categorical variables), citizenship (with three categorical variables) and number of workers in the household (as a ratio of the total number of individuals in the household) are used as explanatory variables. Based on the descriptive and inferential statistics results, the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in poverty rate and income inequality was high in Spain during and after the 2008 global financial crisis. The probability of being poor for unemployed increases from 0.18 in 2008 to 0.255 in 2014. Being unemployed, being inactive households, and being from other citizens are more likely to poor compared with workers, and local citizens respectively.
D00|Unemployment and health in Spain during the 2008's financial crises|The main objective of this paper is to examine the contribution of the high unemployment rate on the health status of society during and after the 2008 global financial crisis in Spain. Secondary household survey data from the European Union database (EU_SLIC) for 2008 and 2014 was used for the descriptive and inferential statistics. The two years are chosen purposely since 2008 was the year that the global financial crisis began, and 2014 was the year that the unemployment rate was very high and Spain's economy was starting to revive from the crisis. Ordered Probit regression is used for inferential statistics since the dependent variable (General Health Status) is an ordered variable and basic activity status (with four categorical variables), the capacity to face unexpected financial expenses (with two dummy variables), household disposable income and pollution, crime or other environmental problems (with two dummy variables) are used as explanatory variables. Based on the descriptive and inferential statistics results, even if there was a high increment of unemployment during the financial crises and even if the unemployment rate was at its pick level in 2014, the effect of unemployment on the general health of the household was not as high as expected compared with its effect in 2008. Keeping other things constant, the probability of very good and good health is increasing as the capacity to face unexpected financial expenses and household income increases; but it decreases as the probability of being unemployed, retired, inactive and pollution increases both in 2008 and 2014. On the other hand, the probability of fair, bad and very bad health status increases as the probability of being unemployed, retired, inactive and pollution increases but decreases as the capacity to face unexpected financial expenses and household income increases both in 2008 and 2014.
D00|Teaching microeconomic principles with smartphones – lessons from classroom experiments with classEx|Classroom experiments as a teaching tool increase understanding and especially motivation. Traditionally, experiments have been run using pen-and-paper or in a computer lab. Pen-and-paper is time and resource consuming. Experiments in the lab require appropriate installations and impede the direct interaction among students. During the last two years, we have created fully elaborated packages to run a complete course in microeconomics principles using face-to-face experiments with mobile devices. The experiments are based on Bergstrom-Miller (2000), and we used classEx, a free online tool, to run them in the classroom.The packages were used at Universitat Pompeu Fabra with over 500 undergraduate students in the fall 2016. This paper presents our experience on classEx and the Bergstrom-Miller approach working in combination, and the lessons learned.
D00|Incentives for motivated experts in a partnership|A Principal has a set of projects, each having different benefit potentials, and each requiring a basic technology from one of two experts and time inputs from both experts. Experts enjoy motivation utilities from production, but have private information of their own motivation preferences and project potentials. Technology and time-input choices are experts’ private decisions. Experts form a Partnership, which designs a sharing rule and a gatekeeping protocol to determine experts’ priority on technology choice. Using a linear cost-share contract that lets experts make minimum profits, the Principal implements the first best by delegating all decisions to the Partnership.
D00|Credit from the Monopoly Bank|We establish that a monopoly bank never uses collateral as a screening device. A pooling equilibrium always exists in which all borrowers pay the same interest rate and put zero collateral. Absence of screening leads to socially inefficient lending in the sense that some socially productive firms are denied credit due to excessively high interest rate.
D00|A normalized value for information purchases|Consider agents who are heterogeneous in their preferences and wealth levels. These agents may acquire information prior to choosing an investment that has a property of no-arbitrage, and each piece of information bears a corresponding cost. We associate a numeric index to each information purchase (information-cost pair). This index describes the normalized value of the information purchase: it is the risk-aversion level of the unique CARA agent who is indifferent between accepting and rejecting the purchase, and it is characterized by a “duality” principle that states that agents with a stronger preference for information should engage more often in information purchases. No agent more risk-averse than the index finds it profitable to acquire the information, whereas all agents less risk-averse than the index do. Given an empirically measured range of degrees of risk aversion in a competitive economy with no-arbitrage investments, our model therefore comes close to describing an inverse demand for information, by predicting what pieces of information are acquired by agents and which ones are not. Among several desirable properties, the normalized-value formula induces a complete ranking of information structures that extends Blackwell's classic ordering.
D00|Nudging to prudence? The effect of reminders on antibiotics prescriptions|Antibiotic resistance is a large and growing global health threat with important consequences. Prudent use of antibiotics is vital to delay the spread of resistance. In this study I use a randomized controlled trial to test the effect on antibiotics use of reminders to primary care patients. The intervention was implemented across 31 clinics during the flu season in Stockholm. A two-level randomization was used, with randomization at clinic level as well as at individual patient level. With reminders antibiotics use fell by 12.6 per cent relative to the control clinics. The effect is at clinic level, suggesting that doctors or doctor – patient interactions, not individual patients, are affected. Results from a follow-up experiment further suggest that an effect on the interactions between doctor and patient is the primary driver of the main results. Behavioural interventions targeting these interactions have the potential to reduce antibiotics use. More research is needed, though, as monitoring and adherence may also play a role.
D00|The effect of increased general education in vocational schools - Evidence from a Hungarian vocational school reform|This paper aims at the evaluation of the reform of vocational education introduced in 1998 in Hungary. The reform extended the duration of education by one year, and increased teaching time spent on non-vocational subjects. The reform affected two of the three tracks in upper-secondary education in Hungary, vocational secondary school and vocational school. We estimate the effect of the reform on educational attainment, employment and wages in a comparative interrupted time series (CITS) framework, using the academic track and secondary school drop-outs as control groups. The results suggest that the reform has had heterogeneous effects. First, we detect no effect for the vocational secondary track, while the reform has improved labour market outcomes of vocational school students. Second, in the vocational school group the reform has increased men’s wages, while not affected their employment. For women we found a positive employment effect, while wages have increased only for the younger cohorts.
D00|Take a Chance on ABBA|The order of actions in contests may generate different psychological effects which, in turn, may influence contestants' probabilities to win. The Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence in which the first 'n' moves is the exact mirror image of the next 'n' moves should theoretically terminate any advantage to any of the contestants in a sequential pair-wise contest. The tennis tiebreak sequence of serves is the closest to the Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence that one can find in real tournament settings. In a tiebreak between two players, A and B, the order of the first two serves (AB) is a mirror image of the next two serves (BA), such that the sequence of the first four serves is ABBA. Then, this sequence is repeated until one player wins the tiebreak. This sequence has been used not only in tennis, but also recently in the US TV presidential debates. In this study we analyse 1,701 men's and 920 women's tiebreak games from top-tier tournaments between the years 2012 to 2015. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of serving first from the effect of selection, we find that, for both genders, serving first does not have any significant effect on the winning probabilities of the two players, implying that the ABBA sequence is fair. We thus argue that it might be useful for other sports and contests in general to consider adopting the ABBA sequence in order to improve fairness.
D00|What Information Drives Asset Prices?|The market price-dividend ratio is highly correlated with several macroeconomic variables, particularly inflation and labor market variables, but not with aggregate consumption and GDP. We incorporate this observation in an exchange economy with learning about the economic regime from consumption history and a latent signal. The estimated model rationalizes the moments of consumption and dividend growth, market return, price-dividend ratio, and real and nominal term structures and the low predictive power of the price-dividend ratio for consumption and dividend growth while a nested model with learning from consumption history alone does not. The intuition is that the beliefs process has high persistence and low variance because beliefs depend on the signal. The model fit remains largely intact when we replace the latent signal with a combination of macroeconomic variables that heavily loads on inflation and labor market variables. The results highlight the informational role of macroeconomic variables and suggest that just one combination of macroeconomic variables, along with consumption, proxies well for investors’ relevant information set.
D00|Regulatory policy in India: Moving towards regulatory governance|This paper provides an analysis of India’s existing regulatory regime and its evolution over the last 25 years, and the efforts to improve the regulatory framework as India has transitioned towards a market economy. The paper argues that while India has implemented many sector specific regulatory reforms, the absence of a government wide initiative to improve regulatory quality, or implement a whole of government regulatory policy, has prevented India from creating a consistent and coherent regulatory environment and has undermined trust and integrity in the regulatory system. As a result, outcomes of regulatory governance have so far been quite mixed. In many cases they have fallen far short of expectations. The paper therefore identifies some of the constraints that have challenged India’s regulatory governance, the dominant presence of state owned enterprises, the multi-level government structures and regulatory independence of agencies and institutions. Meanwhile, effective regulatory governance has distinctly evolved in the securities market and it highlights the reasons behind the success of the securities market regulator. The positive example of the Securities Exchange Board of India is outlined to showcase the potential for implementing good regulatory practice through regulatory oversight, better governance of regulators, stakeholder engagement and regulatory impact assessments. The paper also looks at issues related to Regulatory Impact Assessments in the Indian context.
D00|Commuting patterns in Romania: Case study on Cluj County|The study examines the spatial and economic characteristics of commuting to work in one of the most dynamic areas of Romania, Cluj County. Based on the 2011 census data, the study reveals a strong connection between accessibility and commuting intensity, while the urban network determines the spatial orientation of the dominant commuting flows. However, we found no significant relation between dynamic economic performance and commuting intensity
D00|Firm Risk and Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance in Dutch Lady Malaysia|The objective of this paper to characterize some indicators of overall performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia with specific risk factors and macroeconomics factors (GDP, inflation rate) on return on assets (profitability). The information was collected from Dutch Lady Malaysia annual report for five consecutive year (2011-2015). A correlation model comprising dependent variable (ROA) and numerous independent variables was used to analyse performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia. This study empirical result indicated that liquidity ratio is the most significant meaning in performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia.
D00|The Role of Corporate Governance and Its Impact on Risk and Firm Performance of Consumer Industry: Apollo Food Holdings Berhad|The purpose of this study is to examine the overall performance of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad with specific risk and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data and information get from annual report of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Apollo Food Holdings Berhad in 5 years. Besides that, to measure is the asset size, the variable has negative and no significant relationship with liquidity risk. To see relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing GDP, operational ratio and liquidity ratio. Data was analysed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression and bivariate correlation shows only one factors of probability is significant to operating ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
D00|Monitoring Performance of Maybank Berhad in the Presence of Risk|The main purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between risk and performance of commercial bank in Malaysia. This study aims to investigate the impact of bank-specific factors which include liquidity risk, operational risk, and credit risk (microeconomic factors) and gross domestic product (GDP) and inflation rate (macroeconomic factors) on the performance of Malaysian commercial bank over the period of 2011 to 2015. The bank performance is measured by Return on Assets (ROA). The results imply that ratios employed in this study have different effects on the performance of bank. In this study, the findings show that only GDP has positive relationship with ROA. Four factors namely liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and inflation rate have negative relationship with the ROA.
D00|Governance and Happiness: Evidence From Citizens? Perception in Pakistan|This paper examines the impact of governance on happiness of residents in a developing society. Two major aspects of governance, i.e., democratic and technical governance are used for this analysis. Governance and happiness are measured on the basis of citizen?s perceptions through a survey from all over the country. We find a significant relationship between self perceived governance and happiness. Our estimates suggest that improvement in democratic and technical governance will increase happiness of its citizens. Results carry important implications for a developing country like Pakistan to improve the government institutions and their functioning in order to increase their effectiveness.
D00|Strategic Interactions on Networks: An Experimental Approach|network influence the equilibrium selection and behavior in a network public goods game. Bramoulle et al (2014) shows that the equilibrium of the public good game can be characterized according to the simple characteristics of the underlying network. Precisely, guided by the theoretical predictions from Bramoulle et al(2014), I explore whether underlying networks can predict equilibrium selection and subjects¡¯ behavior in the controlled laboratory. The data implies that 1) there is some aspect in which agents¡¯ actions are consistent with the claims of Bramoulle et al(2014), but 2) local, rather than global, characteristics of the network are more fundamental in influencing behavior and equilibrium selection. Specifically, I show that asymmetry inside of network is a major factor in explaining the actions of individual economic agents.
D00|Teaching microeconomic principles with smartphones – lessons from classroom experiments with classEx|Classroom experiments as a teaching tool increase understanding and especially motivation. Traditionally, experiments have been run using pen-and-paper or in a computer lab. Pen-and-paper is time and resource consuming. Experiments in the lab require appropriate installations and impede the direct interaction among students. During the last two years, we have created fully elaborated packages to run a complete course in microeconomics principles using face-to-face experiments with mobile devices. The experiments are based on Bergstrom-Miller (2000), and we used classEx, a free online tool, to run them in the classroom.The packages were used at Universitat Pompeu Fabra with over 500 undergraduate students in the fall 2016. This paper presents our experience on classEx and the Bergstrom-Miller approach working in combination, and the lessons learned.
D00|The Optimal Design Of Round-Robin Tournaments With Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|Discouragement Effect and Intermediate Prizes in Multi-Stage Contests: Evidence from Tennis’s Davis Cup|Discouragement effect of the lagging player in multi-stage contests is a well-documented phenomenon. In this study, we utilize data from 2,247 Davis Cup matches in teams’ tennis tournaments to test the effect of ahead-behind asymmetry on individuals’ performance with and without intermediate prizes. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of being ahead in the interim score from the effect of selection, we find that a higher-ranked player has higher probability of winning if his team is leading before the respective match. However, this effect disappears in matches in which a winner receives ranking points. This result is driven by an increased winning probability of the lagging favorite. Our findings suggest that, as predicted by previous theoretical studies, intermediate prizes may mitigate or even terminate the ahead-behind effects that arise in multi-stage contests.
D00|Kooperationen zwischen etabliertem Mittelstand und Start-ups|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht anhand von Experteninterviews die Motive, Formen sowie Herausforderungen und Erfolgsfaktoren von Kooperationen zwischen etablierten Mittelständlern und Start-ups. Während sich Start-ups durch die Kooperation den Zugang zu einem großen Netzwerk sowie branchenspezifisches Know-how erhoffen, motiviert Mittelständler der Zugang zu neuen Technologien und hochqualifizierten Fachkräften. Die Wahl der konkreten Kooperationsform leitet sich aus den jeweiligen Zielen ab. Dabei unterscheiden sich Kooperationen hinsichtlich ihrer Intensität sowie in ihrer juristischen Ausgestaltung. Damit beide Seiten erfolgreich zusammenkommen, sollte sich das Start-up bereits im Vorfeld mit den Bedürfnissen des potenziellen Kooperationspartners auseinandersetzen. Etablierte Mittelständler sollten hingegen ihr stark ausgeprägtes Sicherheitsdenken ablegen und eine innovationsfreundliche Kultur im Unternehmen etablieren. Insgesamt bietet die Zusammenarbeit für beide Seiten ein großes Potenzial. Dabei profitiert das Start-up von einer effizienten Zusammenarbeit durch kurze Entscheidungswege in den inhabergeführten Unternehmen und der etablierte Mittelstand von einer höheren Wettbewerbsfähigkeit durch die Innovationsimpulse der Start-ups.
D00|Ethnic diversity and economic performance: An empirical investigation using survey data|This empirical study is based on nationally representative cross-sectional survey data gathered to investigate the effect of ethnic diversity on individual and household economic performance in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). The complexity of this relationship in the context of this post-conflict country is addressed and investigated by estimating models in which ethnic diversity affects personal and family incomes. The 1992-1995 conflict was ethnically characterized, and harmful for ethnic diversity. Yet, two decades later, we find positive economic consequences of ethnic diversity for individuals and households. After controlling for other influences, the authors estimate that both personal and family incomes are around 10% higher in ethnically diverse than in ethnically homogenous areas. A corollary is that policy makers in this post-conflict country, and in similar environments elsewhere, should take into consideration the economic costs of policies supporting ethnic homogeneity over diversity.
D00|Reputation, honesty, and cheating in informal milk markets in India|Sellers display astounding differences in their cheating behavior, even in developing countries with weak enforcement of rules. Using the context of informal milk markets in India, we examine the role of reputation and norms of honesty as potential explanations. Our results show that individuals cannot verify milk quality, which weakens the scope of reputation-based mechanisms. But a strong correlation exists between milk quality and norms of honesty, measured using a novel behavioral experiment. Price collusion allows for the coexistence of honest and dishonest milkmen within a market. Norms of honesty can mitigate market inefficiency under the right institutional environment.
D00|Matching to share risk|We consider a matching model in which individuals belonging to two populations (\textquotedblleft males\textquotedblright\ and \textquotedblleft females\textquotedblright ) can match to share their exogenous income risk. Within each population, individuals can be ranked by risk aversion in the Arrow-Pratt sense. The model permits non transferable utility, a context in which few general results have previously been derived. We show that in this framework a stable matching always exists, it is generically unique, and it is negatively assortative: for any two matched couples, the more risk averse male is matched with the less risk averse female.
D00|Parametric Recoverability of Preferences|Revealed preference theory is brought to bear on the problem of recovering approximate parametric preferences from consistent and inconsistent consumer choices. We propose measures of the incompatibility between the revealed preference ranking implied by choices and the ranking induced by the considered parametric preferences. These incompatibility measures are proven to characterize well-known inconsistency indices. We advocate a recovery approach that is based on such incompatibility measures and demonstrate its applicability for misspecification measurement and model selection. Using an innovative experimental design, we empirically substantiate that the proposed revealed-preference-based method predicts choices significantly better than a standard distance-based method.
D00|Unhappy Cities|There are persistent differences in self-reported subjective well-being across US metropolitan areas, and residents of declining cities appear less happy than others. Yet some people continue to move to these areas, and newer residents appear to be as unhappy as longer-term residents. While historical data on happiness are limited, the available facts suggest that cities that are now declining were also unhappy in their more prosperous past. These facts support the view that individuals do not maximize happiness alone but include it in the utility function along with other arguments. People may trade off happiness against other competing objectives.
D00|Single-Crossing Random Utility Models|We propose a novel model of stochastic choice: the single-crossing random utility model (SCRUM). This is a random utility model in which the collection of utility functions satisfies the single-crossing property. We offer a characterization of SCRUMs based on three easy-to-check properties: Positivity, Monotonicity and Centrality. The identified collection of utility functions and associated probabilities is basically unique. We establish a stochastic monotone comparative result for the case of SCRUMs and study several generalizations of SCRUMs.
D00|Midweek Effect on Performance: Evidence from the German Soccer Bundesliga|The home advantage phenomenon is a well-established feature in sports competitions. In this paper, we examine data from 1,908 soccer matches played in the German Bundesliga during the seasons from 2007-08 to 2015-16. Using a very rich data set, our econometric analysis that is based on matching methods reveals that the usual home advantage disappears when the game is in the middle of the week instead of being on the weekend. Our results indicate that, since the midweek matches are unevenly allocated among teams, the actual schedules of the Bundesliga favour teams with fewer home games in midweek. The paper also shows that these soccer-specific findings have some implications for the design of contests in general.
D00|First In First Win: Evidence on Unfairness of Round-Robin Tournaments in Mega-Events|The order of actions in contests may have a significant effect on performance. In this study we examine the role of schedule in round-robin tournaments with sequential games between three and four contestants. Our propensity-score matching estimation, based on soccer FIFA World Cups, UEFA European Championships and Olympic wrestling events, reveals that there is a substantial advantage to the contestant who competes in the first and third matches, which is in line with game-theoretical predictions. Our finding implies that the round-robin structure with sequential games is endogenously unfair, since it systematically favours one of the contestants.
D00|Striving for balance in economics: Towards a theory of the social determination of behavior|This paper is an attempt to broaden economic discourse by importing insights into human behavior not just from psychology, but also from sociology and anthropology. Whereas in standard economics the concept of the decision-maker is the rational actor, and in early work in behavioral economics it is the quasi-rational actor influenced by the context of the moment of decision, in some recent work in behavioral economics, the decision-maker could be called the enculturated actor. This actor's preferences, perception, and cognition are subject to two deep social influences: (a) the social contexts to which he has become exposed and, especially, accustomed; and (b) the cultural mental models—including categories, identities, narratives, and worldviews—that he uses to process information. The paper traces how these factors shape behavior through the endogenous determination of preferences and the lenses through which individuals see the world—their perception and interpretation of situations. The paper offers a tentative taxonomy of the social determinants of behavior and describes the results of controlled and natural experiments that only a broader view of these determinants can plausibly explain. The perspective suggests more realistic models of human behavior for explaining outcomes and designing policies.
D00|“Is your commute really making you fat?”: The causal effect of commuting distance on height-adjusted weight|This paper explores the causal relationship between commuting distance and height-adjusted weight (BMI) in Germany, using micro-level data for the period 2004 – 2012. In contrast to previous papers, we find no evidence that longer commutes are associated with a higher BMI. The non-existence of a relationship between BMI and commuting distance prevails when physical activity and eating habits are adjusted for.
D00|European Union and Romanian Tourism – ß and s Convergence in the Economic Development Regions of Romania|At present, both in Romania and in Europe, tourism tends to become one of the biggest industries, with great development possibilities in the future. The economic development of Romania including tourism benefits from the support of the European Union, and has the purpose to reduce the gaps in this concern, compared to both the European Union average and more developed countries. The purpose of this paper is to analyse ß and s convergence in the 8 Economic Development Regions of Romania by a tourism approach. The concept of ß-convergence represents the process of quicker development of poor regions than the rich ones, and s-convergence is evaluating the process of decrease of regional economic disparities in time. The analysis based on ß-convergence was performed using econometric modelling techniques of linear correlation. For s-convergence, we measured the dispersion of real GDPT per in habitant by the use of the variation coefficient t ? . The purpose is to check the hypothesis according to which the ß-convergence approach and the s- convergence concept can lead to different results for the Economic Development Regions of Romania. The period analysed is between 2007 and 2013.
D00|Dual Language Education and Student Achievement|Dual language classrooms provide English Language Learners (ELLs) an opportunity to receive instruction in their native language as they transition to English ?uency. This might allow ELLs to build a stronger foundation in core subjects and lead to better academic outcomes. Dual language education has also grown substantially in popularity among English speaking families across the U.S., as it presents an option to learn content in, and presumably become ?uent in, a second language. Despite the spike in practice, there is little causal evidence on what e?ect attending a dual language school has on student achievement. I examine dual language education and student achievement using school choice lotteries from Charlotte-Mecklenburg School District, ?nding local average treatment e?ects on math and reading exam scores of more than 0.06 standard deviations per year for participants who were eligible for English second language (ESL) services or designated limited English pro?cient (LEP). There is also some evidence that attending a dual language school led to a lower probability of having limited English pro?cient status starting in third grade. For applicants who were not eligible for ESL services or designated as LEP, attending a dual language school has resulted in higher end of grade exam scores of about 0.09 and 0.05 standard deviations per year in math and reading, respectively.
D00|On the Patterns of Behaviour in Digitalized Societies|"The study intends (1) to look at the importance of individual rationality as the main principle of economic behaviour, incorporated best in the concept of ""homo oeconomicus"". (2) to show how the third technological revolution, the ""digitalization of society"", may transform individual behaviour in the three pillars of an economic system (real, financial, public). One major achievement of main stream economics of Western style is the ""homo oeconomicus"". Behind this concept stands the idea of rational man relevant for all parts in economic systems. It allows a consequent application of profit and efficiency maximizing in the real and financial sector and of vote and utility maximization in the public sector as agents' behaviour. Psychology, sociology, behaviourism, anthropology are strictly against the idea of the ""homo oeconomicus"". Evolutionary and Neo-Schumpeterian Economics also claim that it is wrong because it doesnâ€™t allow to include uncertainty considerations which are a condition sine-qua-non for innovation, change and prosperity. But, is this concept completely wrong? Or is it perhaps relevant for specific parts of an economic system, if they develop within the process of digital revolution? These are the questions which will be tackled in the paper. The analysis will follow a comprehensive approach, looking at the three institutional pillars of an economy, the financial, the real and the public sector trying to work out the effects of digitalization on the patterns of behaviour. All in all, the effects of digitalization can be summarized as follows: In the financial pillar it modifies the culture of doing business from ""symbiotic capitalism"" to ""financial capitalism"" with prevailing olympic rationality. In the industrial pillar it induces changes from short term maximizing ""managerial capitalism"" to a long term oriented ""entrepreneurial capitalism"". In the public pillar it may open ways to institutional change, at least partially, from a ""bureaucratic tax state"" to a system of ""social capitalism"" with high potentials for enabling individual creativity and resilience capabilities."
D00|Ekonomija Vlada (Prikaz Knjige Denija Rodrika: Economics Rules - Why Economics Works, When It Fails, And How To Tell The Difference)|No abstract is available for this item.
D00|Single-crossing random utility models|We propose a novel model of stochastic choice: the single-crossing random utility model (SCRUM). This is a random utility model in which the collection of utility functions satis es the single-crossing property. We o er a characterization of SCRUMs based on three easy-to-check properties: Positivity, Monotonicity and Centrality. The identi ed collection of utility functions and associated probabilities is basically unique. We establish a stochastic monotone comparative result for the case of SCRUMs and study several generalizations of SCRUMs.
D00|Information acquisition, referral, and organization|Each of two experts may provide a service to a client. ExpertsÃ­cost comparative advantage depends on an unknown state, but an expert may exert eÂ§ort to get a private signal about it. In a market, an expert may refer the client to the other for a fee. In equilibrium, only one expert exerts eÂ§ort and refers, and the equilibrium allocation is ineÂ¢ cient. Referral eÂ¢ ciency can be restored when experts form an organization, in which a referring expert must bear the referred expertÃ­s cost. However, the referred expert shirks from work eÂ§ort because of the lack of cost responsibility.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|Why Don’t Prices Rise during Periods of Peak Demand? Synchronize Demand to Relax Competition|During periods of peak demand, frequent markdowns present an empirical puzzle. Based on the idea that stores face capacity constraints in times of high shopping volume, we show that stores keep their off-season prices high in order to lure all consumers to shop around the same time. This relaxes competition and allows stores to raise prices. Due to binding capacity constraints, stores randomize their prices. Thus, our model offers a unified explanation for both the countercyclicality and the high frequency of price changes during periods of peak demand.
D00|Dial 911 for Murder: The Impact of Emergency Response Time on Homicides|Several theories have been offered to explain the recent declines in violent crime rates in the United States. We hypothesize that technological innovations, which improved information transmission and shortened the response time between an aggravated assault incident and treatment, reduced the cost of saving lives and caused much of the decline in homicide rates in recent decades. Using difference-in-differences and event studies, we show that improvements in emergency services (9-1-1) caused significant decreases in homicide rates. Various falsification tests support these findings.
D00|Bribery, corruption and bureaucratic hassle: Evidence from Myanmar|Corruption has been found to be the most severe obstacle to business operations, according to a recent survey of over 3000 firms in Myanmar. This paper sets out to understand the structure of corruption through an econometric analysis of this survey. It finds that firms with higher ‘ability to pay’ (proxied by sales revenue and employee growth) are more likely to pay bribes. While firms with lower ‘refusal power’ (i.e. those dependent on bureaucratic permissions to export and import) are more likely to find corruption to be an obstacle. A distinct but related question is whether bribes act as ‘efficiency grease’ by allowing firms to circumvent red tape. No evidence is found to support this hypothesis; in fact, firms that pay bribes report greater bureaucratic hassle compared to firms that do not. This result fits in more closely with the view that red tape could be used to extract bribes from firms.
D00|Endogenous evolution of heterogeneous consumers preferences: Multistability and coexistence between groups|We propose an exchange economy evolutionary model with agents heterogeneous in the structure of preferences. Assuming that the share updating mechanism is non-monotone in the calorie intake, we find multistability phenomena involving equilibria characterized by the coexistence of heterogeneous agents.
D00|Understanding urban mobility and the impact of public policies: The role of the agent-based models|This paper provides a critical review of research on Agent-Based Models (ABMs) focusing on urban mobility, dealing either with passengers or with freight transport. The work concentrates on urban areas where public policies aiming at improving the sustainability of city systems necessarily affect both passengers and freight dimensions. Traffic in towns is responsible for a high share of congestion and pollution and consequently, it contributes to the climate change problems. The following conclusions can be derived. ABMs present important advantages for analysing urban transport and its sustainability but more efforts are needed in order to test and improve their use. In the literature, there is still a gap in urban transport AB modelling. The number of developed models is limited and they are often applied in broader geographical areas than urban ones. Only some of the works includes the estimation of environmental impacts as a result of certain types of agents' behaviour. Despite their potential effectiveness to represent the impacts of different public policies on agent behaviour and on the environment, none of the ABMs have been implemented in the real word by the researchers and there is no evidence of application of any model by policy-makers.
D00|What Makes a Price Fair? An Experimental Study of Transaction Experience and Endogenous Fairness Views|People’s fairness preferences are an important constraint for what constitutes an acceptable economic transaction, yet little is known about how these preferences are formed. In this paper, we provide clean evidence that previous transactions play an important role in shaping perceptions of fairness. Buyers used to high market prices, for example, are more likely to perceive high prices as fair than buyers used to low market prices. Similarly, employees used to high wages are more likely to perceive low wages as unfair. Our data further allows us to decompose this history-dependence into the effects of pure observation versus the experience of payoff-relevant outcomes. We propose two classes of models of path-dependent fairness preferences—either based on endogenous fairness reference points or based on shifts in salience—that can account for our data. Structural estimates of both types of models imply a substantial deviation from existing history-independent models of fairness. Our results have implications for price discrimination, labor markets, and dynamic pricing.
D00|Industrial Dynamics: A Review of the Literature 1990-2009|This paper reviews the literature in the field of Industrial Dynamics as it has emerged since I first introduced the term in 1985. Nearly 8,000 articles in 12 major journals have been reviewed and classified under five broad themes that constitute the basic questions in industrial dynamics: 1. The causes of industrial development and economic growth, including the dynamics and evolution of industries and the role of entrepreneurship 2. The nature of economic activity in the firm and the dynamics of supply, particularly the role of knowledge. 3. How the boundaries and interdependence of firms change over time and contribute to economic transformation. 4. Technological change and its institutional framework, especially systems of innovation. 5. The role of public policy in facilitating adjustment of the economy to changing circumstances at both micro and macro levels. Under each theme, the main findings and their implications for theory and policy are summarized.
D00|Teams in Relational Contracts|We analyze relational contracting between a principal and a team of agents where only aggregate output is observable. We deduce optimal team incentive contracts under di¤erent set of assumptions, and show that the principal can use team size and team composition as instruments in order to improve incentives. In particular, the principal can strengthen the agents' incentives by composing teams that utilize stochastic dependencies between the agents' outputs. We also show that more agents in the team may under certain conditions increase each team member's effort incentives, in particular if outputs are negatively correlated.
D00|Directional monotone comparative statics|Abstract Many questions of interest in economics can be stated in terms of monotone comparative statics: If a parameter of a constrained optimization problem increases, when does its solution increase as well. We characterize monotone comparative statics in different directions in finite-dimensional Euclidean space by extending the monotonicity theorem of Milgrom and Shannon (Econometrica 62(1):157–180, 1994) to constraint sets ordered in Quah (Econometrica 75(2):401–431, 2007)’s set order. Our characterizations are ordinal and retain the same flavor as their counterparts in the standard theory, showing new connections to the standard theory and presenting new results. The results are highlighted with several applications (in consumer theory, producer theory, and game theory) which were previously outside the scope of the standard theory of monotone comparative statics.
D00|Increasing Corporate and Government Spending: Can Ergonomics Help?|No abstract is available for this item.
D00|The Third International Conference in Economics EconWorld 2016|These are conference notes of the Third International Conference in Economics (EconWorld 2016-Barcelona). Information on the topics, impressions about the sessions and general remarks about the conference are included in this note. It was a successful academic event with broad international participation. The variety of the studies and the dynamic discussion periods were quite refreshing during the conference. Furthermore, the conference was a good occasion to get in touch with colleagues from other countries and to be reminded of several issues of economics in a compact way since conferences usually are limited to 2-3 days. Needless to say, it was a well-organized and satisfactory academic event.
D00|The Seventh International Conference on Eurasian Economies (AVEKON 2016)|These are conference notes of the Seventh International Conference on Eurasian Economies (AVEKON 2016- Kaposvar). Information on the topics, impressions about the sessions and general remarks about the conference are included in this note. It was a successful academic event with broad international participation. The variety of the studies and the dynamic discussion periods were quite beneficial during the conference. In addition to, the conference was a good occasion to get in touch with colleagues from other countries and to be reminded of several issues of economics. Needless to say, it was a well-organized and satisfactory academic event.
D00|Electricity Consumption Patterns: Comparative Evidence from Pakistan’s Public and Private Sectors|This study examines the behavioral aspect of Pakistan’s energy crisis by comparing electricity consumption in the public and private sectors. Specifically, we compare consumption patterns of electricity across a sample of student hostels at two public sector universities and privately run student hostels. In addition, we collect household data for a sample of students at Quaid-i-Azam University (QAU) in Islamabad and compare their average electricity consumption with that of the public sector university hostels. We find that the latter’s average consumption of electricity is significantly higher than among private hostels and households. In assessing the moral hazard problem of the public sector in this context, we test the energy conservation behavior of QAU students and the university administration. The results show that students are largely indifferent to conserving electricity, while the administration pays little attention to the use of energy-efficient lights and equipment.
D00|Microeconomic Foundations for Macroeconomic Phenomena. A Problem of Ontological (In)Dependence [Fundaţii microeconomice ale fenomenelor macroeconomice. O problemă de (in)dependenţă ontologică]|This essay will outline the case for microfoundations, before presenting the limitations which undermine both the representative-agent model as a means of reduction and the individualist claim that microfoundations are necessary for explanation of economic aggregates. If microfoundations are justifiable in certain contexts, demanding them as a validator of macroeconomics is hardly defendable.
D00|New Wine in Old Flasks: the Just Price and Price-Controls in Jewish Law|The halakhah (Jewish law) includes legislation aiming at might be called “social justice.” These halakhot (pl.) include the laws of ona'ah and hafka'at she'arim / hayyei nefesh – roughly analogous to the famous Medieval “just price” laws – as well as legal restrictions on middlemen and speculators. In the light of modern economics, these Jewish laws, like all attempts at price-fixing, are shown to be self-defeating; the means conflict with the ends sought. The conflict between religion and science is not limited to cosmology and biology, but may include economics as well. It is proposed that the halakhah be modified in such a way as to preserve – as much as possible – the integrity of both the halakhah and economic science alike; when an ethical system makes certain scientific presuppositions, it is sometimes possible to preserve the ethical system by disentangling it from its non-essential scientific presuppositions.
D00|Influencing Factors of Profitability on the Banking Industry : A case study of GCC countries|The purpose of this study is to examine, evaluation and to see the impact of factors on profitability on banking industry and major differences of the performance in case of profitability of the banking industry (Islamic bank and the conventional bank) between bank-specific and macro-economic characteristics by using data of top twenty six Islamic banks and forty six conventional banks of GCC countries of 2014. In This study, I use Least Square (OLS) method to investigate the impact of assets, loans, equity, deposits, economic growth, inflation and market capitalization on major profitability indicators i.e., return on asset (ROA), and return on equity (ROE). Required data is collected from bank scope database. The empirical results have found strong evidence that only internal factors have strong influence on the profitability on banking sector whereas external factors have no influence on the profitability. In spite of time constrain, I tried at my best level to find out current situation of the profitability of the top selected Islamic and conventional banks of the six countries of the GCC that will helps the readers definitely.
D00|Another Solution for Allais Paradox: Preference Imprecision, Dispersion and Pessimism|Although there are alternative models which can explain the Allais paradox with non-standard preferences, they do not take the emerging evidence on preference imprecision into account. The imprecision is so far incorporated into these models by adding a stochastic specification implying the errors that subjects make. However, there is also the inherent part of the preference imprecision which does not diminish with experience provided in repeated experiments and these stochastic specifications cannot explain a significant portion of the observed behavior in experiments. Moreover, evidence on imprecision suggests that subjects exhibit higher imprecision for a lottery with a higher variance. This paper presents a new model for decision under risk which takes into account the findings of the literature. Looking at the indifference curves predicted by the new model, the new model acts like a mixture of Expected Utility Theory and Rank Dependent Utility Theory depending on which part of the probability triangle the lottery is located.
D00|Why economics textbooks must, and how they can, be changed into a real-world and pluralist economics. The example of a fundamentally new complexity-economics micro-textbook|We argue that economics must, and can, be taught in fundamentally different ways than the simplistic and ideology-laden “economics of x”. We illustrate this with a fundamentally new textbook, “Microeconomics of Complex Economies” (2015). The mainstream’s ambivalence between some relevant research and its simplistic teaching in terms of “optimum”, “equilibrium”, and “market”, and the resulting textbook structure, incoherent between the static and “optimal” equilibrium and some reference to more recent real-world phenomena, will be characterized. We show how this can be changed by showing the process of getting a “heterodox” complexity textbook published, and by the structure of its content.
D00|The Shut-down Price, Reconsidered|The textbook assertion that the shut-down price is at the minimum point of average variable cost AVC is shown to be incorrect. Once we properly distinguish between fixed costs and sunk costs, it becomes clear that the shut-down price is at the minimum point of average cost AC.
D00|Finance Behind the Veil of Money: Response to Dr. Braun’s Comment|What is the relationship between opportunity cost, choice and action? In my review of Eduard Braun´s Finance Behind the Veil of Money (2014), I took exception with his view that opportunity costs are not only unnecessary, but even detrimental to understand decision making. The most substantial difference between our views comes from Braun´s treatment of the relationship between opportunity cost and choice.
D00|Medium-term budgetary framework in the EU Member States: study case|The current economic crisis has called for huge fiscal efforts to avoid a deflationary spiral. In the context of the crisis, the national fiscal frameworks may play an important role in sustaining budgetary retrenchment. Therefore, the need for a fiscal consolidation, meaning a well-designed fiscal and budgetary policy is a challenge for all EU Member States. Moreover, the importance of strong and resilient fiscal frameworks has been emphasised by the October 2009 Council conclusions on the fiscal exit strategy. On this premise, the paper discusses what elements and considerations should be taken into account more carefully in designing resilient fiscal frameworks so as to support optimal policy-making and to promote the respect of the Stability and Growth Pact provisions. The unit analysis consists on several EU Member States, affected by economic crisis. Taking into consideration the aim of the paper, the research methodology is based on a case study as research strategy, and uses the triangulation method to obtain confirmation of findings through convergence of different perspective. Regarding the qualitative research, the authors use theoretical framework, legal analyses, systematic and analytical collecting data from official written sources, and macroeconomic indicators for quantitative aspects.
D00|Employment Dynamics by Gender in Pennsylvania since the Great Recession|This paper examines the effects of the Great Recession on employment by gender in Pennsylvania. Using the Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI) in the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) data set from the Census Bureau, we examine the employment dynamics for Pennsylvania by gender from Q1 of 1997 to Q4 of 2013. We investigate the impacts of the Great Recession on male and female employment in the Pennsylvania economy in the manufacturing, construction, healthcare, and retail sectors by investigating the net job gains by gender using a vector error correction model (VECM).
D00|Theories and typology of goal conflict in food consumption (Teorie i typologia konfliktu celow na przykladzie konsumpcji zywnosci)|The aim of this paper is to systemize the theoretical framework related to the conflict in consumption, exemplified by consumption of food. The article presents the basic concepts related to goal conflict and adapts social and psychological theories describing and explaining the conflict of objectives to identify the causes of conflicts in the sphere of food consumption. The paper describes also the most common conflicts in food choices identified in the literature and indicates the usefulness of a theoretical framework of goal conflict for new food product design and development.
D00|Law of the jungle: firm survival and price dynamics in evolutionary markets|Abstract In this paper I develop a simple, and general model of supply and demand within which almost any theory of consumer and producer behaviour may be integrated by varying parameters. I then investigate the dynamics of this model and its implications for the theory of market evolution, and show that it unifies a number of insights from evolutionary economics. I extend upon these evolutionary theories and also characterise the distribution of prices across the market and investigate its evolution over time.
D00|“Differences in efficiency between Formal and Informal Micro Firms in Mexico”|The economic role of micro firms is still the subject of much discussion and debate. While these firms can be seen as potential growth drivers, as they are usually related to entrepreneurship, a relatively high share of micro firms can also be a sign of an underdeveloped productive system, which applies especially to developing countries, where micro firms represent the majority of business activity. Unlike other studies, this research separates formal and informal micro firms in order to test whether there are efficiency differences between them, and to explain these differences. One of the novelties of the study is the use of the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition method, which enables an analysis of the differences between both groups of firms after controlling for their different allocation of factors. Micro firms in Mexico are taken as a case study, with the Encuesta Nacional de Micronegocios (ENAMIN, or the National Micro Firm Survey), for 2008, 2010 and 2011, used to carry out the analysis. The emprical evidence suggests that output differences can be explained by endowment characteristics, while efficiency differences are explained by endowment returns. The main variables to explain the gap between the groups are the owner’s level of education, the firm’s age, the owner’s motivations, and financing.
D00|Robust Confidence Regions for Incomplete Models| Call an economic model incomplete if it does not generate a probabilistic prediction even given knowledge of all parameter values. We propose a method of inference about unknown parameters for such models that is robust to heterogeneity and dependence of unknown form. The key is a Central Limit Theorem for belief functions; robust confidence regions are then constructed in a fashion paralleling the classical approach. Monte Carlo simulations support tractability of the method and demonstrate its enhanced robustness relative to existing methods.
D00|Multilevel empirics for small banks in local markets|Small banks are embedded in narrow markets and hence benefit from proximity to their customers. By referring to multilevel approach, this paper evaluates how much the performance of Italian mutual co‐operative banks is determined by geographical and individual characteristics. The effect of local markets explains 28.27 per cent of bank heterogeneity in the empty multilevel model and 33 per cent in the most extended model. Moreover, it is found that efficiency increases with market concentration and demand density but decreases with branching in local markets. Los bancos pequeños están arraigados en mercados pequeños y, por lo tanto, se benefician de la proximidad a sus clientes. Con referencia al enfoque multinivel, este artículo evalúa el grado en que el desempeño de los bancos cooperativos mutualistas italianos está determinado por características geográficas e individuales. El efecto de los mercados locales explica el 28,27 por ciento de la heterogeneidad bancaria en el modelo multinivel vacío y el 33 por ciento en el modelo más amplio. Además, se encontró que la eficiencia aumenta con la concentración del mercado y la densidad de la demanda, pero disminuye con las sucursales en los mercados locales. 小規模銀行(small bank)は小規模のマーケットに入り込んでおり、顧客との近接性から恩恵を得ている。本稿では、マルチレベルアプローチを参照して、イタリアの相互扶助の協同組合銀行(mutual co‐operative bank)の業績が、地理学的特色と銀行別の特色によって、どの程度決定されるのかを評価する。現地のマーケットの効果は、銀行の異質性が、空のマルチレベルモデルでは27‐28%、最も拡張したモデルでは33%となることを示している。また、マーケットの規模と需要密度とともに効率は上がるが、地域のマーケットが事業拡大すると効率は下がることも認められた。
D00|Microeconomic and macroeconomic determinants of the dividend policy in companies quoted at Warsaw Stock Exchange — research results|The article presents results of research devoted to determinants of the dividend policy of companies quoted at Warsaw Stock Exchange in Warsaw. The presentation of the authors’ analyses is preceded by a review of studies described in the literature, carried out in scientific centres in Poland and abroad, in the breakdown into studies referring to two groups of factors: the microeconomic and the macroeconomic ones. The studies presented covered an analysis of correlation between the value of the paid-out dividend and selected parameters which describe the financial and property-related standing of companies, as well as macroeconomic factors. The research based on data from the years 2002–2013. It was summed up in a comparative analysis of microeconomic and macroeconomic determinants of dividend-related decisions of companies.
D00|It's the thought that counts: The role of intentions in noisy repeated games|We examine cooperation in repeated interactions where intended actions are implemented with noise but intentions are perfectly observable. Observable intentions lead to more cooperation compared to control games where intentions are unobserved, allowing subjects to reach similar cooperation levels as in games without noise. Most subjects condition exclusively on intentions, and use simpler, lower-memory strategies compared to games where intentions are unobservable. When the returns to cooperation are high, some subjects are tolerant, using good outcomes to forgive attempted defections; when the returns to cooperation are low, some subjects are punitive, using bad outcomes to punish accidental defections.
D00|Health club attendance, expectations and self-control|We use a unique dataset on health club attendance from Montreal (Canada) to look at the relationship between actual and expected attendance, and how these relate to a reported measure of self-control problems at the time of contract signing. Consistently with previous studies, a vast majority of contract choices are unlikely to be compatible with time-consistent behavior. For 56.83% of members, the actual cost per visit with the contract is higher than the pay-per-visit option. Conditional on paying more with a subscription, we calculate that the median cost of choosing a long-term contract over the per-visit option is $346.45, excluding any commitment value. However, we compute that nearly all members would have paid less with the long-term contract if they had exercised as often as they initially planned. We study how actual attendance following contract choice is related to baseline reports of self-control. We find that reports of self-control problems are associated with low future attendance and with faster decrease in attendance, in particular after New Year, but not with expected attendance. Our results are consistent with a model of health club participation where agents underestimate the severity of their self-control problems. We find that individuals with a large gap between expected and realized attendance have a lower probability of contract renewal which has implications for mechanism design to retain customers.
D00|Taxation of labour, product varieties and skilled–unskilled wage inequality: Short run versus long run|In a three-sector general equilibrium model, we examine the impact of a partial tax on labour on skilled–unskilled wage inequality. We find that a tax on labour in industrial sector increases skilled–unskilled wage inequality in the short run and can have the opposite effect in the long run. A tax on labour in the services sector reduces skilled–unskilled wage inequality in both the short run and long run. Furthermore, the introduction of a tax on labour in agricultural sector has no effect on the skilled wage but reduces the unskilled wage. Accordingly, such a tax increases skilled–unskilled wage inequality in both the short run and long run.
D00|Saturation and Crisis in the Financial Niche (discontinuous decisions)| The model presented is proposing an approach that could verify the nonlinear behaviour during a crisis, such that to quantify and predict potential discontinuous behaviour. In this case, the crisis behaviour associated with financial funds reallocation among various credit instruments, described as memes with the sense of Dawkins, is shown to be of discontinuous nature stemming from a logistic penetration in the financial behaviour niche. Actually the logistic penetration is typical in creating cyclic behaviour of economic structures as shown by Marchetti and others from IIASA. A Fokker-Planck equation description results in a stationary solution having a bifurcation like solution with evolution trajectories on a ‘cusp’ type catastrophe that may describe discontinuous decision behaviour. see above see above
D00|Heterogeneity of Unobserved Processes as Estimation Criterion of Economic Situation|The article considers unobserved economic processes in Ukraine. Purpose of the study is to show, taking agrarian sphere as example, present-day socioeconomic threats from unobserved economic processes and to give description of ideological basis for policy of domestic economy deregulation on these ground. On the basis of empiric data array the main factors are determined which influence the development of unobserved economy; attention is focused on institutional component of unobserved processes. The main types of economic behaviour of domestic market agents are identified. Today's financial conflicts are considered arising between the levels of budget system. Attention is drawn to the problems of control over government procurement. Flaws are detected in state regulation of business activities and ways are substantiated to improve it. Trends are suggested for economy unshadowing. To author's opinion, the core of the measures for reduction and/or liquidation of negative effect of unobserved processes on stable economic development should consist in implementation of effective state monitoring system in view of features of economy branches, and heavier responsibility for economic offences.
D00|Crowdfunding: A Study of Present Creative Trends and Institutional Reaction|Crowdfunding is a global phenomenon that consists of raising collective funding for projects. Since its recent emergence, crowdfunding has rapidly gained popularity. Although crowdfunding makes it possible to finance a range of projects and companies, many countries have been reluctant to incorporate crowdfunding into their legal systems and have failed to establish specific legislation to encourage its use and thereby stimulate economies in crisis. This article provides an overview of crowdfunding, analyzing its origins, status, and supporting legislation enacted in some countries.
D00|“Differences in efficiency between Formal and Informal Micro Firms in Mexico”|The economic role of micro firms is still the subject of much discussion and debate. While these firms can be seen as potential growth drivers, as they are usually related to entrepreneurship, a relatively high share of micro firms can also be a sign of an underdeveloped productive system, which applies especially to developing countries, where micro firms represent the majority of business activity. Unlike other studies, this research separates formal and informal micro firms in order to test whether there are efficiency differences between them, and to explain these differences. One of the novelties of the study is the use of the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition method, which enables an analysis of the differences between both groups of firms after controlling for their different allocation of factors. Micro firms in Mexico are taken as a case study, with the Encuesta Nacional de Micronegocios (ENAMIN, or the National Micro Firm Survey), for 2008, 2010 and 2011, used to carry out the analysis. The empirical evidence suggests that output differences can be explained by endowment characteristics, while efficiency differences are explained by endowment returns. The main variables to explain the gap between the groups are the owner’s level of education, the firm’s age, the owner’s motivations, and financing.
D00|Pick off Throws, Stolen Bases, and Southpaws: A Comparative Static Analysis of a Mixed Strategy Game|This paper considers a two player game between a base runner and a pitcher in Major League Baseball. To make testable predictions, we exploit the fact that generally left-handed pitchers are more proficient at pick-off throws to first base than their right-handed counterparts. We find evidence in support of mixed strategy play. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
D00|Income, Health, and the Value of Preserving Options|We model family choice among health plans taking account of family, insurer and health care provider (e.g., doctor) characteristics not addressed by earlier models. We use an additively separable utility function permitting an intuitive treatment of how families trade health against consumption, and how income and health risk influence that trade-off. Health care provider quality affects expected health outcomes and the family’s choice set includes health maintenance organization and preferred provider organization (PPO) plans. We model how families value the PPO’s option to use out-of-network providers taking into account uncertainty about future diagnoses and incomplete information about provider quality. The model’s predictions are consistent with enrollment patterns in the National Health Interview Survey. The approach has implications for cost control and income-related disparities in quality of care. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
D00|Spousal influence in time use - On book reading, highbrow culture attendance and computer use|Spousal influence on time use has been studied quite intensively in the context of domestic work. Spousal influence means how the properties or behavior of a spouse affect the other spouse's behavior. However, spousal influence studies on time use in leisure time are very rare. This research focuses on just that. The general hypothesis was that the power of spousal influence is dependent on the type of leisure activity in question. Three different types of leisure activities were investigated. They were: book reading, visiting more or less high culture places, or attendance at high culture events, and computer use. Data came from two recent Finnish time use surveys from the years 1999-2000 and 2009-2010. General univariate linear models were used as the method. It was found that spousal influence was very strong in high culture attendance, remarkable in book reading, and non-existent in computer use. It was also evident that a person’s age and education increased spousal effect in time devoted to highbrow culture.
D00|Emergence and Progress of the New Paradigm of Development – the Sustainable Development|The global analysis of the socio-economic system of the last hundred years, especially of the period after the Second World War, shows the existence of two diametrically opposite trends which have influenced evolution: on one hand, the significant growth of economic results on an aggregated basis and per capita, and on the other hand, the degradation of the general condition of the natural environment, of the planet’s health – a fact that shows that the concerns regarding the assumption of debt that economic development is doing for the natural environment and for the future of the planet are kept on a second level.
D00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Proceedings in Polish|The book contains papers in Polish language submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
D00|Contemporary Issues in Economy. Proceedings of the International Conference on Applied Economics: Economics and Finance|The book contains papers in economics and finance submitted to 8th International Conference on Applied Economics Contemporary Issues in Economy under the title Market or Government? 18-19 June 2015. Polish Security Printing Works was a strategic partner of the conference and European Regional Science Association was an international scientific institutional partner. The conference was hosted by The Department of Economics at The Faculty of Economics and Management at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Torun in Poland and was organized in collaboration with Polish Economic Society Branch in Torun, Institute of Economic Research and Faculty of Business at Brno University of Technology (Czech Republic), Kaunas University of Technology (Lithuania), Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman (Ukraine), Pablo de Olavide University (Spain), Riga Technical University (Latvia), Steinbeis University Berlin (Germany). The conference was especially addressed to economist from all European Union countries and Eastern Europe. Main conference tracks included: a) Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Econometrics; International Economics; b) Financial markets; Labour markets; Institutions; c) Business environment; Management and Marketing.
D00|Efectos Sustitución y Renta en el caso de preferencias específicas<BR>[Substitution and Income Effects in the case of specific preferences]|This document analyzes the changes that suffer the amounts demanded of a good, due to changes in its price. For this we use the decomposition in Income and Substitution effects posed by Slutsky and Hicks in their work concerning the analysis of the demand. In general, when the price of a good varies the amount also change, according to the relation of the demand function with the price variable, these may increase or decrease depending on the function. In some cases according with the preferences of individuals, the change in the price of a good, it can affect the demand of the other good, depending on the relation between them, it means, there could be a relation of substitutability, complementarity or neutrality between goods that are analyzed. The preferences chosen to develop this document are those of Leontief type (fixed proportions - perfect complements), the formulas used of the substitution-effect and the income-effect are proposed by Hal Varian in his text Intermediate Microeconomics Edition 8th (Antoni Bosch).
D00|"Gauge field theory of market dynamics: Toward a solution of the ""man vs. men"" dilemma"|The current economics and psychology are developed within the Newtonian tradition in physics from both conceptual and instrumental perspectives. This paper aims to integrate economics and cognitive science by applying gauge field theory of modern theoretical physics. Many controversies between normative theories and behavioral theories are characterized by the “man vs. men” dilemma. Gauge potential and gauge field strength is constructed at both the man-level and the men-level in order to satisfy the principle of gauge invariance. To maintain the Lagrangian density function invariant, the gauge transformations of the first kind and the second kind are performed at the man-level and the men-level, respectively. The market dynamics is modeled by the logic of electrodynamics. The interactions of the market and individual participants are formulated by the logic of electromagnetic coupling. In establishing the market dynamic equations, individual utility function serves as gauge function and efficiency provides gauge freedom.
D00|Macroeconomic Analysis and Graphical Interpretation of Azerbaijan Economy in 1991-2012|"The aim of this research is to analyze macroeconomic performance and discuss transition indicators in Azerbaijan economy for 1991-2012. After regaining independence in 1991, Azerbaijan implemented economic transition process toward market economy. In the first years of independence, serious economic recession was observed. However, after 1995, the restructuring of the economy started. In this sense, signing the ""Contract of the Century"" was a turning point toward oil based high speed economic growth or oil boom period. Thus, by opening ""Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan"" pipeline in 2005, Azerbaijan's macroeconomic indicators experienced considerable growth for the following years. On the other hand, Azerbaijan officially declared the end of economic transition process in its economy in 2009. In this paper, the authors discuss the political-economic and economic process in the whole period as well as analyze the macroeconomic performance with and without oil & gas contribution. In addition, the authors question what would happen if economic transition period ended in Azerbaijan's economy. It is concluded that oil & gas production has a serious impact over macroeconomic indicators and transition indicators, and for Azerbaijan it implies only a partly end of economic transition, though not completely."
D00|Quantum macroeconomics theory|The quantum macroeconomics theory is formulated for the first time, assuming that the business cycle has the discrete-time oscillations spectrum in analogy with the electronics excitations discrete-time spectrum in the Bohr’s atom model in the quantum physics. The quantum macroeconomics theory postulates that the discrete-time transitions from one level of GIP((t), GDP(t), GNP(t) to another level of GIP((t), GDP(t), GNP(t) will occur in the nonlinear dynamic economic systems at the time, when: 1) The land, labour and capital resources are added / released to the production/service processes in the form of quanta; 2) The disruptive scientific/technological/financial/social/political innovation is introduced, creating the resonance conditions necessary to amplify/attenuate the value of GIP((t), GDP(t), GNP(t), during the evolution process of the nonlinear dynamic economic system in the time domain. The authors think that the general information product on the time GIP((t), the general domestic product on the time GDP(t), and the general national product on the time GNP(t), are the discrete-time digital signals (the Ledenyov discrete-time digital waves with the Markov information) in distinction from the continuous-time signals (the Kitchin, Juglar, Kuznets, Kondratieff continuous waves), because of the discrete-time nature of the disruptive scientific/technological/financial/social/political innovations. The authors apply the quantum macroeconomics theory to research and develop a new software program for the accurate characterization and forecasting of GIP((t), GDP(t), GNP(t) dependences changes in the economies of scales and scopes in the time domain for the use by the central / commercial banks.
D00|A bargaining-Walras approach for finite economies|We give a notion of bargaining set for finite economies and show its coincidence with the set of Walrasian allocations. Moreover, we also show that justified objections equate with Walrasian objections. Our bargaining-Walras equivalence provides a discrete approach to the characterization of competitive equilibria obtained by Mas-Colell (1989) for continuum economies. Some further results highlight whether it is possible to restrict the formation of coalitions and still get the bargaining set. Finally, recasting some known characterizations of Walrasian allocations, we state additional interpretations of the bargaining set.
D00|A convergence result for a bargaining set|We introduce a new notion of bargaining set for finite economies and show a convergence result.
D00|Preference Cloud Theory: Imprecise Preferences and Preference Reversals|This paper presents a new theory, called Preference Cloud Theory, of decision-making under uncertainty. This new theory provides an explanation for empirically-observed Preference reversals. Central to the theory is the incorporation of preference imprecision which arises because of individuals’ vague understanding of numerical probabilities. We combine this concept with the use of the Alpha model (which builds on Hurwicz’s criterion) and construct a simple model which helps us to understand various anomalies discovered in the experimental economics literature that standard models cannot explain.
D00|H. H. Gossen - Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Though|H. H. Gossen was a Prussian court clerk, autodidact. He for the first time detected the marginal utility principles (three Gossen principles). At the time of his life he was unacknowledged,although he is the most important predecessor of neoclasic economic thought and marginalistict revolution.
D00|A. A. Cournot - Half-forgotten personalities of economic thought|Cournot was a French mathematician, philosopher and economist, said to be one of the most important predecessors of neoclassical economic theory. He belongs among the pioneers in econometrics and mathematical economics. He is also highlighted for creation of market prices, the demand function and the basis for marginalist firm theory. He was unacknowledged in his lifetime.
D00|Формирование экономического механизма развития промышленного предприятиями. Formation of economic mechanism of industrial enterprise development|В настоящее время все большее распространение к исследованию социально-экономических систем получает синергетический подход, согласно которому предприятие представляет собой открытую самоорганизующуюся (саморазвивающуюся) систему. Такое представление предприятия в контексте современной экономической науки требует разработки новых механизмов и инструментов управления. Целью исследований в сфере синергетического управления является разработка механизмов самоорганизации, а также информационное наполнение его элементов. Сложность процессов самоорганизации диктует необходимость интеграции отдельных типов механизмов, различающихся по способу создания, однородности элементов, сложности, стратегической направленности, целевой ориентации, функциям менеджмента. Таким образом, интегрированный механизм самоорганизации предприятия представляет собой многоуровневую систему взаимосвязанных механизмов (организационного, экономического, информационного, мотивационного), дифференцированных по элементам. В статье раскрывается содержание экономического механизма развития предприятия; рассматриваются его цели, субъекты, объекты, принципы, методы, инструменты и ресурсы. На основе исследования особенностей развития социально-экономических систем установлено соотношение стадий жизненного цикла предприятия со стадиями процесса самоорганизации. Обоснованы принципы экономического механизма развития предприятия: финансовая самостоятельность, самоокупаемость, экономическая целесообразность, ответственность, обеспеченность ресурсами, экономический контроль, заинтересованность. Выделены методы экономического механизма (планирования и прогнозирования, маркетинговой деятельности, экономической диагностики, финансово-кредитной политики, экономического стимулирования) и обоснованы соответствующие им инструменты. Установлены особенности реализации экономического механизма на стадиях динамического равновесия и бифуркации. Практическая значимость результатов исследования заключается в разработке механизмов развития промышленных предприятий, способствующих достижению долгосрочных конкурентных преимуществ. Now in research of social and economic systems synergy approach according to which the entity represents the open self-organizing (spontaneous) system gains ground. Such representation of the entity in the context of modern economic science requires development of new mechanisms and management tools. The purpose of researches in the sphere of synergy management is development of mechanisms of self-organization, and also information filling of its elements. Complexity of processes of self-organization dictates need of integration of separate types of the mechanisms differing on a method of creation, uniformity of elements, complexity, a strategic orientation, target orientation, management functions. Thus, the integrated mechanism of self-organization of the entity represents multi-level system of the interconnected mechanisms (organizational, economic, information, motivational) differentiated on elements. In article content of the economic development mechanism of the entity reveals; its purposes, subjects, objects, the principles, methods, tools and resources are considered. On the basis of research of features of development of social and economic systems the ratio of stages of enterprise lifecycle with self-organization process stages is established. The principles of the economic development mechanism of the entity are proved: financial independence, self-sufficiency, economic feasibility, responsibility, resource capability, economic control, interest. Methods of the economic mechanism (planning and forecasting, marketing activity, economic diagnostics, financial credit policy, economic incentives) are allocated and the tools corresponding to them are proved. Features of sale of the economic mechanism at stages of dynamic balance and bifurcation are established. The practical importance of results of research consists in development of development mechanisms of the industrial enterprises promoting achievement of long-term competitive advantages.
D00|Using ESPN 30 for 30 to teach economics|Education in economics has trended away from “chalk and talk” toward alternative pedagogical approaches in recent years. This article documents one such approach used to illustrate economic concepts, the use of film clips from ESPN 30 for 30. This series can be used to augment traditional principles' classes or as real world examples of concepts discussed in upper division economic courses. The ESPN 30 for 30 film series merges three different areas of interests: film, sports, and history. Through these diverse spectrums, ESPN 30 for 30 films provides instructors with another resource to use in classrooms and creates an environment that facilitates active learning activities.
D00|The Creation Of Spa Association As A Way Of Spa-Resort Tourism Development In The Republic Of Armenia|This research paper discusses the idea of creating a spa association as a way of spa-resort tourism development in the Republic of Armenia. As we now, nowadays tourism is developing worldwide rapidly. In the Republic of Armenia tourism is announced as the main sector of economy. In the recent years the number of tourists has increased. In 2013 1084188 tourists visited Armenia, but in 2012 only 963000 tourists did. Spa-resort tourism is one of the main types of tourism. Armenia has a great potential for spa-resort tourism development, however there are still lots of problems for that. This paper discusses and offers a new way of the development of spa-resort tourism in Armenia by forming a spa association which will contribute to the development of the sphere by its main functions which are processed in the article.
D00|The Decomposition of the Result of the Business Transformation Process in the Value Terms|The economic result is primary and main financial source for the further development of the enterprise. It is an expression of value of business transformation process. It represents the criterion for deciding on the volume of production, new products, investments, etc. In the interests of stability and the further development of each enterprise we need to pay attention to it not only in terms of level, but also the factors that affect it. On the basis of the above, there was created a process model of decomposition of the economic result. It consists of the knowledge and the analysis of its reference point, defining target value, making variations in order to achieve the target value, the determination of the means to achieve it, establishing the criteria for the selection of variant, selection of the most appropriate variant, implementation of concrete measures, finding the actual condition of the creation of economic result, findings and analyses of the deviations, adoption of measures. The aim of the paper is the generalisation of the results arising from the creation and application of process model of economic result decomposition and drawing conclusions and recommendations. The result is the acquisition of new knowledge making up the essence of the observed value expression of the business transformation process.
D00|Reasons for the Infectiveness of the Czech State Bureaucracy: Myths and Reality|When evaluating the level of bureaucracy and efficiency of the government of the Czech Republic, both are seen to lag behind more developed Western countries. Causes of this condition are seen by many as being the advanced age of officials, their lack of education and the profound influence of politicians on the performance of the bureaucracy. The analysis is based on our own research of the ministerial staff as conducted in 2013 (N = 1,351). All 14 ministries of the Czech Republic were invited to participate. No similar empirical analysis of the Czech Republic?s ministerial staff had yet been undertaken. This is also one of the epistemological reasons why myths prevail among the general public about staff of ministries. The analysis shows that ministerial officials are, in fact, a predominately university-educated, and the vast majority of them are not under political pressure. The overall median age of employees in all ministries is 42 years old.
D00|The Use of FMEA for the analysis of corruption: A Case Study from Bulgaria|The article is based on the analysis of the microeconomic foundations of corruption (especially principal ?agent theory) and is dedicated to the use of FMEA for the risk analysis of corruption in public administration with a focus on cities. The study proposes how to evaluate corruption risks based on modifications to the standard methods of FMEA. The proposed procedure is verified on the case of a municipal procurement in Bulgaria. Unlike previous researches dedicated to this topic, which were focused more on descriptive and qualitative evaluation of corruption, we show that it is possible to quantify the risk of corruption in the public sector. But we still have to take into account the limitations of this methods.
D00|Optimal output for the regret-averse competitive firm under price uncertainty|We study the optimal output of a competitive firm under price uncertainty. Instead of assuming a risk-averse firm, we assume that the firm is regret-averse. We find that optimal output under uncertainty would be lower than under certainty. We also prove that optimal output could increase or decrease when the regret factor varies. Copyright Eurasia Business and Economics Society 2015
D00|On restricted bargaining sets|In this paper we analyze the behavior of bargaining sets in continuum economies when there are restrictions on the formation of coalitions. We provide several characterizations of Vind’s (J Math Econ 21:89–97, 1992 ) bargaining set in terms of its restricted versions, where not all the coalitions are formed. Moreover, we show that these equivalences do not hold for Mas-Colell’s (J Math Econ 18:129–139, 1989 ) bargaining set. These findings highlight the different nature of both notions of bargaining sets. Finally, we illustrate the impossibility of extrapolating our results to a more general setting. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D00|Social activity and network formation|This paper develops a simple model in which a social hierarchy emerges endogenously when agents form a network for complementary interaction (``activity''). Specifically, we assume that agents are ex ante identical and their best response activity, as well as their value function, increases (strictly) concavely in the total activity of their neighbours in the network. There exists a unique and stable positive activity equilibrium on exogenous networks under mild conditions. When we endogenise network formation, equilibria become strongly structured: more active players have more neighbours, i.e. a higher degree, but tend to sponsor fewer links. Additionally, in strict equilibria agents separate themselves into groups characterised by the symmetric activity of their members. The characteristic activity decreases in group size and the network is a complete multipartite graph.
D00|Migration and Financial Constraints: Evidence from Mexico|This paper shows that poor households’ entitlement to an exogenous, temporary, but guaranteed income stream increases Mexican migration to the United States, although this income is mainly consumed. Some households use the entitlement to this income stream as collateral to finance the migration. The new migrations come from previously constrained individuals and households and worsen migrant skills. In sum, financial constraints to international migration are binding for poor Mexicans, some of whom would like to migrate but cannot afford to. As growth and antipoverty and microfinance programs relax financial constraints for the poor, low-skilled Mexican migration to the United States will likely increase. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
D00|Public Goods in Endogenous Networks|We study a local public good game in an endogenous network with heterogeneous players. The source of heterogeneity affects the gains from a connection and hence equilibrium networks. When players differ in the cost of producing the public good, active players form pyramidal complete multipartite graphs; yet, better types need not have more neighbors. When players differ in the valuation of the public good, nested split graphs emerge in which production need not be monotonic in type. In large societies, few players produce a lot; furthermore, networks dampen inequality under cost heterogeneity and increase it under heterogeneity in valuation.
D00|Modern monetary policy - relevant criticism or misunderstanding in the expert community?|In this paper we provide the analysis of number of monetary policy issues on which the academic economists, the expert community and the authorities do not have common point of view. We suggest arguments supporting the Bank of Russia's position regarding the interpretation of current economic situation and we also respond to the critique concerning the inconsistency and the lack of transparency of monetary policy presented in Apokin et al., 2014 paper.
D00|Decentralization in Infinite Horizon Economies|Decentralization in Infinite Horizon Economies
D00|Decentralization in Infinite Horizon Economies: An Introduction|The paper summarizes some issues involved in developing a theory of decentralized resource allocation mechanism in infinite horizon economies. Even in a classical environment, a competitive mechanism may lead to an inefficient or non-optimal allocation for an infinite horizon economy. It remains, however, to explore whether the usual price-quantity messages can be supplemented to design decentralized mechanisms generating optimal outcomes.
D00|Optimal lntertemporal Allocation Mechanisms and Decentralization of Decisions|Problems of achieving an efficient or optimal allocation of resources through a system of decentralized decision-making when the planning horizon is unbounded and the number of agents is infinite have been repeatedly raised, but have not been explored in a formal manner. The objective of this paper is to suggest some points of departure for a systematic investigation of such questions. The main analytical results indicate the impossibility of attaining optimality through intertemporally decentralized mechanisms.
D00|Optimal intertemporal allocation mechanisms and decentralization of decisions|Problems of achieving an efficient or optimal allocation of resources through a system of decentralized decision-making when the planning horizon is unbounded and the number of agents is infinite have been repeatedly raised, but have not been explored in a formal manner. The objective of this paper is to suggest some points of departure for a systematic investigation of such questions. The main analytical results indicate the impossibility of attaining optimality through intertemporally decentralized mechanisms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|On Characterizing Optimal Competitive Programs in Terms of Decentralizable Conditions|The paper considers a multisector model of intertemporal allocation with a primary factor of production and the overtaking criterion of optimality. The optimal program is characterized in terms of (i) period-by-period conditions on intertemporal profit and utility maximization relative to a system of competitive prices and (ii) non-positivity of appropriately computed values of differences of stocks from the golden rule stock: The last condition replaces the usual transversality condition of Malinvaud and throws new light on the possibility of dencentralization in an infinite-horizon economy.
D00|On characterizing optimal competitive programs in terms of decentralizable conditions|The paper considers a multisector model of intertemporal allocation with a primary factor of production and the overtaking criterion of optimality. The optimal program is characterized in terms of (i) period-by-period conditions on intertemporal profit and utility maximization relative to a system of competitive prices and (ii) non-positivity of appropriately computed values of differences of stocks from the golden rule stock: The last condition replaces the usual transversality condition of Malinvaud and throws new light on the possibility of dencentralization in an infinite-horizon economy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|Characterization of lntertemporal Optimality in Terms of Decentralizable Conditions: The Discounted Case|The paper studies the problem of characterizing the optimality of competitive programs in terms of “decentralizable” conditions. We show that, when future utilities are discounted, and the optimal stationary stock is proportionately expansible, then optimality of competitive programs can be characterized by the condition that the scalar product of the difference of prices and quantities, between those of the given competitive program and those of the optimal stationary program, be non-positive period by period.
D00|Characterization of intertemporal optimality in terms of decentralizable conditions: The discounted case|The paper studies the problem of characterizing the optimality of competitive programs in terms of “decentralizable” conditions. We show that, when future utilities are discounted, and the optimal stationary stock is proportionately expansible, then optimality of competitive programs can be characterized by the condition that the scalar product of the difference of prices and quantities, between those of the given competitive program and those of the optimal stationary program, be non-positive period by period.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|Intertemporal Optimality in a Closed Linear Model of Production|The paper presents the main results on intertemporal optimality with discounting in a closed linear model of production, including the price characterization of optimal programs, the existence of a steady-state optimal program, and a turnpike property of optimal programs from arbitrary initial stocks. Some of these results are used to provide a characterization of the optimality of competitive programs in terms of a “decentralizable” condition.
D00|Intertemporal optimality in a closed linear model of production|The paper presents the main results on intertemporal optimality with discounting in a closed linear model of production, including the price characterization of optimal programs, the existence of a steady-state optimal program, and a turnpike property of optimal programs from arbitrary initial stocks. Some of these results are used to provide a characterization of the optimality of competitive programs in terms of a “decentralizable” condition.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|On Characterizing Optimality of Stochastic Competitive Processes|A condition is provided to replace the transversality condition in characterizing the optimality of competitive processes. This extends the work of W. Brock, L. Hurwicz, and M. Majumdar (“On Characterizing Optimality of Competitive Programs in Terms of Decentralizable Conditions” and “Optimal lntertemporal Allocation Mechanisms and Decentralization of Decisions,” Cornell University Working Paper Nos. 333 and 369 (1985)) on providing an informationally decentralizable condition for characterizing optimality in stochastic infinite-horizon models without discounting.
D00|On characterizing optimality of stochastic competitive processes|A condition is provided to replace the transversality condition in characterizing the optimality of competitive processes. This extends the work of W. Brock, L. Hurwicz, and M. Majumdar (“On Characterizing Optimality of Competitive Programs in Terms of Decentralizable Conditions” and “Optimal lntertemporal Allocation Mechanisms and Decentralization of Decisions,” Cornell University Working Paper Nos. 333 and 369 (1985)) on providing an informationally decentralizable condition for characterizing optimality in stochastic infinite-horizon models without discounting.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|A Characterization of Infinite Horizon Optimality in Terms of Finite Horizon Optimality and a Critical Stock Condition|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONTHE MODELFEASIBLE PROGRAMSOPTIMAL PROGRAMSFINITE HORIZON PROGRAMSA CRITICAL STOCKRESULTSREFERENCES
D00|A Necessary Condition for Decentralization and an Application to lntertemporal Allocation|A necessary condition for realization by a decentralized finite-dimensional mechanism is proved. The concepts of the realization of a time sequence of allocations by a decentralized temporal process and by the particular more realistic class of decentralized evolutionary temporal processes are defined. The above condition shows that the optimal allocation in a simple model for intertemporal production and consumption can be realized by a decentralized temporal process but not by a decentralized evolutionary process which uses either a finite number of verification conditions or a finite-dimensional message space.
D00|A necessary condition for decentralization and an application to intertemporal allocation|A necessary condition for realization by a decentralized finite-dimensional mechanism is proved. The concepts of the realization of a time sequence of allocations by a decentralized temporal process and by the particular more realistic class of decentralized evolutionary temporal processes are defined. The above condition shows that the optimal allocation in a simple model for intertemporal production and consumption can be realized by a decentralized temporal process but not by a decentralized evolutionary process which uses either a finite number of verification conditions or a finite-dimensional message space.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D00|Decentralized Evolutionary Mechanisms for Intertemporal Economies|We consider a stationary, inlinite horizon aggregative model with one consumer and one producer living in each period. A decentralized intertemporal mechanism, satisfying the following “evolutionary” property, is constructed: if the current period's producer and consumer verify their equilibrium conditions, then the allocation is actually executed, without further verification by future agents. The mechanism is based on the idea of continual planning revision. It is shown that the outcome is an intertemporally efficient allocation which maximizes the long run average of one period utilities from consumption.
D00|Complements and Details|Here I sketch some of the proofs left out in the published version, add a few comments and report on some new results. First, let me start with some details.
D00|The Role of Emotions on Risk Preferences: An Experimental Analysis|In the last decades, there has been a large volume of research showing that emotions do have relevant effects on decision-making. We contribute to this literature by experimentally investigating the impact of four specific emotional states - joviality, sadness, fear, and anger - on risk attitudes. In order to do so, we fit two models of behaviour under risk: the Expected Utility model (EU) and the Rank Dependent Expected Utility model (RDEU), assuming several functional forms of the weighting function. Our results indicate that all emotional states instigate risk-seeking behaviour. Furthermore, we show that there are some differences across gender and across participants' experience in lab experiments.
D00|Tax competition and the determination of the quality of public goods|In this paper, the author analyzes the behavior of local governments in capital taxation when the financial choices in terms of the quality of public goods are made done by a central planner. More specifically, he asks the question of whether a local government has an interest in taxing the mobile factor in addition to the tax on representative households. Through a comparison of social welfare given the strategies chosen by local governments, the author shows that whatever the quality and cost of public goods, a local government always has an interest in taxing the mobile factor. This leads to a Nash equilibrium in the dominant strategy in their model.
D00|Preferences under Ambiguity Without Event-Separability|We propose and axiomatically characterize a representation of ambiguity sensitive preferences. The distinguishing feature of our axiomatization is that we do not require preferences to be event-wise separable over any domain of acts. Even without any such separability restrictions, we are able to uniquely elicit the decision maker's subjective probabilities. The novel axiom that allows us to do so expresses the idea that at least in the domain of a certain class of acts the decision maker exhibits a consistent tradeoff between risk and ambiguity concerns. Under our representation of her preferences, any act is assessed by its subjective expected utility and a residual that captures her assessment of the act's exposure to ambiguity.
D00|An Evaluation of the Determinants and Implications of Panel Attrition in the National Income Dynamics Survey (2008-2010)| Panel surveys offer a valuable tool for researchers to explore the dynamics underlying individual and household behaviours. The Achilles heel of panel data is attrition. This paper examines the determinants and implications of attrition in the first two waves of South Africa's National Income Dynamics Survey. Multivariate tests in labour market and health specifications show that there is some moderate evidence of attrition bias in estimated coefficients based on the non-attriting sample. This bias can be seen in labour market specifications, in particular for men, and for Africans, and to a much lesser degree in health specifications, in particular for small samples of Whites. Researchers should take care when using the panel data set to generalise to the overall population.
D00|The Population'S Economic Education In The Romanian Actuality|This paper aims at to present the essence and the role of economic education related to the natural movement of a functioning market economy in the Romanian actuality. We understand education as an important form of social consciousness in the sense of bipolarity, namely as the premise and the effect at a dynamic microeconomic and macroeconomic level. In this dynamic movement, economic education appears more and more visibly as a new factor of production or as a new dimension of human capital. In our approach we consider several theoretical and methodological axes that allow us to reveal the interdependence of education to the economic and social development, from an emulative or frantic perspective. In this way we treat the evolution of complex phenomena of economic education in terms of public policy, highlighting the need to intensify the decision-making efforts of management and execution, consistent pursuing to link the causes with the effects of economic education in the Romanian actuality.
D00|Reading For Youth Interest During Current|Virtual reality and images conquer them permanently and irrevocably even children from the earliest age. For instance, I can say that as they grow departs books. So many young people arrive at teens refuse to read a book, even electronically. Children considered mandatory reading something imposed by adults and tries to escape, finding other concerns. They also have no motivation, the universe discovered through books hardly seems interesting, which is, in their opinion, obsolete. The environment in which I work led me to satisfy my curiosity namely that of finding out to what extent reading is among the priorities of young people today. This research considers the study of attitudes, behaviors, opinions and intentions of young people their interest in reading, be it physical or books in electronic format. Then I directed a questionnaire to students of the Faculty of Management Marketing in Economic Affairs Rm. Valcea. For example, we chose a target group of young people aged between 18 and 25 years.
D00|"Managerial Communication Within Pre-Universitary Education- Main Component Of The Educational Politics - A Case Study On ""Maria Teiuleanu"" Economic College In Pitesti"|"The present paper is structured in three parts. ""Managerial communication and its strategies at organisational level"" makes reference to Managerial Communication as a subject. The communication strategies at the organisational level are determined and some of them are also defined: control strategy, dynamic strategy, acceptance strategy, egalitarian strategy, structural strategy or avoidance strategy. The paper continues with ""Communication within schools"", on the example of ""Maria Teiuleanu"" Economic College in Pitesti, tackling the idea: ""Valuable education- education for values"". There follows the SWOT analysis of the activity within this institution. The managerial vision, the mission and the values promoted within the school are highlighted as well as some of the strategic priorities which will guide the whole activity, the didactic and educational activity for the current school year. The next perspectives which open in what regards the training of teachers within the field of education are tackled: 1. The development of some real collaboration relations between the experts who teach didactics and psycho pedagogy. 2. The training of some teachers who should be able to use the textbook in an optimum way under the conditions of the modern curriculum. 3. The reform of the promoting system on the grounds of the revision of the didactic personnel status and of the official introduction of some standards of didactic profession. The paper ends with some ""Perspectives"" which can improve communication within the school in the present situation and also within the existent institutions in what regards: A. Communication in the relations between school/teachers and students. B. Communication between the teachers, respectively teachers and the school managers. C. Communication between school and community (parents including). All things considered, it can be said that, according to the new requirements of the educational politics, the capable managers have the possibility and at the same time the duty towards themselves and the communities they manage, to establish the managerial strategy characterised by a set of values that they have to propose and promote within the learning and tuition process."
D00|Social mechanisms and social causation|The aim of this paper is to examine the notion of social mechanisms by comparison with the notions of evolutionary and physical mechanisms. It is argued that social mechanisms are based on trends, and not lawlike regularities, so that social mechanisms are different from mechanisms in the natural sciences. Taking as an example of social causation the abolition of the slave trade, this paper argues that social mechanisms should be incorporated in Weber’s wider notion of adequate causation in order to achieve their explanatory purpose.
D00|Pricing Internet Traffic: Exclusion, Signalling and Screening|We consider a network that intermediates traffic between free content providers and consumers. While consumers do not know the traffic cost when deciding on consumption, a content provider knows his cost but may not control the consumption. We study how pricing consumers' and content providers' sides allows both profit extraction from the network and efficient information transmission. In the case of uniform tariff, we argue that a positive price-cap on the charge to content is optimal (with no constrain on the consumer side). Proposing menus helps signaling useful information to consumers and therefore adjusting consumption to traffic cost. In the case of menus, we show that optimal mechanisms consist in letting the content producers choose between different categories associated with different prices for content and consumers. Our results are robust to competition between ISPs and to competition between contents. We also show that when (competitive) content providers choose at small cost between a pay and a free business model, a price-cap at cost on the price for content improves efficiency.
D00|Happy voters|Empirical models of retrospective voting primarily employ standard monetary and financial indicators to proxy for voters' utility and to explain voters' behavior. We show that subjective well-being explains variation in voting intention that goes beyond what is captured by these monetary and financial indicators. For example, individuals who are satisfied with their life are 1.6% more likely to support the incumbent; by contrast, a 10% increase in family income leads to a 0.18% increase in an individual's support of the incumbent. We use difference-in-differences analysis to identify how voter intention is affected by a negative shock to well-being: the death of a spouse. Individuals who experience the death of a spouse are around 10% less likely than those in the control group to support the incumbent. The results hold even if elected officials' policies (health care, social welfare) cannot reasonably be blamed for the death.
D00|The Asymmetric Experience of Positive and Negative Economic Growth: Global Evidence Using Subjective Well-Being Data|Are individuals more sensitive to losses than gains in terms of economic growth?We find that measures of subjective well-being are more than twice as sensitive to negative as compared to positive economic growth. We use Gallup World Poll data from over 150 countries, BRFSS data on 2.3 million U.S. respondents, and Eurobarometer data that cover multiple business cycles over four decades. This research provides a new perspective on the welfare cost of business cycles, with implications for growth policy and the nature of the long-run relationship between GDP and subjective well-being.
D00|Eliciting taxpayer preferences increases tax compliance|"Two experiments show that eliciting taxpayer preferences on government spending—providing taxpayer agency--increases tax compliance. We first create an income and taxation environment in a laboratory setting to test for compliance with a lab tax. Allowing a treatment group to express nonbinding preferences over tax spending priorities, leads to a 16% increase in tax compliance. A followup online study tests this treatment with a simulation of paying US federal taxes. Allowing taxpayers to signal their preferences on the distribution of government spending, results in a 15% reduction in the stated take-up rate of a questionable tax loophole. Providing taxpayer agency recouples tax payments with the public services obtained in return, reduces general anti-tax sentiment, and holds satisfaction with tax payment stable despite increased compliance with tax dues. With tax noncompliance costing the US government $385billion annually, providing taxpayer agency could have meaningful economic impact. At the same time, giving taxpayers a voice may act as a two-way ""nudge,"" transforming tax payment from a passive experience to a channel of communication between taxpayers and government."
D00|Estimación y análisis de la elasticidad precio de la demanda para diferentes tipos de bebidas en México|The main purpose of this study is proving how using the Household Income and Expenditure National Survey, ENIGH, can deliver contradictory estimations for price elasticities, according to the assumptions made about the goods being analyzed. This work used data for 2008, 2010 and 2012 for making separate estimations about drinking water, bottled juice and soft drinks. The most outstanding case is for soft drinks, which depending on considering or not its size may get an elastic or inelastic figure.
D00|Ranking distributions of monotone attributes|"This paper refers to the ranking of densities that describe the distribution of an attribute in a given set of populations. The key elements of the problem are: (i) The distributions refer to ordered categorical data (e.g. health statuses, educational achievements, prestige positions, satisfaction levels); (ii) The evaluation of each distribution is relative to the others with which it is compared. We propose an evaluation method that is cardinal, complete and transitive, which based on the consistent application of the ""willingness to pay"" principle and the likelihood of getting better results when making a random extraction. A characterization of this method, in terms of simple properties, is provided."
D00|Strategic Interaction and Networks|Geography and social links shape economic interactions. In industries, schools, and markets, the entire network determines outcomes. This paper analyzes a large class of games and obtains a striking result. Equilibria depend on a single network measure: the lowest eigenvalue. This paper is the first to uncover the importance of the lowest eigenvalue to economic and social outcomes. It captures how much the network amplifies agents' actions. The paper combines new tools?potential games, optimization, and spectral graph theory?to solve for all Nash and stable equilibria and applies the results to R&D, crime, and the econometrics of peer effects.
D00|Economics and Genocide: Choices and Consequences|Professional economists rarely write on questions of genocide. This surprises because a workhorse tool of the economics discipline concerns the analysis of behavior that takes place under constraints. All parties in genocide—perpetrators, victims, and third parties—face cost and resource constraints subject to which they seek to achieve their objectives, be it killing, surviving, or intervening. This essay characterizes and illustrates economic thinking about objectives, costs, and resources for each of the three groups. There is potentially much that economics can contribute to genocide studies and, vice versa, much that genocide scholars may learn from welcoming an economic perspective.
D00|Introduction: Telling the Story of MIT Economics in the Postwar Period|Over the past twenty-five years the Duke history of economics faculty, together with the collection development librarians in the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library, have been gathering the papers of notable (mostly) twentieth century economists in what is now called The Economists Papers Project (EPP). Over time that archive has grown and become central to historical research on economics in the postwar period. The papers of Edwin Burmeister, Evsey Domar, Franklin Fisher, Duncan Foley, Lawrence Klein, Franco Modigliani, and Robert Solow, all MIT faculty or students, have attracted scholars from around the world. After Paul Samuelson’s death in December 2009, his papers, by prior arrangement, came to the EPP and quickly became a magnet for historians of economics. In response, early in 2010 I was encouraged by my colleagues Kevin Hoover, Bruce Caldwell, Craufurd Goodwin, and Neil De Marchi to plan a conference in the History of Political Economy Annual Conference series to examine the history of MIT economics. After a year’s worth of conversations and emails, I invited a number of individuals to consider a variety of projects exploring MIT’s role in the transformation of American economics in the postwar period. That conference, held in April 2013 at the R. David Thomas Conference Center at Duke University, was sponsored as usual by the Duke University Press. However the very generous financial support of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation made possible the expansion of the “standard” HOPE Conference into one that included a larger number of participants and papers. In the end the conferees learned that telling the story of MIT’s role in the postwar period required attending to both the particular circumstances that shaped MIT and the various ways in which economics itself was changing.
D00|A Political Economy Application of the “Tragedy of the Anticommons”: The Greek Government Debt Crisis|The tragedy of the anticommons unfolds when separate social agents—be they private owners of a property who intend to use the property for their own economic benefit or political actors who pursue their political objectives—do not hold effective rights to use their economic or political power for their own purposes without consent of the other players of the economic or political game. I shall discuss the Greek government debt crisis and the Eurozone countries’ policies toward Greece within the analytical framework of the tragedy of the anticommons in this paper. I do not intend to dig deep into the structure and long-term trends of public and private finances in Greece. I shall only show that the successive bail-out programs of the Eurozone countries were doomed to fail because of these countries’ competitive and non-cooperative approach to the Greek financial problems. I shall also show that a coordinating agency, say the IMF, can foster the coordinated outcome only under strict informational conditions. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
D00|Measuring Oligopsony Market Power in the Italian Electricity Market: Preliminary Results|No abstract is available for this item.
D00|The Correlates of Educated Women’s Labor Force Participation in Pakistan: A Micro-Study|This study attempts to determine the factors that affect educated women’s decision to participate in the labor force. Based on a field survey conducted in the district of Multan, we find that a number of factors have a positive and significant impact on women’s decision to work. These include women who fall in the age groups 35–44 and 45–54, the coefficients of all levels of education, the presence of an educated husband, marital status, family structure, and family expenditure. The presence of an educated father, being an educated married woman, location, distance from the district headquarters, the husband’s employment status and income, and ownership of assets significantly reduces women’s labor force participation. The results of the earnings equation show that variables such as women who live in an urban area and their level of education and experience are associated with a substantial increase in earnings with each additional year. The number of children has a negative and significant impact on women’s earnings. The hours-of-work model shows that age and the number of completed years of education have a positive effect on working hours, while the number of dependents and the number of hours spent on household activities have a negative effect on working hours.
D00|Comparative Study Between Traditional And Enterprise Risk Management -A Theoretical Approach|The complexity, volatility and unpredictability of the current economic environment are a daily reminder that organizations face many risks. The traditional approach, according to which risk is a necessary evil which must be removed, is no longer sufficient and that is why companies nowadays are forced to spend significant resources to manage risks. Risk transparency is what one looks for; therefore, identification and management of risks within an organization become increasingly necessary for success and longevity. Risk approach has a major role in a company's ability to avoid, reduce and turn risks into opportunities. Enterprise risk management is a new concept that revolutionizes the traditional approach and summarizes risk management in an integrated, comprehensive and strategic system. Studies use several synonyms for enterprise risk management such as integrated risk management, holistic risk management, global risk management and strategic risk management. Enterprise risk management implements at the end of the last century a new way to deal with risks: the holistic approach. This risks approach - i.e. interaction of several types of risks which become increasingly threatening and varied and may cause more damage than individual risk - brings forward the need of risk management and raises issues at the highest level of company management. For a proper view on company risks, each individual risk and the possibility of risk interaction must be understood. This is essential to establish a risk classification according to their impact on the company. Traditional approach on risk management, as a management function, is limited to only threats and losses, so relatively few organizations see risks as potential earning-generated opportunities. However, risk management process is not radically changed. Enterprise risk management is an improved version of the traditional risk management, created by expanding its scope. The new risk management model, adapted to the complexity of current economic situation confers a global vision to prepare the organization to face the adverse effect of any event or series of events. Identification and understanding the risk nature is a factor that must be known by all company personnel because an effective risk management minimizes the adverse impact on the organization, i.e. reducing losses and eliminating the danger of bankruptcy.
D00|The Supply of Environmentalism: Psychological Interventions and Economics|Long before behavioral economists began to combine economic theory with discoveries from psychology, environmentalists were nudging and framing and pushing their cause through psychological interventions. These interventions appear to have changed behavior by altering beliefs, norms, and preferences. However, because psychological interventions are often coarse, they have also resulted in inadvertent, offsetting side effects. This article discusses the interactions between environmental preference-making and economics, and then it examines three areas of environmental interest —electric cars, recycling, and local conservation efforts—where psychological interventions have created strong, widespread, and simple environmental views. However, in all three cases, simple environmental rules of thumb can lead to significant adverse environmental side effects. Local environmentalism, for example, may increase carbon emissions by pushing development from low emission areas, like coastal California, to high-emission areas elsewhere in the United States. I conclude with a discussion of a fourth issue: how economic analysis of the political supply of ideas can be helpful in understanding the remarkable disparity of views concerning climate change. (JEL: D00, Q5)
D00|Ranking distributions of monotone attributes|"This paper refers to the ranking of densities that describe the distribution of an attribute in a given set of populations. The key elements of the problem are: (i) The distributions refer to ordered categorical data (e.g. health statuses, educational achievements, prestige positions, satisfaction levels); (ii) The evaluation of each distribution is relative to the others with which it is compared. We propose an evaluation method that is cardinal, complete and transitive, which based on the consistent application of the ""willingness to pay"" principle and the likelihood of getting better results when making a random extraction. A characterization of this method, in terms of simple properties, is provided."
D00|Economic and social effects of the dynamics of public expenditure at a state university|Our interest in developing this scientific approach has started from the impact that Higher Education has on the social and economic growth which positively affects employability and labour market mobility. In this respect, from the analysis carried out on the dynamics of public expenditure at a State university, we have concluded that it coincides with the evolution at national level, therefore it is necessary that the current economic conditions pay attention to increasing the efficiency of costs on education, Romanian Higher Education is expected and it should play a fundamental role in asserting a national society of knowledge and learning.
D00|Farmland Ownership Policy: Technical Paper|In this paper I develop a theoretical model to analyze policy that restricts who can own land. I briefly review research related to such policy in Saskatchewan, Canada, and identify a standard supply-demand model that I extend in several ways. First, I replicate results for how policy affects prices and develop new results for how policy affects social welfare using comparative statics. Second, I extend the model to a dynamic setting where demand curves change over time and show that policy can affect price changes in variety of ways, which I refer to as comparative dynamics. Third, I conduct a series of simulations to compare my model and a standard model. I establish stylistic facts about data on price levels, differences, and ratios generated by the different models.
D00|Economics and Genocide: Choices and Consequences|Professional economists rarely write on questions of genocide. This surprises because a workhorse tool of the economics discipline concerns the analysis of behavior that takes place under constraints. All parties in genocide—perpetrators, victims, and third parties—face cost and resource constraints subject to which they seek to achieve their objectives, be it killing, surviving, or intervening. This essay characterizes and illustrates economic thinking about objectives, costs, and resources for each of the three groups. There is potentially much that economics can contribute to genocide studies and, vice versa, much that genocide scholars may learn from welcoming an economic perspective.
D00|Detecting abnormalities in the Brent crude oil commodities and derivatives pricing complex|Recent rapidly rising and volatile energy commodities prices and financial price manipulation scandals have brought the pricing mechanisms of crude oil derivatives to the fore of both popular press and policy initiatives. Among the most important of such commodities is Brent Crude. Brent Crude and its complex of derivative products make Brent Crude potentially more opaque and thus susceptible to price manipulation than other commodities. In spite of the importance of Brent to the world economy and world energy prices, and its complex of derivative pricing, relatively little work has been done to explore the potential for, and evidence of, price manipulation in the Brent Crude complex. This paper seeks to address this lack by proposing a method to test whether price squeezes have occurred in Brent Crude. This paper builds on previous work which proposed an a priori test for evidence of manipulation and the theory of storage. Previous work (Barrera-Rey and Seymour 1996) posited that the very close-to-delivery end of the forward curve for Brent should not be simultaneously in contango and backwardation, while other work (Geman and Smith 2012) proposed using an econometric prediction and a model based on the theory of storage to detect manipulation in commodity markets. Our work builds on these approaches by developing a more detailed model of calendar spreads in the Brent Crude complex. In Brent, a particular area of potential manipulation is from the relatively illiquid and more opaque physical OTC forward market (where prices are ‘assessed’ by Platts during a short ‘window’ of time) and the more liquid ICE futures market. Our model relates prompt ICE futures calendar spreads to prompt-over-dated OTC forward spreads. The model then tests whether the a priori indicators of manipulation as suggested by Barrera-Rey and Seymour are statistically consistent with the process which drives spreads historically. We find that in most all cases, the indicated period of manipulation is statistically different. We further investigate whether other factors, such as liquidity (volume and open interest) or world oil market conditions (using WTI spreads) or other forward market conditions could be driving our results. The statistical difference is found to be invariant to the inclusion of these other explanatory variables. We conclude that the evidence is consistent with the hypothesis of price manipulation and that the test provides a model and method for detecting such cases.
D00|Curvas de Oferta-Precio No lineales para el caso de preferencias de consumo Cuasi-lineales<BR>[Nonlinear Price-Consumption Paths for Quasilinear preferences]|In most of the Intermediate Microeconomics or Microeconomic Theory texts, when the demand of individuals subject is analyzed, especially the Price-Consumption paths and Income-Expansion paths , Examples are presented in which the utility functions correspond to regular preferences, that is, the equations describing the behavior of the curves, correspond to straight lines. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate through a practical example, what happens in the case where the variations in the prices of any of the goods involved in the analysis (for our case two goods), simultaneously affect the quantities consumed of both goods. In microeconomics textbooks (of which there are many and very good ones) is not performed a detailed exposition of how to calculate the equations corresponding to these curves (Price Consumption path and Income Expansion path) if these do not correspond to linear functions. The document will cover the fundamental concepts that the reader faces when solving these restricted optimization problems, emphasizing the calculation method of the Price-Consumption path equation.
D00|Tobacco Consumption Determinants in Russia|The following paper aims to contribute the existing literature on Russian tobacco use by analysing the determinants of smoking, and comparing the results to previous researches. We are also one of the few, if not the first to test the significance of BMI (Body Mass Index) with smoking habits. Our results mostly compromise with the results of previous English literature. Smokers generally tend to lose weight, and obese people naturally do not practice smoking. Educated people, religion believer smoke significantly less than school leavers, nonbelievers and army servers do.
D00|Tobacco Consumption Determinants in Russia|The following paper aims to contribute the existing literature on Russian tobacco use by analysing the determinants of smoking, and comparing the results to previous researches. We are also one of the few, if not the first to test the significance of BMI (Body Mass Index) with smoking habits. Our results mostly compromise with the results of previous English literature. Smokers generally tend to lose weight, and obese people naturally do not practice smoking. Educated people, religion believer smoke significantly less than school leavers, nonbelievers and army servers do.
D00|Legal status, remittances and socio-economic impacts on rural household in Bangladesh: An empirical study of Bangladeshi migrants in Italy|This paper presents an overview of legal framework of EU governing residence permits, employment pass and access to integration, describing the most frequent migration pathways employed by Bangladeshis in Italy. It discusses their migration trajectories, socio-demographic profile, the importance of remittances to Bangladesh, and the impact that Italian migration policy has had upon this group, as well as other non-EU nationals more generally. In this paper rural household micro quantitative data have been collected from Bangladesh to explore the relationship between legal status, remittance and socioeconomic impact at the left behind household members. Using univariate and multivariate model, investigate the factors determining of remittance inflows and their socioeconomic impact at their left behind rural household members. The empirical results suggest that there is economic variation between the documented and undocumented Bangladeshi migrants in Italy. While international migration is unlikely to provide a secure route out of positive socio-economic impact at their household for many Bangladeshis within a restrictive immigration environment, as they become trapped in more vulnerable and less sustainable migration processes. It concludes with a discussion of the sociocultural integration of the Bangladeshi migrants in Italy and their future integration opportunities to other EU nations.
D00|Rural Household Contribution to the Financial and Capital Market in Bangladesh: A Micro Level Study of Remittances from Italy|The present study investigates the investment variation of remittance determinants in rural area at the origin. Using micro-economic data from a survey conducted in 2013, multivariate analysis was carried out on 300 rural households. The empirical results show that the significance level and determinants vary from the investment in financial sector and specially investment in share market. Investment in financial sectors is strongly significance with the household remittances, educational level of migrants and household heads, household head relation to migrant and income of the household. On the other hand, investment in share market is highly significant with the duration of migration, marital status and employment status of the household head; and religion and income of the household.
D00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Предисловие<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Preface]|"A new heterodox theory of market and capitalism is suggested. Its key moments and general logic are presented. The theory is based on the distinction between two market types – the simple commodity market and the capitalist one. Disequilibrium and ""imperfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional norm of capitalist market. Respectively, an equilibrium and ""perfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional anomaly; crises are considered as the result of such an anomaly. General principles and concrete measures of crisis-proof policy and crisis-proof behavior are suggested. The theory consists of three interconnected parts – a theory of market, a theory of value and a theory of capitalism. Every part is shaped as a separate text (with its abstract, introduction, conclusions and other attributes). Comparison with alternative theories is made in each part. This text contains a common preface and common references only."
D00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Часть 1. Рынок<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Part 1. Market]|A new heterodox theory of market is suggested. Its key moments are presented. The theory is based on the distinction between two market types – the simple commodity market and the capitalist one. Definitions of market and of each of its types are given. Internal logic of transition from the former to the latter is considered. Comparison with alternative theories is made.
D00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Часть 2. Стоимость<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Part 2. Value]|A new theory of value is suggested. Its key moments and general logic are presented. The theory has all-purpose nature (is applicable to any commodities, any markets and any market situations). Value is considered as a multicomponent notion which characterizes commodity's internal behaviour (i.e. behaviour independent of market conjuncture). Labour and use values as well as supply and demand ones are interpreted as different components of total value. The role of these components in pricing on balanced and unbalanced markets is investigated. The fundamental conclusion about relationship between value and social psychology and culture is made. Comparison with alternative theories is made.
D00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Часть 3. Капитализм<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Part 3. Capitalism]|"A new heterodox theory of capitalism is suggested. Its key moments and general logic are presented. Capitalism is considered as a special case of market, as its higher form. Disequilibrium and ""imperfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional norm of capitalism. Respectively, an equilibrium and ""perfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional anomaly; crises are considered as the result of such an anomaly. General principles and concrete measures of crisis-proof policy and crisis-proof behavior are suggested. Comparison with alternative theories is made."
D00|On bargaining sets for finite economies|We define a bargaining set for finite economies using Aubin’s veto mechanism and show its coincidence with the set of Walrasian allocations. Then, we rewrite our notion in terms of replicated economies showing that, in contrast with Anderson, Trockel and Zhou’s (1997) non-convergence result, this Edgeworth bargaining set shrinks to the set of Walrasian allocations.
D00|Sustainable Intrapreneurship - The GSI Concept and Strategy - Unfolding Competitive Advantage via Fair Entrepreneurship|Entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship are among the most important prerequisites and concepts of modern economics and free market theory. Intrapreneurship is defined here in its broadest definition, as grades of entrepreneurship within a given system or entity, such as a company, organization, sector, cluster, national or even global economy. Hereby, intrapreneuring is more than only providing some opportunity to some employees. The wider definition rather unfolds intrapreneuring into a new universal concept of economics, efficiency, and effectiveness, which helps to solve some key dilemmas including the principal-agent-problem (PAP). This study reviews intrapreneuring in the public and private sector based on major empirical research. To optimally manage intrapreneuring, a set of sound goals and incentives, contextual, structural, behavioral, and legal-contractual measures are needed, as well as fair chances and a fair bargain for all. Free markets require internal opportunity and frameworks of fair competition. On this account, sustainable intrapreneurial modules could give rise to industry5.0. Intrapreneuring is proposed to reflect all grades of entrepreneurship that are itemized into its key dimensions independence, opportunity risk, and reward. Balanced dimensions of the right level assure graded sustainable intrapreneuring (GSI) for optimal output. Due to the universality of this concept, it applies for all work systems and sectors, public or private, micro- and macroeconomically, together with other 3D-concepts of economics. Social intrapreneurship, 3BL-GSI, or shared value strategies, could solve most societal problems if financed via QE in a GSI-conform digital full-reserve economy.
D00|Estimación de equivalencias de escala|Este artículo presenta la metodología y los resultados más relevantes de un estudio sobre la estimación de escalas de equivalencia en consumo. En ese estudio se destaca el uso de un método novedoso, propuesto por Lewbel y utilizado por Perali, para obtener los precios que se utilizan para estimar las ecuaciones de demanda. Los resultados de los modelos utilizados en este trabajo permiten afirmar que los cálculos de escala equivalente cumplen algunas propiedades deseables en este tipo de medidas.
D00|Competitive Conditions in the Turkish Banking Systems|In this paper, we investigate competition in Turkish banking sector over the period 2003? 2012. In order to understand the competitive condition in Turkish banking sector, we use the well-known Panzar-Rosse model based on a nonstructural estimation of the H-statistic by employing the quarterly panel data set. The emprical evidences indicate that the Turkish banking sector operates under conditions of monopolistic competition. Therefore, although there have been growing structural changes in the Turkish banking sector since 2000s, there is no remarkable change in the market structure of the Turkish banking sector as compared to previous studies and it can still be characterized by the monopolistic competition.
D00|The associations between early life circumstances and later life health and employment in Europe|We use data from the Survey of Health, Aging, and Retirement in Europe to estimate for thirteen European countries the associations of early life circumstances—measured by childhood health and socioeconomic status (SES)—with educational attainment, and later life health and employment (at ages 50–64). In all countries and for men and women, favorable early life circumstances, and in particular a higher childhood SES, are associated with a higher level of education. In most countries and in particular for women, favorable early life circumstances are associated with better later life health, also when education is controlled for. The significant associations of favorable early life circumstances with a higher incidence of later life employment are mostly transmitted through education and later life health. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
D00|Satisfaction and comparison income in transition and developed economies|The main purpose of this paper is to evaluate the impact of different types of income comparison on subjective well-being in transition countries and developed European countries. The paper relies on the Life in Transition Survey (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2011 ), which was conducted in late 2010 jointly by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. The emphasis of the paper is on income comparisons, specifically; local comparisons and self-ranking. The main findings reveal that comparisons have a significant impact on life satisfaction in transition countries, whereas the relationship between comparison and life satisfaction is ambiguous in developed European countries. In transition countries, the impact of comparisons is asymmetric: in most cases, under-performing one’s benchmark has a greater effect than out-performing it. In transition countries, both downward and upward evaluations have an impact on life satisfaction, while it is worthy of note that all upward evaluations have no effect on life satisfaction in developed European countries. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
D00|Similarities in fan preferences for minor-league baseball across the American Southeast|Three Minor League Baseball leagues across the Southeastern United States are studied in order to determine what drives fan attendance. Individual game attendance and game characteristics are examined for three leagues located in the American southeast, the Florida State League, the Southern League, and the South Atlantic League. Despite the three leagues encompassing different levels of play (from A to AA), the determinants of attendance are similar across leagues. Factors affecting attendance such as winning percentage, weather conditions, local income and population, and individual game promotions, such as fireworks, are explored. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
D00|Cities, Skills and Regional Change| Glaeser E. L., Ponzetto G. A. M. and Tobio K. Cities, skills and regional change, Regional Studies . One approach to urban areas emphasizes the existence of certain immutable relationships, such as Zipf's or Gibrat's law. An alternative view is that urban change reflects individual responses to changing tastes or technologies. This paper examines almost 200 years of regional change in the United States and finds that few, if any, growth relationships remain constant, including Gibrat's law. Education does a reasonable job of explaining urban resilience in recent decades, but it does not seem to predict county growth a century ago. After reviewing this evidence, a simple model of regional change is presented and estimated, where education increases the level of entrepreneurship. Human capital spillovers occur at the city level because skilled workers produce more product varieties and thereby increase labour demand. It is found that skills are associated with growth in productivity or entrepreneurship, not with growth in quality of life, at least outside of the West. It is also found that skills seem to have depressed housing supply growth in the West, but not in other regions, which supports the view that educated residents in that region have fought for tougher land-use controls. Evidence is also presented that skills have had a disproportionately large impact on unemployment during the current recession.
D00|List-based decision problems|When encountering a set of alternatives displayed in the form of a list, the decision maker usually determines a particular alternative, after which she stops checking the remaining ones, and chooses an alternative from those observed so far. We present a framework in which both decision problems are explicitly modeled, and axiomatically characterize a stop-and-choose rule which unifies position-biased successive choice and satisficing choice.
D00|Applied Nonparametric Regression Analysis: the Choice of Generalized Additive Models|Literature has documented tremendous changes in classical regression analysis techniques since 1980s. The drawbacks of simple and multiple parametric regression analyses on model specifications and the non-robust assumption of error terms followed by the introduction of a series of diagnostic tests to fix these inevitable pitfalls have made econometricians to develop new methodologies in nonparametric and semi-parametric regressions that either do not have or mitigate the major shortcomings of what their traditional counterparts inherently demonstrate. The development of the generalized linear models followed by the introduction of generalized additive models and generalized additive mixed models has attracted practitioners to use these methodologies in applied studies. The main objective of this paper is to conduct a comprehensive survey on studies that used generalized additive models as econometric models and show how the parameters of these models are estimated. In particular, it briefly reviews the theory of generalized additive models, and then introduces various techniques to estimate the parameters of the models. Finally, it presents a comprehensive review of studies in which generalized additive models are specified as the econometric model.
D00|Firm Growth in Conflict Countries: Some Evidence from South Asia|This paper provides robust evidence on feedback effects of violent conflicts on firm growth. It uses South Asian firm level data that contain rare employment information on countries that experience severe conflicts. We show that firm growth exists in conflict areas. Yet, there are fewer expanding firms. They tend to grow slower than firms in other countries in the region, and firms that shed staff decline faster. Particularly firms in urban conflict areas were performing less dynamically. The results point at severe investment climate issues in conflict countries, which imply a lower degree of industrial and productivity dynamics in afflicted regions.
D00|Non Fixed-Price Trading Rules In Single-Crossing Classical Exchange Economies|This paper defines the single-crossing property for two-agent, two-good exchange economies for classical (i.e., continuous, strictly monotonic, and strictly convex) individual preferences. Within this framework and on a rich single-crossing domain, the paper characterizes the family of continuous, strategy-proof and individually rational social choice functions whose range belongs to the interior of the set of feasible allocations. This family is shown to be the class of generalized trading rules. This result highlights the importance of the concavification argument in the characterization of fixed-price trading rules provided by Barber? and Jackson (1995), an argument that does not hold under single-crossing. The paper also shows how several features of abstract single-crossing domains, such as the existence of an ordering over the set of preference relations, can be derived endogenously in economic environments by exploiting the additional structure of classical preferences.
D00|Royalty Rate Determination|Courts require royalty rate calculations based on rigorous economic foundations. The licensing literature provides limited guidance for royalty rate determination, leaving appraisal report readers wanting a more tangible and objective lens through which to judge the credibility of royalty rate analyses. This article develops the standard, core model for calculating market royalty rates for intangible asset licenses where royalty rates are determined ex ante in the actual market, or ex post in a hypothetical market under a Market Value Standard. The model forms a consistent basis for performing and evaluating licensing royalty appraisals. Not being distracted with the question of how to combine the input values when calculating a royalty rate, the court can focus on understanding and verifying an appraiser’s calculations of the input variable values.
D00|Where the Streets Have a Name: Income Comparisons in the US|This paper analyses how neighbors' income affect agents' well-being using unprecedented data from the BRFSS and the City of Somerville. We conduct a multi-scale approach at the county, ZIP code and street-levels and find that the association between well-being and neighbors' income follows an inverted U-shaped pattern in the size of the area. We find a negative relationship between well-being and neighbors' income in the county of residence, but the opposite at the ZIP code-level. Our results are consistent with the fact that agents enjoy living in a rich ZIP code but also having poor faraway neighbors since they have preferences for high social status. We test explicitly this interpretation by including amenities and the relative rank in the local income distribution in our model. At the street-level, we find a negative association between neighbors' income and self-reported well-being indicating the presence of income comparisons between very close neighbors.
D00|Agglomerationsvorteile in der Wissensgesellschaft: Empirische Evidenz für deutsche Gemeinden|Sind Ansammlungen von hochqualifizierten Arbeitskräften in einer Region ein Garant für Wachstum? Eine Politik zur Förderung regionaler Entwicklung unterstellt oftmals diesen Zusammenhang und fördert die Ansiedlung und Vernetzung wissensintensiver Branchen und Unternehmen. Die hier gezeigte empirische Evidenz legt allerdings nahe, dass solche Agglomerationsvorteile nicht überall wirken. Der Erfolg einer solchen Cluster- und Netzwerkpolitik hängt maßgeblich von der Wirkungskraft der regionalen Agglomerationskräfte ab und ist somit nicht garantiert.
D00|Conflict, evolution, hegemony, and the power of the state|In a model of evolution driven by conflict between societies more powerful states have an advantage. When the influence of outsiders is small we show that this results in a tendency to hegemony. In a simple example in which institutions differ in their “exclusiveness” we find that these hegemonies will be inefficiently “extractive” in the sense of having inefficiently high taxes, high compensation for state officials, and low welfare.
D00|Reason-Based Rationalization|We introduce a “reason-based” way of rationalizing an agent’s choice behaviour, which explains choices by specifying which properties of the options or choice context the agent cares about (the “motivationally salient properties”) and how he or she cares about these properties (the “fundamental preference relation”). Reason-based rationalizations can explain non-classical choice behaviour, including boundedly rational and sophisticated rational behaviour, and predict choices in unobserved contexts, an issue neglected in standard choice theory. We characterize the behavioural implications of different reason-based models and distinguish two kinds of context-dependent motivation: “context-variant” motivation, where the agent cares about different properties in different contexts, and “context-regarding” motivation, where the agent cares not only about properties of the options, but also about properties relating to the context.
D00|Conceptul De Performanță|În ciuda utilizării frecvente, noţiunea de performanţă este foarte rar definită în mod explicit, de cele mai multe ori, înţelesul acesteia fiind considerat a fi cunoscut în mod implicit. Studiind problematica concluzionăm că performanţa este fie: rezultatul excelent al unei acţiuni, rezultatul unei acţiuni, indiferent că este excelent sau nu, sau capabilitatea maximă. Totodată aceasta este abordată adesea ca fiind o funcţie a două componente: eficacitate şi eficienţă. Având în vedere cele două componente propunem două matrice de analiză ce reflectă perspectiva statică și dinamică a performanței.
