D04|Low-performing student responses to state merit scholarships|State merit scholarships may affect academic outcomes for low-performing college students, yet low-performers are generally overlooked in existing literature. New Mexico’s lottery scholarship provides tuition-free college to residents meeting a uniquely “low-bar” eligibility criteria. Using administrative data, a discontinuity in eligibility rules identifies local average treatment effects on degree completion and course taking behavior for students with below-average college grades. Results suggest a reduction in time-to-degree corresponding to the scholarship’s funding cap, with no overall change in degree completion. Despite modest eligibility requirements related to credit completion, the scholarship increased credit completion among low-achieving students. Some students appear to manipulate scholarship eligibility by taking fewer courses or strategically dropping courses during a qualifying semester in order to secure aid. A bounding exercise suggests partial manipulation of eligibility rules results in selection bias which underestimates the true effect of the scholarship on time to degree and credit completion.
D04|Effects of a Mandatory Local Currency Pricing Law on the Exchange Rate Pass-Through|We analyze whether a 2004 law requiring firms to express prices in the local currency in Peru, which had experienced a high degree of price dollarization, affected the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT). We hypothesize that the enactment of the law introduced menu costs for those firms that set their prices in dollars, prompting several of them to make a permanent switch from dollars to soles. Using disaggregated consumer price index (CPI) data, we find that after the enactment of the law, the ERPT was completely offset for non-durable goods with dollarized prices, and partially offset for durable goods with dollarized prices. These effects could be due to different shares of the imported content, market power and varying mark-ups.
D04|Modelling the distribution of mortgage debt|This paper presents an approach to modelling the flow and the stock of mortgage debt, using loan‑level data. Our approach allows us to consider different macroeconomic scenarios for the housing market, lenders’ and borrowers’ behaviour, and different calibrations of macroprudential policy interventions in a consistent way. This, in turn, allows us to take a forward-looking view about potential risks stemming from the distribution of mortgage debt, as well as assess the impact of potential macroprudential policies in a forward‑looking manner.
D04|Compliance effects of risk-based tax audits|Tax administrations use machine learning to predict risk scores as a basis for selecting individual taxpayers for audit. Audits detect noncompliance immediately, but may also alter future filing behavior. This analysis is the first to estimate compliance effects of audits among high-risk wage earners. We exploit a sharp audit assignment discontinuity in Norway based on individual tax payers risk score. Additional data from a random audit allow us to estimate how the audit effect vary across the risk score distribution. We show that the current risk score audit threshold is set far above the one that maximizes net public revenue.
D04|Correct Me If You Can - Optimal Non-Linear Taxation of Internalities|A growing literature has shown that behavioral biases influence consumer choices. Such so-called internalities are ubiquitous in many settings, including energy efficiency investments and the consumption of sin goods, such as cigarettes and sugar. In this paper, we use a mechanism design approach to characterize the optimal non-linear tax (or subsidy) for correcting behaviorally biased consumers. We demonstrate that market choices are informative about consumers’ bias, which can be exploited for benevolent price discrimination via a non-linear tax schedule. We derive that such “internality revelation” depends on two sufficient statistics: the correlation between valuations and biases, as well as the signal-to-noise ratio of the bias. Furthermore, we find that there must be a minimum alignment of preferences among the designer and the consumer to ensure internality tax implementability. We contrast our results with the insights from standard non-linear income taxation and discuss that the optimal corrective tax schedule is typically convex. In addition, we apply our findings to the light bulb market and determine the optimal non-linear subsidy for energy efficiency.
D04|Projective Paternalism|We study experimentally when, why, and how people intervene in others’ choices. Choice Architects (CAs) construct opportunity sets containing bundles of time-indexed payments for Choosers. CAs frequently prevent impatient choices despite opportunities to provide advice, believing Choosers benefit. We consider several hypotheses concerning CAs’ motives. A conventional behavioral welfarist acts as a correctly informed social planner; a mistakes-projective paternalist removes options she wishes she could reject when choosing for herself; an ideals-projective paternalist seeks to align others’ choices with her own aspirations. Ideals-projective paternalism provides the best explanation for interventions in the laboratory and rationalizes support for actual paternalistic policies.
D04|The Industrial Revolution in General Equilibrium|No abstract is available for this item.
D04|The dynamic effects of tax audits| Understanding tax non-compliance and the effectiveness of strategies to tackle it is crucial for a modern tax authority. In this paper we study how and why audits impact reported tax in the years after audit - the dynamic effect - for individual income taxpayers. We exploit data from a random audit program covering almost 35,000 income tax self assessment returns in the UK. We show that audits raise reported tax liabilities for at least ve years after audit, with the magnitude of the impact declining over time. In total this raises an additional $1; 230 per audited individual in the fi ve years after audit, 1.5 times the direct revenue raised from the audit. Looking by income source, we see that the magnitude of the initial impact is lower for income components which are third party reported, and the impact declines more quickly for components that are more volatile. We develop a model to allow us to distinguish different mechanisms that might explain the presence of dynamic effects, and show our fi ndings can only be explained by audits providing improved information to the tax authority.
D04|The Graduation approach for the reduction of extreme poverty: impact evaluation of Sembrando Oportunidades Familia por Familia in Paraguay|Rural poverty, a widespread problem for the Paraguayan government over the last decade –as well as for other economies in the region-, led to the implementation, in 2016 and 2017, of the “Sembrando Oportunidades Familia por Familia” pilot program, an initiative based on the graduation approach to reduce the incidence of extreme poverty in rural areas. Evaluating the intervention results is essential to understand the effectiveness of this approach in reducing poverty in the Paraguayan context, where the government is in charge of its implementation. For this evaluation, an instrumental-variable impact evaluation and a results evaluation were conducted, showing significant positive changes in the treated households’ productive capacity and savings behavior as well in their perception of wellbeing. These results are useful for the design of a program that can help to effectively overcome extreme poverty in this and other developing countries. This exercise is part of the set of evaluations carried out by the Platform for Evaluation and Learning of the Graduation Program in Latin America (www.plataformagraduacionla.info).
D04|Impacto de la implementación del canal de atención a clientes mineros de la ANM sobre la inversión minera en Colombia|El presente estudio busca medir el impacto de la implementación del Canal de Atención a Clientes Mineros del Grupo de Promoción de la Agencia Nacional de Minería (ANM) sobre la inversión en el sector minero colombiano. Teniendo en cuenta que el uso del canal es voluntario y libre, se optó por aplicar la metodología de emparejamiento PSM, con el fin de corregir el posible sesgo de autoselección causado por la diferencia de las empresas participantes y no participantes. Se encuentra que el canal de atención tiene impacto sobre las inversiones en el sector minero colombiano, toda vez que las empresas con presencia en el país que lo usan invierten en promedio $1.3 millones de pesos más que aquellas empresas que no se benefician de estos canales de atención. Como parte de las recomendaciones derivadas de este ejercicio, se considera que, si la ANM está interesada en determinar la eficacia de otras estrategias de promoción, se debe contar con el listado de las empresas beneficiadas por otro tipo de intervenciones.
D04|International Child Sponsorship and School Performance: Evidence from Goma (DRC)|This paper provides new evidence on the effect of an International Child Support (ICS) program, implemented in ten primary schools located in the outskirts of Goma (Congo, DR), on school performances. Using original micro data in a sample of 309 children (121 treated and 188 control), we explore whether the ICS program impacts on a broad set of alternative educational outcomes - namely, performance scores in 4 different subjects (plus total score), failure rates and school drop-out rates - through a Difference-in-Differences approach. The results show that sponsored children report lower drop-out rates and failure rates with respect to their control peers and, while lagging behind before the program started, in two school years they catch-up in all subjects. Results are robust to the implementation of Coarsened Exact Matching that exploits the structure of the data to produce unbiased estimates along with bounded ex-post balancing.
D04|Industry Competitiveness Indicators|It can be argued that the competitiveness of an industry consists of two main parts: The production conditions and the utilization of these. The production conditions are largely determined by factors exogenous to the firms comprising the industry, including the economic environment, regulatory framework, etc. The utilization of the production conditions corresponds to the classic economic notion of structural efficiency. We here argue that it is crucial for policy analysis to be able to quantify each of these two aspects separately, since the production conditions are partly in the hands of the policy makers, whereas the utilization is mainly the responsibility of firm management. In this paper we define two new bilateral indicators; the Bilateral Industry Utilization (BIU) indicator, and the Bilateral Production Conditions (BPC) indicator. These are applied to a large data set of dairy farms across 19 European countries provided by the Farm Accountancy Data Network (FADN). With focus on the competitiveness of Danish dairy farms we show that dairy farms in most other countries have significantly better production conditions than those in Denmark while Sweden is the only country with significantly better utilization. Finally, we asses potential causes behind the differences and discuss possible remedies.
D04|Under Pressure! Nudging Electricity Consumption within Firms. Feedback from a Field Experiment|"Controlling energy consumption is a serious environmental issue due to global warming and pollution. Public policies are developed in this context. One such policy is the nudge, a form of policy aimed at changing individual behaviors without using financial incentives nor orders, for example by providing information to individuals so as to conduct behaviors in the direction desired by the policymaker. Interestingly ""private nudges"" can be imagined for companies. Many economists and psychologists have studied the impact of nudges on households' pro-environmental behaviors. Yet, studies focusing on nudging employees' energy use are rare. The objective of our paper is precisely to explore this issue from an empirical point of view with the help of a field experiment. Using a difference-in-difference methodology, the effects of three nudges on employees' energy conservation are tested. The first nudge, ""moral appeal"", stresses the responsible use of energy regarding environmental stakes. The second one, ""social comparison"", informs employees on the energy consumption of other firms participating in the experiment. Finally, the third nudge, ""stickers"", alerts employees about good energy conservation practices. The field experiment was conducted at 47 French companies's sites. Our results stress the complementarity of these nudges. When implemented alone, the three nudges have no significant effects on energy consumption. However, when the moral appeal and social comparison nudges are combined with the stickers one, they become effective.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
D04|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the firms' abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A firm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the first best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet effect since the low-cost firms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when firms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We find evidence that the firms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
D04|Addressing Cross-National Generalizability in Educational Impact Evaluation|The evaluation of educational programs has accelerated dramatically in the past quarter century. While such evaluations were once almost exclusively conducted in the U.S., they have broadened dramatically across many countries of the world. At the same time, the methodology has improved, strengthening considerably the internal validity of various studies. We must now consider what conclusions can be drawn from the growing wealth of international results. In particular, available cross-national studies on a variety of topics suggest using caution when generalizing results, because the results vary systematically with a number of institutional characteristics of the different countries that are not explicitly considered in within-country analyses.
D04|Bright Investments: Measuring the Impact of Transport Infrastructure Using Luminosity Data in Haiti|This paper quantifies the impacts of transport infrastructure investments on economic activity in Haiti, using satellite night-light luminosity as a proxy measure. Our identification strategy exploits the differential timing of rehabilitation projects across various road segments of the primary road network. We combine multiple sources of non-traditional data and carefully address concerns related to unobserved heterogeneity. The results obtained across multiple specifications consistently indicate that receiving a road rehabilitation project leads to an increase in luminosity values of between 6% and 26% at the communal section level. Taking into account the national level elasticity between luminosity values and GDP, we approximate that these interventions translate into communal section-GDP increases of between 0.5% and 2.1%, for communal sections benefited by a transport infrastructure project. We observe temporal and spatial variation in results, and crucially that the larger impacts appear once projects are completed and are concentrated within 2 km buffers around the intervened roads. Neither the richest or the poorest communities reap the benefits from road improvements, with gains accruing to those in the middle of the ranking of communal sections, based on unsatisfied basic needs. Our findings provide novel evidence on the role of transport investments in promoting economic activity in developing countries.
D04|Évaluation d’impact d’une nouvelle organisation en chirurgie orthopédique sur les parcours de soins|La coordination des soins avant et après une hospitalisation est importante pour améliorer la qualité de prise en charge des patients et l'efficience du système de santé. Différents protocoles de soins centrés sur le patient ont été développés dans la littérature médicale. Ils sont de plus en plus promus et employés dans les établissements de santé. Dans cette étude, nous évaluons l'impact de la mise en place d'un protocole de Réhabilitation améliorée après chirurgie (Raac) en chirurgie orthopédique sur les parcours de soins dans les cliniques privées. Les données mobilisées proviennent du Programme de médicalisation des systèmes d'information en Médecine, chirurgie, obstétrique (PMSI-MCO) concernant les patients ayant séjourné en établissement de santé pour pose de prothèse de hanche ou du genou dans les cliniques privées. Nous analysons l'impact de la Raac sur les durées de séjour, les modes de sortie (Soins de suite et de réadaptation (SSR) ou domicile) et la probabilité de réadmission à 30 et 90 jours. A partir de régressions en doubles différences, nous comparons les résultats des patients opérés dans les établissements labellisés Raac par le Groupe francophone de réhabilitation améliorée après chirurgie (Grace) avec ceux des patients pris en charge dans des cliniques témoins comparables. On isole l'effet de la Raac en prenant en compte l'impact potentiel d'autres facteurs tels que l'âge, le sexe du patient, son indice de co-morbidité et l'offre de soins proche de la résidence du patient. Les patients opérés dans un service de chirurgie qui pratique la Raac ont, en moyenne, une durée de séjour plus courte que ceux qui sont opérés dans un service de chirurgie classique (-0,4 jour). Ces patients ont une probabilité plus élevée de retour à domicile (OR 1,15), sans avoir un plus grand risque de réadmission. La labellisation Raac semble aussi avoir un impact positif sur le volume d'activité des établissements par le biais de la concurrence en qualité : toutes choses égales par ailleurs, les hôpitaux labélisés Raac ont enregistré un taux de croissance supérieur par rapport aux cliniques témoins.
D04|Assessing the impact of off- and on-the-job training on employment outcomes. A counterfactual evaluation of the PIPOL program|This evaluation study aims to assess the impact of PIPOL, an integrated program of active labor policies, on the employment integration of benefit recipients. To address the issue, we have resorted to a counterfactual approach with data from two main sources: the program administration and compulsory communications on employment and unemployment spells. We found a net impact of 5% on average for on-the-job training, but no impact for off-the-job training. On-the-job training also affects the probability to find permanent work (+3%). This is consistent with the view that young people have excellent theoretical, but very little work-related competences. Off-the-job training does affect the probability to experience at least one labor contract after 2016. These results are partly due to a lock-in effect, namely the tendency of those who attend training programs to delay their job search. Interestingly, we found that the program has a different impact for different typologies of recipients and different types of intervention. In a nutshell, active labor policy works when it generates work-related competences.
D04|Passive Choices and Cognitive Spillovers|"Passive behavior is ubiquitous - even when facing various alternatives to choose from, people commonly fail to take decisions. This paper provides evidence on the cognitive foundations of such ""passive choices"" and studies implications for policies that encourage active decision-making. In an experiment designed to study passive behavior, we document three main results. First, we demonstrate that scarcity of cognitive resources leads to passive behavior. Second, policies that encourage active choice succeed in reducing passivity and improve decisions in the targeted domain. Third, however, these benefits of choice-promoting policies come at the cost of negative cognitive spillovers to other domains."
D04|The Impact of Paid Family Leave on the Timing of Infant Vaccinations|Raising a new-born child involves not only financial resources, but also time investment from the parents. A time constraint can affect important decisions made by parents at the early stages of an infant's life. One form of investment that is particularly important is vaccinating an infant. We analyze the impact of time constraints on immunization of infants on time. To establish a causal relationship, we exploit California's implementation of Paid Parental Leave Program as a natural experiment. Using a nationally representative dataset from the National Immunization Survey, we find evidence that the policy reduced late vaccinations for children born to parents in California after the policy was implemented. We test for heterogeneous effects of the policy on different subgroups in the population. We find the policy had a stronger impact on families that are below the poverty line. We conduct a series of falsification tests and robustness checks to test the validity of the results. In addition, our results are robust to several placebo tests.
D04|Numeracy and Unemployment Duration|Governments are showing an increasing interest in quantitative models that give insights into the determinants of unemployment duration. Yet, these models oftentimes do not explicitly take into account that unemployment prospects are influenced by personality characteristics that are not being fully captured by variables in administrative data. Using German survey data linked with administrative data, we show that numeracy skills are strongly related to unemployment duration, while at the same time we confirm well-established patterns documented in the literature. Low numeracy is strongly related to a longer unemployment duration of workers below median age (33) in our sample, even after including a rich set of controls. We find that unrealistic reservation wages are not the main driver, nor do results seem to be driven by locking-in effects caused by programme participation. On the other hand, the absence of a relationship between numeracy and unemployment duration for older workers might well be driven by a locking-in effect for those with high numeracy, as they tend to commit more often to intensive training programmes. Another tentative explanation, which is supported by the data, is that younger people have fewer signals to send such that their cognitive abilities may have a higher relative signalling value.
D04|Online and offline sales in a spatial economy|"This study analyzes the interplay between cost-sharing and imperfect information among online firms competing with offline firms within an industry. By incorporating firm level quality, it shows how the intensity of cost-sharing, local market size, the number of regions being serviced, and the transport costs affect the expected quality of products, the ""richness"" of the varieties sold in the online market and social welfare. One of our results shows that a high intensity of costsharing, such as costs relating to the warehouse provided by the online platform, forces the lowest-quality firms to exit the online market but has no impact on the entry of higher-quality firms into the offline market. As a result, the average quality of products sold in the online market improves and the product variety decreases. Consequently, the welfare remains unchanged."
D04|Active Choice, Implicit Defaults, and the Incentive to Choose|Home-delivered prescriptions have no delivery charge and lower copayments than prescriptions picked up at a pharmacy. Nevertheless, when home delivery is offered on an opt-in basis, the take-up rate is only 6%. We study a program that makes active choice of either home delivery or pharmacy pick-up a requirement for insurance eligibility. The program introduces an implicit default for those who don’t make an active choice: pharmacy pick-up without insurance subsidies. Under this program, 42% of eligible employees actively choose home delivery, 39% actively choose pharmacy pick-up, and 19% make no active choice and are assigned the implicit default. Individuals who financially benefit most from home delivery are more likely to choose it. Those who benefit least from insurance subsidies are more likely to make no active choice and lose those subsidies. The implicit default incentivizes people to make an active choice, thereby playing a key role in choice architecture.
D04|How Research Affects Policy: Experimental Evidence from 2,150 Brazilian Municipalities|This paper investigates if research findings change political leaders’ beliefs and cause policy change. Collaborating with the National Confederation of Municipalities in Brazil, we work with 2,150 municipalities and the mayors who control their policies. We use experiments to measure mayors’ demand for research information and their response to learning research findings. In one experiment, we find that mayors and other municipal officials are willing to pay to learn the results of impact evaluations, and update their beliefs when informed of the findings. They value larger-sample studies more, while not distinguishing on average between studies conducted in rich and poor countries. In a second experiment, we find that informing mayors about research on a simple and effective policy (reminder letters for taxpayers) increases the probability that their municipality implements the policy by 10 percentage points. In sum, we provide direct evidence that providing research information to political leaders can lead to policy change. Information frictions may thus help explain failures to adopt effective policies.
D04|Blended Finance Evaluation: Governance and Methodological Challenges|There is an urgent need to better understand the role that the use of blended finance in development co-operation can play in achieving the SDGs. By adopting the “Blended Finance Principles for Unlocking Commercial Finance for the SDGs” in 2017, members of the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee have committed to “monitor blended finance for transparency and results”. The practical implications of monitoring and evaluating blended finance are currently being explored with a view to providing further policy guidance on the implementation of such Principles. This paper contributes to the ongoing consultation process s by discussing governance and methodological challenges in blended finance evaluation and proposing a few options to deal with them.In their review of the present practice of blended finance evaluation, as of end 2018, authors identify some key issues that need to be addressed and put forth initial ideas in order to ensure that evaluations improve the knowledge base on blended operations. The paper starts with a discussion of some key management and organizational challenges that influence how blending operations are monitored and evaluated. It continues with an overview of main evaluation methodologies that could be used for blended finance evaluation and challenges associated with applying them, and it outlines the challenges of assessing additionality. The paper concludes with a summary of identified issues from a review of a sample of completed evaluations of blended finance, highlighting the methodological challenges that they reveal.
D04|Effects of a mandatory local currency pricing law on the exchange rate pass-through|This paper discusses whether Law 28300 of 2004, that required Peruvian firms to express their prices in Peru's currency in a context of high price dollarization, affected the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT). We hypothesize that the enactment of the Law introduced menu costs for firms that used to set their prices in dollars, prompting several of them to make a permanent switch to pricing in local currency. Using disaggregated consumer price index (CPI) data, we find that, following passage of the Law, the ERPT was completely offset for non-durable goods with dollarized prices, and partially offset for durable goods with dollarized prices. These effects may vary due to differences in imported component shares, market power, and markup pricing.
D04|Optimal certification policy, entry, and investment in the presence of public signals|We explore the optimal disclosure policy of a certification intermediary in an environment where (i) the seller's decision on entry and investment in product quality are endogenous and (ii) the buyers observe an additional public signal on quality. The intermediary mutes the seller's entry incentives but enhances investment incentives following entry, and the optimal policy maximizes rent extraction from the seller in the face of this trade-off. We identify conditions under which full, partial or no disclosure can be optimal. The intermediary's report becomes noisier as the public signal gets more precise, but if the public signal becomes too precise, the intermediary resorts to full disclosure. In the presence of an intermediary, a more precise public signal may also lead to lower social welfare.
D04|Macroprudential policy in Poland|The main objective of this paper is to present macroprudential measures introduced in Poland compared to other EU Member States. Macroprudential policy is applied to strengthen the resilience of the financial system in case of materialisation of systemic risk and to support long-term sustainable economic growth. In Poland a lot of effort has been made to address the problem of Swiss franc loans. Due to increasing risk weights for FX portfolios, banks have to maintain much more capital to address systemic risk compared to domestic-currency portfolios. Other macroprudential policy instruments were set to evaluate the systemic importance of large banks operating in Poland. Nevertheless, supervisory authorities from Central and Eastern European countries do not have full flexibility in implementing macroprudential policy instruments.
D04|The limits of laws: traffic law enforcement in South Africa|The aim of many public policies is to change behaviour. Governments tend to rely on regulations, taxes and subsidies to effect such change. These measures, which affect agents' economic incentives, have a mixed record. A key insight of the New Institutional Economics is that the efficacy of such formal institutions depends on the strength of their enforcement and the extent to which they are compatible with prevailing informal institutions. This paper uses the road safety situation in South Africa as a case study to explore aspects of the relationships among formal institutions, law enforcement and informal institutions. South Africa has a strong suite of road safety laws but poor road safety outcomes. The paper argues that improved law enforcement cannot fully solve the problem; complementary changes to the informal institutions shaping the behaviour of road-users are essential. It points out that institutional economists have to take a greater interest in the insights of research in behavioural economics, behavioural and cognitive science and other disciplines in order to provide useful advice in settings where such change is an important policy objective.
D04|Do early-ending conditional cash transfer programs crowd out school enrollment?|This paper explores how a conditional cash transfer program influences students’ schooling decisions when program payments stop in the middle of the school career. To that end, I examine Mexico’s Progresa, which covered students only until the end of middle school (at age 15) in its early years. The experimental setup permits to study the program’s impact on the probability to continue with high school after middle school. Despite initial randomization, the program itself has likely rendered the respective samples of middle school graduates in the treatment and the control group incomparable. To account for this, I employ a newly developed semiparametric technique that uses a combination of machine learning methods in conjunction with doubly-robust estimation. I find that exposure to Progresa during middle school reduced the probability to transfer to high school by 10 to 14 percentage points. Possible explanations for this effect include parents’ loss aversion, motivation crowding, anchoring, and classroom peer effects.
D04|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the ﬁrms’ abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A ﬁrm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the ﬁrst best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet eﬀect since the low-cost ﬁrms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when ﬁrms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We ﬁnd evidence that the ﬁrms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
D04|Effects of information and seedling provision on tree planting and survival in smallholder oil palm plantations|Oil palm expansion in Indonesia is associated with a reduction in biodiversity and ecosystem services, as well as livelihood improvements for smallholder farmers. While this dichotomy highlights the importance of sustainable management options, empirical evidence on which policies are effective in stimulating biodiversity-friendly plantation management is relatively scarce. This paper addresses this gap by presenting results from a randomized controlled trial implemented in Jambi province, Sumatra, in 2016. We focus on native tree planting in oil palm plantations as one sustainable management option. To test whether information and input provision affect the number of trees planted by smallholders two treatments were designed: the first provided information about tree planting in oil palm, while the second combined information and seedling delivery. We model adoption in a double-hurdle framework where farmers first decide whether to adopt or not and then how many trees they plant per hectare. Our results suggest that both interventions are effective in stimulating tree planting in oil palm. Seedling provision in combination with information leads to a higher probability of adoption, but farmers plant on average relatively few trees per hectare. In contrast, in the informational treatment, few farmers adopt, but they plant more trees per hectare than farmers who received seedlings. Furthermore, we observe that the survival rate of trees planted is lower for farmers who received seedlings in comparison to farmers who only received information. Since we cannot find evidence for farmer and plot selection effects, it is likely that species choice and seedling quality are the underlying drivers of this difference.
D04|Assessing the Impact of Off- and On-The-Job Training on Employment Outcomes: A Counterfactual Evaluation of the PIPOL Program|This evaluation study aims to assess the impact of PIPOL, an integrated program of active labor policies, on the employment integration of benefit recipients. To address the issue, we have resorted to a counterfactual approach with data from two main sources: the program administration and compulsory communications on employment and unemployment spells. We found a net impact of 5% on average for on-the-job training, but no impact for off-the-job training. On-the-job training also affects the probability to find permanent work (+3%). This is consistent with the view that young people have excellent theoretical, but very little work-related competences. Off-the-job training does affect the probability to experience at least one labor contract after 2016. These results are partly due to a lock-in effect, namely the tendency of those who attend training programs to delay their job search. Interestingly, we found that the program has a different impact for different typologies of recipients and different types of intervention. In a nutshell, active labor policy works when it generates work-related competences.
D04|The (short-term) individual welfare consequences of an alcohol ban|This paper provides the first empirical analysis of the (short-term) welfare consequences of an alcohol ban. Using subjective well-being data to proxy individual welfare, I apply a regression discontinuity design where the date of the implementation of the ban in the German federal state of Baden-Wuerttemberg functions as discontinuity. I find that the ban reduces life satisfaction of the total population and the subpopulation of drinkers, while life satisfaction of nondrinkers is unaffected. My findings are well in line with the rational addiction model perspective.
D04|Reduzierung von landwirtschaftlichen Stickstoffeinträgen in Gewässer: Die Wirksamkeit von Beratung am Beispiel der hessischen WRRL-Beratung|Stickstoffemissionen aus der Landwirtschaft belasten neben anderen Stickstoffquellen Gewässer und andere Umweltmedien, sowohl in Deutschland als auch in anderen Ländern der Europäischen Union und weltweit. Um Landwirte2 von Handlungsänderungen zu überzeugen, werden neben regulativen und ökonomischen Instrumenten in einigen Regionen Beratungsinstrumente angewandt und für die zukünftige Politikgestaltung diskutiert. Es ist jedoch nur sehr begrenzt möglich, die Effektivität von Beratungsdiensten zu beurteilen, und daher ist es unklar, wie hoch die Kostenwirksamkeit von Gewässerschutzberatungen ist. Um zur Lösung dieses Problems beizutragen, wurde als Fallstudie eine Wirkungsanalyse der hessischen Gewässerschutzberatung im Rahmen der EU-Wasserrahmenrichtlinie mit einem aus Empirie und Theorie abgeleiteten Set von Indikatoren durchgeführt. Den Kern der Studie bildete eine standardisierte Befragung, die mit Antworten von 1.477 beratenen und nicht beratenen Landwirten quantitative Analysen erlaubte. Die Befragung wurde vor allem durch Vorinterviews und durch Validierungsrunden mit Beratern und Landwirten sowie durch Transkripte von 18 qualitativen Vertiefungsinterviews mit Landwirten ergänzt. [...]
D04|Social Norms and Pro-Environment Behaviours: Heterogeneous Response to Signals|Previous research has demonstrated an effect on pro-environment behaviours such as household recycling from communicating social norm information to respondents. In this paper, we extend this work by considering the effects of varying (i) the absolute size (strength) of the norm (ii) its geographic scope (iii) whether the norm is stated in relative terms. We also show how previous behaviours interact with social norm information. The context is a stated preference choice experiment on recycling behaviours by households in Poland. The main finding to emerge is that social norm effects on preferences for recycling seem to be very context-dependent. There is no evidence of generalizable effects which would be useful to policy designers.
D04|Improving Children Health and Cognition: Evidence from School-Based Nutrition Intervention in India|We present experimental evidence on the impact of delivering double-fortified salt (DFS), salt fortified with iron and iodine, through the Indian school-feeding program called “mid-day meal” on anemia, cognition, and math and reading scores of primary school children. We conducted a field experiment that randomly provided a one-year supply of DFS at a subsidized price to public primary schools to prepare mid-day meal in one of the poorest regions of India. The DFS treatment had significantly positive impacts on hemoglobin levels and reduced the prevalence of anemia by 20 percent but these health gains did not translate into statistically significant impacts on cognition and test scores. While exploring the heterogeneity in effects, we find that treatment had statistically significant gains in anemia and test scores among children with higher treatment compliance. We further estimate that the intervention was very cost effective and can potentially be scaled up without much financial burden.
D04|Inequality of educational opportunities and the role of learning intensity: Evidence from a quasi-experiment in Germany|Over the 2000s, many federal states in Germany shortened the duration of secondary school by one year while keeping the curriculum unchanged. Exploiting quasi-experimental variation due to the staggered introduction of this reform allows me to identify the causal effect of increased learning intensity on Inequality of Educational Opportunity (IEOp), the share in educational outcome variance explained by predetermined circumstances beyond a student's control. The reform-induced increase in learning intensity had no short-term effect on IEOp. In the medium term, however, IEOp increased as differences in parental resources gained importance through support opportunities like private tuition adapting to the intensified educational process. The effect is stronger for mathematics/science than for reading, implying the existence of subject-dependent curricular flexibilities. My findings point to the importance of accounting for distributional consequences when evaluating reforms aimed at increasing the efficiency of educational systems and to the role of learning intensity for explaining changes in educational opportunities influencing social mobility.
D04|Evaluating regulatory reform of network industries: a survey of empirical models based on categorical proxies|Proxies for regulatory reforms based on categorical variables are increasingly used in empirical evaluation models. We surveyed 63 studies that rely on such indices to analyze the effects of entry liberalization, privatization, unbundling, and independent regulation of the electricity, natural gas, and telecommunications sectors. We highlight methodological issues related to the use of these proxies. Next, taking stock of the literature, we provide practical advice for the design of the empirical strategy and discuss the selection of control and instrumental variables to attenuate endogeneity problems undermining identification of the effects of regulatory reforms.
D04|Policy Evaluation in Behavioral Models|"This paper studies the data requirements to conduct an unambiguous policy evaluation when consumers may exhibit nonstandard preferences. We theoretically analyze how the equilibrium combinations before and after a policy introduction allow to clearly assess different economic indicators. Specifically, we study the data requirements for an unambiguous evaluation of two distinct consumer ""cooling off"" policies in a model in which consumers may exhibit a projection bias when making consumption decisions. We find that market-level data can help to make simple policy evaluations using baseline statistics and sometimes even discriminate between different classes of consumer preferences. We further discuss the generalizability to other models and the use for ex-ante policy design."
D04|A review of balancing costs in Italy before and after RES introduction|The massive introduction of RES in electricity markets is recognized to have induced a merit order effect on wholesale prices. While day-ahead prices are likely to decline as RES-E production increases, the effects on balancing market sessions are more ambiguous. Taking into account the Northern Italian zone characterized by a high solar PV and hydro penetration, we provide empirical evidence that balancing quantities decreased while costs increased between two samples associated with low (2006–08) and high (2013–15) RES levels. We estimate balancing costs for different technologies and compare their dynamics across specific hours. We find evidence of increasing balancing prices in particular market conditions, that we interpret as a signal of strategic use of real time sessions by conventional producers prone to the merit order effect in the day-ahead market. We compare our results to those obtained in the German market (where, on the contrary, balancing costs have decreased) and postulate that the different market designs may explain these results. Our findings suggest that the Italian policy makers should carefully monitor all trading sessions, especially those close to real time, to avoid the exercise of market power by few operators allowed to guarantee system security and, additionally, to promptly adopt a capacity market.
D04|Optimal Contracts for Discouraging Deforestation with Risk Averse Agents|There is an emerging consensus that carbon emissions must be limited. An attractive approach to promoting carbon reductions is to encourage reductions in deforestation. But any such strategy must confront a basic problem: agents that might be induced to reduce their actions which would reduce forests have private information about their opportunity costs. This concern seems particularly likely to apply in situations where there are significant related risks, as agents seem highly likely to differ in their tolerance for risk. In this paper, I investigate a contracting scheme designed to mitigate the asymmetric information problem where agents are heterogeneous in their tolerance for risk. Mechanisms that recognize the potential insurance value associated with the acquisition of sequestration services, and that pay attention to landholders’ private information about risk tolerance, offer a sensible way to approach the problem. These contracts are generally a cheaper approach to maintenance of forests than a simple, constant per-unit subsidy.
D04|Spin Doctors: A Model and an Experimental Investigation of Vague Disclosure|Unfavorable news are often delivered under the disguise of vagueness. But are people sufficiently naive to be fooled by such positive spin? We use a theoretical model and a laboratory experiment to study the strategic use of vagueness in a voluntary disclosure game. Consider a sender who aims at inflating a receiver’s estimate of her type and who may disclose any interval that contains her actual type. Theory predicts that when facing a possibly naive receiver, the sender discloses an interval that separates her from worse types but is upwardly vague. Senders in the experiment adopt this strategy and some (naive) receivers are systematically misled by it. Imposing precise disclosure leads to less, but more easily interpretable, disclosure. Both theory and experimental data further suggest that imposing precision improves overall information transmission and is especially beneficial to naive receivers. Our results have implications for the rules that govern the disclosure of quality-relevant information by firms, the disclosure of research findings by scientists, and testimonies in a court of law.
D04|Does Regulation Discourage Investors? Sales Price Effects of Rent Controls in Germany|We analyze the extent to which sales prices for residential housing react to rent-price regulation. To this end, we exploit changes in apartment prices across the regulation treatment threshold. We examine a quasi-natural design in the German federal state of Brandenburg using transaction price data provided by the committee of evaluation experts. Brandenburg introduced both a capping limit for existing rental contracts as well as a price ceiling for new contracts for municipalities with tight housing markets in 2014. Whether or not a municipality falls under this classification is based upon a municipality’s housing market characteristics, which are translated into a specific score. This allows us to employ a regression discontinuity design with a sharp cutoff point. We compare sales prices in municipalities that are located marginally above the assignment threshold with the prices in those slightly below. Our results suggest that the regulations reduced sales prices for affected apartments by 20–30 %.
D04|Changes in subjective well-being, aspirations and expectations in participants of poverty alleviation programs: A qualitative analysis of Produciendo Por Mi Futuro in Colombia|This document presents the results of the qualitative analysis on the understanding of well-being and the changes in life satisfaction, aspirations and expectations in the participants of the Produciendo por mi Futuro program in Colombia, a poverty-reduction intervention implemented by Prosperidad Social, that is based on the graduation programs developed initially by the BRAC Development Institute of Bangladesh. The qualitative analysis was carried out using the biographical method called Life Stories. The results indicate that the conception of the wellbeing of the participants involves not only socio-economic dimensions but also others such as keeping the family together or feeling calm, at peace or happy. The frequency with which some elements associated with the notion of well-being are mentioned varies over time and this variation may be related to seasonal changes such as rain or drought, or school seasons, vacations or holidays, or with various shocks faced by the participants during the implementation of the program. Life satisfaction increased for the participants, although the increase was greater and more sustained in participants who started the program with lower life satisfaction compared with their peers. The aspirations and expectations improved for most of the participants; however, it was found that expectations increased more for those who started with lower wellbeing perceptions and expectations, who, in turn, were those who exhibited, relative to their peers, a poverty dynamic with greater limitations and worse socioeconomic conditions. at the beginning of the intervention.
D04|Exports and labor costs: evidence from a French policy|Abstract We investigate the role that labor costs hold in exporters’ performance. To do so, we exploit a large-scale French reform that granted most firms a tax credit proportional to the wagebill of their employees paid below a given threshold. This policy effectively translated into a cut in labor cost whose magnitude varies depending on firm-specific wage structures. We use the predicted treatment intensity based on pre-reform composition of the labor force as an instrument for the actual policy-induced firm-level change in labor costs. Although our point estimates are consistent with commonly estimated firm-level trade elasticities combined with reasonable labor shares in total costs, coefficients are found to be very noisy, suggesting lack of robust evidence of a causal effect of the policy. We discuss several potential explanations for our results as well as their implications.
D04|Statistical Discrimination and Affirmative Action in the Lab|We present results from laboratory experiments studying the impacts of affirmative action policies. We induce statistical discrimination in simple labor-market interactions between firms and workers. We then introduce affirmative-action policies that vary in the size and duration of a subsidy firms receive for hiring discriminated-against workers. These different affirmative-action policies have nearly the same effect and practically eliminate discriminatory hiring practices. However, once lifted, few positive effects remain and discrimination reverts to its initial levels. One exception is lengthy affirmative-action policies, which exhibit somewhat longer-lived effects. Stickiness of beliefs, which we elicit, helps explain the evolution of these outcomes.
D04|The (Short-Term) Individual Welfare Consequences of an Alcohol Ban|This paper provides the first empirical analysis of the (short-term) welfare consequences of an alcohol ban. Using subjective well-being data to proxy individual welfare, I apply a regression discontinuity design where the date of the implementation of the ban in the German federal state of Baden-Wuerttemberg functions as discontinuity. I find that the ban reduces life satisfaction of the total population and the subpopulation of drinkers, while life satisfaction of nondrinkers is unaffected. My findings are well in line with the rational addiction model perspective.
D04|The Gender Gap in Wage Expectations: Do Young Women Trade off Higher Wages for Lower Wage Risk?|Several studies show that young women start with lower wage expectations than men, even before entering the labor market and that this partly translates into the actual gender wage gap through effects on educational choice and the formation of reservation wages. Building on the theoretical reasoning of compensating differentials proposing that the labor market compensates higher wage risk with higher wages, this study investigates whether the gender gap in wage expectations can be explained by individuals anticipating this form of risk compensation. Relying on a unique survey on German high school graduates in which we elicited information on the entire distribution of expected wages, this study documents that already at this early stage, female students expect to earn around 16% less than their male counterparts. At the same time, they expect lower wage risk as measured by the individual-specific dispersion in wage expectations. I decompose the gender gap into components attributable to socio-demographic factors, academic performance and skills, intended college major choice, career motives, personality traits, economic preferences, measures for students’ confidence and expected wage risk. The results indicate that anticipated compensation for wage risk plays a major role in explaining the gender gap in wage expectations suggesting that females have lower wage expectations because they are willing to trade off higher wages for lower wage risk. The results of this study shed light on why young women make different choices regarding education and careers, thereby enhancing our understanding of the observed gender wage gap.
D04|A game theory approach to optimizing the banking and financial resolution framework|Before the 2007-2008 financial crisis, creditinstitutions were assured (though not officially or formally) that if they were large enough they would be rescued with tax-payers’ money, an action also known as bail-out, denoting what became known as the “too big to fail” paradigm. The introduction of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (2014/59/EU) proposes a legal framework that aims at eliminating the possibility of bailing-out institutions. This paper has the objective of assessing througha game theory approachto what extent the BRRDirectivehas the potential to achieve its purpose and if there are identifiable possible improvements to this framework that could be considered for practical purposes or for a possible future review of the legal framework.The term institution, for the purpose of this paper, refers to credit institutions but can also be read as referring to other types of financial institutions such as investment firms or insurance companies
D04|Robust comparative statics for non-monotone shocks in large aggregative games|A policy change that involves a redistribution of income or wealth is typically controversial, affecting some people positively but others negatively. In this paper we extend the “robust comparative statics” result for large aggregative games established by Acemoglu and Jensen (2010) to possibly controversial policy changes. In particular, we show that both the smallest and the largest equilibrium values of an aggregate variable increase in response to a policy change to which individuals' reactions may be mixed but the overall aggregate response is positive. We provide sufficient conditions for such a policy change in terms of distributional changes in parameters.
D04|Private behandlingsforsikringer – status og mulige konsekvenser på effektivitet og fordeling|I dette notatet redegjøres det innledningsvis for utvikling i antallet som har en privat behandlingsforsikring i Norge og hva status er vedrørende bestandspremier, erstatnings-utbetalinger, antall meldte skader og selskapenes markedsandeler. Deretter oppsummeres hovedfunn fra forskning på norske data når det gjelder hvem som er omfattet av slike forsikringer og hva de mulige motivene for kjøp av slike forsikringer er. Avslutningsvis presenteres mulige samfunnsmessige konsekvenser som følger av et marked for private behandlingsforsikringer samtidig som det gis det en drøfting av mulige fordelingspolitiske konsekvenser av eksistensen av et slikt marked. Det argumenteres for at private behandlingsforsikringer gir høyere prioritert til en gruppe i form av redusert ventetid som igjen svekker både horisontal - og vertikal likhet.
D04|The Economic and Ecological Impact of Natural Resource Extraction: The Case of the Camisea Gas Project in Peru|This paper presents the first rigorous empirical evidence of the impact of a large hydrocarbon project in both its economic and environmental dimension. Concentrating on Peru’s largest hydrocarbon project, the Camisea Gas Project, which began operating in the dense Amazonian jungle under strict environmental safeguards in 2004, we assess whether natural resource extraction can have beneficial economic effects without causing negative environmental externalities. The analysis relies on the synthetic control method to systematically choose comparison units (departments), which allows for precise quantitative inference in small-sample studies. Our results indicate that in six of the eight years since the Camisea gas fields began operating, local economic effects, as measured by nighttime lights data, are robustly positive. An examination of remotely-sensed vegetation data suggests that the Camisea Gas Project did not have a significant effect on deforestation, suggesting that the implementation of stringent safeguards can help mitigate environmental risks.
D04|Madrasah for girls and private school for boys? The determinants of school type choice in rural and urban Indonesia|Using a nationally representative data set on Indonesian households and villages, we study the determinants of enrolment in Islamic schools (i.e. madrasahs) and private schools vis-à-vis government schools. Multinomial logit estimates indicate that madrasahs systematically attract children from poorer households, rural locations and less educated parents while the opposite is true for private school enrolment. Moreover, girls are significantly more likely to be in madrasahs, irrespective of their locations, while boys enjoy a higher probability of enrolment in non-madrasah schools, particularly in urban areas. A significant effect of household income remains even after factoring out the influence of child characteristics, parental background, and village characteristics. Therefore policies that reduce household poverty are likely to reduce demand for Islamic schooling. However the presence of a “girl effect” in madrasah enrolment independent of household income and location factors is puzzling and underscores the need to better understand the socio-cultural determinants of school choice in Indonesia.
D04|Nudging in education|Can we nudge children, adolescents and their parents to make better decisions on education? And can we nudge teachers to support and encourage better decision making? Education decisions are taken at young ages and involve immediate costs and potential, future benefits. In such settings behavioural barriers (e.g. lack of self-control, limited attention and social norms) likely influence choices and this may motivate the use of low cost ‘nudges’ to gently push behaviour in the desired direction. Our review of nudging interventions shows that while nudging often has positive effects, the greatest effects often arise for individuals affected most by the behavioural barrier targeted by the intervention. Hence understanding underlying behavioural mechanisms is crucial. Negative effects may arise in situations where nudges potentially crowd-out intrinsic motivation, if nudges pressurise individuals, or in situations where the choice architect has an insufficient understanding of behavioural mechanisms.
D04|The Effect of Quarantining Welfare on School Attendance in Indigenous Communities|We analyze the impact of a recent initiative by the Australian Government to reduce disadvantage and improve children's welfare in Aboriginal communities. The policy – known as income management – quarantines 50 percent of welfare payments to be spent on priority goods (e.g., food, housing, education) and not on socially harmful goods (drugs, pornography, gambling). Our focus is on children's school attendance, which is a precise, high-frequency measure of community functionality and a key policy objective. We identify the causal impact of income management on attendance rates by exploiting exogenous variation in its staggered rollout across communities. We find no evidence that income management increased attendance. Rather, the introduction of income management reduced attendance by 2.7 percentage points (4 percent) on average in the first five months after which attendance eventually returned to its initial level. The attendance penalty is similar for boys and girls, but is larger for secondary school students and students with a tendency to attend school regularly. Exploring the potential mechanisms, we show that income management did not significantly affect student enrollments or mobility patterns into and out of Aboriginal communities. Nor are our results explained by confoundedness with other policy initiatives. Instead, we find that the attendance penalty associated with the introduction of income management is virtually zero after the adoption of more exible administrative arrangements suggesting that implementation issues may be responsible for the temporary reduction in school attendance that we observe.
D04|Stand Against Bullying: An Experimental School Intervention|Despite the growing evidence on the negative consequences of school bullying, there is no consensus regarding the most effective strategies to fight this problem. We study the impact of a randomized intervention to reduce school bullying in urban public schools in Peru, a country where violence re-mains a major challenge. The intervention consisted of two components: i) increasing awareness among students about the negative consequences of bullying and encouraging them to stand against this problem, and ii) facilitate students' ability to report violent incidents, by promoting the use of a new Government program for submitting online confidential reports. Our results indicate that the intervention reduced students' bystander behavior and increased their willingness to report violence. Using administrative data, we also find that the intervention reduced the likelihood of changing schools and of dropping out, and improved student achievement in standardized tests in the medium term. Importantly, we find that the intervention had a more limited impact among children that are exposed to violence at home. While depression and isolation were significantly reduced among non-exposed students, this effect disappears among children living in a violent environment. Overall, these findings are promising and reveal that encouraging students to stand up against bullying and providing them with the means to do it may have beneficial effects over their well-being and educational performance, even in violent settings.
D04|Testing a Social Innovation in Financial Aid for Low-Income Students: Experimental Evidence from Italy|This paper presents the results of a randomized controlled trial aimed at testing the effectiveness of an innovative intervention of asset building (Percorsi) on high school students' transition to the university. Contrary to most traditional forms of financial aid, the tested intervention is expected to enhance an active involvement of the families and imposes a strong conditionality in the use of the benefits. The experiment, called ACHAB (Affording College with the Help of Asset Building) has been carried out in the province of Torino (Northwest Italy) between 2014 and 2017. For the evaluation purpose, an ad hoc survey has been carried out to collect longitudinal information on enrolment decisions and academic performances (number of exams and persistence) during the first semester and at the beginning of the second year. External data and applicant baseline information were used to perform a multidimensional targeting strategy aimed at identifying the 'target population', i.e. those students who were at risk of giving up their university enrolment decisions because of economic reasons. The experimental results point to the existence of positive and significant effects of the program on university enrolment and sizeable and significant positive effects on academic performance and university persistence. The effects of the program are significantly larger for students coming from vocational schools than for students who completed technical or general secondary schools.
D04|Does on-the-job training help graduates find a job? Evidence from an Italian region|"This paper provides an evaluation of a training programme for graduates entitled ""Work Experience for Graduates"" (WELL - Work Experience Laureati and Laureate) that was recently implemented in Italy. The aim of the programme was to increase the career prospects of unemployed graduates in the region of Umbria. It consisted of two measures: (i) on-the-job training for unemployed graduates, and (ii) wage subsidies to firms and organisations for hiring the trainees at the end of the programme. We rely on administrative data and match- ing methods to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention in terms of the employability of participants. Results indicate that WELL participants are more likely to be employed and to sign an apprenticeship contract within the region. We also find substantial gender differences in employability and the type of contract obtained, with men having a higher probability of finding a job (permanent contract or apprenticeship). We show that this may be explained by different choices in terms of field of study, with males being more prone to enrolling in scientific areas and females in the humanities."
D04|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. A multivariate co-integration analysis|This paper applied the ARDL bounds test approach and the VECM test technique to examine the long run relationship and direction of causality between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. Quarterly time series data was employed in this study covering a period between 1990 and 2014. Trade openness, capital and employment were included in the study to form a multivariate framework. The results established that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The VECM test technique confirmed a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. This implies that energy conservation policies may not harm the economic growth. The study, therefore, suggest that an appropriate and effective energy policy should be implemented in the long run.
D04|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia
D04|Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth in Turkey. An ARDL Bounds Testing Approach|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
D04|The causal links between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
D04|An Evaluation of the CPI Indexes for Prescription Drugs|The prescription drug component of the Consumer Price Index (CPI measures recent and past drug price changes, and provides the basis for projecting future price trends and health care expenditures. However, there are concerns about the adequacy of the price data because of recent changes in the structure of the market for prescription drugs. We compare the prescription drug data of the CPI with a large alternative data set from the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science. We analyze the overall consistency if the data from the two sources, and examine the influence of the large shift from brand to generic drug sales and the increased reliance on third party insurance plans that are excluded from the CPI sampling frame.
D04|Artificial Intelligence and Consumer Privacy|Thanks to big data, artificial intelligence (AI) has spurred exciting innovations. In the meantime, AI and big data are reshaping the risk in consumer privacy and data security. In this essay, I first define the nature of the problem and then present a few facts about the ongoing risk. The bulk of the essay describes how the U.S. market copes with the risk in current policy environment. It concludes with key challenges facing researchers and policy makers.
D04|Amateurs Crowds & Professional Entrepreneurs as Platform Complementors|Platforms often have “crowds” of amateurs working on them as complementors, in other cases professional entrepreneurs—or both. What can a platform owner do to implement these outcomes? I document evidence on mobile app developers showing that just small, incremental changes in platform design—related to the bare minimum costs required to build an app and factors affecting non-pecuniary payoffs—can lead the “bottom-to-fall-out” of the market to amateurs. Where the bottom-falls-out, there is a flood of lowest-quality developers who nonetheless are long-lived on the platform and engage in relatively high development activity. I find no evidence that amateurs crowd-out development activity of top developers in this context. Moreover, the bottom-falling-out is associated with the generation of significantly greater numbers of highest-quality products. I discuss several interpretations.
D04|How Costly Are Markups?|We study the welfare costs of markups in a dynamic model with heterogeneous firms and endogenously variable markups. We find that the welfare costs of markups are large. We decompose the costs of markups into three channels: (i) an aggregate markup that acts like a uniform output tax, (ii) misallocation of factors of production, and (iii) an inefficiently low rate of entry. We find that the aggregate markup accounts for about two-thirds of the costs, misallocation accounts for about one-third, and the costs due to inefficient entry are negligible. We evaluate simple policies aimed at reducing the costs of markups. Subsidizing entry is not an effective tool in our model: while more competition reduces individual firms' markups it also reallocates market shares towards larger firms and the net effect is that the aggregate markup hardly changes. Size-dependent policies aimed at reducing concentration can reduce the aggregate markup but have the side effect of greatly increasing misallocation and reducing aggregate productivity.
D04|Government Decentralization Under Changing State Capacity: Experimental Evidence From Paraguay|Standard models of hierarchy assume that agents and middle managers are better informed than principals about how to implement a particular task. We estimate the value of the informational advantage held by supervisors – middle managers – when ministerial leadership – the principal – introduced a new monitoring technology aimed at improving the performance of agricultural extension agents (AEAs) in rural Paraguay. Our approach employs a novel experimental design that elicited treatment-priority rankings from supervisors before randomization of treatment. We find that supervisors did have valuable information—they prioritized AEAs who would be more responsive to the monitoring treatment. We develop a model of monitoring under different allocation rules and roll-out scales (i.e., the share of AEAs to receive treatment). We semi-parametrically estimate marginal treatment effects (MTEs) to demonstrate that the value of information and the benefits to decentralizing treatment decisions depend crucially on the sophistication of the principal and on the scale of roll-out.
D04|Rational Inattention, Competitive Supply, and Psychometrics|Costs of attention, while central to choice behavior, have proven hard to measure. We introduce a simple method of recovering them from choice data. Our recovery method rests on the observation that costs of attention play precisely the same role in consumer choice as do a competitive firm's costs of production in its supply decision. This analogy extends to welfare analysis: consumer welfare net of attention costs is measured in precisely the same way as the profits of a competitive firm. We implement our recovery method in a purpose-built experiment. We quantitatively assess the trade-off between reward level and task complexity. Estimated attention costs are highly correlated with decision time, an important common input in process-based models of attention.
D04|Treatment Effects with Multiple Outcomes|This paper proposes strategies for defining, identifying, and estimating features of treatment-effect distributions in contexts where multiple outcomes are of interest. After describing existing empirical approaches used in such settings, the paper develops a notion of treatment preference that is shown to be a feature of standard treatment-effect analysis in the single-outcome case. Focusing largely on binary outcomes, treatment-preference probability treatment effects (PTEs) are defined and are seen to correspond to familiar average treatment effects in the single-outcome case. The paper suggests seven possible characterizations of treatment preference appropriate to multiple-outcome contexts. Under standard assumptions about unconfoundedness of treatment assignment, the PTEs are shown to be point identified for three of the seven characterizations and set identified for the other four. Probability bounds are derived and empirical approaches to estimating the bounds—or the PTEs themselves in the point-identified cases—are suggested. These empirical approaches are straightforward, involving in most instances little more than estimation of binary-outcome probability models of what are commonly known as composite outcomes. The results are illustrated with simulated data and in analyses of two microdata samples. Finally, the main results are extended to situations where the component outcomes are ordered or categorical.
D04|Replication and reconciling of the CICE evaluations on employment (2013-2014)|We reproduce the main estimates of the effects of the CICE (Tax Credit for Competitiveness and Employment) on employment presented by the TEPP and LIEPP teams for France Stratégie based on the methodological indications described in their first research reports (september 2016 and march 2017). After the reconstitution of the samples, globally validated by comparisons in descriptive statistics, we reproduce their different empirical strategies. The effects on employment reproduced are consistent with the results presented by TEPP: positive, significant and of the same order of magnitude for the firms most exposed to the CICE (fourth quartile of exposure to the CICE). On the other hand, the effects on employment by socio-professional category do not reproduce the results of TEPP. For LIEPP, the replication of the methodology leads to results similar to those presented in their report on aggregate employment in 2013 and 2014 (no significant and positive effect), and as well as on the breakdown by socio-professional category. We then compare the specifications of the two teams. The differences in results persist on a common sample, and are robust to the linear or non-linear specification of the treatment. However, we observe a particular sensitivity of the results to the presence or absence of past productivity of firms, in level, among the explanatory variables of employment growth. We present two reconciled specifications that lead to consistent results, shedding light on origins of the divergence. We do not conclude on employment effects of the CICE, as the work of the two teams is still ongoing.
D04|Evaluating the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity: Impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other approaches|This report provides an overview of methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity, covering impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other more commonly used approaches. It then provides an inventory of biodiversity-relevant impact evaluation studies, across both terrestrial and marine ecosystems. The report concludes with lessons learned, policy insights and suggestions for further work.
D04|Private vs Public incentives: an experiment on motivation crowding and social trust|Relying on a threshold public good game, we experimentally investigate the effect of two types of incentives on prosocial behaviours. On the one hand, a private type of incentive targets individuals by reducing their cost of contribution. On the other hand, a public type of incentive targets groups by providing an investment that directly support the achievement of the collective objective (i.e. the threshold in the public good game). Thus, we study how expectations on others determine the impact of incentives on prosocial behaviours and how incentives themselves affect these expectations in turn. We interpret this mutual relation as reflecting an endogenous relation between incentive provision and social trust.
D04|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia.
D04|Investigating the linkage between Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth: The case of Turkey|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
D04|Cessation of activity benefit of Spanish self-employed workers: a heterogeneous impact evaluation|The goal of this paper is to evaluate the effects of a public policy implemented through the Spanish Social Security system: the Cessation of Activity Benefit (CAB) for self-employed workers. Making use of the Continuous Sample of Working Lives (MCVL) and by means of a Propensity Score Matching (PSM) methodology, our results show that, when we do not take into account heterogeneity in the treatment, self-employed workers receiving CAB experience non-employment spells between 22 and 33 logarithmic points longer than their not entitled counterparts. We also detect that this difference is not constant but depends on the likelihood of being treated. We believe that the two traditional problems that affect the insurance markets, consequence of the asymmetric information, adverse selection and moral hazard, are behind these results.
D04|The causal linkages between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
D04|Synthesizing Cash for Clunkers: Stabilizing the Car Market, Hurting the Environment|We examine the impact of European car scrappage programs on new vehicle registrations and respective CO2 emissions. To construct proper counterfactuals, we develop MSCM-T, the multivariate synthetic control method using time series of economic predictors. Applying MSCM-T to a rich data set covering two outcomes of interest, ten economic predictors, and 23 countries, we first analyze Germany which implemented the largest program. We find that the German subsidy had an immensely positive effect of 1.3 million program-induced new car registrations. Disentangling this effect reveals that almost one million purchases were not pulled forward from future periods, worth more than three times the program's 5 billion budget. However, stabilizing the car market came at the cost of 2.4 million tons of additional CO2 emissions. For other European countries with comparable car retirement schemes, we show further positive results regarding vehicle registrations. Finally, we demonstrate that all non-scrapping countries could have considerably backed their vehicle markets by adopting scrappage subsidies.
D04|Impact of Governance on Economic Growth|The impacts of governance on economic growth is still only partially understood. The aim of this researh to understand the impact of governance on the economic growth. This study finds that control of corruption is a critical factor for economic growth and one unit increases in control of corruption causes 6.9% increse in the economic growth. However, it is important to manage both corruption control and political stability and absence of violence/ terrorism indicators effectively to achive a higher economic growth. In comparition to the European Union countries and the North American countries, the economic growth rate is significantly lower in all other regions except the Middle East and North Africa. The economic growth rate in high-income countries is 20% higher than the middle income countries. On the other hand, the low-income countries show 23.5% lower economic growth than the middle income countries. This research used data from 145 countries for the period of 2002-2014. The included governance variables are control of corruption, political stability and absence of violence/terrorism, and voice and accountability. foreign direct investments, gross capital formation, government consumption, and trade openness were taken into account the model, to control their effects on economic growth. Dummy variables were included to capture the regional effects and the effects of the income level of the countries. The fixed effects and random effects techniques were applied in a balanced panel. The main data sources are the Worldwide Governance Indicators and the World Development Indicators databases.
D04|Poverty and unemployment in Spain during the 2008's financial crises|The main objective of this paper is to examine the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in the level of poverty and income inequality during and after the 2008 global financial crisis in Spain. Secondary household survey data from the European Union database (EU_SLIC) for 2008 and 2014 was used for the descriptive and inferential statistics. The two years are chosen purposely since 2008 was the year that the global financial crisis began, and 2014 was the year that unemployment rate was very high and Spain's economy was starting to revive from the crisis. Binary Logistic regression is used for inferential statistics since the dependent variable (being poor) is a binary variable and basic activity status(with four categorical variables), citizenship (with three categorical variables) and a number of workers in the household (as a ratio of the total number of individuals in the household) are used as explanatory variables. Based on the descriptive and inferential statistics results, the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in poverty rate and income inequality was high in Spain during and after the 2008 global financial crisis. The probability of being poor for unemployed increases from 0.18 in 2008 to 0.255 in 2014. Being unemployed, being inactive households, and being from other citizens are more likely to poor compared with workers, and local citizens respectively.
D04|Consumer exploitation and notice periods|Firms often set long notice periods when consumers cancel a contract, and sometimes do so even when the costs of changing or canceling the contract are small. We investigate a model in which a firm offers a contract to consumers who may procrastinate canceling it due to naive present-bias. We show that the firm may set a long notice period to exploit naive consumers.
D04|Financial Inclusion, Financial Regulation, Financial Literacy, Financial Education in the Kyrgyz Republic|While financial inclusion is considered one of the key drivers of development today, it is quite new to the Kyrgyz Republic. The Kyrgyz Republic attempted to introduce the notion of financial inclusion after a violent power shift in 2010. The economy experienced an overall decline, the banking sector shrank, and financial intermediation slowed down. The National Bank introduced a number of regulatory measures to tighten the supervision of the financial sector and increase consumer protection. Some of the efforts have worked well: the banking sector has rebounded, savings have been mobilized, and financial markets have started developing. However, national development patterns, such as unstable economic growth, a high poverty rate, and weak governance are the key vulnerabilities for increasing inclusivity of financial products and services. Income inequality, especially when comparing rural versus urban areas, is substantial and restricts access to financial services for the rural population. Small and medium-sized enterprises face barriers for getting sufficient financing because of high collateral requirements. The population has a low level of financial literacy and is reluctant to use modern financial services. Our analysis suggests an urgent need for consolidated efforts to include more people and businesses into financial activities, mobilize their savings, and improve access to credit.
D04|A New Perspective on Valuating of Common Stocks|AbstractThe hypothesis of this paper states the value of a firm and value of a corresponding stock are tightly connected. So, the ?right?value of a company directly leads to the ?right? value of a related stock. The research topic is to find out i.e. to establish how and in what extent new appraisal approach Compounded Cash Flow method (CCF method) effects the value of a stock. The CCF method is theoretically well founded, applicable in practice and it serves for valuating any business. By this method the company's value can be estimated (valuated) at the certain part of time and compared to the current stock price on the stock market, and the additional advantage of this method is risk elimination of misevaluating for the certain extend incomes is not very high.The aim of this paper is to point out the importance of combining several appraisal methods in establishing the ?right? value of a stock i.e. establishing if a stock currently is over or under valuated on the market. It?s to be concluded that this paper approaches the stock evaluation as an ideal segment of a firm. The quality of firm?s business and its potentials are often strong indicators of the stock value in long term. Combined with the usual methods CCF method provides a more precise firm evaluation, i.e. more precise stock evaluation.
D04|Social norms and pro-environment behaviours: heterogeneous response to signals|Previous research on pro-environment behaviours demonstrated an effect of communicating social norms to subjects. In this paper, we extend this work by isolating the effects of information about (i) the absolute level (strength) of the norm (ii) its geographic proximity (iii) whether the norm is stated in relative terms. We also show how previous pro-environmental behaviours interact with social norm information. The context is a stated preference choice experiment on recycling behaviours by households in Poland. The main finding to emerge is that social norm effects on preferences seem to be very context-dependent; there is no evidence of generalizable effects which would be useful to policy designers.
D04|The Triple Trigger? Negative Equity, Income Shocks and Institutions as Determinants of Mortgage Default|In understanding the determinants of mortgage default, the consensus has moved from an 'option theory' model to the 'double trigger' hypothesis. Nonetheless, that consensus is based on within-country studies of default. This paper examines the determinants of mortgage default across five European countries, using a large dataset of over 2.3 million active mortgage loans originated between 1991 and 2013 across over 150 banks. The analysis finds support for the double trigger hypothesis: changes in unemployment are important determinants of default, while negative equity itself is a relatively small contributor to default. Nonetheless, the effect of variables such as the interest rate and unemployment is stronger for those in negative equity. The double trigger, however, varies by country: country-specific factors are found to have a large effect on default rates. For any given level of LTV, and as LTV changes, borrowers were more sensitive to the interest rate and unemployment in Ireland and Portugal than in the UK or the Netherlands.
D04|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues|Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
D04|Responsibility-based allocation of cartel damages|Anti-trust infringers are liable jointly and severally, i.e., any offender may be sued and forced to compensate a victim on behalf of all. EU law then grants the singled-out firm a right to internal redress: all infringers are obliged to contribute in proportion to their relative responsibility for the victim’s harm. We operationalize this for hardcore cartels. Responsibility is inferred from how much lower damages could have been, had one or more offenders refused to collaborate. This calls for applying the Shapley value to a model of overcharges. Resulting allocations are characterized for selected market environments and compared to ad hoc distributions based on market shares or profits. A new decomposition of the Shapley value helps to establish bounds on payment obligations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D04|A tiger by the tail: estimating the UK mortgage market vulnerabilities from loan-level data|Following the global financial crisis, macroprudential regulators in a number of countries took actions to mitigate risks arising from stressed mortgage markets to financial and economic stability. Having disaggregated information on the stock of mortgages allows policymakers to analyse particular cohorts of the market that may be more vulnerable to stress, and model how these cohorts may evolve in the future and might affect the outlook for financial and economic stability. To this end, we produce the first ever estimate of the current stock of all regulated UK mortgages at the level of individual loans using data from the flow of new mortgages. We use loan-level information of 14 million UK mortgages at the point each loan was originated or re-mortgaged. Using a series of algorithms from Computer Science, we identify individual loans in the flow of lending that are likely to be still in the stock at different points in time. Then we estimate how key characteristics of mortgages (including borrower incomes, house prices and outstanding loan amounts) are likely to have evolved over time since origination. We validate our overall model by comparing key variables to information available from other sources that provide partial characteristics of the stock, including household surveys and regulatory returns. Our stock estimate suggests that there may have been more vulnerable borrowers in recent years than household surveys suggest. Finally, we illustrate the type of cohort analysis that can be done using the loan-level estimate.
D04|Small Systems, Big Targets: Power Sector Reforms and Renewable Energy Development in Small Electricity Systems|The dominant focus of much policy attention of late has been on the suitability of electricity market reform carried out under the 'standard' or prescriptive approach - the end point of which is market liberalization - for the integration of intermittent renewables. There is now a growing consensus around the argument that traditional energy-only electricity markets where prices are based on system marginal cost cannot function efficiently with both fossil fuels and renewables, potentially resulting in market disruptions and price volatility. Consequently, most policy discussion has focused on finding ways to successfully integrate the two through adopting advanced competitive solutions (such as the use of capacity markets in addition to energy-only markets) in larger electricity systems. This paper however argues that the effectiveness of competition is limited by the size of an electricity system - in other words, there is a minimum threshold size (and other associated characteristics such as tropical locations, lack of access, and the prevalence of remote communities of consumers) under which competition will not produce expected outcomes, and for which distinctive policy solutions are required. This paper contributes to the policy discourse by discussing the reform of small electricity systems to integrate renewable energy via the means of three case studies: Nicaragua, El Salvador, and their application to Australia's Northern Territory. The paper draws some policy lessons that can be considered for other small electricity systems in island economies and territories across Africa, the Caribbean, and the Asia-Pacific, that are pursuing a triad of objectives including electricity sector reform, large-scale renewables development and improving energy access.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D04|An Offer You Can't Refuse? Incentives Change How We Inform Ourselves and What We Believe|Economists often espouse incentives, arguing that expanding choice sets cannot lower welfare. Yet, laws worldwide restrict incentives for many transactions, partly due to an untested concern that incentives cause poor decisions. I show experimentally that incentives skew information gathering and beliefs about what a transaction entails in a way that causally influences the participation decision, as policy makers suspected. A model of costly information acquisition shows this behavior is consistent with rationality, and thus unconcerning from an ex ante welfare economic perspective, but demands consideration under reasonable alternatives. The mechanisms apply in any situation where incentives interact with information acquisition.
D04|Vertical Market Power in Interconnected Natural Gas and Electricity Markets|New England is at the leading edge of an energy transition in which natural gas is playing an increasingly important role in the US electricity generation mix. In recent years, the region’s wholesale natural gas and electricity markets have experienced severe, simultaneous price spikes. While frequently attributed to limited pipeline capacity serving the region, we demonstrate that such price spikes have been exacerbated by some gas distribution firms scheduling deliveries without actually owing gas. This behavior blocks other firms from utilizing pipeline capacity, which artificially limits gas supply to the region and drives up gas and electricity prices. The firms observed to withhold pipeline capacity also own non-gas electricity generation assets in New England that benefit from their gas-fired competitors paying higher fuel input costs. We estimate that capacity withholding increased average gas and electricity prices by 38% and 20%, respectively, over the three-year period we study. As a result, customers paid $3.6 billion more for electricity. While the studied behavior may have been within the firms’ contractual rights, the significant impacts in both the gas and electricity markets show the need to consider improvements to market design and regulation as these two energy markets become increasingly interlinked.
D04|Bunching on the Autobahn? Speeding responses to a ‘notched’ penalty scheme|This paper studies drivers’ responses to a ‘notched’ penalty scheme in which speeding penalties are stepwise and discontinuously increasing in speed. We present survey evidence suggesting that drivers in Germany are well aware of the notched penalty structure. Based on a simple analytical framework, we analyze the impact of the notches on drivers’ optimal speed choices. The model’s predictions are confronted with data on more than 150,000 speeding tickets from the Autobahn and 290,000 speed measures from a traffic monitoring system. The data provide evidence on modest levels of bunching, despite several frictions working against it. We analyze the normative implications and assess the scope for welfare gains from moving from a simple, notched penalty scheme to a more complex but less salient Pigouvian scheme.
D04|Evaluating Evaluations: Assessing the Quality of Aid Agency Evaluations in Global Health - Working Paper 461|Evaluations are key to learning and accountability yet the quality of those evaluations are critical to their usefulness. We assessed the methodological quality of global health program evaluations commissioned or conducted by five major funders and published between 2009 and 2014. From a universe of 299 large-scale global health program evaluations, we randomly selected 37 evaluations stratified by whether they were performance evaluations or impact evaluations and applied a systematic assessment approach with two reviewers scoring each evaluation. We found that most evaluations did not meet social science methodological standards in terms of using methods and data that would simultaneously assure relevance, validity, and reliability. Most evaluations (76 percent) asked questions relevant to the health program, but 43 percent of evaluations failed to collect relevant data. In addition, only about a fifth of the evaluations followed accepted social science methods for sampling. We also assessed whether evaluations took a systematic analytical approach and considered potential confounding variables. In this regard, only 16 percent of evaluations in our sample had high analytical validity and reliability. The study provides ten recommendations for improving the quality of evaluations, including a robust finding that early planning of evaluations is associated with better quality and noting the value of better sampling approaches in data collection and disclosure of potential conflicts of interest and data.
D04|Cambios en bienestar subjetivo, aspiraciones y expectativas en participantes de programas de alivio a la pobreza: un análisis cualitativo de Produciendo por mi futuro en Colombia|Este documento presenta los resultados del análisis cualitativo sobre la concepción de bienestar y los cambios en satisfacción de vida, aspiraciones y expectativas en los participantes del programa Produciendo por Mi Futuro en Colombia, una intervención de alivio a la pobreza que implementó Prosperidad Social y que tiene su sustento en los programas de graduación desarrollados inicialmente por el BRAC Development Institute de Bangladesh. El análisis cualitativo se llevó a cabo utilizando el método biográfico denominado Historias de Vida. Los resultados indican que la concepción de bienestar de los participantes involucra no solo dimensiones de índole socioeconómica sino otras como mantener a la familia unida o sentirse tranquilos, en paz o felices. La frecuencia con que son mencionados algunos elementos asociados a la noción de bienestar varía en el tiempo y esta variación puede estar relacionada con cambios estacionales como épocas de lluvia o sequía, o temporadas escolares, de vacaciones o fiestas, o con diversos shocks que enfrentaron los participantes durante la implementación del programa. La satisfacción de vida aumentó de manera general para los participantes, aunque el aumento fue mayor y sostenido en participantes que iniciaron el programa con la satisfacción de vida más baja comparados con sus pares. Las aspiraciones y expectativas mejoraron para la mayoría de los participantes; sin embargo, se encontró que las expectativas aumentaron más para aquellos que iniciaron con percepciones de bienestar y expectativas más bajas, quienes, a su vez, son los que exhiben, relativo a sus pares, una dinámica de pobreza con mayores limitaciones y peores condiciones socioeconómicas al inicio de la intervención.
D04|Un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico para la evaluación de la política económica en Colombia|Este documento presenta un modelo de equilibrio general dinámico para el análisis de la economía colombiana. A diferencia de la mayoría de modelos de equilibrio general aplicado, este integra simultáneamente (i) el modelamiento dinámico de la toma de decisiones; (ii) la posibilidad de simular política económica discrecional; y (iii) un tratamiento explícito de los encadenamientos intersectoriales en la economía. Gracias a esto, resulta idóneo para responder preguntas que no se prestan para ser estudiadas con otros modelos económicos, como los modelos de equilibrio general dinámico estocástico (DSGE) o los modelos de equilibrio general computable (CGE). El trabajo consta de cuatro capítulos. En el primero se hace una detallada revisión de la literatura, tanto teórica como de modelos aplicados al caso de Colombia. Queremos con ello hacer plena claridad respecto del vacío que pretendemos llenar con nuestro trabajo. El segundo capítulo desarrolla el modelo mientras que en el tercero se presenta la calibración de los parámetros. El cuarto capítulo se presenta un par de simulaciones para ilustrar el uso del modelo.
D04|Does Education Empower Girls? Evidence from Mali|This paper brings new evidence on the importance of school interventions that target the wider environment of girls (school teachers, parents and community faith leaders) as the enabling mechanism to their empowerment. We show how supporting schooling promotes girls’ empowerment by illustrating the short-term impact of the ‘Girls Can’ project, a four-years intervention in Southern Mali which aimed to increase girls’ school retention rates and transition rates from the primary to the secondary cycle of school through a wide range of girl-friendly activities. Using original data collected at the end of the project, instrumental variables are applied to control for the potential endogeneity between project participation and girls’ empowerment after identifying comparable groups of ‘treatment’ and ‘control’ girls through coarsened exact matching. We find that the project has a statistically significant impact on girls’ empowerment, and that the intervention was an economically affordable investment at USD67 per girl per year. In addition to the effect on the aggregate measure of empowerment, and on achieving a higher transition rate to secondary school. the evaluation identifies the key domains of impact: girls’ awareness of the risks of early pregnancy, their ability to stay on track in school, their confidence in reporting acts of violence perpetrated on their peers, and girls’ positive perception of being part of an environment supporting their schooling.
D04|Are Tax Credits Effective in Developing Countries? The Recent Uruguayan Experience|Investment promotion through tax incentives has been a key component of the growth strategies pursued in Uruguay by the last three administrations. A new regime was estab- lished, regulated by Executive Decree 455, which implemented a major overhaul in the main channel for subsidizing investment. This regime immediately generated a battery of research- able questions about its effectiveness and efficiency. Using a large data set, first put together for this study from firm-level administrative records kept by the tax collection and pensions institutes between 2005 and 2011, we test the hypotheses of significant and positive effects of obtaining a tax credit through the new regime on investment and employment outcomes. A matched difference-in-differences strategy confirms that the promotion regime introduced in 2008 had a statistically significant effect on the firms’ rate of investment (around 11 percent), while the effects on employment growth rate were more ambiguous. These findings are but- tressed by several robustness tests. Further probing uncovers heterogeneity along the promotion timeline, with the greatest effect on the investment rate occurring in a project’s first year.
D04|Benchmarks for emissions trading – general principles for emissions scope|Greenhouse gas emission benchmarks are widely implemented as a policy tool, as more countries move to implement carbon pricing mechanisms for industrial emissions. In particular, benchmarks are used to determine the level of free allowance allocation in emission trading schemes, which are distributed as a measure to prevent carbon leakage. This paper analyses how benchmark designs impact firms’ production and business model decisions, particularly focusing on the coverage of direct and indirect emissions in the benchmark scope. We develop an analytical model and use the example of a steel mill to analyze and quantify how scope of indirect emissions coverage affect incentives. We seek to clarify generalized principles for efficient benchmark design, that provide a predictable policy framework for innovation and investment to decarbonize energy intensive industry.
D04|Global Climate Policy Will Have Net Benefits Larger Than Anyone Thinks (and Welfare Gains, Strangely, Are Likely To Be Much Larger Yet)|As with other public goods lacking strong special interest support, global climate policy suffers from two serious theoretical flaws. The first is failure to endogenize the labor-leisure decision when conducting benefit-cost analysis. Recognition that income generated will not remain the same pre-and-post policy results in downward bias in benefit estimation. Much more importantly, there will generally be free riding in input markets in addition to the well-known output demand revelation problem. Since even households with very high marginal values cannot individually increment public goods, too little income will be generated and too much of the income that is generated will be spent on relatively low value ordinary private goods. The ungenerated income would have all been spent on the public good, apart from general equilibrium considerations, resulting in additional—and perhaps large—downward bias in benefits of global climate policy. The reallocation of spending from relatively low value private goods to higher value public goods may further greatly increase willingness-to-pay for policies stabilizing global climate.
D04|Distributional effects of subsidy removal and implementation of carbon taxes in Mexican households|This paper presents a microsimulation using data from the National Households Income and Expenditure Survey (NHIES) from 1994 to 2010 to determine the distributional effects of the price changes arising from energy and environmental policies and their impact on Mexican households.
D04|The return to labor market mobility: An evaluation of relocation assistance for the unemployed|In many European countries, labor markets are characterized by high regional disparities in terms of unemployment rates on the one hand and low geographical mobility among the unemployed on the other hand. In order to counteract the geographical mismatch of workers, the German active labor market policy offers a subsidy covering moving costs to incentivize unemployed job seekers to search/accept jobs in distant regions. Based on administrative data, this study provides the first empirical evidence on the impact of this subsidy on participants' prospective labor market outcomes. We use an instrumental variable approach to take endogenous selection based on observed and unobserved characteristics into account when estimating causal treatment effects. We find that unemployed job seekers who participate in the subsidy program and move to a distant region receive higher wages and find more stable jobs compared to non-participants. We show that the positive effects are (to a large extent) the consequence of a better job match due to the increased search radius of participants.
D04|Small Systems, Big Targets: Power Sector Reforms and Renewable Energy Development in Small Electricity Systems|The dominant focus of much policy attention of late has been on the suitability of electricity market reform carried out under the 'standard' or prescriptive approach - the end point of which is market liberalization - for the integration of intermittent renewables. There is now a growing consensus around the argument that traditional energy-only electricity markets where prices are based on system marginal cost cannot function efficiently with both fossil fuels and renewables, potentially resulting in market disruptions and price volatility. Consequently, most policy discussion has focused on finding ways to successfully integrate the two through adopting advanced competitive solutions (such as the use of capacity markets in addition to energy-only markets) in larger electricity systems. This paper however argues that the effectiveness of competition is limited by the size of an electricity system - in other words, there is a minimum threshold size (and other associated characteristics such as tropical locations, lack of access, and the prevalence of remote communities of consumers) under which competition will not produce expected outcomes, and for which distinctive policy solutions are required. This paper contributes to the policy discourse by discussing the reform of small electricity systems to integrate renewable energy via the means of three case studies: Nicaragua, El Salvador, and their application to Australia's Northern Territory. The paper draws some policy lessons that can be considered for other small electricity systems in island economies and territories across Africa, the Caribbean, and the Asia-Pacific, that are pursuing a triad of objectives including electricity sector reform, large-scale renewables development and improving energy access.
D04|The European space-industrial complex: New myths, old realities|This article is an economic analysis of the main factors affecting the evolution of the European space industry. The critical role of the government is analyzed with regard to both military alliances and civilian intergovernmental collaboration. The analysis explores how moving from a pure public goods paradigm in collaborative projects toward a commercially-oriented, competitiveness-enhancing paradigm leads to duplication of effort and rivalries within the space agencies and other organizations. Drawing on the example of defense alliances such as NATO, the article illustrates cooperation challenges faced both at European and transatlantic levels as competition and rivalry result from inter-alliance specialization and the difficulties involved in the allocation of benefits.
D04|Are Vocational Training Programmes Worth Their Cost? Evidence from a Cost-Benefit Analysis|This paper complements the empirical literature on the impact evaluation of training courses, by comparing the benefits of training courses with the costs borne by the public administration to implement them. We focus on long-duration vocational training courses for unemployed people implemented in the autonomous Province of Trento (Italy) in 2010 and 2011, and we find a positive impact on the probability of being employed three years after the programme. Training programmes also have positive effects on earnings, but the overall benefits in the two or three years after the programme do not cover the costs incurred in their delivery.
D04|‘Everyone in School’: The Effects of Compulsory Schooling Age on Drop-out and Completion Rates|In this paper, we analyse the effect of the Berlinguer reform that was implemented in Italy in 1999 and increased the compulsory school from eight to nine years. As a result of the reform, students had to attend school until age 15 instead of age 14 and thus had to attend at least one year of upper secondary school (for students with a regular career). Using data from Italian Labour Force Surveys (LFS) (1993-2010) and following a counterfactual approach, applying counterfactual time series and segmented regressions, we evaluate the effect of the Berlinguer reform on attendance and graduation rates. The results show that the expansion of compulsory schooling leads to staying in school for a larger share of 16-year-olds, especially those who are judged to be more at risk of dropping out: students with less-educated parents and those with parents having a low occupational level. By age 17, however, part of the effect has already vanished, and no effects are found on graduation rates, even among at-risk youths. The compulsory schooling policy may have been more effective in adjusting the legislation to extant student behaviours than in producing relevant changes in educational decisions.
D04|Microdata for social sciences and policy evaluation as a public good|The balance between the right to privacy and the right to freedom of information is altered when scientific research comes into play, because of its inherent needs and societal function. This paper argues that, for research purposes, microdata should be characterised as a public good. The evolution of the rules and practices in the European Union (EU) for protecting confidentiality while allowing access to microdata for research purposes is reviewed. Two key directions are identified for further improvement: remote access to confidential data and the enlargement of the notion of ‘European statistics’ to include microdata produced for evaluating interventions (co)financed by the EU.
D04|The Empirics of Regulatory Reforms Proxied by Categorical Variables: Recent Findings and Methodological Issues| Some regulatory reforms do not change just a specific signal that can be represented by a quantitative continuous variable, such as a tax rate, a price cap, or an emission threshold. The standard theory of reform in applied welfare economics (going back to contributions by e.g. Ramsey, Samuelson and Guesnerie) asks the question: What is the marginal effect on social welfare of changing a policy signal? However, reforms such as privatization, unbundling or liberalization of network industries are often described by ‘packages’ shifting a policy framework. It is increasingly frequent in the empirical evaluation of such reforms to use categorical variables, often in polytomous form, for instance describing unbundling steps (vertical integration, accounting, functional, legal, ownership separation) on a discrete numerical scale, such as those proposed by the OECD and other international bodies. We review recent econometric literature evaluating regulatory reforms using such variables (40 papers) and we discuss some methodological issues arising in this context.
D04|Evidence on the Production of Cognitive Achievement from Moving to Opportunity|This paper performs a subgroup analysis on the effect of receiving a Moving to Opportunity (MTO) housing voucher on test scores. I find evidence of heterogeneity by number of children in the household in Boston, gender in Chicago, and race/ethnicity in Los Angeles. To study the mechanisms driving voucher effect heterogeneity, I develop a generalized Rubin Causal Model and propose an estimator to identify transition-specific Local Average Treatment Effects (LATEs) of school and neighborhood quality. Although I cannot identify such LATEs with the MTO data, the analysis demonstrates that membership in a specific demographic group is more predictive of voucher effects than is the group’s average change in school or neighborhood quality. I discuss some possible explanations.
D04|The Impact of Project-Based Funding in Science: \r\nLessons from the ANR Experience|Competitive allocation of funds to research proposals is a mechanism widely used by government agencies to sustain the projects of researchers in universities and other research institutions. However, little is known about how efficient this mechanism is in practice, how it affects the recipients’ behaviors and how it would be possible to improve the precise design of such funding allocation mechanisms. This article provides new answers to those questions, relying on empirical evidence stemming from the creation of a French generalist and nationwide research funding agency in 2005. The impact of receiving a grant on the research outputs as well as on the collaborations of the grantees is precisely quantified. Moreover, the impact on citations turns out to be more than double when funds are distributed in the more competitive non-thematic programs and to be significantly larger when allocated to younger recipients.
D04|How Can Contingent Valuation Inform the Bioethics Debate? Evidence from a Survey on Hereditary Cancers in France|BRCA1/2 carriers have a higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer at a younger age.?Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal diagnosis (PND) are two of the few options available to avoid transmitting the mutation.?To inform the bioethics debate about authorization, a contingent valuation survey elicited preferences regarding access to PGD and PND from a sample of 460 unaffected by cancer BRCA1/2 carriers (GENEPSO cohort).?We find that the respondents can be classified into three groups: one opposed to PGD/PND (28.3%), one strongly in favour of PGD/PND (45.8%), and one in an intermediate position (25.9%).?We look for the determinants of these preferences, especially of the willingness to pay for PGD/PND.?Overall, we find that BRCA1/2 carriers support access to PGD/PND, which has implications for recommendations to decision-makers. JEL Codes: C01, C83, D04, D79, I19.
D04|Myths and Numbers on Whistleblower Rewards|Whistleblower rewards have been used extensively in the US to limit procurement fraud and tax evasion, and their use has been extended to fight financial fraud after the recent financial crisis. In Europe there is currently a debate on their possible introduction, but authorities appear considerably less enthusiastic than their US counterparts. While it is important that these tools are scrutinized by a lively democratic debate, many things have been written, even by important institutional players, that have no empirical backing or that are in open contrast with the available evidence from independent research. In this paper we review some of the most debated issues regarding the potential benefits and costs of financial incentives whistleblowers trying to separate existing empirical evidence from conjectures with no empirical support, and myths in obvious contrast with available evidence.
D04|How Does Dishonesty Affect Winning and the Willingness to Compete? Evidence from a Stiff Competition Environment|We experimentally investigate how the possibility of behaving dishonestly affects the willingness to compete and who the winner is when there is stiff competition. Our results show that although only some subjects are dishonest when competing, dishonest behaviour creates significant inefficiencies due to best performing subjects not winning. Willingness to compete, on the other hand, was unaffected.
D04|The Role of Sales Agents in Information Disclosure: Evidence from a Field Experiment|With a large nationwide retailer, we run a natural field experiment to measure the effects of energy use information disclosure, customer rebates, and sales agent incentives on demand for energy-efficient durable goods. Although a combination of large rebates plus sales incentives substantially increases market share, information and sales incentives alone each have zero statistical effect and explain at most a small fraction of the low baseline market share. Sales agents strategically comply only partially with the experiment, targeting information to more interested consumers but not discussing energy efficiency with the disinterested majority. These results suggest that seller-provided information is not a major barrier to energy-efficiency investments at current prices in this context.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2015.2327 . This paper was accepted by John List, behavioral economics .
D04|Going after the Addiction, Not the Addicted: The Impact of Drug Decriminalization in Portugal|This paper investigates the impact of drug decriminalization in Portugal using the Synthetic Control Method. The applied econometric methodology compares Portuguese drug-related variables with the ones extracted from a convex combination of similar European countries. The results suggest that a policy change implemented in Portugal contributed to a decrease in the number of heroine and cocaine seizures, a decrease in the number of offenses and drug-related deaths, and a decrease in the number of clients entering treatment. Moreover, the policy change contributed to a reduction in the incidence of drug addicts among HIV individuals.
D04|Targeting Poverty under Complementarities: Evidence from Indonesia's Unified Targeting System|Combining nationally representative administrative and survey data with official proxy means testing models and coefficients, we evaluate Indonesia's three largest social programs. The setting for our evaluation is the launch of Indonesia's Unified Targeting system, an innovation developed to reduce targeting errors and increase program complementarities. Introducing a new method of evaluation under the condition of multiple programs, we show that households receiving all three programs are at least 30 percentage points better off than those receiving none. Importantly, the bias from failing to account for program complementarities is greater in magnitude than the benefits of receiving a single program.
D04|Microdata for Social Sciences and Policy Evaluation as a Public Good|The balance between the right to privacy and the right to freedom of information is altered when scientific research comes into play, because of its inherent needs and societal function. This paper argues that, for research purposes, microdata should be characterised as a public good. The evolution of the rules and practices in the European Union (EU) for protecting confidentiality while allowing access to microdata for research purposes is reviewed. Two key directions are identified for further improvement: remote access to confidential data and the enlargement of the notion of 'European statistics' to include microdata produced for evaluating interventions (co)financed by the EU.
D04|Does Information Empower the Poor? Evidence from Indonesia's Social Security Card|In 2013, the Government of Indonesia conducted one of the largest information interventions in histo-ry, in an attempt to further alleviate poverty and as a complement to the Social Protection Card (KPS). Drawing upon administrative data and nationally representative surveys, we evaluate the impact of the information campaign on the receipt of two of Indonesia's largest social programs, the Raskin (rice for the poor) and the BLSM (temporary unconditional cash transfers). Exploiting the design of the Raskin program, we implement a (normalised) fuzzy regression discontinuity methodology across 482 Indonesian districts, using program eligibility as an instrument for having received the information treatment. Further corroborating our results with semi-parametric and parametric techniques, we show that the information treatment increases the amount of rice received under the Raskin program by around 30 percentage points. In terms of the BLSM, we further show that the information treatment reduces the likelihood of elite capture by local leaders by around 25 percentage points. We also provide evidence that understanding the information treatment is crucial for poor household's out-comes, since fully informed households receive their full entitlement of rice.
D04|Mobility Assistance Programmes for Unemployed Workers, Job Search Behaviour and Labour Market Outcomes|The appealing idea of geographically relocating unemployed job seekers from depressed to prosperous regions and hence reducing unemployment leads to industrialised countries offering financial support to unemployed job seekers when searching for and/or accepting jobs in distant regions. In this paper, we investigate the impact of the existence of these mobility assistance programmes (MAPs) on the job search behaviour of unemployed workers and how this affects their labour market outcomes. While job search theory predicts a shift in individuals' search effort from local to distant labour markets, consequences for other dimensions of the search behaviour, e.g. reservation wages or the overall search effort, and job-finding probabilities remain theoretically ambiguous. We use survey data on German unemployed job seekers and apply an instrumental variable approach to empirically identify the causal impact of an increased search radius, due to the availability of MAPs, on job search strategies and subsequent labour market outcomes. The results show that the existence of MAPs shifts individuals' search effort from local to distant regions without affecting the total number of job applications. The increase in search radius causes a higher geographical mobility and hence higher employment probabilities and wages.
D04|Redesigning a 20th century regulatory framework to deliver 21st century energy technology|Abstract Electricity systems are shifting from a once highly centralised regulated model to become more renewable, distributed and consumer-centric. Australia has some of the highest installation rates of embedded renewable electricity generation in the developed world. This has been driven by increasing grid-supplied energy prices, policy incentives and declining technology costs. The emergence of cost-effective distributed battery storage and energy management systems is likely to fundamentally alter the electricity industry—which has been largely unchanged for decades. Evolutionary economics indicates that firms must adapt to new technologies and market conditions or they will become extinct. Energy markets will only evolve, however, if regulatory frameworks continuously adapt to ensure that consumer preferences for reliability, control and environmental outcomes are able to be achieved at lowest cost. Most importantly, regulators will need to ensure that facilitating efficient consumer decision making is prioritised.
D04|The Coase Mechanism and the Iteration Argument|The “iteration argument” presented in Schlicht (1996) shows that the allocation of property rights may generate inefficiencies, contrary to what the “Coase Theorem,” as commonly understood, asserts. The argument may be summarized by saying that markets (and bargaining) cease to function properly if several people are entitled and prepared to engage in the same externality-ridden activity and each of them has to be bribed individually from being the first offender. Given that the harm from pollution does not rise linearily with the amount of pollution, the sum-total of the damages produced when all of the potential offenders engage in the harmful activity may be smaller than the sum-total of the bribes which must be offered to prevent each potential offender from starting the offensive activity, even if the ensuing social damages exceed the associated private returns and an inefficient outcome is obtained. If pollution without permission by the community is not permitted, a different – and in this case efficient – outcome results. This note illustrates the argument by means of a simple example. It is an excerpt of Schlicht (1997).
D04|Benchmarks for Emissions Trading – General Principles for Emissions Scope|Greenhouse gas emission benchmarks are widely implemented as a policy tool, as more countries move to implement carbon pricing mechanisms for industrial emissions. In particular, benchmarks are used to determine the level of free allowance allocation in emission trading schemes, which are distributed as a measure to prevent carbon leakage. This paper analyses how benchmark designs impact firms’ production and business model decisions, particularly focusing on the coverage of direct and indirect emissions in the benchmark scope. We develop an analytical model and use the example of a steel mill to analyze and quantify how scope of indirect emissions coverage affect incentives. We seek to clarify generalized principles for efficient benchmark design, that provide a predictable policy framework for innovation and investment to decarbonize energy intensive industry.
D04|The short-term impact of structural reforms on productivity growth: beyond direct effects|In recent years, literature has linked structural reforms with productivity growth. Considering Portugal’s recent comprehensive reform agenda, this topic acquires particular relevance. Using data for Portuguese firms for the period 2006-2014, this paper assesses the impact of structural reforms on firm’s productivity in the short-run. In line with existing literature, the analysis reveals that some reforms produce positive effects already in the short-run. There are, however, important differences across reform areas and firms, namely when comparing those at the technological frontier and the others. In particular, frontier firms are better equipped to materialize the gains of improved framework conditions and to deal with competitive pressures, grasping more often short-term gains. In any case, gains for those at the frontier are also beneficial for laggards via spillover effects, as both diffusion and catching-up mechanisms are, in general, positive for Portuguese firms. Finally, our analysis shows that, in the short-run, these spillovers may be potentiated or curbed by reforms, which therefore impact the economy also through indirect effects. Indeed, while pass-through is, in most cases, hampered by reforms, the effects on catching-up mechanisms are mixed; they improve with some reforms but are deteriorated with others.
D04|Short-run effects of product markets’ deregulation: a more productive, more efficient and more resilient economy?|This paper assesses the short-term impact of product market deregulation in upstream sectors on the productivity growth of firms in downstream sectors (i.e. those firms using the output of the reformed sectors as inputs in their production process). Relying on a firm level database for the period 2004-2014 covering all Portuguese firms, we show that the most productive firms - those at the sectoral technological frontier - grasp short-run benefits from these reforms, which are then spread to the other existing firms via spillover mechanisms. In addition, reforms potentiate the exit of the least productive firms, improving the resource allocation in the economy. Finally, we show that the adoption of product market reforms in upstream sectors leads to a more resilient economy, better equipped to face adverse shocks.
D04|Impact evaluation of EU subsidies for economic development on the Hungarian SME sector|Although EU funds play a pivotal role not only for Hungary but for the entire European Union as well, there is debate regarding their effectiveness in the literature. This paper investigates the impact of direct economic development subsidies extended in the context of the Cohesion Policy programmes as part of the 2007-2013 programming period of the European Union, on Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Based on a micro database, we assess the effects of the beneficiaries' first subsidies on various performance indicators, using a combination of propensity score matching and fixed effects panel regression. According to our results, economic development funds had a significant positive impact on the number of employees, sales revenue, gross value added and in some cases, operating profit. However, the labour productivity of beneficiaries was not significantly affected by any of the support schemes. Furthermore, by explicitly comparing non-refundable subsidies (grants) and refundable assistance (financial instruments) extended under the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, we find that there is no significant difference in their effectiveness.
D04|Electricity consumption and Economic growth: A panel data approach to Brics countries|This paper serves to investigate the causal relationship between electricity consumption and economic growth in the Brics countries during the period 1990 – 2014. Carbon dioxide emissions and urbanisation were included as additional variables to form a multivariate framework. The Kao panel co-integration and Johansen Fisher panel co-integration techniques are applied to analyse the co-integration relationship between the variables while the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) Granger-causality test is used to estimate the causality relationship among the variables. The study’s results reveal that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The research outcome further detected a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to electricity consumption in the long run in Brics countries. So in the light of determination of the study, the policy implication is that a significant transformation of low carbon technologies such as renewable energy should be implemented to curb the emissions and sustain economic growth and development.
D04|Public Finance in a Nutshell: A Cobb Douglas Teaching Tool for General Equilibrium Tax Incidence and Excess Burden|To help first- or second-year graduate students in economics apply their theoretical training, this paper shows how to solve a simple and intuitive computable general equilibrium (CGE) model using a calculator. Because this simplified Harberger model uses Cobb Douglas functional forms for utility and production, one can solve for all input and output prices and quantities with no taxes and then solve for exact measures of output with a large tax change (not using derivatives). We then show how to solve simultaneously for capital and labor prices (incidence on the sources side of income), for both output prices (incidence on the uses side), for exact measures of overall welfare loss such as the equivalent variation, for excess burden and marginal excess burden, and for the effects on revenue in the form of a Laffer Curve.
D04|Local Protectionism, Market Structure, and Social Welfare: China's Automobile Market|While China has made great strides in transforming its centrally-planned economy to a market-oriented economy, there still exist widespread interregional trade barriers, such as policies and practices that protect local firms against competition from non-local firms. This study documents the presence of local protectionism and quantifies its impacts on market competition and social welfare in the context of China’s automobile market. This market exhibits a salient feature that vehicle models by joint ventures (JVs) and especially state-owned enterprises (SOEs) command much higher market shares in their headquarter province than at the national level. Through spatial discontinuity analysis at provincial borders, falsification tests, and consumer surveys, we first confirm protective policies such as subsidies to local brands as the primary contributing factor. We then set up and estimate a market equilibrium model to quantify the impact of local protection, controlling for other demand and supply factors. Counterfactual simulations show that local protection leads to significant choice distortions, resulting in 18.7 billion yuan of consumer welfare loss, amounting to 40% of total subsidy. Provincial governments face a prisoner’s dilemma: according to our estimates, local protection reduces aggregate social welfare, but the provincial governments have no incentive to unilaterally remove local protection.
D04|The Impact of Price Caps and Spending Cuts on U.S. Postsecondary Attainment|Increasing the postsecondary attainment rate of college-age youth is an important economic priority in the U.S. and in other developed countries. Yet little is known about whether different forms of public subsidy can increase degree completion. In this paper, we compare the impact of the marginal taxpayer dollar on postsecondary attainment when it is spent on lowering tuition prices versus increasing the quality of the college experience. We do so by estimating the causal impact of changes in tuition and spending on enrollment and degree completion in U.S. public postsecondary institutions between 1990 and 2013. We estimate these impacts using a newly assembled data set of legislative tuition caps and freezes, combined with variation in exposure to state budget shocks that is driven by differences in historical reliance on state appropriations. We find large impacts of spending on enrollment and degree completion. In contrast, we find no impact of price changes. Our estimates suggest that spending increases are more effective per-dollar than price cuts as a means of increasing postsecondary attainment.
D04|Permit allocation rules and investment incentives in emissions trading systems|This paper argues that, in situations where choices are made between mutually exclusive investment projects and where there are economic rents, free allocation of tradable emission permits in emissions trading systems can weaken incentives for firms to invest in less carbon-intensive technologies compared to the case where permits would be auctioned. The reason is that permit allocation rules affect economic rents differentially when different product benchmarks apply to products that are close substitutes. Examples of permit allocation rules favouring more emission-intensive technologies for outputs that are close substitutes are found in the California Cap and Trade Program and in the European Union Emissions Trading System. This lack of technology-neutrality is exacerbated in the long run as future patterns of substitutability between technologies are uncertain. Free permit allocation can broaden support for carbon pricing, but this paper shows that this carries a cost in terms of environmental effectiveness if it discourages investment in low-carbon assets.
D04|The impact of structural reforms on productivity: The role of the distance to the technological frontier|In recent years, literature has linked structural reforms with productivity growth. Considering Portugal’s recent comprehensive reform agenda, this topic acquires particular relevance. Using data for Portuguese firms for the period 2006-2014, this paper assesses the impact of structural reforms on firms’ productivity. In line with existing literature, the analysis shows that most reforms entail long-term gains, despite, in some reform areas, the existence of short-term costs. In general, there are important differences across reform areas and across firms, namely when comparing firms with different productivity levels. The firms’ distance to the technological frontier mediates the impact of reforms, either by potentiating its effects or by curbing them, depending on the reform area.
D04|Product markets’ deregulation: a more productive, more efficient and more resilient economy?|This paper assesses the impact of product market deregulation in upstream sectors on the productivity growth of firms in downstream sectors (i.e. those firms using the output of the reformed sectors as inputs in their production process). Relying on a firm level database for the period 2004-2014 covering all Portuguese firms, we show that reforms bring productivity gains already in the short-run and that are sustained in the long-run. The effects are more positive for those further away from the technological frontier and are also heterogeneous across sectors. In addition, reforms potentiate the exit of the least productive firms, improving the resource allocation in the economy by a process of selection – for the least productive, only those that have scope to catch-up with the frontier are able to remain. Finally, we show that the adoption of product market reforms in upstream sectors leads to a more resilient economy, better equipped to face adverse shocks.
D04|Liquidity cognition and limits of arbitrage|An inquiry about the limits of arbitrage connected with liquidity cognition is set forth. The hierarchy of money (Mehrling, 2012b; Pozsar, 2014) is shown to provide sharp insights on the emergence of endogenous constraints which may limit the strategic space of professional arbitrageurs in empirically relevant contexts. A case study (Mitchell and Pulvino, 2012) sets the stage for our theoretical proposal. Our approach is conjectured to represent a fruitful line of progress for behavioral finance.
D04|Does the abolition of border controls boost cross-border commuting? Evidence from Switzerland|In this paper we study the effects of Switzerland implementing the Schengen agreement in December 2008 on labour mobility. As vehicles are allowed to cross borders without stopping and residents in border areas are granted freedom to cross borders away from fixed checkpoints, we expect cross-border commuting to Switzerland to be higher after Switzerland joined the Schengen area. Using data from the European Labour Force Survey (ELFS), we estimate a Differencein-Differences model and find that the individual probability to crossborder commute to Switzerland has increased from a minimum of 3.2 percentage points to a maximum of 7 percentage points, according to different model specifications. Our result is particularly important due the timely and meaningful policy implications.
D04|Firm Risk and Performance: The Role of Corporate Governance in Dutch Lady Malaysia|The objective of this paper to characterize some indicators of overall performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia with specific risk factors and macroeconomics factors (GDP, inflation rate) on return on assets (profitability). The information was collected from Dutch Lady Malaysia annual report for five consecutive year (2011-2015). A correlation model comprising dependent variable (ROA) and numerous independent variables was used to analyse performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia. This study empirical result indicated that liquidity ratio is the most significant meaning in performance of Dutch Lady Malaysia.
D04|Estimating Difference-in-Differences in the Presence of Spillovers|I propose a method for difference-in-differences (DD) estimation in situations where the stable unit treatment value assumption is violated locally. This is relevant for a wide variety of cases where spillovers may occur between quasi-treatment and quasi-control areas in a (natural) experiment. A flexible methodology is described to test for such spillovers, and to consistently estimate treatment effects in their presence. This spillover-robust DD method results in two classes of estimands: treatment effects, and “close” to treatment effects. The methodology outlined describes a versatile and non-arbitrary procedure to determine the distance over which treatments propagate, where distance can be defined in many ways, including as a multi-dimensional measure. This methodology is illustrated by simulation, and by its application to estimates of the impact of state-level text-messaging bans on fatal vehicle accidents. Extending existing DD estimates, I document that reforms travel over roads, and have spillover effects in neighbouring non-affected counties. Text messaging laws appear to continue to alter driving behaviour as much as 30 km outside of affected jurisdictions.
D04|Electricity consumption and economic growth: A panel data approach to BRICS countries|This paper serves to investigate the causal relationship between electricity consumption and economic growth in the Brics countries during the period 1990 – 2014. Carbon dioxide emissions and urbanisation were included as additional variables to form a multivariate framework. The Kao panel co-integration and Johansen Fisher panel co-integration techniques are applied to analyse the co-integration relationship between the variables while the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) Granger-causality test is used to estimate the causality relationship among the variables. The study’s results reveal that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The research outcome further detected a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to electricity consumption in the long run in Brics countries. So in the light of determination of the study, the policy implication is that a significant transformation of low carbon technologies such as renewable energy should be implemented to curb the emissions and sustain economic growth and development.
D04|The Programmable Economy: Envisaging an Entire Planned Economic System as a Single Computer through Blockchain Networks|Since the dawn of the concept of nation-states, many nations have been planning their economies to increase people’s prosperity and standard of living. All economies have a centralized feature where decisions are taken. But data collection and plan implementation has been cumbersome because of the manual nature of economic planning. Centralized systems, even when digitized, are prone to single point failures. Controlled Blockchains allow for an economic system to be decentralized, yet having central supervision i.e. quasi-decentralization. This paper deals with shifting a national economy to a network of Blockchains and creating a Programmable Economy (P.E) where the whole economic system behaves like a single computer, taking in certain inputs and providing the desired outputs. We discuss the various factors that are needed to bring about such a transformation. We also analyse the impact this will have on various aspects of the economy and people’s lives. Finally the paper concludes by summarizing the purpose, methodology and impact of a Programmable Economy (P.E).
D04|The Impact of Various Economic Factors in accessing Finance within the Business Sector: Cases from UK Financial Services Companies|This paper investigates the impact of various economic factors such as inflation, interest rate, financial crises, and government regulations on the access to finance in the business sector specifically considering the financial experts' perspective operating in the UK financial services companies. The study examines the relationship between variables of interest in post recession period. Total five out of top fifty British Financial Services' Companies were selected through convenience sampling. Additionally, 38 respondents were selected through purposive sampling, based on their knowledge, level of management, and experiences in the sector. The findings showed that interest rate, government regulations, and financial crises have significant relationship in accessing financial resource. Interestingly, 83% remain neutral about the relationship between inflation and raising funds.
D04|The Impact of Schooling Intensity on Student Learning: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment|This paper uses data from a quasi-natural policy experiment in Germany to examine the impact of schooling intensity on student achievement. The policy experiment, which we call the G8 reform, compresses secondary schooling for academic-track students from nine to eight years. At the same time, it keeps the amount of academic content required for graduation fixed, resulting in an increase in schooling intensity per school year. Using German extension of the PISA data, we find that the increased schooling intensity associated with the reform improves student test scores on average, but there is significant heterogeneity across students depending on their characteristics.
D04|Determinants and Consequences of Corporate Social Responsibility: Evidence from the Revision of the Company Act in India|India is the first country to introduce mandatory CSR spending for eligible firms, based on the revision of the Companies Act in 2013. In this paper, I explore the effects of the revision of the Companies Act in India on the likelihood of a firm's CSR participation and its profit. It is the first work to investigate the effects of the provision of mandatory CSR. The results show that the revision increased the eligible firms' CSR incurrence by 2.3 percent-age points, compared to ineligible firms. The findings also indicate that the revision is effective to increase the eligible firms' profits by 3.5 percent, compared to the ineligible firms. Therefore, I suggest that profit-maximizing CSR and private provision of public goods through mandatory CSR are valid in India.
D04|Motivating Whistleblowers|We experimentally investigate employees’ decisions to blow the whistle on a manager whose law-breaking benefits the firm but harms society. We investigate the effects of both financial rewards and non-monetary incentives, in the form of public scrutiny, on whistleblowing as well as their interaction with the visibility of harm, i.e., whether the harm to society stemming from the manager’s malfeasance is known to the general public. Our results suggest that: i) financial rewards substantially increase the likelihood of whistleblowing; ii) public scrutiny and social judgment increase (decrease) whistleblowing when the negative externalities generated by fraud are visible (invisible) to the public. Ancillary results suggest an intriguing relationship between political orientation and responsiveness to public scrutiny.
D04|The application of macroprudential policy tools to affect concentration in the Polish banking sector|Banking sectors in particular EU Member States are characterized by different profitability and concentration. In the literature there are divergent views on the appropriate concentration level from the perspective of supervisory authorities, consumers or banks themselves. However, the research carried out for Poland shows that there is positive correlation between concentration and profitability. Moreover, since 2009 a wave of mergers and acquisitions has occurred in the Polish banking sector, which is detrimental to consumers. This conclusion has been drawn from the Lerner index values that have been computed owing to the econometric model with transcendental logarithmic function for the total cost. Thus, if concentration is too high, the supervisory authorities could consider preventing further mergers or acquisitions using new macroprudential policy tools, instead of old administrative ones. Especially important here is the capital buffer that is set on other systemically important institutions. It can be accompanied by the systemic risk buffer. Nevertheless, the results of the comparative analysis show that diverse solutions are currently applied across EU Member States.
D04|Motivating Whistleblowers|Law-breaking activities within an organization bene?ting the ?rm at the expense of the general public are widespread but di¢ cult to uncover, making whistleblowing by employees desirable. We employ a novel laboratory experiment to investigate if and how monetary incentives and expectations of social approval or disapproval, and their interactions, a¤ect the decision to blow the whistle. Experimental results show that: i) ?nancial rewards signi?cantly increase the likelihood of whistleblowing and do not substantially crowd out non-monetary motivations activated by expectations of social judgment; and ii) the possibility of social judgment decreases (increases) whistleblowing when the public is unaware (aware) of the negative externalities generated by fraud, suggesting that whistleblowers are at least partly motivated by a desire for social approval. Our ?ndings suggest that whistleblowers on corporate fraud should be ?nancially rewarded and should be shielded from public/media scrutiny when the social cost of the illegal activity is not visible or salient to the public. We also ?nd evidence of an interesting relationship between political orientation and social judgment: while left-leaning subjects react to the possibility of receiving social approval or disapproval as expected, right-leaning people are una¤ected by it.
D04|The impact of urban public transportation evidence from the Paris region|We use the natural experiment provided by the opening and progressive extension of the Regional Express Rail (RER) between 1970 and 2000 in the Paris metropolitan region, and in particular the departure from the original plans due to budget constraints and technical considerations, to identify the causal impact of urban rail transport on firm location, employment and population growth. We apply a difference-in-differences method to a particular subsample, selected to minimize the endogeneity that is routinely found in the evaluation of the effects of transport infrastructure. We find that the RER opening caused a 8.8% rise in employment in the municipalities connected to the network between 1975 and 1990. While we find no effect on overall population growth, our results suggest that the arrival of the RER may have increased competition for land, since high-skilled households were more likely to locate in the vicinity of a RER station.
D04|Small business and the self-organization of a marketplace|Abstract In many developing countries such as China, the typical marketplace is a cluster of small shops or booths. We investigate an economic model in which circular causality, including search and matching between buyers and sellers, forms agglomeration forces. We find that an authoritative third party that reduces search costs is important in sustaining a large marketplace. However, it is unnecessary to reduce search costs to zero. Finally, the low capital requirement of setting up a firm helps to sustain a large marketplace owing to its increased product heterogeneity.
D04|Heterogeneity of habits as a foundation for Schumpeterian economic policy|Abstract In this paper, we highlight the heterogeneity of agents in Schumpeter’s theory. Because of its centrality in Schumpeter’s theory, we argue that agent heterogeneity should also be a key element for economic policy informed by Schumpeter’s theory. Schumpeter considered agents’ habits as a particularly important source of heterogeneity. We show how Schumpeter’s notion of habits is closely related to modern work on habits, and draw on recent research to elaborate theory that can provide the foundation for Schumpeterian economic policy. We argue that heterogeneity of habits can be a crucial building block and foundation of Schumpeterian economic policy: it offers a target for policy interventions that is different from incentives or information. This target is potentially as powerful as incentives or information, which only influence intentions rather than influencing behavior directly.
D04|Picking Winners: Measuring the Effectiveness of Selectively Placed Policy Interventions|In practice, social and development interventions are often targeted at groups or individuals with the largest expected benefits. In such cases, treatment effects are usually affected by selection on unobservable factors. We show that modeling the process of selective intervention placement allows us to correct for this and identify the Average Treatment Effect using observational panel data. We illustrate the estimation method using simulated data, as well as, data on a large-scale sanitation intervention in Mozambique. Our results provide a useful tool for the assessment of targeted policy interventions, and inform decisions on their continuation or replication.
D04|On the Valuation of the Causes and Consequences of Environmental Damages : Evidence from a Field Experiment (revision of CentER DP 2017-029)|Standard economic theory assumes that agents’ valuation of economic outcomes is independent of the process via which these outcomes are produced. Yet Bulte, Gerking, List, and de Zeeuw (2005) found that causes in addition to outcomes matter in valuation. Using a field experiment I test whether drawing people’s attention to the role they play in the process of environmental degradation affects their willingness to pay for mitigation, and how this compares the activities undertaken by others. I do so by eliciting contributions to a reforestation program in an environmentally valuable area in Ethiopia. I implement three different conditions which allow me to measure the impact on contributions of emphasizing (i) the contributions of others to forest conservation, and (ii) the role of the respondents themselves in the forest degradation process. I find that learning about the efforts of others does not affect contributions while emphasizing the respondents’ negative role in the process actually increases contributions. Extant literature notes that including information on human-caused environmental damage in contingent valuation surveys does indeed increases the WTP values. This was, however, attributed to ‘outrage effect’ – that is, because respondents are upset, they contribute more to environmental goods. In a somewhat different setting this study finds evidence that people’s contributions also increase significantly and substantially if attention is drawn to their own responsibility in the deforestation and desertification process, suggesting, the ‘responsibility effect’ is also important in valuation.
D04|Impact of a Work-Study Programme for Teenagers: Evidence from a Randomized Controlled Trial|We present an impact evaluation of a labour programme oriented to young students called “Yo Estudio y Trabajo” (“I Study and Work”) carried out in Uruguay. It is one of the first such evaluations for this country. We estimate the programme’s effects on the probability of being formally employed and continuing to study. Impacts on the very short term (about three months after the programme ended), on the short term (15 months after programme finalisation) and on the medium term (27 months after the programme was completed) are analysed. We use administrative records provided by the public social security provider, the public education administration and the state university. We were able to match all candidates for selection into the programme (over 46,000) with their administrative records. Exploiting the programme’s random selection process, we apply experimental techniques to evaluate its effects through univariate models. In addition, we allow for interdependence between the decisions of working and studying through a bivariate probit model. Results indicate different effects depending on the characteristics of the individuals and the time span considered. In particular, for socially vulnerable youths we find that the programme increases their probability of being formally employed between 8 and 12 percentage points (depending on the particular model considered) in the medium term. These results are robust to different specifications and provide evidence in favour of increasing the programme’s coverage of socially vulnerable youth (a policy that has been under way since 2015).
D04|Impact of agricultural technology adoption on market participation in the rural social network system|This paper provides empirical evidence regarding the impact of agricultural technologies on smallholders’ output market participation. The analysis is based on Farmer Innovation Fund impact evaluation survey collected by the World Bank in 2010-2012 covering 2,675 households in Ethiopia. Endogenous treatment effect and sample selection models are employed to account for the self-selection bias in technology adoption and market participation. Regressions based on matching techniques are employed for robustness check. The estimation results show that the use of improved agricultural inputs significantly affects farm households marketable surplus production. We found evidence that application of high-yielding varieties increases surplus crop production by 7.39 percent per year, whereas chemical fertilizer use increases surplus by 2.32 percent. When farmers apply the two inputs jointly, marketed surplus increases by 6 percent which establish the complementarity of the two technologies. Marketable surplus crop production and market participation of farmers are determined by access to modern inputs, crop price, farm size, availability of labor, and infrastructure. Access to credit and training fosters technology adoption. Therefore, agriculture and rural development policy need to focus on supporting agricultural technology adoption.
D04|Neue Ansätze für die Mittelstandspolitik: Impulse von internationalen Good-Practice-Beispielen|Die vorliegende Studie identifiziert anhand von vier internationalen Good-Practice Beispielen innovative Ansatzpunkte für die Mittelstandspolitik. Die dargestellten Maßnahmen beziehen sich auf die traditionelle Mittelstandspolitik, wie die Verankerung einer Kultur der Selbstständigkeit (Kanada/Österreich), als auch auf die Wahrnehmung von mittelstandsspezifischen Querschnittsaufgaben ohne originäre Zuständigkeit der Mittelstandspolitik: digitale Verwaltung (Estland), digitale Bildung (Niederlande/Finnland). Die analysierten Good-Practice- Beispiele machen deutlich, dass es bei komplexen, neuartigen Politikmaßnahmen hilfreich ist, eine gemeinsame Vision und Umsetzungsstrategie unter Einbindung aller relevanten Stakeholder (Ministerien, Unternehmen, Organisationen und Experten) zu entwickeln. Auch sollten die Maßnahmen in einem Trial-and-Error-Prozess mit begleitenden Unterstützungsmaßnahmen umgesetzt werden, ohne kurzfristig umfassende Erfolge zu erwarten.
D04|Does nudging intentions translate into action? Why nudging pledges to charities does not result in increased donations|Recent evidence suggests that nudges, i.e. alterations in the decisional context, can have large effects on decisions and can improve individual and public welfare. This paper presents the results of a controlled experiment that was designed to evaluate not only the effectiveness of a default manipulation on decision making in a charity giving context, but also whether yielding or opposing a nudge affects attitudes, and whether nudging intentions (pledges) translate into behaviour (donations). The results show that while making pledges the default increased pledges, it did not increase donations because the nudge affected only participants who were close to indifference between pledging and not pledging and were thus unlikely to actually do the effort of translating their pledges into donations. Participants who were nudged to pledge pledged more often than participants who were nudged to keep, but they were less likely to maintain their participation in the experiment, and those who kept participating were less likely to pledge again. This, along with high attrition among nudged pledgers explains why nudging pledges did not result in higher actual donations. We interpret our findings in terms of a selection effect of nudges, and discuss practical implications of our experiment in terms of the applicability of default-based nudges as a tool for policy interventions.
D04|Exploiting behavioural insights to foster global cooperation|The authors identify three challenges to global cooperation and propose three solutions. The first is the lack of integration of civil society into global governance. In the spirit of Ostrom's poly-centric governance, they propose stronger interaction between public international authorities, including the G20, and civil society. The second is the reliance of economic policy on a model of human behaviour based on self-interest and instrumental rationality. The authors propose on the contrary to ground policies on behavioural evidence, and to increase cooperation between academic institutions active in this field worldwide. The third is the recognition that the spread of divisive narratives, which emphasize demarcations across national or religious lines, hinders global cooperation. Alternative narratives should be produced within a transformative process involving responsible leaders, decision-makers, experts, and civil society.
D04|The effect of compressing secondary schooling on higher education decisions|A major education reform in Germany reduced the length of the academic high school track by one year, while leaving the number of overall instruction hours unchanged. Accordingly, the fixed number of instruction hours was distributed over fewer years of schooling, such that learning intensity and weekly workload increased. We investigate the consequences of this so-called G8 reform on students’ higher education decisions. Based on a difference-in-differences approach using high-quality, administrative data on all students in Germany, we find that the G8 reform not only resulted in delayed university enrollment, but also in decreased enrollment rates. Moreover, students are more likely to drop out of university and change their major. The results of our study are not only informative for the German context but also for policy makers in many other OECD countries, trying to increase the number of active labor market participants in order to address the challenges of an aging society.
D04|Education Curriculum and Student Achievement: Theory and Evidence|This paper proposes a theory of education curriculum and analyzes its distributional impact on student learning outcomes. Different curricula represent horizontal differentiation in the education technology, thus a curriculum change has distributional effects across students. We test the model using the quasi-natural experiment of the G8 reform in Germany. We find evidence of heterogeneous reform effects consistent with our theory. While the reform improves student test scores on average, such benefits are more pronounced for well-prepared students. In contrast, less-prepared students do not benefit from the reform.
D04|The causal effects of an intensified curriculum on cognitive skills: Evidence from a natural experiment|This paper exploits a unique universal educational policy - implemented in most German states between 2001 and 2008 - that compressed the academic-track high school curriculum into a (one year) shorter time span, thereby increasing time of instruction and share of curriculum taught per grade. Using 2000-2012 PISA data and a quasi-experimental approach, I estimate the impacts of this intensified curriculum on cognitive skills. I find robust evidence that the reform improved, on average, the reading, mathematical, and scientific literacy skills acquired by academic-track ninth graders upon treatment. However, I also provide evidence that the reform widened the gap in student performance with respect to parental migration background and student ability. Finally, although the reform did not affect, on average, high school grade retention, I find that the latter increased for students with parental migration background. Taken together, these findings suggest that moving to a compressed high-school curriculum did not compromise and benefited, on average, students' cognitive skills. However, they also raise equity concerns that policy-makers should be aware of.
D04|"""Many a slip between the cup and the lip"": The effect of default-based nudges on prosocial behavior and attitudes"|Recent evidence suggests that default based nudges i.e. alterations in the decisional context, can have large effects on decision making and can be used as policy interventions to improve individual and public welfare. This paper presents the results of a controlled experiment (N = 988), designed to evaluate not only the effectiveness of a default manipulation on decision making, but also to explore how yielding or opposing a nudge intervention later affects attitudes (towards the nudge and the nudger) and behavior in a charity giving context. The results show that while the default nudge was effective at the time of application, it was not enough to change attitudes towards the nudged behavior as would be needed for long-term success. Indeed, we rather find that those who adopted an action that went against the nudge were more motivated to follow on through with this action later on than those who went with the nudge. We furthermore show that giving people more leeway in how to respond to a nudge improves acceptance of the nudge. We finally discuss the practical implications of our findings in terms of the applicability of default-based nudges as a tool for policy interventions.
D04|Will a government find it financially easier to neutralize a looming protest if more groups are involved?|Abstract We study a policy response to an increase in post-merger social stress. If a merger of groups of people is viewed as a revision of their social space, then the merger alters people’s comparators and increases social stress: the social stress of a merged population is greater than the sum of the levels of social stress of the constituent populations when apart. We use social stress as a proxy measure for looming social protest. As a response to the post-merger increase in social stress, we consider a policy aimed at reversing the negative effect of the merger by bringing the social stress of the merged population back to the sum of the pre-merger levels of social stress of the constituent populations when apart. We present, in the form of an algorithm, a cost-effective policy response which is publicly financed and does not reduce the incomes of the members of the merged population. We then compare the financial cost of implementing such a policy when the merger involves more or fewer groups. We show that the cost may fall as the number of merging groups rises.
D04|Can liberalization of local food marketing channels influence local economies? A case study of West Virginiaâ€™s craft beer distribution laws|Over the past decade, local food systems have been identified as having a significant influence on regional economies. Using a recent change in West Virginiaâ€™s craft beer distribution laws as a case study, we show that although employment might not experience a statistically significant change due to additional legalized marketing channels, wages did experience a significant increase. Our findings suggest that state economies might benefit from reducing restrictions on small, local producers.Â Â
D04|Bread and bullets|Standard economics omits the role of narratives (the stories that people tell themselves and others) when they make all kinds of decisions. Narratives play a role in understanding the environment; focusing attention; predicting events; motivating action; assigning social roles and identities; defining power relations; and establishing and conveying social norms. This paper describes the role narratives play in decision making, as it also juxtaposes this description against the backdrop of the Bolshevik-spawned narrative that played a critical role in the history of Russia and the Soviet Union in the 20th Century.
D04|The Effect Of Islamic Secondary School Attendance On Academic Achievement|Using unique survey data on rural secondary school children, this paper evaluates the relative quality of Islamic secondary schools (i.e., madrasahs) in Bangladesh. Students attending registered madrasahs fare worse in maths and English than students attending non-madrasah schools. However, failure to account for non-random sorting overestimates the negative influence of madrasahs on student’s achievement. Evidence on the magnitude of this bias is presented. Once selection effect is taken into account, the madrasah’s disadvantage in English is small while that in maths becomes insignificant. Given the overall low level of achievement, this suggests that madrasah students perform just as poorly as those from non-madrasah schools in rural Bangladesh.
D04|Conflict of Interest, Disclosure, and Vertical Relationships: An Experimental Analysis|Vertical integration between providers of financial advice and producers of financial products is not uncommon. We consider the impact of disclosure where full disclosure of the incentives of an advisor to recommend the product of an upstream affiliate rather than from some other producer is not possible. We report the results of an experiment in which an informed advisor recommends to a less informed client one of two potential assets to purchase and also a price to offer. In one setting the incentives of the two players are fully aligned but in another the advisor receives an additional payment for selling one of the assets. We consider two treatments – with and without disclosure to the client of the advisor’s interests. With disclosure, the client is only informed of the presence but not the size of an additional payment the advisor receives for selling one of the assets. We find that an advisor’s conflict of interest influences their asset recommendation away from the asset that best serves the client’s interests. The partial disclosure of the advisor’s conflict of interest as common knowledge seems to influence neither the advisor’s recommended asset nor, more surprisingly, the client’s likelihood of rejecting the advisor’s recommendation. However, we do find that disclosure results in a larger financial payoff for the client in our experimental setup.
D04|Complexity and Economic Policy: A Paradigm Shift or a Change in Perspective? A Review Essay on David Colander and Roland Kupers's Complexity and the Art of Public Policy|"In their recent book, Colander and Kupers (2014) argue that viewing the economy as a complex adaptive system should change the way in which we make economic policy. This would necessitate a paradigm shift. Economics has, over time, tried to produce a coherent model to underpin the dominant laissez-faire liberal approach. But we have never proved, in that model, that left to their own devices, the participants in an economy will self-organize into a satisfactory state. This is an assumption. Complex interactive systems with direct interaction between heterogeneous agents may show no tendency to self-equilibrate and will undergo endogenous crises. Economists should concentrate on the emergence of certain patterns. Colander and Kupers suggest that we may be able to nudge the system into ""good"" basins of attraction. A more radical view is that there are no fixed basins of attraction; these change with the evolution of the system and it is illusory to believe that we can choose good basins. We may be able to recognize and influence the emergence of certain states of the economy, but we are far from Leon Walras's dream of economics as a science like astrophysics."
D04|The Effects of Residue Tolerance on Pesticide Use, Hop Marketing and Social Welfare| Pesticide use can mitigate production risks from pest and disease infestations. However, intensive pesticide use may result in large amount of pesticide residues, causing hop-quality damages and raising food safety issues. Pesticide use also leads to sizable negative ecological and environmental externalities. In respond to food safety and other socio-economic issues, policy makers, such as national governments and international organizations, pursue low pesticide residues by implementing tolerance which permits only a maximum concentration of agrichemical residues. This paper examines the social-economic impacts of the residue tolerance. To this end, a four-stage game theoretic model is outlined to characterize the stylized attributes of both domestic hop production and marketing. The model highlights the strategic interactions between hop growers, hop merchant and the government. Multiple market equilibria are characterized. The analysis contributes to a better understanding of social welfare which accommodates the environmental externalities of pesticide use. Simulations are conducted based on hop production information in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
D04|An Economic Analysis of Beverage Size Restrictions| We model the potential efficiency and distributional consequences of a government beverage-size restriction that is designed to curb or reduce consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages. Unsurprisingly, we find that a credibly implemented restriction can curb consumption, particularly by “high-type” consumers who consume large amounts of sweetened beverages. Surprisingly, we find that for small to moderate restrictions that might be consistent with the magnitude of the NYC soda-ban, consumer welfare will be unaffected by the regulation. Instead, most consumption inefficiency induced welfare losses will be borne by sellers. Thus, policy debates concerning welfare losses from soft-drink sales should focus on business losses rather than consumer welfare losses.
D04|Incorporating Time Costs into SNAP Allotment Calculation: A Home Food Production Time Use Analysis| The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as the Food Stamp Program, is the largest domestic food assistance program for low-income individuals and, according to the Congressional Research Service, accounts for almost 80% of the USDA mandatory budget. In 2014, the program served about 47 million people with a total program cost of about $74 billion. The average monthly benefits in 2014 were around $125 per person and $256 per household (FNS, 2015a). Thorough evaluations of the SNAP program effectiveness at achieving its goals (i.e., achieving food security and healthier diets) are wanted given the sizable program costs and are essential for utilizing the vast coverage of SNAP program to achieve the largest public health impact. It has been shown in the literature that ignoring food production time (i.e., labor cost) in the home food production can lead to an overly optimistic evaluation of the effectiveness of SNAP. Focusing on single-headed households, Davis and You (2011) found out the households spent on average 40% less than enough to meet the Thrift Food Plan (TFP) threshold (as compared to 35% more than enough when labor time is ignored) and only 15% households spend enough to reach the TFP threshold (as compared to 65% when labor is not considered). It shows that time constraint is a significant barrier to reach nutrition goal. This line of research has caught political and policy attentions with the leading example that the Institute of Medicine (IOM) report in 2013 calls for research that seeks tractable manner to incorporate time cost into SNAP benefit calculation in order to improve the SNAP program effectiveness at reaching nutrition targets. The purpose of this paper is three fold. First is to answer the recent call from the IOM to incorporate time dimension into the SNAP benefit formula in a tractable manner for both single-headed households and dual-headed households. The first recommendation coming out of the IOM indicates that “USDA-FNS should examine the impact of accounting for cost-time trade-offs, for example, by: applying a time adjustment multiplier to the cost of the TFP…” (Caswell and Yatkine 2013 p.6-5). We demonstrate the appropriate form this multiplier needs to take to be consistent with the basic compensation principle known as the cost difference approach. Second is to demonstrate how to estimate this multiplier for both single headed and dual headed households. For dual headed households we present an algorithm that utilizes the food production role identification information that is available in the Eating and Health Module supplement to the ATUS to predict the missing spousal home food production time for the dual-headed households. This algorithm is a contribution in its own right as a similar procedure could be used to look at other important time allocation duties, such as child care, but where time use information collection may be limited. Third is to determine whether or not the dual nature of the household makes a difference in the proposed SNAP benefit adjustment and compare the adjusted benefits with other food plans (i.e., Low Cost Food Plan and Moderate Cost Food Plan). This study utilizes American Time Use Survey (ATUS) data to get information on actual time spent in food production. For single-headed households, the respondent time use data can be treated as the total household time spent in food production if the respondent is the main food producer which we utilize information provided by Eating and Health Module (EHM) supplement to ATUS to identify. For dual-headed households, the missing spousal time use information requires imputation which we propose an algorithm for that. We restrict the sample to those with one or two adults to avoid predicting other adults’ time use since we do not have any further information on other adults of the households. We further limit the sample to those households indicating that their household income is less than or equal to 185% of the poverty threshold since the focus of scaling the SNAP benefits is to help low-income households. We further drop households with respondent indicating that he/she is sharing the food production roles with other adults in the household since there is no information available to assume the percentage split of the responsibility. Two-part models are utilized to predict spousal time use and other days of the week time use based on food production role differences and the scaling factor k is calculated for the following four categories of households: single-headed households with children, single-headed households without children, dual-headed households with children, dual-headed household without children. To account for the uncertainty in the opportunity cost of time and the estimation noises in the actual time use, we conduct parametric bootstrapping to map out the empirical distribution for the estimated multiplier for the SNAP benefits. We find that ignoring spousal contribution to household food production underestimates household home food production time by about 3 hours per week. Without considering the spousal contribution to food production time, we are likely to overestimate the labor adjusted full TFP cost deficit by about $50 per week. On average, the suggested multiplier, k, is less than 0.5. Furthermore, we compare the adjusted TFP amount with the Low-Cost Food Plan (LCFP) amount and Moderate-Cost Food Plan (MCFP) amount. The adjusted TFP amount has much higher median than both LCFP and MCFP for single-headed households with and without children. Results also show that dual-headed households have the flexibility of spousal time substitution therefore their time constraints are not as tight as the single-headed households and require smaller time-cost adjustment to meet the threshold.
D04|Random-parameter PSM: a novel method of program evaluation for situations when participation is affected by unobservable variables|" Propensity score matching (PSM) is the most widely used method of program evaluation in situations when only cross-sectional data are available. PSM matches each participant in the program with a group of non-participants who were equally likely to participate in the program as the participant but chose not to participate. A well-acknowledged weakness of PSM is that its matching procedure is carried out solely based on observable variables, and therefore the resultant propensity score is biased if any unobservable variable plays part in people’s decision whether or not to participate. Here, we show through a simulation analysis that the application of a random-parameter probability model reduces the aforementioned bias, and that this method can be used as an easily implementable alternative to the standard PSM procedures. This bias reduction is attributable to the model's capability to assign a separate estimator for each individual, which can partially ""absorb"" the effect of the individual's unobservable traits on the participation decision."
D04|Does she have a say? The impact of livestock transfer and associated training on women's empowerment: Evidence from Zambia| This study assesses the impact of livestock transfer and associated training on women’s empowerment in Zambia. Women’s empowerment is measured with women’s ‘decision making power’ on different farm household activities and resources. Using a two-period panel data from a field experiment in the Copperbelt Province, first, we demonstrate empirically that women’s empowerment serves as a key driver of economic wellbeing; it has positive effects on consumption expenditures and dietary diversity. We then use the difference-in-difference method with household level fixed effects and find a significant positive impact of the intervention on both women and men’s empowerment measures. While men and women from ‘treated’ households made most household decisions jointly, the intervention had larger impact on women’s decision making power. We demonstrate that the improvement in men and women’s decision making power largely comes from expansion in joint decisions. In particular, the intervention helped increase the proportion of joint decisions by 16% in all household activities considered and by 21% in decision spheres related to the transferred assets. The finding is consistent with the prediction of the Nash bargaining model because transferring economic resources to women members leads to pareto optimality in resource allocation only through co-operation between men and women.
D04|Bring Back our Light: Power Outages and Industrial Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa| Power cuts have become a characteristic feature of many Sub-Saharan African economies. This paper attempts to estimate the firm level impact of power out- ages using panel data on firms from 15 Sub-Saharan African countries. Further, I evaluate the impact of electricity self-generation in ameliorating the effects of power outages on firm performance using a quasi-experimental approach. Results from the analysis reveal significant negative effects of electricity short- ages on firm productivity, size and labor employment. Finally, contrary to the notion that self-generation may be helpful for firms during outage periods, evidence from this paper suggest that reliance on self-generation is associated with productivity losses albeit short run revenue gains.
D04|The Effect of Industrial Cluster Policy on Firm Performance in Ethiopia: Evidence from the Leather Footware Cluster| This paper empirically analyzes the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effects of a public policy promoting micro and small scale industrial clusters in Ethiopia. To this end, firm-level survey data was collected from randomly selected clustered leather shoe manufacturers that have directly benefited from the policy and those that do not, both before and after the cluster policy intervention. The results from econometric analysis suggests that the industrial cluster policy adversely impacts the productivity, profitability, growth, and innovation performance of the small and micro leather shoe manufacturing enterprises that moved to the government created clusters . The analysis of the transmission mechanism further reveals that the relocated cluster policy hampers the treated firms’ collaborative business and knowledge network and aggravates their growth impediments which includes lack of trust, high customer and supplier search and reach cost, lack of market information, imperfect contract enforcement, delays in the supply of raw materials and the lack of skilled labor. The time lag between policy implementation and its impacts may conceal the long-term impact of the cluster policy. The overwhelming majority of the representatives of treatment group firms also continue to believe that their buisness performance will improve over time as a result of their participation in the MSE cluster development program. This study is a pioneer to quantitatively evaluate the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effect of industrial cluster policy in Ethiopia.
D04|Measuring Firms’ Input Congestion with Consideration of Environmental Factors: The Case of European Railway Transport|In practice, input congestion effects appear in railway transport due to the difficulties of disposing of unnecessary input factors. This study measures the output-oriented technical efficiency and input congestion with consideration of categorical variables for railway transport by using the DEA extension approach. The empirical results from 24 European railway companies show that in 12 railways, the presence of weak congestion can be proved. Based on the results of identifying the source(s) of input congestion and further determining its amount, one can obtain more insights into railways’ operation and thus propose more effective strategies for improvement.
D04|Graphic Evaluation Of Copyright And Of Relations By The Method Of Discounted Cash-Flow (Dcf)|"According to the new technologies and due to the phenomenon of sustainability, in the knowledge economy, intangible assets are renamed, being limited by resources existential any economic entity, the terminology ""intangible"", ""invisible"", ""intellectual"" or ""us/immaterial"" which emphasizes knowledge by which human capital is undre different forms. Due to the existence of a variety of approaches, accounting literature, together with the economic but also the specific evaluation activity reflects complexity permanent classification of intangible assets. As we all know, the moment items related intangible assets can be identified, presented and defined in terms of a wide range and complex standards such as the International Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting Standards and not least the International Valuation Standards. To support the theme of the current research we have chosen as the case study approach to assess a sampling of copyright and relationships using the discounted cash flow method (DCF)."
D04|An Evaluation of the Policies on Repayment of Government’s Trade Debt in Italy|Abstract Since 2012 the Italian Government made several steps to repay its commercial debts. By using a composite dataset, we evaluate the effect of these policies on the financial performances of a representative sample of Italian firms. We distinguish between firms beneficiaries of these repayments, those that were not repaid, although they had a legitimate right, and those that did not have commercial relations with the General Government. We find that receiving money had a significant positive impact on firms’ financial position.
D04|Rates of Return and Early Retirement Disincentives: Evidence from a German Pension Reform|To counteract the financial pressure emerging in aging societies, statutory pay-as-you-go pension schemes are undergoing fundamental reforms in many Western countries. Starting with cohort 1937, Germany introduced permanent pension deductions for early retirement. This paper examines the evolution of the profitability of pension contributions against the background of this reform for cohorts 1935-1945. I measure the profitability with the internal rate of return (IRR) and use high quality administrative data. For men the IRR declines from 2.4% to 1.2% and for women from 5.2% to 3.7%. The results suggest that the deductions introduced by the reform only cause some part of this trend. The majority of the trend, about 75%-80%, is caused by increased pension contributions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D04|One Without The Other? Behavioural And Incentive Policies For Household Waste Management|This paper provides a review of economic studies that analyse the use of multiple policies to cope with waste management problems. We discuss the factors that influence selective sorting behaviour, and the most appropriate policies for their promotion. Based on the works analysed, our survey shows the original features of waste as an environmental problem requiring regulation. The traditional approach in which decisions respond to rational behaviour, particularly cost savings, has some limits. Although not all public policies seem justified, we argue that there might be a need for specific policies to promote recycling, preferably based on the provision of information to consumers or on behavioural instruments. Indeed, personal factors specific to each individual - such as emotions and the influence of social interaction – should be taken into account in the development of public policies. We review the literature related to different rationales and identify some avenues for future research.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D04|PROFIT ORIENTED BUSINESSES vs SERVICES PROVIDING BUSINESSES|The tourism sector is a major component of the economy, as a sector as well as an entrance factor towards all the other economic activities. This study is organized in an empirical form, together with a review of specialized literature, through the studying of the possible correlations between the tourism sector's performance and the importance of forming an organization culture within this sector. To answer the paper's purpose, the following research techniques have been used: content analysis of the research carried out, as well statistical methods for the analysis of data and the interpretation of results. The study's results indicate that, despite the field's importance being uncontestable, the specialized literature in our country, at least, does not dedicate any paper towards the research of tourism enterprises' organizational culture. There are some references to the hospitality industry, meaning hotels and public nutrition, but a study on the organization culture of travel agencies has not yet been carried out. It has come to the conclusion that the emancipation of consumers can stimulate competition, increase efficiency, as well as rethinking the strategies of tourism-sector firms.
D04|Robustness of subgame perfect implementation|In this paper we consider the robustness of subgame perfect implementation in situations when the preferences of players are almost perfectly known. More precisely, we consider a class of information perturbations where in each state of the world players know their own preferences with certainty and receive almost perfectly informative signals about the preferences of other players. We show that implementations using two-stage sequential move mechanisms are always robust under this class of restricted perturbations, while those using more stages are often not.
D04|Ride Your Luck!A Field Experiment on Lotterybased Incentives for Compliance|We designed a natural-field experiment in the context of local public transportation to test whether rewards in the form of lottery prizes coupled with traditional sanctions effciently reduce free-riding. We organized a lottery in a medium-size Italian city the participation in which is linked to purchasing an on-board bus ticket. The lottery was then implemented in half of otherwise identical buses operating in the municipality. Our theoretical model shows that the introduction of the lottery generated an increase in the number of tickets sold and that it is possible to design a self-financing lottery. To estimate the effect of the lottery's introduction on the amount of tickets sold, we matched and compared treated and control buses operating on the same day on the exact same route. The results show that buses participating in the lottery sold significantly more tickets than the control buses. The increase in revenue from the tickets sold was more than the lottery prize amount.
D04|Determinants of Financial Inclusion of Urban Poor in India: An Empirical Analysis|Financial inclusion is crucial for the inclusive and sustainable economic growth of developing countries. Access to financial services to all citizens, particularly to low income and poor people is a key to promote inclusive growth. While rural financial inclusion assumes importance from policy makers and academicians, urban financial inclusion needs urgent attention with rapidly increasing urbanization, unique requirements of urban population and increasing poor and low income population living in urban areas, particularly slum areas. The paper attempts to analyze the nature, characteristics and determinants of financial inclusion in Pune, a large city of India based on a household survey at an identified slum area. Empirical findings of the survey include the socio-economic characteristics and banking behaviour of households Furthermore, the paper identifies the major determinants of the level of financial inclusion using a multiple regression model using socio-economic characteristics of the households. Finally the paper suggests appropriate policies and strategies for enhancing financial inclusion in urban areas through building low cost personalized distribution network, creating asset linked and collateral free credit schemes, leveraging Aadhar (biometric identity card) platform, creating targeted product and service offering, strengthening business correspondent cells, and setting up urban financial inclusion centers.
D04|Searching for the Devil in the Details: Learning about Development Program Design|Motivated by our experience in designing a particular social program, skill set signaling for new entrants to the labor market in Peru, we articulate the need for, and explore the empirical consequences of, alternative learning approaches to the design of development projects. Using a simulation, we demonstrate that even with only modest dimensioned design space and even modest ”ruggedness” of the outcome with respect to design a naive iterative approach of ”crawling the design space” dominates an RCT learning strategy. We suggest that the empirical results of RCTs to date are consistent with social programs having high dimensional design space and outcomes sensitive to design and hence project, program, and policy design must depend on more robust learning strategies than the attempt to directly apply results from ”systematic reviews” or move prematurely to an RCT.
D04|Provisions – Accounting Tools Of Risk Mitigation Economic|Provisions represent a defense of the economic entity against the risks they may face. These have an important role in funding decisions that will be taken in future when it is desirable an absorption fusion in the establishment or when it is desirable concluding contracts and /or commercial banking. As more provisions are created, even more protected, the company credibility with partners is higher. Any investor is interested in the transparency of accounts as they are the real economic picture of the entity and the basis from which to start making management decisions. Constituting provisions is accomplished after the inventory of patrimonial.
D04|Opportunities And Dangers That Are Based On Managerial Decesions In Constanta|Constanta County represents a very strong economic force in Romania, but also in the European continent in general. Thus, Constanta, is facing numerous problems. The negative factors that have influenced Constanta County are mainly internal. Due to its position by the Black Sea, the County is also influenced by all international political events, by the decrease of the cereals in commodities exchanges, by the oil prices or the fluctuation of the exchange rate. However, most risks have emerged because of the managerial strategies implemented by companies or the state policy on the protection of national wealth. Our welfare, at micro and macroeconomic level, depends on administrative policies.
D04|Leading by Example: What is the effect on educational outcomes of exposing girls, in addition to parents, to female role models?|Beaman et al. (2011) show that female leadership influences the aspirations of girls and educational attainment, comparing villages that randomly reserved leadership positions for women in India. They suggest that female leaders mainly had this effect through providing a role model of a woman in a leadership position, thereby raising girls’ aspirations for themselves and parents’ aspirations for their daughters. In this paper I look at the effect of exposing girls to a female role model, in addition to parents. Within the same village council, I compare the effect of exposing both children and parents to a female role model to the effect of exposing only parents, because their children were too young to be actively exposed to a female role model. I find a significant effect of exposing girls in addition to parents on educational attainment for girls, comparing outcomes for children in the age range of 4-18 years. This suggests that policies to improve girls’ education should crucially include a focus on both parents and girls.
D04|The causal effects of an intensified curriculum on cognitive skills : evidence from a natural experiment|This paper exploits a unique universal educational policy - implemented in most German states between 2001 and 2008 - that compressed the academic-track high school curriculum into a (oneyear) shorter time span, thereby increasing time of instruction and share of curriculum taught per grade. Using 2000-2012 PISA data and a quasi-experimental approach, I estimate the impacts of this intensified curriculum on cognitive skills. I find robust evidence that the reform improved, on average, the reading, mathematical, and scientific literacy skills acquired by academic-track ninthgraders upon treatment. However, I also provide evidence that the reform widened the gap in student performance with respect to parental migration background and student ability. Finally, although the reform did not affect, on average, high school grade retention, I find that the latter increased for students with parental migration background. Taken together, these findings suggest that moving to a compressed high-school curriculum did not compromise and benefited, on average, students' cognitive skills. However, they also raise equity concerns that policy-makers should be aware of.
D04|Education Curriculum and Student Achievement: Theory and Evidence|This paper proposes a theory of education curriculum and analyzes its distributional impact on student learning outcomes. Different curricula represent horizontal differentiation in the education technology, thus a curriculum change has distributional effects across students. We test the model using the quasi-natural experiment of the G8 reform in Germany. We find evidence of heterogeneous reform effects consistent with our theory. While the reform improves student test scores on average, such benefits are more pronounced for well-prepared students. In contrast, less-prepared students do not benefit from the reform.
D04|Increased instruction hours and the widening gap in student performance|Do increased instruction hours improve the performance of all students? Using PISA scores of students in ninth grade, we analyse the effect of a German education reform that increased weekly instruction hours by two hours (6.5 percent) over almost five years. In the additional time, students are taught new learning content. On average, the reform improves student performance. However, treatment effects are small and differ across the student performance distribution. Low-performing students benefit less than high-performing students. We argue that the content of additional instruction time is an important determinant explaining this pattern. The findings demonstrate that increases in instruction hours can widen the gap between low- and high-performing students.
D04|Peer Effects in Parental Leave Decisions|This paper analyzes to what extent parental leave decisions of mothers with young children depend on the decisions made by their coworkers. The identification of peer effects, which are defined as indirect effects of the behavior of a social reference group on individual outcomes, bears various challenges due to correlated characteristics within social groups and endogenous group membership. We overcome these challenges by exploiting quasi-random variation in the costs of parental leave during a narrow window around a cutoff date, induced by a parental leave benefit reform in Germany. The reform encourages mothers to remain at home during the first year following childbirth. Administrative linked employer-employee panel data enable us to assign a peer group to all individuals who work in the same establishment and occupational group. While there is a growing literature on peer effects, few studies look at peer effects in the context of parental leave decisions. We argue, however, that mothers with young children are particularly susceptible to peer behavior at the workplace due to preferences for conformity with peer group behavior as well as the career-related uncertainty that mothers face. Our results suggest that maternal decisions regarding the length of parental leave are significantly influenced by coworker decisions, in particular in situations with high uncertainty.
D04|The Effect of Increasing Education Efficiency on University Enrollment: Evidence from Administrative Data and an Unusual Schooling Reform in Germany|We examine the consequences of compressing secondary schooling for university enrollment. An unusual education reform in Germany reduced the length of academic high school while simultaneously increasing the instruction hours in the remaining years. Accordingly, students receive the same amount of schooling but over a shorter period of time. Based on a difference-in-differences approach and using administrative data on all students in Germany, we find that this reform decreased university enrollment rates. Moreover, students are more likely to delay their enrollment, to drop out of university, and to change their major. We discuss supply-side restrictions, age differences, and increased workload during school as potential mechanisms and present back-of-the-envelope cost–benefit considerations showing that the earnings gain from an extended labor market participation may still offset the adverse effects presented in this study.
D04|Investment, Adverse Selection and Optimal Redistributive Taxation|I study a credit market with adverse selection as a signalling game. I show that in the least-costly separating equilibrium, entrepreneurs of high-quality projects may over-or under-invest compared to the social optimum to signal their type. I then examine a simple budget-balanced tax-subsidy scheme applied by the government. At a first sight, the tax-subsidy scheme seems to benefit entrepreneurs of low-quality projects and harm entrepreneurs of high-quality projects because the former are cross-subsidised by the latter. Nonetheless, this result does not necessarily hold if entrepreneurs can pledge the subsidy as collateral. In that case, taxes can improve social welfare by either decreasing or increasing aggregate investment depending on whether entrepreneurs of high-quality projects over-or under-invest in equilibrium. Keywords : Adverse selection investment taxes welfare
D04|Searching for the Devil in the Details: Learning about Development Program Design|"Motivated by our experience in designing a particular social program, skill set signaling for new entrants to the labor market in Peru, we articulate the need for, and explore the empirical consequences of, alternative learning approaches to the design of development projects. Using a simulation, we demonstrate that even with only modest dimensioned design space and even modest ""ruggedness"" of the outcome with respect to design a naive iterative approach of ""crawling the design space"" dominates an RCT learning strategy. We suggest that the empirical results of RCTs to date are consistent with social programs having high dimensional design space and outcomes sensitive to design and hence project/program/policy design must depend on more robust learning strategies than the attempt to directly apply results from ""systematic reviews"" or move prematurely to an RCT."
D04|Decentralization, market integration and efficiency-equity trade-offs: Evidence from Joint Forest Management in Ethiopian villages|Extant literature on Joint Forest Management (JFM) impact evaluation has concluded that it generally does not provide sufficient incentives to justify the costs that forest use restrictions impose on local people. However, there is a dearth of evidence concerning whether alternative JFM intervention with improved market linkages for non-timber forest products has similar implications. In this study, we evaluated the income and distributive effects of a JFM program in Ethiopia in which additional support was provided for improved market linkages for non-timber forest products (NTFPs). Exploiting exogenous variation in customary rights across eligible groups of communities that participate in JFM programs, as well as using heteroskedasticity-based instrumentations, we identified the income and distributive effects of the program. Our analysis shows that the program has raised the income of the households who chose to participate by approximately 400 Ethiopian Birr or 26% of per capita expenditure; that result was robust to various specifications. We also found that this effect is largely driven by marketing incentives to use non-timber forest products. However, we found that the program's benefit is biased toward the upper end of the income distribution, a result that points to the inequality-reinforcing effects of the program.
D04|Evaluating the performance of means-tested benefits in Bulgaria|Using household survey data and microsimulation techniques, we analyse the performance of three means-tested benefits in Bulgaria. We find that the transfers reach a small proportion of households with incomes below a relative poverty line, they have high non take-up rates, and large proportions of the recipients are neither poor nor entitled to receive the benefits. Unsurprisingly, although an important income source for poor households, the benefits have a very small impact on reducing the poverty rates. We show that our results are robust to potential underreporting of benefit receipt in the household survey. Finally, we analyse the effect of five reform scenarios, one of which fiscally neutral, on poverty and find that there is a large scope for policy improvement.
D04|The effects of progressive pricing on household electricity use|This paper proposes a model to calculate the magnitude of the reduction in household electricity use that results from a progressive pricing policy, relative to the case where uniform pricing is implemented. To quantify such an effect, a theoretical model is developed for household electricity use, and then it is applied to the progressive pricing policy for electricity in Seoul, South Korea, to empirically derive the magnitude of the reduction in household electricity use. The results suggest that progressive pricing reduces the elasticity in demand for household electricity in the summer. That is, the progressive pricing policy has a curbing effect. Therefore, households would consume a higher amount of electricity in the summer without progressive pricing.
D04|Worker-level and firm-level effects of a wage subsidy program for highly educated labor: Evidence from Denmark|We study the effects of a Danish wage subsidy program for highly educated workers on the performance of the persons and firms participating in the program. Using data on the population of program participants, both workers and firms, we find that the program had positive effects on employment and annual earnings during program participation while there are no positive effects for the years after program expiration. At the employer-level, we find statistically significant effects on the number of highly educated employees for both the period of program participation and the subsequent time period. For the total number of employees we only find positive effects during program participation while there are no statistically significant effects for value added, net income, return on assets, wages per employee and labor productivity.
D04|Do Pensions Reduce The Incentive To Work? Evidence From Egypt|In this study we investigate the impact of the receipt of contributory and social pensions on the labour supply of individuals in Egypt, using individual fixed-effect regressions and panel data from the Egypt Labour Market Panel Surveys in 2006 and 2012. The study compares the effect of social pensions and contributory pensions. We find that the receipt of contributory pensions reduces the probability of working as well as the probability of having a waged job of household members aged from 15. The receipt of social pensions has no significant effect on the probability of working for those aged 15–60. However, receiving social pensions can reduce both working and labour market participation of people aged over 60.
D04|Distributional Effects of Means Testing Social Security: Income Versus Wealth|This paper compares Social Security means tests that would reduce benefits for recipients who fall in the top quarter of the income distribution with means tests aimed at those in the top quarter of the wealth distribution. Both means tests would reduce the average benefits for the affected groups by about $5,000. The analysis is based on data from the Health and Retirement Study and covers individuals aged 69 to 79 in 2010. About 14.5 percent of retirees in this age group are both in the top quarter of income recipients and in the top quarter of wealth holders. Another 10.5 percent are top quarter income recipients, but not top quarter wealth holders; with an additional 10.5 percent top quarter wealth holders, but not top quarter income recipients. We find that a means test of Social Security based on income has substantially different distributional effects from a means test based on wealth. Moreover, there are substantial differences when a Social Security means test based on income is evaluated in terms of its effects on individuals arrayed by their wealth rather than their income. Similarly, a means test based on wealth will be evaluated quite differently by policy makers who believe that income is the appropriate basis for a means test than by those who believe that means tests should be based on wealth.
D04|Bring Back Our Light: Power Outages and Industrial Performance in Sub-Saharan Africa|Power cuts have become a characteristic feature of many Sub-Saharan African economies. This paper attempts to investigate the micro and macro impacts of power outages by estimating the effects on firm revenue and productivity, and output growth of the manufacturing and industrial sectors. Further, I evaluate the impact of self-generation in ameliorating the effects of electricity shortages on firm performance using a quasi-experimental approach. Results from the analysis reveal significant negative effects of electricity shortages on firm revenue and productivity, and output growth of manufacturing and industrial sectors. Finally, contrary to the notion that self-generation may be helpful to firms during outage periods, evidence from this paper suggest the reliance on self-generation is associated with productivity losses albeit short run revenue gains.
D04|Do good deeds make bad people?|Abstract According to the so-called ‘self-licensing effect’, committing to a virtuous act in a preceding choice may lead to behave less virtuously in the succeeding decision. Consequently, well-intentioned policies can lead to overall counter-productive effects by licensing people to behave badly in related behaviors. On the other side, motivational crowding theory argues that constraining people to adopt a desirable behavior can backfire. We use of a classroom experiment to test whether a regulatory framework to incentivize individuals to adopt pro-environmental behavior generate similar spillovers in terms of licensing effect than a non-regulatory framework. We show that the way the good deed is caused doesn’t seem to influence the licensing effect. Nevertheless, we found that business- and environmental-orientated majors react adversely to the regulatory framework. We show that environmental-orientated students exhibit higher intrinsically motivations than business-orientated ones. Accordingly, we suggest that the licensing effect is more likely to arise when the preceding ‘virtuous’ act is freely chosen (respectively regulatory caused) for non-intrinsically (respectively intrinsically) motivated individuals.
