D10|Marriage market equilibrium, qualifications, and ability|We study marital sorting on academic qualifications and latent ability in an equilibrium marriage market model using the 1972 UK Raising of the School-Leaving Age (RoSLA) legislation as a natural experiment that induced a sudden, large shift in the distribution of academic qualifications in affected cohorts, but plausibly had no impact on the distribution of ability. We show that a Choo and Siow (2006) model with sorting on cohort, qualifications, and latent ability is identified and estimable using the RoSLA-induced population shifts. We find that the RoSLA isolated low ability individuals in the marriage market, and affected marital outcomes of individuals whose qualification attainment were unaffected. We also decompose the difference in marriage probabilities between unqualified individuals and those with basic qualifications into causal effects stemming from ability and qualification differences. Differences in marriage probabilities are almost entirely driven by ability.
D10|Human Development, Social Interactions, and Identity Formation|This paper presents a general theory of child development that incorporates interactive learning and identity formation in social interactions with caregivers. The model sheds light on many puzzling aspects of child development. Child learning responds nonmonotonically to caregivers' attention and approval in social interactions. I highlight key parental characteristics associated with child learning, and identity formation. The theory also explains why media devices widen human inequality. Lessons are finally drawn for the design of policies that alleviate human inequality.
D10|Social Collateral and consumer payment media during the economic crisis in Europe|In this research paper we investigate the relationship between economic crises and the changes in levels of social collateral, as well as the indirect changes in the use of payment media from consumers as a result of the latter. The scene is Europe in 2015 and the Eurozone crisis involving countries mostly hit form the crisis: Greece, Cyprus and to a lesser extent Spain, versus less affected economies like Sweden and UK. We use and analyse questions focusing on social collateral, taken from a much broader research instrument - a questionnaire with 54 questions that have been used in a series of studies focusing in the use of payment media during 2015. From a total of 1003 gathered questionnaires a comparative analysis is performed through time and space focusing on three periods: before the start of the crisis in 2008, after that, and during the last 12 months; in terms of geographical dispersion, the aforementioned five countries are researched. Our empirical results provide some preliminary evidence indicating an heterogeneous behaviour among the five countries under investigation, as well as a clear change over time - partially explained by the impact of the crisis.
D10|The Impact of Post-Marital Maintenance on Dynamic Decisions and Welfare of Couples|In many countries divorce law mandates post-marital maintenance payments (child support and alimony) to insure the lower earner in married couples against financial losses upon divorce. This paper studies how maintenance payments affect couplesâ€™ intertemporal decisions and welfare. I develop a dynamic model of family labor supply, housework, savings and divorce and estimate it using Danish register data. The model captures the policy trade off between providing insurance to the lower earner and enabling couples to specialize efficiently, on the one hand, and maintaining labor supply incentives for divorcees, on the other hand. I use the estimated model to analyze counterfactual policy scenarios in which child support and alimony payments are changed. The welfare maximizing maintenance policy is to triple child support payments and reduce alimony by 12.5% relative to the Danish status quo. Switching to the welfare maximizing policy makes men worse off, but comparisons to a first best scenario reveal that Pareto improvements are feasible, highlighting the limitations of maintenance policies.
D10|The Impact of Post-Marital Maintenance on Dynamic Decisions and Welfare of Couples|In many countries divorce law mandates post-marital maintenance payments (child support and alimony) to insure the lower earner in married couples against financial losses upon divorce. This paper studies how maintenance payments affect couples’ intertemporal decisions and welfare. I develop a dynamic model of family labor supply, housework, savings and divorce and estimate it using Danish register data. The model captures the policy trade off between providing insurance to the lower earner and enabling couples to specialize efficiently, on the one hand, and maintaining labor supply incentives for divorcees, on the other hand. I use the estimated model to analyze counterfactual policy scenarios in which child support and alimony payments are changed. The welfare maximizing maintenance policy is to triple child support payments and reduce alimony by 12.5% relative to the Danish status quo. Switching to the welfare maximizing policy makes men worse off, but comparisons to a first best scenario reveal that Pareto improvements are feasible, highlighting the limitations of maintenance policies.
D10|Changing Current Net Nutrition with Weight as a Measure of Net Nutritional Change with the Transition from Bound to Free Labor: A Difference-in-Decompositions Approach|A population’s weight conditioned on height reflects its current net nutrition and demonstrates health variation during economic development. This study builds on the use of weight as a measure for current net nutrition and uses a difference-in-decompositions technique to illustrate how black and white current net nutrition varied with the transition to free-labor. Adult black age-related weight gain was greater with the transition to free-labor yet was not as large as the adult white age related weight gain. Agricultural worker’s current net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations, and agricultural workers’ net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations but was worse-off with the transition to free labor. Nativity had the greatest effect with weight changes and the transition to free-labor. Within-group weight variation was greater than across-group variation.
D10|Marriage Market Equilibrium, Qualifications, and Ability|We study marital sorting on academic qualifications and latent ability in an equilibrium marriage market model using the 1972 UK Raising of the School-Leaving Age (RoSLA) legislation as a natural experiment that induced a sudden, large shift in the distribution of academic qualifications in affected cohorts, but plausibly had no impact on the distribution of ability. We show that a Choo and Siow (2006) model with sorting on cohort, qualifications, and latent ability is identified and estimable using the RoSLA-induced population shifts. We find that the RoSLA isolated low ability individuals in the marriage market, and affected marital outcomes of individuals whose qualification attainment were unaffected. We also decompose the difference in marriage probabilities between unqualified individuals and those with basic qualifications into causal effects stemming from ability and qualification differences. Differences in marriage probabilities are almost entirely driven by ability.
D10|The Norwegian Pension Reform in 2011: The Long Term Impact on Take-up of Pension and Labor Supply|We investigate the impact on pension take-up and labour supply of a broad Norwegian pension reform. Focussing on the long term impact, we use a structural discrete choice model estimated on data for first groups to become eligible for the new pension, accounting for the opportunity cost of retiring early. A majority of the individuals combine take-up of pension with working. This is particular the case for individuals with lower education. The estimated model explains observed behaviour rather precisely, in particular for those who retire entirely and for all choices made by individuals with higher education. The estimated model is applied in an out of sample prediction for the cohort born in 1950. Again, the model predicts rather accurately the fraction that retires entirely and the choices made by the higher educated. Two policy simulations, an increase in longevity and tax on pension income equal to tax on labour income, implies lower take up of pensions and more people working. The response to the longevity adjustment compensates less than half of the reduction of the annual pension level in the adjustment, which is designed to mimic the increase in the longevity over the next 20 years.
D10|Inferring Inequality with Home Production|We revisit the causes, welfare consequences, and policy implications of the dispersion in households' labor market outcomes using a model with uninsurable risk, incomplete asset markets, and a home production technology. Accounting for home production amplifies welfare-based differences across households meaning that inequality is larger than we thought. Using the optimality condition that households allocate more consumption to their more productive sector, we infer that the dispersion in home productivity across households is roughly three times as large as the dispersion in their wages. There is little scope for home production to offset differences that originate in the market sector because productivity differences in the home sector are large and the time input in home production does not covary with consumption expenditures and wages in the cross section of households. We conclude that the optimal tax system should feature more progressivity taking into account home production.
D10|The Economics of Hypergamy|Partner selection is a vital feature of human behavior with important consequences for individuals, families, and society. Hypergamy occurs when a husband’s earning capacity systematically exceeds that of his wife. We provide a theoretical framework that rationalizes hypergamy even in the absence of gender differences in the distribution of earnings capacity. Using parental earnings rank, a predetermined measure of earnings capacity that solves the simultaneity problem of matching affecting earnings outcomes, we show that hypergamy is an important feature of Norwegian mating patterns. A vignette experiment identifies gender differences in preferences that can explain the observed patterns.
D10|Gig-Labor: Trading Safety Nets for Steering Wheels|"This paper shows that the introduction of the ""gig-economy"" changes the way employees respond to job loss. Using a comprehensive set of Uber product launch dates and employee-level data on job separations, we show that laid-off employees with access to Uber are less likely to apply for UI benefits, rely less on household debt, and experience fewer delinquencies. Our empirical strategy is based on a triple difference-in-difference empirical model, comparing the difference in outcome variables 1) pre- and post-layoff, 2) before and after Uber enters a market, and 3) between workers with and without the ability to participate on the ride-sharing platform (car-owners inferred from auto credit histories). In support of our identification strategy, we find no apparent pre-existing difference in outcomes in the months leading up to Uber's entry into a market. Moreover, the effects are severely attenuated for workers with an auto lease, for whom the viability of participating on the ride-sharing platform is significantly reduced. Overall, our findings show that the introduction Uber had a profound effect on labor markets."
D10|Labor Market Trends and the Changing Value of Time|During the past two decades, households experienced increases in their average wages and expenditures alongside with divergent trends in their wages, expenditures, and time allocation. We develop a model with incomplete asset markets and household heterogeneity in market and home technologies and preferences to account for these labor market trends and assess their welfare consequences. Using micro data on expenditures and time use, we identify the sources of heterogeneity across households, document how these sources have changed over time, and perform counterfactual analyses. Given the observed increase in leisure expenditures relative to leisure time and the complementarity of these inputs in leisure technology, we infer a significant increase in the average productivity of time spent on leisure. The increasing productivity of leisure time generates significant welfare gains for the average household and moderates negative welfare effects from the rising dispersion of expenditures and time allocation across households.
D10|Cultural Transmission with Incomplete Information: Parental Perceived Efficacy and Group Misrepresentation|This paper introduces incomplete information in the standard model of cultural transmission (Bisin and Verdier, 2001). We allow parents to ignore own group size and the efficiency of their cultural transmission technology, while receiving a feedback from their children. Using the selfcon_rming equilibrium concept, parents may end up to sustain, and be confirmed about, wrong conjectures. We show that in equilibrium optimal socialization efforts display cultural complementarity with respect to own population share, while the standard substitution result holds with respect their own conjectured population shares. Considering the population dynamics, if conjectures about population shares are shaped by cultural leaders who want to maximize the presence of own traits in the next period, then conjectures are characterized by negative biases. Our main finding is that, depending on the magnitude of the bias, the dynamics can display stable or unstable polymorphic equilibria, or just a stable homomorphic equilibrium, potentially reverting standard predictions
D10|Matching, cooperation and HIV in the couple|We examine how cooperation within the couple protects the partners from HIV infection using survey data from southern Africa. The respective impacts of education and cooperation on HIV risk for both wives and husbands are estimated in a joint estimation model. We fully discuss and test the conflictual approach of the couple against a cooperative framework derived from a simple matching model. Our findings suggest that the larger the number of decisions husbands and wives jointly make, the less likely it is that they are infected with HIV. This is robust to assuming that cooperation is endogenous in the wife equation. Freedom and trust are also significantly related to the likelihood of infection for both partners while the women's views about whether marital violence is acceptable are not. These effects may come from a reduced likelihood of extramarital affairs among men and women living in more cooperative partnerships.
D10|Parental Child Care Time, Income and Subjective Well-Being: A Multidimensional Polarization Approach for Germany|Neither market income nor consumption expenditure provides an adequate picture of individual standard of living. It is time which enables and restricts individual activities and is a further brick to a more comprehensive picture of individual well-being. In our study we focus on a prominent part of time use in non-market services: it is parental child care which contributes not only to individual but also to societal well-being. Within a novel approach we ask for multidimensional polarization effects of parental child care where compensation/substitution of time for parental child care versus income is interdependently evaluated by panel estimates of society’s subjective well-being. The new interdependent 2DGAP measure thereby provides multidimensional polarization intensity information for the poor and the rich and disentangles the single time and income contribution to subjective well-being ensuring at the same time the interdependence of the polarization dimensions. Socio-economic influences on the polarization pole risk and intensity will be quantified by two stage Heckman estimates. The analyses are based on the German Socio-Economic Panel with 21 waves and robust fixed effects estimates of subjective well-being as well as the German Time Use Surveys 1991/92 and actual 2012/13 with detailed diary time use data. The empirical results discover the interdependent relations between parental child care and income under a common evaluation frame and contribute to the question of dimension specific targeted policies in a multidimensional polarization approach. Prominent result: compensation between parental child care time and income proved to be significant, but there are multidimensional regions with no compensation, where parental child care time deficit is not compensated by income. Interdependent multidimensional polarization by headcount and intensity increased significantly over the twenty years under investigation with remarkable risk and intensity differences between the polarization poles with different disentangled parental child care time and income contributions to subjective well-being.
D10|Living Conditions and the Mental Health and Well-being of Refugees: Evidence from a Representative German Panel Study|The mental health and well-being of refugees are both prerequisites for and indicators of social integration. Using data from the first wave of a representative prospective panel of refugees living in Germany, we investigated how different living conditions, especially those subject to integration policies, are associated with experienced distress and life satisfaction in newly-arrived adult refugees. In particular, we investigated how the outcome of the asylum process, family reunification, housing conditions, participation in integration and language courses, being in education or working, social interaction with the native population, and language skills are related to mental health and well-being. Our findings show that negative and pending outcomes of the asylum process and separation from family are related to higher levels of distress and lower levels of life satisfaction. Living in communal instead of private housing is also associated with greater distress and lower life satisfaction. Being employed, by contrast, is related to reduced distress. Contact to members of the host society and better host country language skills are also related to lower levels of distress and higher levels of life satisfaction. Our findings offer insights into correlates of refugees’ well-being in the first years after arrival in a host country, a dimension of integration often overlooked in existing studies, thus having the potential to inform decision-making in a highly contested policy area.
D10|Gender Identity and Wives' Labor Market Outcomes in West and East Germany between 1984 and 2016|We exploit the natural experiment of German reunification in 1990 to investigate if the institutional regimes of the formerly socialist (rather gender-equal) East Germany and the capitalist (rather gender-traditional) West Germany shaped different gender identity prescriptions of family breadwinning. We use data for three periods between 1984 and 2016 from the representative German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). Density discontinuity tests and fixed-effects regressions suggest that married couples in West (but not East) Germany diminished the wife’s labor market outcomes in order to avoid situations where she would earn more than him. However, the significance of the male breadwinner prescription seems to decline in West Germany since reunification, converging to the more gender-egalitarian East Germany. Our work emphasizes the view that political and institutional frameworks can shape fairly persistent gender identity prescriptions that influence household economic decisions for some time, even when these frameworks change.
D10|Gender Identity and Wives’ Labor Market Outcomes in West and East Germany between 1984 and 2016|We exploit the natural experiment of German reunification in 1990 to investigate if the institutional regimes of the formerly socialist (rather gender-equal) East Germany and the capitalist (rather gender-traditional) West Germany shaped different gender identity prescriptions of family breadwinning. We use data for three periods between 1984 and 2016 from the representative German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). Density discontinuity tests and fixed-effects regressions suggest that married couples in West (but not East) Germany diminished the wife’s labor market outcomes in order to avoid situations where she would earn more than him. However, the significance of the male breadwinner prescription seems to decline in West Germany since reunification, converging to the more gender-egalitarian East Germany. Our work emphasizes the view that political and institutional frameworks can shape fairly persistent gender identity prescriptions that influence household economic decisions for some time, even when these frameworks change.
D10|Impacto de los Programas de Transferencias de Ingresos en la Calidad de la Vivienda Familiar: Evidencia para el Plan de Inclusión Social, Argentina|Se busca identificar si el Plan de Inclusión Social, un programa de transferencias de ingresos implementado en San Luis en 2003, tuvo efecto sobre el porcentaje de individuos que habitan viviendas de calidad inadecuada. Se construye un panel de datos a nivel aglomerados para el periodo 1996-2006, y se utiliza el Método del Control Sintético para identificar el impacto causal del programa sobre la variable de interés. Los resultados sugieren que el programa posibilitó una reducción de 1.85 puntos porcentuales en el porcentaje de individuos que habitan viviendas de calidad inadecuada, siendo este resultado robusto a diferentes pruebas de falsación.
D10|Stress testing household balance sheets in Luxembourg|This paper uses individual household data from Luxembourg to evaluate how severe economic conditions could affect bank exposure to the household sector. Using data from a representative survey, information on household income, expenses and liquid assets are used to calculate a household-specific probability of default (PD). Aggregate bank exposure at default (EAD) is obtained by multiplying these household-level PDs by their corresponding volume of outstanding loans and summing across the population of households. Aggregate bank loss given default (LGD) is calculated by assuming that banks recover real estate assets from defaulting households and liquidate them with a haircut. To simulate adverse economic conditions, the exercise is repeated with scenarios combining severe but plausible shocks (i.e. tail risk) to real estate prices, bonds and stocks, household income and interest rates. Compared to the no-shock baseline, the LGD rises by a multiple of eight, reaching 4.2% of total bank exposure to the household sector. Thus, bank losses appear to be quite sensitive to severe stress. The high-stress scenario also generates a relatively high percentage of defaults among socioeconomically disadvantaged households (i.e. low net wealth, low income, low education, three or more dependent children). For instance, households in the lowest income quintile see their PD rise from 9.3% in the no-shock baseline to 14.8% in the most severe scenario. Our main conclusion is that bank losses appear to be quite sensitive to financial stress, despite three mitigating factors in Luxembourg: indebted households tend to hold liquid assets that can help smooth shocks, household leverage tends to decline rapidly once mortgages have been serviced several years, and loan-to-value ratios at origination appear not to be excessive. Classification-JEL D10, D14, E44, G01, G21
D10|When solidarity fails: Heterogeneous effects on children from adult deaths in Senegalese households|The consequences of orphanhood have been an important topic on the research agenda in recent years, particularly against the backdrop of the AIDS epidemic in Sub-Saharan Africa. Previous literature has highlighted negative effects on children from prime-age adult deaths in the household. Some authors have however pointed out that the effects are small, possibly as a result of well-functioning coping mechanisms prevailing in the region. Furthermore, previous literature has not focused on the role of household living and budgetary arrangements. In this article, we investigate the links between deaths in the household and subsequent economic outcomes of children. Exploiting an unusually rich dataset from Senegal that permits us to precisely identify the main caregiver of a given child in the household, we test whether impacts on children differ according to their relationship with the deceased. We find robust evidence that this is the case: deaths in the household are not associated with diminished school presence for those children who are not under the direct responsibility of the deceased. They however have a strong significant negative effect for those children who are. On the basis of our results, which include effects on child labor, we argue that in large and complex households, intra-household inequality in access to resources are an essential part of the story that may well lead to a heterogeneous absorption of shocks among family members. As such, there may be important limits to African informal safety nets.
D10|Matching, Cooperation and HIV in the Couple|We examine how cooperation within the couple protects the partners from HIV infection using survey data from Southern Africa. The respective impacts of education and cooperation on HIV risk for both wives and husbands are estimated in a joint estimation model. We fully discuss and test the con ictual approach of the couple against a cooperative framework derived from a simple matching model. Our ndings suggest that the larger the number of decisions husbands and wives jointly make, the less likely it is that they are infected with HIV. This is robust to assuming that cooperation is endogenous in the wife equation. Freedom and trust are also signi cantly related to the likelihood of infection for both partners while the women's views about whether marital violence is acceptable are not. These e ects may come from a reduced likelihood of extramarital a airs among men and women living in more cooperative partnerships.
D10|The E ect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in devel- oping countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuel- wood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the xed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more pro table. We quantify both these e ects. Using our estimates we show that a fth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
D10|Gender Differences in Competitiveness: Experimental Evidence from China|Experimental evidence from both the lab and the field shows that women on average have a lower propensity to enter a competitive environment. In this paper, we investigate gender differences in competitiveness using a lab-in-the-field experiment and a subject pool consisting of Chinese adults. China provides an interesting environment to study in this regard since the country has promoted gender equality for a long time and the gender gap in earnings is small in a cross-country comparison. However, in many respects, China is still a patriarchal society. Our experimental results show that women perform equally well as men in a piece-rate task and significantly better in a competitive payment environment. Despite this, men are more than twice as likely to voluntarily choose a competitive environment. This gender difference cannot be explained by differences in risk preferences or overconfidence.
D10|Gender Identity and Relative Income within Households: Evidence from Sweden|Bertrand et al. (2015) show that among married couples in the US, the distribution of the share of the household income earned by the wife exhibits a sharp drop just to the right of .50. They argue that this drop is consistent with a social norm prescribing that a man should earn more than his wife. We repeat this analysis for Sweden, ranked as one of the world's most gender equal countries. Analyzing Swedish population register data, we do not find support for the norm that a man should earn more than his wife.
D10|Actors in the Child Development Process|We construct and estimate a model of child development in which both the parents and children make investments in the child’s skill development. In each period of the development process, partially altruistic parents act as the Stackelberg leader and the child the follower when setting her own study time. We then extend this non-cooperative form of interaction by allowing parents to offer incentives to the child to increase her study time, at some monitoring cost. We show that this incentive scheme, a kind of internal conditional cash transfer, produces efficient outcomes and, in general, increases the child’s cognitive ability. In addition to heterogeneity in resources (wage offers and non-labor income), the model allows for heterogeneity in preferences both for parents and children, and in monitoring costs. Like their parents, children are forward-looking, but we allow children and parents to have different preferences and for children to have age-varying discount rates, becoming more “patient” as they age. Using detailed time diary information on the allocation of parent and child time linked to measures of child cognitive ability, we estimate several versions of the model. Using model estimates, we explore the impact of various government income transfer policies on child development.
D10|Child Socio-Emotional Skills: The Role of Parental Inputs|Informed by the psychological literature and our empirical evidence we provide new insights into the technology of socio-emotional skill formation in middle childhood. In line with economic evidence, increasing parental inputs that enrich the child home environment and reduce stress has larger returns for children with higher socio-emotional skills in early childhood (complementarity), but only for levels of inputs that are high. For low levels of inputs, i.e. levels implying a stressful home environment, an increase has a higher return for children with lower socio-emotional skills in early childhood (substitutability). Consequently, well targeted policies can reduce middle childhood socio-emotional gaps.
D10|Parental Child Care Time, Income and Subjective Well-Being: A Multidimensional Polarization Approach for Germany|Neither market income nor consumption expenditure provides an adequate picture of individual standard of living. It is time which enables and restricts individual activities and is a further brick to a more comprehensive picture of individual well-being. In our study we focus on a prominent part of time use in non-market services: it is parental child care which contributes not only to individual but also to societal well-being. Within a novel approach we ask for multidimensional polarization effects of parental child care where compensation/substitution of time for parental child care versus income is interdependently evaluated by panel estimates of society's subjective well-being. The new interdependent 2DGAP measure thereby provides multidimensional polarization intensity information for the poor and the rich and disentangles the single time and income contribution to subjective well-being for targeted policies ensuring at the same time the interdependence of the polarization dimensions. Socio-economic influences on the polarization pole risk and intensity will be quantified by two stage Heckman estimates. The analyses are based on the German Socio-Economic Panel with 21 waves and robust fixed effects estimates as well as the German Time Use Surveys 1991/92 and actual 2012/13 with detailed diary time use data. Prominent result: compensation between parental child care time and income proved to be significant, but there are multidimensional regions with no compensation, where parental child care time deficit is not compensated by income. Interdependent multidimensional polarization by headcount and intensity increased significantly over the twenty years under investigation with remarkable risk and intensity differences.
D10|The Economics of Hypergamy|Partner selection is a vital feature of human behavior with important consequences for indi-viduals, families, and society. Hypergamy occurs when a husband's earning capacity system-atically exceeds that of his wife. We provide a theoretical framework that rationalizes hy-pergamy even in the absence of gender differences in the distribution of earnings capacity. Using parental earnings rank, a predetermined measure of earnings capacity that solves the simultaneity problem of matching affecting earnings outcomes, we show that hypergamy is an important feature of Norwegian mating patterns. A vignette experiment identifies gender differences in preferences that can explain the observed patterns.
D10|Child Socio-Emotional Skills: The Role of Parental Inputs|Informed by the psychological literature and our empirical evidence we provide new insights into the technology of socio-emotional skill formation in middle childhood. In line with economic evidence, increasing parental inputs that enrich the child home environment and reduce stress has larger returns for children with higher socio-emotional skills in early childhood (complementarity), but only for levels of inputs that are high. For low levels of inputs, i.e. levels implying a stressful home environment, an increase has a higher return for children with lower socio-emotional skills in early childhood (substitutability). Consequently, well targeted policies can reduce middle childhood socio-emotional gaps.
D10|Body Mass Index and Social Interactions from Adolescence to Adulthood|We apply a dynamic linear-in-means model to analyze the importance of social ties for the body-weight-related behavior of US youth. Our methodology shows how to estimate peer effects free of the “reflection problem” in a dynamic context where individual- and group-specific unobservable effects are controlled for. Our results show that the main drivers for the body-weight-related behavior are past and peer effects. For individuals who were normal-weight or obese during adolescence, past and peer effects are shown to be both relevant. Peer effects, instead, explain more the variation in the BMI for individuals who were over-weight during adolescence, showing in this way the importance of social interactions for body-weight-related behavior.
D10|Income and wealth inequality in Malta: evidence from micro data|This paper studies the distribution of income and wealth in Malta over the period 2010-16, based on three waves of detailed micro-data from the Household Finance and Consumption Survey. This is the first paper that explores the evolution of income and wealth inequality jointly, and over time, using household-level data in Malta. In particular, the focus of the present paper is to examine how income and wealth are distributed over different socioeconomic characteristics, their joint distribution and its determinants, as well as factors that influence a household’s ability to obtain credit, using decomposition methods and binary response models. Our results suggest that households with tertiary education experienced strong increases in their incomes and wealth in the period examined. With reference to wealth, household main residence (HMR) is the most equalising factor of wealth inequality and self-employment wealth is the most disequalising factor. Regarding the determining factors of the position of a household in the wealth distribution, the financing structure of HMR is particularly important to explain the household’s position in the wealth distribution. Furthermore, the age and education level of the reference person of a household as well as increases in household’s income affect positively the probability of being in a higher wealth quintile. This finding also holds true for households who have received inheritance or gifts.
D10|Cultural Transmission with Incomplete Information: Parental Perceived Efficacy and Group Misrepresentation|This paper introduces incomplete information in the standard model of cultural transmission (Bisin and Verdier, 2001). We allow parents to ignore own group size and the efficiency of their cultural transmission technology, while receiving a feedback from their children. Using the selfconfirming equilibrium concept, parents may end up to sustain, and be confirmed about, wrong conjectures. We show that in equilibrium optimal socialization efforts display cultural complementarity with respect to own population share, while the standard substitution result holds with respect their own conjectured population shares. Considering the population dynamics, if conjectures about population shares are shaped by cultural leaders who want to maximize the presence of own traits in the next period, then conjectures are characterized by negative biases. Our main finding is that, depending on the magnitude of the bias, the dynamics can display stable or unstable polymorphic equilibria, or just a stable homomorphic equilibrium, potentially reverting standard predictions.
D10|Arbeiten Frauen aufgrund des Ehegattensplittings weniger? Eine empirische Untersuchung für Deutschland|Die vorliegende Arbeit soll einen Beitrag zur Klärung der Frage leisten, ob das Ehegattensplitting, wie in vielen Arbeiten behauptet, einen negativen Einfluss auf das Arbeitsverhalten verheirateter Frauen hat. Hierzu kommt für Deutschland erstmals ein von Quasi-Experimenten inspirierter Ansatz zum Einsatz, bei dem anhand des allgemeinen Effekts der Heirat auf das Erwerbsverhalten der heiratenden Frauen die Wirkung des Ehegattensplittings geschätzt wird. Die Veränderung des Arbeitsverhaltens heiratender Frauen wird dabei der Veränderung bei jenen Frauen gegenübergestellt, die im gleichen Zeitraum weiterhin mit ihrem festen Partner zusammenleben, ohne zu heiraten (Kontrollgruppe). Die Ergebnisse sprechen eindeutig gegen einen unmittelbaren negativen Effekt des Ehegattensplittings auf das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen. Jedoch reduzieren heiratende und zeitgleich ein Kind bekommende Frauen ihre Erwerbstätigkeit stärker als gebärende Frauen in der Kontrollgruppe.
D10|Menstruation hygiene management and work attendance in a developing country|Women in developing countries face challenges in terms of managing their menstrual hygiene. Oftentimes they do not possess the right means nor materials nor have access to the right facilities. Using a newly released dataset for Burkina Faso and propensity score matching, we provide for the first time evidence of a strong causal impact of advanced menstrual hygiene management on work attendance. Access to advanced menstrual hygiene management materials (disposable sanitary pads) reduces work absenteeism of women by about 21 percentage points. When we stratify the sample by religious affiliation, we find the treatment effect to be insignificant for Christian women and strong and significant for Muslim women.
D10|Work incentives and the cost of redistribution via tax-transfer reforms under constrained labor supply|Using information on desired and actual hours of work, we formulate a discrete choice model of constrained labor supply. Using the German Socio-Economic Panel and the microsimulation model STSM, we find that hours and participation elasticities are substantially smaller than those in the conventional model. We evaluate two reforms for Germany. Both redistribute to the working poor. The first reform is financed through an increase in the effective marginal tax rate for welfare recipients, the second through an increase in taxes. The first reform is desirable with equal weights, the second if the social planner has substantial redistributive taste.
D10|Maternal Health, Children Education and Women Empowerment: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from India|The empirical evidence on the inter-generational effects of maternal health interventions is inconclusive, particularly the impact on cognitive ability of children. In this paper, we study one such popular policy from India, viz, the Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) which is a agship health and safe motherhood program. We exploit plausible exogenous variation in exposure to the program generated by the institutional features of the implementation, in a cross-sectional difference-in-difference framework to find evidence of reduction in academic test scores of children whose parents remained unexposed to the policy intervention. We also find that such children spend less time on homework during the week, were less likely to attend and enjoy school. We also find negative effects on women empowerment measures for the unexposed women. The results suggest that the JSY led to increase in women empowerment and improved cognitive outcomes for children.
D10|Labor Market Trends and the Changing Value of Time|During the past two decades, households experienced increases in their average wages and expenditures alongside with divergent trends in their wages, expenditures, and time allocation. We develop a model with incomplete asset markets and household heterogeneity in market and home technologies and preferences to account for these labor market trends and assess their welfare consequences. Using micro data on expenditures and time use, we identify the sources of heterogeneity across households, document how these sources have changed over time, and perform counterfactual analyses. Given the observed increase in leisure expenditures relative to leisure time and the complementarity of these inputs in leisure technology, we infer a significant increase in the average productivity of time spent on leisure. The increasing productivity of leisure time generates significant welfare gains for the average household and moderates negative welfare effects from the rising dispersion of expenditures and time allocation across households.
D10|A Pareto Inefficient Path to Steady State in Recession|In this paper, I focus on the concept of Nash equilibrium of a Pareto inefficient path (NEPIP) to examine the nature of the transition path to steady state after a shock that generates a severe recession. Risk-averse and non-cooperative households strategically and rationally choose a NEPIP if a shock that widely shifts the steady state downwards occurs. Because NEPIPs are not Pareto efficient, an infinite number of transition paths can be NEPIPs, but a unique NEPIP is eventually selected from among many possible NEPIPs by households through a tug of war between their preference to avoid a worst-case scenario and the expected utility.
D10|Savage's theorem with atoms|The famous theorem of Savage is based on the richness of the states space, by assuming a \textit{continuum} nature for this set. In order to fill the gap, this article considers Savage's theorem with discrete state space. The article points out the importance the existence of pair event in the existence of utility function and the subjective probability. Under the discrete states space, this can be ensured by the intuitive \textit{atom swarming} condition. Applications for the establishment of an inter-temporal evaluation \emph{\`a la } Koopman \cite{K60}, \cite{K72}, and for the configuration under \textit{unlikely atoms} of Mackenzie \cite{Mackenzie2018} are provided.
D10|Savage's theorem with atoms|The famous theorem of Savage is based on the richness of the states space, by assuming a continuum nature for this set. In order to fill the gap, this article considers Savage's theorem with discrete state space. The article points out the importance the existence of pair event in the existence of utility function and the subjective probability. Under the discrete states space, this can be ensured by the intuitive atom swarming condition. Applications for the establishment of an inter-temporal evaluation a la Koopman, and for the configuration under unlikely atoms of Mackenzie Mackenzie2018 are provided.
D10|Parenthood Penalty and Gender Wage Gap: Recent Evidence from Thailand|This study first examines the evolution of gender wage gap in Thailand, using cross-sectional data from the Labor Force Survey (LFS) for 1985-2017. We find that education, occupation, and industry significantly contribute to gender wage gap convergence in Thailand. Furthermore, for females, the wage gap between mothers and non-mothers has increased over time, while for males, the changes are relatively small. Thereafter, we examine the gender wage gap associated with marriage and parental status, using panel data from the Socio-Economic Survey (SES) for 2005-2012, and find wage penalty for both motherhood and fatherhood in Thailand.
D10|Alternative Boomerang Kids, Intergenerational Co-residence, and Maternal Labor Supply|This study investigates the boomerang phenomenon among adult children in Thailand. We estimate the effect of having children on co-residence between parents and adult children using Socio-Economic Survey panel data. We find that adult children who have moved out tend to move back in with their parents after having children to save time and money on childcare. The presence of young children increases the likelihood of intergenerational co-residence by over 30%. This study is the first to provide empirical evidence of boomerang kids in an Asian context, which is distinctive compared with Western countries. The relationship between intergenerational co-residence and the maternal labor supply is also examined using the instrumental variable approach based on the cross-sectional Labor Force Survey, which has data covering over 30 years. Our results show that co-residence increases the female labor supply by 21% and also extends women's working hours by 10 hours.
D10|Evaluating Energy Efficiency in Residential Buildings: A case study of RDP houses in South Africa|Worldwide, more than one third of energy is used in buildings which account for about 15% of the total greenhouse gas that is emitted globally. Buildings in cities can account to about 80% for carbon monoxide emitted. Therefore, the built environment is a very critical part of the climate change mitigation. Evaluated in this research are energy efficiency measures that can be implemented through regulations and controls. From administered questionnaires, the issues of energy efficiency have become an imperative principle in the building sector and the way it is managed in South Africa. Based on the analysis provided, energy efficient behaviour is the predominant factor that influences energy consumption. According to the PCA results, seven variables (Age of building, number of bedrooms, roofing materials, energy for cooking and heating, window style and brick and concrete wall) were all dominant variables and these variables remain significant after implementing multiple regression models to estimate energy cost.
D10|Are Economic Preferences Shaped by the Family Context? The Impact of Birth Order and Siblings' Sex Composition on Economic Preferences|The formation of economic preferences in childhood and adolescence has long-term consequences for life-time outcomes. We study in an experiment with 525 teenagers how both birth order and siblings’ sex composition affect risk, time and social preferences. We find that second born children are typically less patient, less risk averse, and more trusting. However, siblings' sex composition interacts importantly with birth order effects. Second born children are more risk taking only with same-sex siblings. For trust and trustworthiness, birth order effects are larger with mixed-sex siblings than in the single-sex case. Only for patience, siblings’ sex composition does not matter.
D10|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
D10|Environmental externalities and free-riding in the household|Water use and electricity use, which generate negative environmental externalities, are susceptible to a second externality problem: with household-level billing, each person enjoys private benefits of consumption but shares the cost with other household members. If individual usage is imperfectly observed (as is typical for water and electricity) and family members are imperfectly altruistic toward one another, households overconsume even from their own perspective. We develop this argument and test its prediction that intrahousehold free-riding dampens price sensitivity. We do so in the context of water use in urban Zambia by combining billing records, randomized price variation, and a lab-experimental measure of intrahousehold altruism. We find that more altruistic households are considerably more price sensitive than are less altruistic households. Our results imply that the socially optimal price needs to be set to correct both the environmental externality and also the intrahousehold externality.
D10|Is There a Male Breadwinner Norm? The Hazards of Inferring Preferences from Marriage Market Outcomes|Building on standard marital matching models, we show that a variety of underlying social preferences about a given trait all generate positive assortative matching on that trait, and hence the same distribution of spousal trait differences in equilibrium. Applying this result to U.S. Census and administrative earnings data, we find that simple models of assortative matching can very closely replicate the observed distribution of spousal earnings differences, in which very few wives out-earn their husbands. We conclude that the distribution of spousal earnings differences in the U.S. provides little information about the existence and implications of a male breadwinner norm.
D10|Dynamics and Efficiency in Decentralized Online Auction Markets|Economic theory suggests that decentralized markets can achieve efficient outcomes if buyers and sellers have many opportunities to trade. We examine this idea empirically by developing a tractable dynamic model of bidding in an overlapping, sequential auction environment and estimating the model with detailed data from eBay. Bidders in the model discount their bids to reflect the option value of losing – if they lose, they can come back to try again – and the structure of the model makes it so they effectively bid against a stationary distribution of rivals. We find that dynamic participation makes the market meaningfully more efficient than a benchmark in which buyers have only one opportunity to bid, but the observed outcomes still fall well short of the fully efficient competitive equilibrium.
D10|The Elasticity of Intergenerational Substitution, Parental Altruism, and Fertility Choice|Dynastic models common in macroeconomics use a single parameter to control the willingness of individuals to substitute consumption both intertemporally, or across periods, and intergenerationally, or across parents and their children. This paper defines the concept of Elasticity of Intergenerational Substitution (EGS), and extends a standard dynastic model in order to disentangle the EGS from the EIS, or Elasticity of Intertemporal Substitution. A calibrated version of the model lends strong support to the notion that the EGS is significantly large than 1, and probably around 2.5. In contrast, estimates of the EIS suggests that it is lower than 1. What disciplines the identification is the need to match empirically plausible fertility rates for the U.S.
D10|When do populations polarize? An explanation|Numerous experiments demonstrate attitude polarization. For instance, Lord, Ross & Lepper presented subjects with the same mixed evidence on the deterrent effect of the death penalty. Both believers and skeptics of its deterrent effect became more convinced of their views; that is, the population polarized. However, not all experiments find this attitude polarization. We propose a theory of rational updating that accounts for both the positive and negative experimental findings. This is in contrast to existing theories, which predict either too much or too little polarization
D10|Does the utilization of information communication technology promote entrepreneurship: Evidence from rural China|Impacts on the probability of transition to entrepreneurship in rural China associated with the utilization of information communication technology (ICT) are estimated using longitudinal data from the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS) survey. We identify cell phone ownership and Internet use as proxy variables for ICT utilization and find that cell phone ownership and Internet use have positive impacts on entrepreneurship. After controlling for observables and time and regional fixed effects, cell phone users (Internet users) are 2.1 (6.2) percentage points more likely to engage in entrepreneurship than the others. Considering that the average entrepreneurship rate for rural households is only 9.2% in the sample, the influence of cell phone ownership and Internet use are very strong in the economic sense. Our results are robust to unobservable individual characteristics, model misspecification, and reverse causality of entrepreneurship to ICT utilization. Evidence also suggests that social network and information and knowledge acquisition play the mediating roles in the impact of ICT utilization on entrepreneurship.
D10|Does Higher Economic Development Reduce Household Size? Evidence from India|The paper investigates the impact of higher economic development on average household size in India. The analysis finds that increasing income measured by net per capita state domestic product and per capita consumption expenditure has a negative effect on average household size. Variables such as, higher level education, health outcomes, extent of inequality and urbanization has negative effect on the average household size. Lower level of poverty is associated with lower level family size in long run, whereas, infrastructure has a mix effect. Results show that different religious and social groups have an effect on family size in India. Smaller family size faces several problems such as child rearing, depression, separation, anxiety and land distribution dispute. The paper argues that the issue needs to bring into current development policies for changing social structure, land distribution process, and helping for maintaining appropriate balance between work and family which are missing currently.
D10|Can the composition of the family during adolescence influence their future unemployment situation? Evidence for Spain|The aim of this paper is to analyze whether the composition of the household during adolescence may be an important determinant of their future unemployment in Spain. To address this issue, we follow the Quantity-Quality model of Becker-Lewis (Becker and Lewis, 1973), using data from the Survey of Living Conditions (2011). Results show that individuals living with both parents at home during their teenage years are less likely to be unemployed in the future.
D10|Pink Work: Same-Sex Marriage, Employment and Discrimination|This paper analyzes how the legalization of same-sex marriage in the U.S. affected gay and lesbian couples in the labor market. Results from a difference-in-difference model show that both partners in same-sex couples were more likely to be employed, have a full-time contract, and work longer hours in states that legalized same-sex marriage. Following the predictions from a theoretical search model with prejudiced employers and minority workers, empirical evidence suggests that marriage equality led to improvements in employment outcomes among gay and lesbian couples, and to lower occupational segregation, thanks to a decrease in discrimination towards sexual minorities.
D10|Beyond behavioral economics: who is the economic man|There are two reasons to go beyond Behavioral Economics. The first reason is that humans, as presented by this school, do not explain many critical economic problems. Behavioral Economics is not an alternative paradigm to traditional economics. It is only one of the New Schools of thought, that has risen due to the failure of the contemporary Neoclassical School to show that markets have a unique maximum welfare full employment equilibrium. Therefore, in order to delimit Behavioral Economics ́ contributions we need to look at the whole paradigm in economics, which today includes: the contemporary neoclassical paradigm plus all the New Schools of thought. The second reason is that humans, as described by Behavioral Economics, are not a good representation of mans ́ evolutionary characteristics. For Behavioral Economics, humans are emotional beings which often do not know what is best for them, and need the help of the government to make the choices which are truly convenient; and they display altruistic and social cooperative behavior, even in monetary transactions. But evolutionarily we are neither design to be emotional or rational, nor to be selfish or altruistic and socially cooperative. We are design to be flexible for survival purposes, and to display a wide range of behaviors.
D10|Poverty and unemployment in Spain during the 2008's financial crises|The main objective of this paper is to examine the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in the level of poverty and income inequality during and after the 2008 global financial crisis in Spain. Secondary household survey data from the European Union database (EU_SLIC) for 2008 and 2014 was used for the descriptive and inferential statistics. The two years are chosen purposely since 2008 was the year that the global financial crisis began, and 2014 was the year that unemployment rate was very high and Spain's economy was starting to revive from the crisis. Binary Logistic regression is used for inferential statistics since the dependent variable (being poor) is a binary variable and basic activity status(with four categorical variables), citizenship (with three categorical variables) and a number of workers in the household (as a ratio of the total number of individuals in the household) are used as explanatory variables. Based on the descriptive and inferential statistics results, the contribution of the high unemployment rate for the increase in poverty rate and income inequality was high in Spain during and after the 2008 global financial crisis. The probability of being poor for unemployed increases from 0.18 in 2008 to 0.255 in 2014. Being unemployed, being inactive households, and being from other citizens are more likely to poor compared with workers, and local citizens respectively.
D10|Social Networks and Informal Financial Inclusion in the People’s Republic of China|Using the 2011 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) database, we explore the heterogeneous impacts of social networks on informal financial inclusion for urban and rural households in the People’s Republic of China. We find that social networks significantly increase the probability of households’ participation in the informal financial market, augment the size of informal financial transactions, and raise the ratio of informal lending to total household assets. We also identify the mechanisms through which social networks affect households’ participation in the informal financial market. By reducing the information cost, perceived risk, and precautionary saving, social networks play a larger role for urban households than for rural households. Notably, the effects of social networks on informal finance are strengthened by the development of the formal financial market.
D10|Fertility Shocks and Equilibrium Marriage-Rate Dynamics|Why did the marriage probability of single females in France after World War 1 rise 50% above its pre-war average, despite a 33% drop in the male/female singles ratio? We conjecture that war-time disruption of the marriage market generated an abnormal abundance of men with relatively high marriage propensities. Our model of matching over the lifecycle, when calibrated to pre-war data and two war-time shocks, succeeds in matching the French time path under the additional assumption of a pro-natalist post-war preference shock. We conclude that endogeneity issues make the sex ratio a potentially unreliable indicator of female marriage prospects.
D10|Matching for Social Mobility with Unobserved Heritable Characteristics|We analyse the intergenerational transmission of ‘innate ability’, focusing on the role of marital sorting. The heritability of ability induces a concern for the ability of potential spouses independently of a concern for their earning capacity. Marriages form on the basis of beliefs about ability (since it is not observed) as well earning capacity (which is observed). Beliefs are informed by earning capacity, but crucially also by family background. We show how the intergenerational transmission of ability becomes sensitive to elements of the economic environment once marital sorting is endogenously determined, but also that policy variables (e.g. income redistribution) generally have no impact. The analysis also reveals a novel ‘status motive’ for parental investment and channel through which the fortunes of grandparents and prior generations persist.
D10|The Value of Health Insurance: A Household Job Search Approach|Do households value access to free health insurance when making labor supply decisions? We answer this question using the introduction of universal health insurance in Mexico, the Seguro Popular (SP), in 2002. The SP targeted individuals not covered by Social Security and broke the link between access to health care and job contract. We start by using the rollout of SP across municipalities in a differences-indifferences approach, and find an increase in informality of 4% among low-educated families with children. We then develop and estimate a household search model that incorporates the pre-reform valuation of formal sector amenities relative to the alternatives (informal sector and non-employment) and the value of SP. The estimated value of the health insurance coverage provided by SP is below the government's cost of the program, and the corresponding utility gain is, at most, 0.56 per each peso spent.
D10|Structural Labour Supply Models and Microsimulation|The purpose of the paper is to provide a discussion of the various approaches for accounting for labour supply responses in microsimulation models. The paper focus attention on two methodologies for modelling labour supply: (i) the discrete choice model and (ii) the random utility â€“ random opportunities model. The paper then describes approaches to utilising these models for policy simulation in terms of producing and interpreting simulation outcomes, outlining an extensive literature of policy analyses utilising these approaches. Labour supply models are not only central for analysing behavioural labour supply responses but also for identifying optimal tax-benefit systems, given some of the challenges of the theoretical approach. Combining labour supply results with individual and social welfare functions enables the social evaluation of policy simulations. Combining welfare functions and labour supply functions, the paper discusses how to model socially optimal income taxation
D10|Income taxation of couples, spouses’ labor supplies and the gender wage gap|We study the taxation of couples when female wages do not reflect their true productivity. We show that the expression for the marginal tax rates of the male spouses is the same as in a Mirrleesian world where wages reflect true productivities. Marginal taxes for the female spouses are reduced because of a Pigouvian correction. Consequently, the wage discrimination pleads for a lower marginal tax on the female spouse. Furthermore, the distortion of a couples’ tradeoff between male and female labor supply is the same as in a Mirrleesian world without a gender wage gap. It only depends on true productivities and not on wages. In other words, the tax system completely neutralizes the extra distortion introduced by the wedge between the female spouse’s wage and her true productivity.
D10|Suddenly Married: Joint Taxation And The Labor Supply Of Same-Sex Married Couples After U.S. v. Windsor|Joint taxation can exacerbate the deadweight loss of taxation due to labor supply responses, but evidence is scarce. I estimate the efficiency costs and labor supply effects of joint taxation in the United States by leveraging tax variation created by federal same-sex marriage recognition following the 2013 United States v. Windsor Supreme Court ruling. I find moderate hours responses among primary earners and larger labor force participation responses among secondary earners. My findings suggest that joint taxation is less efficient and generates less tax revenue than individual taxation, and that lowering tax rates for secondary earners could improve efficiency.
D10|Marriage, Divorce, and Tax and Transfer Policy|I use variation from the 1990s in the Earned Income Tax Credit and welfare reform to estimate the effects on marrying and divorcing. I examine flows into and out of marriage, use test scores to predict who is most likely to be affected by the policy changes, and employ a flexible functional form to estimate heterogeneous effects. I find that low-earning single parents are more likely to marry due to the EITC expansion and lower welfare generosity, while mid-earning married parents are less likely to divorce and high-earning married parents are more likely to divorce due to the EITC expansion.
D10|Social Diversity and Bridging Identity|We investigate within a model of cultural transmission the conditions under which increased social diversity within a population - e.g. due to the inflow of immigrants - raise the potential for conflict as opposed to harmonious social diversity. Drawing on evidence from psychological studies, we develop the concept of 'bridging identity', an individual trait that (i) directly affects utility in culturally diverse social groups but is immaterial in culturally homogeneous social groups; (ii) is fostered (probabilistically) in those born in culturally diverse social groups but not in those born in culturally homogeneous social groups. We find first, increased cultural diversity within a population can lead to more mixed social groups or increased segregation depending on the paceof change. This is in contrast to Schelling's models of residential segregation which would always predict increased segregation. Furthermore, a temporary negative shock to bridging identity can trigger a dynamic process of segregation in the form of outmigration from culturally diverse social groups. But, paradoxically, if the shock is severe enough, its effects are mitigated.
D10|Consumption Response to Aggregate Shocks and the Role of Leverage|This paper investigates the relationship between mortgage leverage and consumption around the 2008 financial crisis. Using data from the UK’s Family Expenditure Survey and Wealth and Asset Survey, we first show that high-leveraged households made larger cuts to consumption following the financial crisis, and this was largely driven by young households. Second, using a life-cycle framework, we investigate the channels by which high-leveraged households may have reduced consumption by more than others. Our key finding is that credit supply tightening is the main driver of the empirical co-movement between pre-crisis leverage and consumption growth after 2008.
D10|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
D10|Household Disaster Management in Disaster Prone II of Mt. Slamet|"""Objective – This research aims to describe the factors influencing household disaster management of those living in the disaster prone II area of Mt.Slamet in Indonesia. The study focuses on the disaster prone II area surrounding Mt. Slamet, including five (5) villages from three (3) districts. Methodology/Technique – A quantitative research methods is employed in this study. A total of 538 households were selected for examination using a two-stage stratified and systematic sampling. To describe the direct and indirect factors supporting livelihoods, Path analysis using a Stata tool analysis was used. Findings – Multicollinearity was tested prior to the Path analysis. Among the 26 independent variables used, 12 independent variables had a statistical significance level of between 0.05 and 0.01. Labor force, transportation access, income, utilization of non-chemical fertilizer, transformation of process and structure, migration, livelihood changing, healthy household members, vehicle ownership, size of land for agriculture, access to electricity, and household networking to other parties located outside the village were the direct and indirect factors supporting disaster management of households living in the disaster prone II area of Mt. Slamet, Indonesia. Novelty – The Indonesian government has classified the disaster prone II area as the highest risk area in which households are allowed to build their settlements. The study ultimately concludes that the government and other sectors could support households to strengthen their ability to manage disaster. """
D10|Development Economics Meets the Challenges of Lagging U.S. Areas: Applications to Education, Health and Nutrition, Behavior, and Infrastructure|This chapter examines the development economics evidence base for insights into policy reforms that would benefit struggling areas in the United States. My focus is on improving education, physical and mental health, infrastructure, and institutions. First, consistent with findings on education policy effectiveness, I propose raising the legal minimum dropout age (prospectively to 19), providing better information about the benefits of completing high school, supporting targeted paraprofessional tutoring, and providing family financial incentives for attending school and graduating from high school. Second, to improve health outcomes in struggling areas, the focus is using and building on existing effective health and nutrition programs and services, identifying ways to include more families who are eligible for but not participating in these programs. Moreover, the recent development and behavioral economics evidence base has extended our understanding of the psychological, cognitive, and economic behavioral lives of the poor; the literature highlights the ways that poverty can impede cognitive functioning, with implications for policies to uplift lagging U.S. areas. Third, a review of evidence on the benefits of improving lagging rural and urban area transportation infrastructure points to the likely benefits of improved connectivity for lagging U.S. areas: reversing the legacy of past discriminatory policies, encouraging sector-based clusters, and extending access to high-speed internet. Finally, the chapter highlights the relevance of some cross-cutting themes in development economics, including the high returns to reliable household microdata and the importance of improving institutions to enable more inclusive, substantial, and lasting progress.
D10|Gains from digitization: Evidence from gift-giving in music|In this paper, we focus on recorded music gifts during the holiday season and estimate the reduction in deadweight loss due to the transition from physical CD gift-giving to digital music gift-giving with gift cards. Based on our survey data, we find that music CD gifts generate an average deadweight loss between 15% and 38% of the price. According to our estimates of gift music album sales which are based on U.S. data, the welfare gains from digitization, in terms of eliminated deadweight loss as a percentage of total spending on music albums, were between 5% and 13% during the week when digital sales peak in 2014.
D10|Designing pension benefits when longevities increase with wages|At the design of public pension systems, the designers frequently neglect that higher earners statistically live longer, and possibly also retire later. Since the first difference has recently been rising steeply, this negligence is less and less tolerable, especially with nonfinancial defined contribution system (NDC). We analyze three simple connected pension models to understand how the redistribution from the low-earners to the high-earners can be reduced or reversed. Our answers: either mixing NDC and flat benefit or reducing the weight of wage indexation of benefits. It is an open question how the neglected behavioral reactions (lower share of NDC implies lower labor supply and greater tax evasion) influence the social welfare.
D10|Forced reduction of pension contribution rate?|Due to various causes, the pension contribution rate can be reduced temporarily below its long-term value. We call a reduction forced if the balance of the public pension system is preserved through excessive wage-hikes and irritable relative devaluation of pensions in progress. A very simple overlapping cohorts model shows the limits of this policy and the resulting unfairness among cohorts.
D10|The best indexation of public pensions: the point system|We reconsider the problem of indexation of public pensions, emphasizing that similar contribution paths should imply similar benefit paths. This robustness criterion is only satisfied by full wage indexing, which in turn requires the politically unpopular reduction of the accrual rates. To minimize the redistribution from low-earning short-lived citizens to high-earning long-lived ones, progressive benefits should be introduced.
D10|The Value of Health Insurance: A Household Job Search Approach|Do households value access to free health insurance when making labor supply decisions? We answer this question using the introduction of universal health insurance in Mexico, the Seguro Popular (SP), in 2002. The SP targeted individuals not covered by Social Security and broke the link between access to health care and job contract. We start by using the rollout of SP across municipalities in a differences-indifferences approach, and find an increase in informality of 4% among low-educated families with children. We then develop and estimate a household search model that incorporates the pre-reform valuation of formal sector amenities relative to the alternatives (informal sector and non-employment) and the value of SP. The estimated value of the health insurance coverage provided by SP is below the governmentâ€™s cost of the program, and the corresponding utility gain is, at most, 0.56 per each peso spent.
D10|Long-run effects of family policies: An experimental study of the Chinese one-child policy|We present lab-in-the-field experimental evidence of the effects of the Chinese one-child policy on individuals’ preferences and behavior as adults. The experiments were conducted in three different provinces because the policy was not strictly implemented at the same time in all provinces. We measure risk and time preferences, as well as subjects’ competitiveness, cooperation, and bargaining behavior, sampling individuals born both before and after the introduction of the policy. Overall, we do not find any sizeable or statistically significant effects of the one-child policy on preferences or behavior in any of the experiments. These results hold for heterogeneity in the timing of the implementation of the OCP in different provinces, for heterogeneity among individuals, and for various robustness checks.
D10|Practice Makes Voters? Effects of Student Mock Elections on Turnout|Student mock elections are carried out in schools around the world in an effort to increase political interest and efficacy among students. There is, however, a lack of research on whether mock elections in schools enhance voter turnout in real elections. In this paper, we examine whether the propensity to vote in Swedish elections is higher among young people who have previously experienced a student mock election. The analysis is based on unique administrative population-wide data on turnout in the Swedish 2010 parliamentary election and the 2009 European Parliament election. Our results show that having experienced a mock election as a student does not increase the likelihood of voting in subsequent real elections. This result holds when we study both short- and long-term effects, and when we divide our sample into different parts depending on their socio-economic status and study each part separately.
D10|Private behandlingsforsikringer – status og mulige konsekvenser på effektivitet og fordeling|I dette notatet redegjøres det innledningsvis for utvikling i antallet som har en privat behandlingsforsikring i Norge og hva status er vedrørende bestandspremier, erstatnings-utbetalinger, antall meldte skader og selskapenes markedsandeler. Deretter oppsummeres hovedfunn fra forskning på norske data når det gjelder hvem som er omfattet av slike forsikringer og hva de mulige motivene for kjøp av slike forsikringer er. Avslutningsvis presenteres mulige samfunnsmessige konsekvenser som følger av et marked for private behandlingsforsikringer samtidig som det gis det en drøfting av mulige fordelingspolitiske konsekvenser av eksistensen av et slikt marked. Det argumenteres for at private behandlingsforsikringer gir høyere prioritert til en gruppe i form av redusert ventetid som igjen svekker både horisontal - og vertikal likhet.
D10|Peak and off-peak demand for electricity: subsistence levels and price elasticities|In this paper, we explore subsistence levels and price elasticities for residential electricity demand in Sweden. Using a Stone-Geary functional form and unique Swedish data on residential electricity usage, we estimate demand Equations for peak and off-peak demand. We find that the subsistence levels are larger during peak than off-peak, and that there is a substantial variation in these subsistence levels across months. As a result, price responsiveness varies across hours and seasons. This has important policy implications, not the least with respect to effects of real time pricing, as it suggests that there are limits to households’ price responsiveness.
D10|Sibling Correlation in Risk Attitudes: Evidence from Burkina Faso|This study uses sibling correlation to investigate the importance of parental and household characteristics on three different risk domains collected in a nationally representative survey from Burkina Faso. Sibling correlations are between 0.51 and 0.83. The correlations are higher in the general risk domain compared to risk taking in financial matters and traffic. Moreover, the sibling correlation is higher for the younger generation of siblings than the older generation, and for sisters than brothers. We also explore which factors drive these correlations; parents’ risk attitudes help explain these correlations, whereas socioeconomic outcomes, family structure, parental health and residential zone have only a limited contribution. We also find that gender is important in explaining the variation in sibling correlations. Mother’s have a stronger contribution on daughter’s correlation than fathers, whereas fathers help to explain the son’s correlation to a larger extent.
D10|The Effects of Universal Secondary Education Program Accompanying Public-Private Partnership on Students' Access, Sorting and Achievement: Evidence from Uganda|This paper evaluates how the abolition of fees for public secondary education affects the access, sorting and achievement of students when it is accompanied by the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) scheme. In 2007, Uganda introduced the Universal Secondary Education policy, which solicited the participation of private schools to offer fee-free education by receiving public assistance. This has created (1) public schools (fee-free for all), (2) PPP private schools (accepting both fee-free and fee-paying students) and (3) private schools. We investigate the sorting across these types of schools, and further assess the impact on achievement, student composition, and learning environments by the type. In order to identify the effects of the policy, we utilize the across-cohort discontinuity in exposure to the program and across-district variation in the program intensity based on the pre-existing transition and retention rates. Our results suggest that the program increased the overall number of the students taking the secondary school exit exam by 16% in the median intensity district, the private school entry. It was not accompanied by a change in test scores, though learning environments worsened. Across the subsectors, the PPP and private schools experienced particularly large gains in the test scores. Our findings suggest that fee elimination can improve the access to secondary education with few negative effects on learning, and that PPP can provide one of the cost-effective means for financing it.
D10|How Bargaining in Marriage Drives Marriage Market Equilibrium|This paper investigates marriage market equilibrium under the assumption that Bargaining In Marriage (BIM) determines allocation within marriage. Prospective spouses, when they meet in the marriage market, are assumed to foresee the outcome of BIM and rank prospective spouses on the basis of the utilities they foresee emerging from BIM. Under these assumptions, the marriage market is the first stage of a multi-stage game -- in the simplest case, a two-stage game -- that must be solved by backwards induction. The marriage market determines both who marries and, among those who marry, who marries whom. Bargaining in the second and any subsequent stages determines allocation within each marriage. When BIM determines allocation within marriage, the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Gale-Shapley matching model. In contrast, the standard model of marriage market equilibrium assumes that prospective spouses make Binding Agreements in the Marriage Market (BAMM) that determine allocation within marriage. If we assume BAMM and transferable utility, then the appropriate framework for analyzing marriage market equilibrium is the Koopmans-Beckmann-Shapley-Shubik assignment model. BIM and BAMM have different implications not only for allocation within marriage but also for who marries, who marries whom, the number of marriages, and the Pareto efficiency of marriage market equilibrium.
D10|The Bilingual Gap in Children's Language and Emotional Development|In this paper we examine whether – conditional on other family inputs – bilingual children achieve different outcomes in language and emotional development. Our data come from the UK Millennium Cohort Study (MCS) which allows us to analyze children's language and emotional development in depth. We relax the usual assumption that the production function underpinning child development is not itself a function of the age of the child and estimate the bilingual gap in children's language and emotional development as a cumulative process that depends on current and past endowments of cognitive and non-cognitive capacity. We find that the language development of bilingual children is not significantly different to that of their monolingual peers; however, there is evidence of a positive effect of bilingualism on emotional development.
D10|The Gender Gap in Citations: Lessons from Demographic Economics Journals|This paper investigates gender differentials in citations of articles published in two journals specialized in Demographic Economics, a field that has traditionally attracted relatively large numbers of women researchers. In contrast to findings based on citations of top economics journals, we find a gender gap in citations favoring women among articles published in the Journal of Population Economics (JPOP) or the Review of Economics of the Household (REHO) between 2003 and 2014 . If the corresponding author is male, having at least one female co-author boosts citations. Across subfields of demographic economics, citations of female authors increase as female representation in the subfield increases. The gender gap in citations favoring women is not found for authors with limited experience past graduate school, which supports an explanation for the gender gap based on authors’ prior experience with economics journals of higher rank.
D10|Temporary Employment Contracts and Household Income|It is widely accepted that temporary jobs tend to be associated with low pay which, in turn, will have negative consequences for household income. Evidence in support of such claims, however, is surprisingly thin. This study seeks to fill this void. In articular, it is both the first study to examine the consequences of temporary employment for workers’ household income within a multivariate framework, and the first to quantify the relative importance of the different channels through which temporary employment affects income. Fixed-effects regression and decomposition analyses are applied to longitudinal survey data from Australia, a country where the incidence of temporary forms of employment, and especially casual work, are very high by Western standards. As expected, workers in casual and temporary agency employment are found to live in households with lower average incomes. In contrast, employment on a fixed-term contract is not associated with living in a household with a significantly lower income. The estimated size of the income penalty, relative to households of comparable permanent employees, is about 5% for temporary agency workers and 12% for casual employees. These differentials, however, are not primarily the result of lower wages, but instead are due to the fewer hours worked by these groups. In the case of casual workers, lower annual individual earnings are partly offset by higher incomes of other household members. This compensatory effect, however, is relatively modest in size – the income gap with permanent workers remains substantial.
D10|"Fast, ""Robust"", and Approximately Correct: Estimating Mixed Demand Systems"|"Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifications in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D10|Recursive Utility and Thompson Aggregators, I: Constructive Existence Theory for the Koopmans Equation|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Marinacci and Montrucchio [34]. We prove a variant of their Recovery Theorem establishing the existence of extremal solutions to the Koopmans equation. We apply the constructive Tarski-Kantorovich Fixed Point Theorem rather than the nonconstructive Tarski Theorem employed in [34]. We also obtain additional properties of the extremal solutions. The Koopmans operator possesses two distinct order continuity properties. Each is sufficient for the application of the Tarski-Kantorovich Theorem. One version builds on the order properties of the underlying vector spaces for utility functions and commodities. The second form is topological. The Koopmans operator is continuous in Scott's [40] induced topology. The least fixed point is constructed with either continuity hypothesis by the partial sum method. This solution is a concave function whenever the Thompson aggregator is concave and also norm continuous on the interior of its effective domain.
D10|Recursive Utility and Thompson Aggregators, II: Uniqueness of the Recursive Utility Representation|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Mari-nacci and Montrucchio [30]. We demonstrate the Koopmans equation has a unique utility function solution given a Thompson aggregator. Uniqueness holds only on the interior of the commodity spaces positive cone. Our proof veries the Koopmans operator is a u0 concave operator. We verify this using general sufficient conditions due to Liang, et al [28]. Previous published results apply variants of the contraction mapping theorem to the space of possibly utility functions endowed with the Thompson metric. Concave operator methods work on the possible utility function space with its norm topology. Our approach combines order and metric structures to demonstrate uniqueness differently than in the existing literature.
D10|Parental Involvement and the Intergenerational Transmission of Economic Preferences and Attitudes|We empirically investigate the link between parental involvement and shaping of the economic preferences and attitudes of their children. We exploit information on the risk and trust attitudes of parents and their children, as well as rich information about parental efforts in the upbringing of their children from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study. Our results show that parents who are more involved in the upbringing of their children are more similar to them with respect to risk and trust attitudes and thus transmit their own attitudes more strongly.
D10|Is There a Male Breadwinner Norm? The Hazards of Inferring Preferences from Marriage Market Outcomes|"Spousal characteristics such as age, height, and earnings are often used in social science research to infer social preferences. For example, a ""male taller"" norm has been inferred from the fact that fewer wives are taller than their husbands than would occur with random matching. The large proportion of husbands out-earning their wives has similarly been cited as evidence for a ""male breadwinner"" norm. This paper argues that it is difficult and potentially misleading to infer social preferences about an attribute from observed marital sorting on that attribute. We show that positive assortative matching on an attribute is consistent with a wide variety of underlying preferences, including ""female taller"" or ""female breadwinner"" norms. Given prevailing gender gaps in height and earnings, positive sorting implies it will be rare for women to be taller than, or earn more than, their husbands – even if there is no underlying preference for shorter or lower-earning wives. In an empirical application, we show that simulations which sort couples positively on permanent earnings can largely replicate the observed distribution of spousal earnings differences in US Census data. Further, we show that an apparent sharp drop in the distribution function at the point where the wife begins to out-earn the husband results from a mass of couples earning identical incomes, a mass which we argue is not evidence of a norm for higher-earning husbands."
D10|Efficient Labor Supply for Latin Families: Is the Intra-Household Bargaining Power Relevant?|This paper analyzes the efficient labor supply of male and female workers in Latin American countries employing the collective model framework (Chiappori et al.,2002). Using data from Time Use Surveys for Mexico (2009) and Colombia (2012), we find evidence of Pareto-efficient labor supply decisions within households, as the collective rationality is not rejected in the two countries. We find that higher female wages are related to more labor market hours of female workers, and male workers show an altruistic behavior towards females with the increase of their labor income. Sex ratio are related to transfers of additional income from male to female workers in Colombia, which sheds light on the relevance of distribution factors in the internal decision process of the couple. Our results suggest that the distribution of bargaining power within the household is an important factor that should be considered when analyzing household decisions.
D10|Gender Identity, Co-Working Spouses and Relative Income within Households|Bertrand, Kamenica and Pan (2015) document that in the U.S. there is a sharp discontinuity to the right of 1/2 in the distribution of households according to the share of income earned by the wife, which they attribute to the existence of a gender identity norm postulating that a wife should earn less than her husband. We propose an alternative explanation for the existence of this discontinuity. We argue that any force that pushes some spouses towards equalizing their earnings, such as family businesses and co-working of spouses, creates a similar discontinuity. Using linked employer-employee data from Finland, we document the existence of a discontinuity of the same magnitude as in the U.S. and show that it can be fully explained by the earnings convergence of spouses who start working together. We also provide evidence suggesting that co-working spouses play an important role in explaining the discontinuity observed in the U.S.
D10|The Bilingual Gap in Children’s Language and Emotional Development|In this paper we examine whether – conditional on other family inputs – bilingual children achieve different outcomes in language and emotional development. Our data come from the UK Millennium Cohort Study (MCS) which allows us to analyze children’s language and emotional development in depth. We relax the usual assumption that the production function underpinning child development is not itself a function of the age of the child and estimate the bilingual gap in children’s language and emotional development as a cumulative process that depends on current and past endowments of cognitive and non-cognitive capacity. We find that the language development of bilingual children is not significantly different to that of their monolingual peers; however, there is evidence of a positive effect of bilingualism on emotional development.
D10|Household Collective Models: Three Decades of Theoretical Contributions and Empirical Evidence|Household collective models celebrate their thirtieth birthday. The collective approach constitutes, perhaps, the microeconomics topic that has produced the largest number of papers (both published and in working paper/mimeo formats) during the last three decades, beginning with the seminal paper published by P.A. Chiappori in Econometrica (Chiappori, 1988). To add to some excellent surveys of household collective models (Strauss et al., 2000; Vermeulen, 2002; Donni and Chiappori, 2011; Chiappori and Mazzocco, 2017), we here perform a bibliographic review of the literature, which includes theoretical contributions, as well as the international empirical evidence related to the collective approach. With respect to the theoretical papers, the collective framework has been used to provide theoretical results for a number of household issues; for example, labour supply, consumption and savings, household production, and intra-household allocation. As for the empirical papers, the international evidence covers the majority of developed and developing countries from all continents.
D10|Are economic preferences shaped by the family context? The impact of birth order and siblings’ sex composition on economic preferences|The formation of economic preferences in childhood and adolescence has long-term consequences for life-time outcomes. We study in an experiment with 525 teenagers how both birth order and siblings’ sex composition affect risk, time and social preferences. We find that second born children are typically less patient, less risk averse, and more trusting. However, siblings’ sex composition interacts importantly with birth order effects. Second born children are more risk taking only with same-sex siblings. For trust and trustworthiness, birth order effects are larger with mixed-sex siblings than in the single-sex case. Only for patience, siblings’ sex composition does not matter.
D10|Pink Work: Same-Sex Marriage, Employment and Discrimination|This paper analyzes how the legalization of same-sex marriage in the U.S. affected gay and lesbian couples in the labor market. Results from a difference-in-difference model show that both partners in same-sex couples were more likely to be employed, to have a full-time contract, and to work longer hours in states that legalized same-sex marriage. In line with a theoretical search model of discrimination, suggestive empirical evidence supports the hypothesis that marriage equality led to an improvement in employment outcomes among gays and lesbians and lower occupational segregation thanks to a decrease in discrimination towards sexual minorities.
D10|Energy policy tools in Luxembourg - Assessing their impact on households’ space heating energy consumption and CO2 emissions by means of the LuxHEI model|In the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the residential building sector is a major energy consumer and greenhouse gases emitter that is considered key in achieving the country’s climate goals. The purpose of this paper is to assess the effectiveness of the most important policy instruments in achieving savings in the final energy consumption and direct CO2 emissions of Luxembourgish households. Our study is based on the LuxHEI model, which is an enhanced and upgraded version of the well-known French simulation model Res-IRF. This variant has been adjusted to the particular problems of a small country with growing economy and a quickly increasing population. The LuxHEI model goes beyond standard energy-economy models by incorporating global warming as a decision-making factor. The model outcomes reveal that total environmental and economic effectiveness increases if energy policy tools are applied concurrently. In 2060, and compared to the no-policy baseline scenario, the most aspirational policy mix enables energy savings of 42% and an emission mitigation of 60%. From our results, we can draw the following policy implications: for a significant improvement of the sector’s energy efficiency and sufficiency, (1) the implementation of a remediation duty for existing buildings and (2) the tightening of the performance standards for new constructions, (3) combined with a national carbon tax, are crucial.
D10|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
D10|Gender differentiation in intergenerational care-giving and migration choices|We weave together care-giving, gender, and migration. We hypothesize that daughters who are mothers have a stronger incentive than sons who are fathers to demonstrate to their children the appropriate way of caring for one's parents. The reason underlying this hypothesis is that women on average live longer than men, they tend to marry men who are older than they are and, thus, they are more likely than men to spend their last years without a spouse. Because it is more effective and less costly to care for parents if they live nearby, daughters with children do not move as far away from the parental home as sons with children or childless offspring. Data on the distance between the children's location and the parents' location extracted from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE), in conjunction with data on selected demographic characteristics and institutional indicators taken from Eurostat, the OECD, and the World Bank, lend support to our hypothesis: compared to childless daughters, childless sons, and sons who are fathers, daughters who are mothers choose to live closer to their parents' home.
D10|Evaluating Intergenerational Persistence of Economic Preferences: A Large Scale Experiment with Families in Bangladesh|Economic preferences – like time, risk and social preferences – have been shown to be very influential for real-life outcomes, such as educational achievements, labor market outcomes, or health status. We contribute to the recent literature that has examined how and when economic preferences are formed, putting particular emphasis on the role of intergenerational transmission of economic preferences within families. Our paper is the first to run incentivized experiments with fathers and mothers and their children by drawing on a unique dataset of 1,999 members of Bangladeshi families, including 911 children, aged 6-17 years, and 544 pairs of mothers and fathers. We find a large degree of intergenerational persistence as the economic preferences of mothers and fathers are significantly positively related to their children’s economic preferences. Importantly, we find that socio-economic status of a family has no explanatory power as soon as we control for parents’ economic preferences. A series of robustness checks deals with the role of older siblings, the similarity of parental preferences, and the average preferences within a child’s village.
D10|Sensibilidad de la deuda de los hogares uruguayos ante un choque en el ingreso|Este documento de trabajo analiza las vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares uruguayos a partir de datos microeconómicos. Se realiza un ejercicio de sensibilidad sobre la deuda y el atraso en el pago del crédito no hipotecario por parte de los hogares uruguayos ante un choque en el ingreso similar al observado en el 2002. Como resultado del ejercicio, se estima un aumento de la proporción de créditos no hipotecarios de un 8% a un 15% luego del choque. Si bien, el aumento se produce en todas las instituciones el impacto es mayor para los bancos privados y las cosas financieras, cooperativas de ahorro y crédito y cosas comerciales.
D10|The Credit Risk of Chinese Households – A Micro-Level Assessment|Household borrowing in China has increased considerably in recent years, raising concerns about the household sector’s vulnerability and implications for the stability of the financial system. We construct a number of granular debt-burden indicators at the level of individual Chinese households and calculate the share of households that are financially vulnerable using the three available waves (2011, 2013 and 2015) of China’s Household Finance Survey. Overall loan-to-value (LTV) ratios appear safe and sound at first glance, but closer scrutiny reveals that Chinese households in the lowest income quintile face high vulnerability and struggle to meet their debt commitments. Our stress tests suggest that Chinese households in higher quintiles, despite the huge increase in household indebtedness, are not particularly vulnerable to declining incomes or falling house prices
D10|Parental Involvement and the Intergenerational Transmission of Economic Preferences and Attitudes|We empirically investigate the link between parental involvement and shaping of the economic preferences and attitudes of their children. We exploit information on the risk and trust attitudes of parents and their children, as well as rich information about parental efforts in the upbringing of their children from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study. Our results show that parents who are more involved in the upbringing of their children are more similar to them with respect to risk and trust attitudes and thus transmit their own attitudes more strongly.
D10|Blessed are the First: The Long-Term Effect of Birth Order on Trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
D10|Divorce and Gold Coins: A Case Study of Iran|The increasing divorce rate has become a major social concern for policy makers in the Islamic government of Iran. The price of gold coin is an important factor in cost-benefit analysis for individuals in their marriage and divorce decisions in Iran. Dowries (Mehrieh) are usually in the form of gold coin and a wife has a legal right to them upon both parties signing the marriage contract. Increasing the price of gold coin may intensify the internal stress and struggles within families, leading to a higher probability of divorce. We investigate the long-run relationship between real price of gold coin and divorce rate for the case of Iran over the period 1980-2014. Controlling for other factors, our regression results show that there is a positive and significant long-run relationship between real price of gold coin (as well as unanticipated changes in real price of gold coin) and marital instability.
D10|Evaluating intergenerational persistence of economic preferences: A large scale experiment with families in Bangladesh|Economic preferences – like time, risk and social preferences – have been shown to be very influential for real-life outcomes, such as educational achievements, labor market outcomes, or health status. We contribute to the recent literature that has examined how and when economic preferences are formed, putting particular emphasis on the role of intergenerational transmission of economic preferences within families. Our paper is the first to run incentivized experiments with fathers and mothers and their children by drawing on a unique dataset of 1,999 members of Bangladeshi families, including 911 children, aged 6-17 years, and 544 pairs of mothers and fathers. We find a large degree of intergenerational persistence as the economic preferences of mothers and fathers are significantly positively related to their children’s economic preferences. Importantly, we find that socio-economic status of a family has no explanatory power as soon as we control for parents’ economic preferences. A series of robustness checks deals with the role of older siblings, the similarity of parental preferences, and the average preferences within a child’s village.
D10|The 19th Centure Net Nutrition Transition from Free to Bound Labor: A Difference-in-Decompositions Approach|The body mass index (BMI) reflects current net nutrition and health during economic development. This study introduces a difference-in-decompositions approach to show that although 19th century African-American current net nutrition was comparable to working class whites, it was made worse-off with the transition to free-labor. BMI reflects net nutrition over the life-course, and like stature, slave children’s BMIs increased more than whites as they approached entry into the adult slave labor force. Agricultural worker’s net nutrition was better than workers in other occupations but was worse-off under free-labor and industrialization. Within-group BMI variation was greater than across-group variation, and white within-group variation associated with socioeconomic status was greater than African-Americans.
D10|Personal Communication in a Fintech World: Evidence from Loan Payments|We examine the effect of personal, two-way communication on the behavior of borrowers, who have fallen behind on their consumer loan payments. While the lender has informed all borrowers about the delinquency through an automatically generated letter, some borrowers also receive a phone call from a randomly assigned bank agent. We find that borrowers, who speak with a bank agent typically for only a few minutes, are significantly more likely to make timely payments and significantly less likely to default. This finding holds in a subset of hard-to-reach borrowers as well as when we instrument for the call with exogenous variation in borrowers’ reachability. The effect of the call is also persistent. Borrowers, who receive a call, are significantly less likely to become delinquent again. Personal aspects of the call, such as the likeability of the agent’s voice, significantly affect payment behavior, while the surprise element of the call does not. Our results suggest that the form of communication significantly affects borrowers’ payment behavior.
D10|Gender Norms and Income Misreporting within Households|We revisit the prominent finding that women’s incomes are disproportionally often observed just below the income of their partner. So far, this bunching has been explained by couple formation or couples’ labor market decisions. We propose an additional mechanism: income misreporting in surveys. Drawing on survey and administrative data, we show that income misreporting accounts for the discontinuity in the distribution of women’s relative incomes just below the point where a woman outearns her partner. This misreporting is best explained by the role of gender norms in individuals’ self-portrayals and self-perception.
D10|Consumption response to aggregate shocks and the role of leverage|This paper investigates the relationship between mortgage leverage and consumption around the 2008 financial crisis. Using data from the UK’s Family Expenditure Survey and Wealth and Asset Survey, we first show that high-leveraged households made larger cuts to consumption following the financial crisis, and this was largely driven by young households. Second, using a life-cycle framework, we investigate the channels by which high-leveraged households may have reduced consumption by more than others. Our key finding is that credit supply tightening is the main driver of the empirical co-movement between pre-crisis leverage and consumption growth after 2008.
D10|Clusters Of International Eq-5d Health-States Valuations|PURPOSE: Countries without EQ-5D general-population surveys might use valuations from another country with similar health valuations. This study aimed to identify whether there are groups of countries with similar health-state valuations. METHODS: A cluster analysis was performed for the 242 states of the EQ-5D valuations for 23 studies in 18 countries, excluding the perfect-health state. Clusters were identified by means of the Ward algorithm with the Euclidean measure and hierarchical clustering. RESULTS: 5 clusters were identified. Valuations are sensitive to the preference elicitation methodology. Some countries in the same cluster have cultural similarities but a particular cluster included otherwise dissimilar countries and methodologies. Using the states associated to diabetes and breast cancer, the choice of cluster is shown to be relevant for cost-utility analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Health-state valuations tend to be clustered in a few groups of countries. The clusters found might be useful for performing cost-utility analysis in countries without such valuations.
D10|"Fast, ""robust"", and approximately correct: estimating mixed demand systems"|" Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifi cations in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D10|The effect of norms on fertility and its implications for the quantity-quality trade-off in Pakistan|This study investigates the effect of fertility norms on quantity-quality trade-off in Pakistan. Due to the lack of information on investment in education of children (quality) I make use of indirect inference to assess the effect of norms on quality. I first estimate an auxiliary econometric model that shows a strong positive effect of norms on fertility. Next, I develop a quantity-quality model augmented with the role of fertility norms and childlessness. The structural parameters of the model are identified using the results of the empirical analysis. Quantitative analysis leads to conclusion that the 2/5th of the variation in the quantity between the women with highest and lowest fertility comes from difference in norms while the rest is explained by wage difference. Similarly, 1/5th of the variation in quality between the two type of women is explained by the norms while the rest comes from difference in wage. Less educated women are more responsive to changes in norms in terms of changes in quantity-quality trade-off. Women's response to quantity-quality trade-off due to changes in wages is governed by norms.
D10|Intra-Household Risk Sharing and Job Search over the Business Cycle|This paper studies the extent to which working couples can insure one another against cyclical fluctuations in the labor market and examines the implications of joint household decision-making for cyclical fluctuations in the unemployment rate. For this purpose, I provide a dynamic life-cycle model of households that make joint savings and job search decisions in the presence of aggregate shocks. I show that two key mechanisms are at play. The first is the added-worker effect, which leads to counter-cyclical search intensity because workers increase search intensity when their spouse becomes unemployed. The second is the comparative advantage effect, according to which couples' job search efforts are coordinated based on the relative returns to search of each spouse. I estimate the model using data from the US Current Population Survey, and find that joint household decision-making contributes to the counter-cyclicality of womenâ€™s unemployment rate, but not for men. Moreover, joint household decision-making lowers the welfare costs of cyclicality. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D10|Contribution de l’immigration à la demande des biens et services finaux en France|An argument often put forward when mentioning the positive effects of immigration for the host country is that the entry of immigrants would have positive effects on demand and therefore on growth. This paper aims to measure the contribution of immigrants to the demand for final goods and services in France (over a relatively long period 1979-2011). We conduct an accounting analysis using three main sources of data : family budget surveys from 1979 to 2011, population censuses data and national accounts data. We find that at any age, an immigrant consumes on average less than a native. However, the share of immigrants’ demand in total demand is between 7.3% and 8.3%, which is proportional to their size in the French population. We show that the age structure of the immigrant population (over-represented in the working age group where consumption is at its maximum level) allows for compensation. A disaggregation of total consumption by item shows that immigrants have some specific characteristics : they lead to an increasing in the demand in some expense items such as food, clothing, housing and communication. The analysis of the evolution of consumption shows that between 4.5% and 16% of this change is explained by the immigrant population. However, these changes are more often explained by an increase in the population than by an increase in individual consumption, and this for our two subpopulations.
D10|The time and the transitions back to work in France after maternity|Abstract Previous studies have shown that childrearing has a different impact on a mother’s professional career, depending, among other reasons, on how much time passed from birth to return to work. In this paper, we use a competing risks model to determine which variables may explain time out of work, as well as the transition back to work for young mothers in France. In our study, mothers can decide to go back to the same employer, change a personal but also a professionalemployer and/or change labour supply. Our results show that it is mostly the age of the mothers at birth, their pre-birth wages, tenure, firm size as well as the state of the economy as a whole that play a large role in the way young mothers go back to work, if at all. This research highlights the key factors on which causal research should be based in order to advise firms and also policy-makers on how to influence mothers’ labour supply behaviors.
D10|Les décisions des jeunes à l’entrée dans la vie adulte en France : la famille, un facteur primordial ?|L’entrée dans la vie adulte se caractérise par différentes étapes. Parmi elles, se trouve le choix d’étudier, de quitter le foyer parental ou de travailler. Ce papier examine les liens possibles existant entre l’environnement familial et ces choix effectués par les jeunes adultes en s’appuyant sur des données issues de l’Enquête ENRJ (2014). La méthodologie économétrique adoptée nous permet de prendre en compte la quasi-simultanéité de ces décisions. Outre, la structure familiale, les revenus, la situation géographique et la catégorie socio-professionnelle des parents, nous intégrons des indicateurs mesurant la qualité relationnelle des jeunes avec leurs parents. Nous montrons en particulier que la qualité des relations entretenues avec les parents influe tout autant sur les décisions du jeune que leur situation professionnelle.
D10|Following in their footsteps: an analysis of the impact of successive migration on rural household welfare in Ghana|Abstract We explore patterns of successive migration within rural households in Ghana and the impact that these successive migrants have on household welfare outcomes. Specifically, we use a household panel survey collected in 2013 and 2015. We exploit the panel nature of the data and a weighting method to overcome sources of bias. Welfare is measured with an index of housing quality. We find that successive migrants face lower migration costs, and few of them remit. We find no effect of sending a new migrant on the housing quality index. We conclude that the different nature of migration of successive migrants implies neither an economic gain for the household nor a loss. The reason is that the successive migration becomes less costly for migrants from households with prior migration experience, but at the same time, these migrants remit less or not at all compared to earlier waves of migrants.
D10|Blessed are the first: The long-term effect of birth order on trust|The renewed interest by the economic literature in the effect of birth order on children’s outcomes has neglected trust as a long-term output of familial environment. Acknowledging childhood as a crucial stage of life for the formation of social preferences, we go deeper into the early-life determinants of trust, a widely recognized driver of socio-economic success. We analyze if and how differences in the order of birth predict heterogeneous self-reported trust levels in Britain. We draw hypotheses from psychology, economics and sociology, and test alternative explanations to the association between birth order and trust. Relying on an index measuring birth order independently from sibship size, we find a negative and robust effect of birth order, with laterborns trusting less than their older siblings. This effect is not accounted for by personality traits, strength of family ties, risk aversion and parental inputs. It is only partially explained by complementary human-capital outcomes, and it is robust when we use alternative dependent variables and control for endogenous fertility. Multilevel estimates suggest that trust is mostly driven by within- rather than between-family characteristics. The effect of birth order is eclipsed by education outcomes only for women, while it is counterbalanced by mother’s education for the entire sample, thereby leading to relevant policy implications.
D10|Boosting taxes for boasting about houses: Status concerns in the housing market|There is empirical evidence that households use residential houses as status goods. Their visibility qualifies them as an excellent signaling device of the relative income and wealth position, in contrast to less visible financial assets. To this end we introduce a residential housing sector and status concerns for housing into a neoclassical framework. In the model, households derive utility from the absolute amount of housing and from comparing their stock of housing to a reference stock, which is composed of the current or past level of housing of their peers. We analyze how status concerns affect household behavior and find that they increase housing demand and labor supply. Furthermore, we find that status concerns exert a negative externality and elevate housing to inefficiently high levels. We derive a (state contingent) optimal tax that establishes the first-best allocation along the transition path and at the steady state. Calibrating the model to the US we quantify the optimal tax on residential housing to 1.8%. Introducing the optimal tax entails a considerable welfare gain of 0.29% measured in consumption equivalents.
D10|And Thou Shalt Honor: children’s caregiving, work and religion|In this paper we take a fresh look at the magnitude of the trade-off between caring informally for a parent and paid work. We adopt a simultaneous approach with a primary focus on how hours of care are influenced by hours of work rather than the other way round. We also investigate the role that filial obligations play in choices of caring versus working. Using the SHARE data (2004 and 2006) we find that the elasticity of informal care hours in response to working hours is around -0.18, small but not negligible. Moreover, we find that a one point decrease out of a seven point index measuring the strength of filial obligations reduces weekly hours of care by about one hour and half.
D10|What do people ‘learn by looking’ at direct feedback on their energy consumption? Results of a field study in Southern France|The abundant literature on consumer feedback shows that it is an efficient instrument for reducing household energy consumption. However, the reported reductions are strongly dependent on contextual factors and on the type of feedback provided. Given the importance of learning to this respect, this dimension constitutes the core focus of the present study which reports the findings of the TICELEC (i.e. French acronym for information technologies for responsible electricity consumption) project in France. The experiment included a control group (G1: the self-monitoring group) and one equipped group (G2). All participants reduced their consumption and learnt either directly from feedback or indirectly through self-monitoring. The amount of energy savings, which is larger than in similar experiments, can be explained by two factors. First, the specificity of our sample (i.e. high income, high consumption) which allows for potentially large energy savings. Second, high involvement of participants and the building of trust. The quantitative and qualitative dimensions of learning are then discussed. Additionally, we focus on peak-load shifting in G2 with 2 subgroups (G21 and G22). The higher proportion of shifters in G22 and the higher ‘quality’ of their shifting suggest a higher level of learning enabled by the more sophisticated feedback. Although this translated into only a moderately higher rate of energy savings, the higher degree of absorbed knowledge (i.e. through ‘learning by looking through connecting’) might lead to a qualitatively distinctive type of energy saving.
D10|Eradicating Women-Hurting Customs: What Role for Social Engineering?|Social engineering refers to deliberate attempts, often under the form of legislative moves, to promote changes in customs and norms that hurt the interests of marginalized population groups. This paper explores the analytical conditions under which social engineering is more or less likely to succeed than more indirect approaches when it comes to suppress gender-biased customs. This implies discussing the main possible interaction frameworks leading to anti-women equilibria, and deriving policy implications from the corresponding games. The theoretical arguments are illustrated by examples drawn from available empirical works, thus providing a reasoned survey of the literature.
D10|Arbeiten Frauen aufgrund des Ehegattensplittings weniger? Ein quasi-experimenteller Ansatz für Deutschland|Die vorliegende Arbeit soll einen Beitrag zur Klärung der Frage leisten, ob das Ehegattensplitting, wie in vielen Arbeiten behauptet, einen negativen Einfluss auf das Arbeitsverhalten verheirateter Frauen hat. Hierzu wird für Deutschland erstmals ein quasi-experimenteller Ansatz gewählt, bei dem anhand des allgemeinen Effekts der Heirat auf das Erwerbsverhalten der heiratenden Frauen die Wirkung des Ehegattensplittings identifiziert wird. Die Veränderung des Arbeitsverhaltens heiratender Frauen wird dabei der Veränderung bei jenen Frauen gegenübergestellt, die im gleichen Zeitraum weiterhin mit ihrem festen Partner zusammenleben, ohne zu heiraten (Kontrollgruppe). Die Ergebnisse sprechen eindeutig gegen einen unmittelbaren negativen Effekt des Ehegattensplittings auf das Erwerbsverhalten von Frauen. Jedoch reduzieren heiratende und zeitgleich ein Kind bekommende Frauen ihre Erwerbstätigkeit stärker als gebärende Frauen in der Kontrollgruppe.
D10|Does nudging intentions translate into action? Why nudging pledges to charities does not result in increased donations|Recent evidence suggests that nudges, i.e. alterations in the decisional context, can have large effects on decisions and can improve individual and public welfare. This paper presents the results of a controlled experiment that was designed to evaluate not only the effectiveness of a default manipulation on decision making in a charity giving context, but also whether yielding or opposing a nudge affects attitudes, and whether nudging intentions (pledges) translate into behaviour (donations). The results show that while making pledges the default increased pledges, it did not increase donations because the nudge affected only participants who were close to indifference between pledging and not pledging and were thus unlikely to actually do the effort of translating their pledges into donations. Participants who were nudged to pledge pledged more often than participants who were nudged to keep, but they were less likely to maintain their participation in the experiment, and those who kept participating were less likely to pledge again. This, along with high attrition among nudged pledgers explains why nudging pledges did not result in higher actual donations. We interpret our findings in terms of a selection effect of nudges, and discuss practical implications of our experiment in terms of the applicability of default-based nudges as a tool for policy interventions.
D10|Evaluating how child allowances and daycare subsidies affect fertility|We compare the cost effectiveness of two pronatalist policies: (a) child allowances; and (b) daycare subsidies. We pay special attention to estimating how intended fertility (fertility before children are born) responds to these policies. We use two evaluation tools: (i) a dynamic model on fertility, labor supply, outsourced childcare time, parental time, asset accumulation and consumption; and (ii) randomized vignette-survey policy experiments. We implement both tools in the United States and Germany, finding consistent evidence that daycare subsidies are more cost effective. Nevertheless, the required public expenditure to increase fertility to the replacement level might be viewed as prohibitively high.
D10|Ethnic diversity and economic performance: An empirical investigation using survey data|This empirical study is based on nationally representative cross-sectional survey data gathered to investigate the effect of ethnic diversity on individual and household economic performance in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). The complexity of this relationship in the context of this post-conflict country is addressed and investigated by estimating models in which ethnic diversity affects personal and family incomes. The 1992-1995 conflict was ethnically characterized, and harmful for ethnic diversity. Yet, two decades later, we find positive economic consequences of ethnic diversity for individuals and households. After controlling for other influences, the authors estimate that both personal and family incomes are around 10% higher in ethnically diverse than in ethnically homogenous areas. A corollary is that policy makers in this post-conflict country, and in similar environments elsewhere, should take into consideration the economic costs of policies supporting ethnic homogeneity over diversity.
D10|Travel mode and tour complexity: The roles of fuel price and built environment|Despite steady increases in fuel economy, CO2 emissions from road transportation in Germany are on the rise, increasing by nearly 4% since 2009. This study analyzes the impact of different policy levers for bucking this trend, focusing specifically on the role of fuel prices and features of the built environment. We estimate two multinomial logit models, one addressing work-related tours and the other non-work related tours. Both models consider two interrelated dimensions of travel on the extensive margin: mode choice and tour complexity. We use the model estimates to predict outcome probabilities for different levels of our policy variables. Our results suggest significant effects of the built environment – measured by bike path density, urbanization, and proximity to public transit – in discouraging car use and increasing tour complexity. Fuel prices, by contrast, appear to have little bearing on these choices.
D10|Love and money with inheritance: marital sorting between labor income and inherited wealth in the modern partnership|The relative attractions from both inherited and acquired traits in martial choices can change. We expand the traditional dimension of assortative mating through only labor income to both labor income and inheritance as Frémeaux (2014) accomplished. This paper studies the concentration and substitutability of these two traits in forming partnership using Panel of Household Finance (PHF) data for Germany. Our results resembles to the quantitative and distributional outcomes from France.
D10|Who buffers income losses after job displacement? The role of alternative income sources, the family, and the state|Using the SOEP this paper analyses to what extent alternative income sources, reactions within the household context, and redistribution by the state attenuate earnings losses of displaced workers. Applying propensity score matching and FE estimations, we find that income from self-employment slightly reduces the earnings gap, severance payments buffer losses in the short run. At the household level, there is no added worker effect, but taxes and transfers mitigate income losses substantially.
D10|Cohort at Risk: Long-Term Consequences of Conflict for Child School Achievement|We investigate the long-term effects of households' exposure to violent conflict on children's educational attainment in primary school, studying cognitive and non-cognitive skills as possible causal channels. Our identification strategy exploits the locality-level variation in the intensity of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the West Bank during the Second Intifada (2000–2005). We show that an increase in family experience of conflict has large negative long-term effects on the educational attainment of children measured by grade point averages. Impaired non-cognitive rather than cognitive skills are identified as channels through which exposure affects children's educational achievement.
D10|The impact of inheritance on the distribution of wealth: evidence from Great Britain|Using the British Household Panel Survey, we investigate the role of inheritance in shaping the distribution of household wealth in Great Britain during 1995-2005 – a period characterised by a substantial increase in wealth and an equally important decrease in wealth inequality. Abstracting from behavioural effects, we find that inheritances received during this period accounted for 30 per cent of the increase in wealth of inheritors. Regression estimates of the effect of inheritance on wealth accumulation suggest that households spend 30 per cent of their inheritances on average, and that there is substantial heterogeneity in household responses. Households that accumulated more wealth saved a larger share of their inheritances, as did middle aged households and those with lower initial wealth. Although inheritances are highly unequal they had a small impact on overall wealth inequality. This mainly reflected the fact that their size relative to other sources of wealth was very small.
D10|Consumption- and Productivity-Adjusted Dependency Ratio with Household Structure Heterogeneity|In this study, we construct a new dependency ratio measure by taking into account the consumption needs of the young and elderly people, and the productivity of middle-aged people. Different from the way that Cutler et al. (1990) and Weil (1999) constructed the relative needs by using the average consumptions of each age cohort of people, we estimate the factor of relative needs of people at different ages based on a regression model, which embraces the household age compositions and size in the assessment. Our analysis uses household survey data from five developing countries in Asia— Bangladesh, Cambodia, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Thailand, and Viet Nam. To our best knowledge, this is among the pioneer work exploring such patterns for these countries. Focusing on the PRC, we further examine whether consumptions depend on the coresidence style. We found that (i) the consumption- and productivity-adjusted dependency ratio (both total and old dependency ratios) are consistently lower than the one that is traditionally defined across all five countries in our sample, and the differences vary from country to country; (ii) in the PRC, the differences between traditional dependency ratio and the consumption- and productivity-adjusted dependency ratio grow larger in more distant future; and (iii) in the PRC, the relatively younger elderly members between 65 and 72 years old help in reducing the consumption of young members in their households, and the elderly members who live alone consume more than their peers who live with their offspring. We also simulate the impacts of smaller households, urbanization, and economic growth on consumption for the PRC, based on our model.
D10|Analysis of Variance in Household Financial Portfolio Choice: Evidence from Spain|We analyse the determinants of the household financial portfolio allocation using an estimator and a variance decomposition that take into account the constrained nature of household portfolio allocations. We apply these methods to a large data set of financial assets. Results show that the main factors underlying household financial portfolio choice in Spain are age and net wealth. Among others, there is also evidence of sizeable effects associated with risk aversion, education, liquidity constraints and income, but very modest effects are associated with family size and having accounts in stand-alone internet banks. Implications for policy are also derived.
D10|Whose Child Is This? Shifting of Dependents among EITC Claimants within the Same Household|"Using a panel of household level tax data, we estimate the degree to which dependents are ""reassigned"" between tax units within the same household, and how these reassignments affect combined tax liabilities. Reassigning dependents reduces combined tax liabilities on average, suggesting some household level coordination. Additionally, when earned income tax credit (EITC) benefits expanded in 2009, reassignments increasingly involved adding a third child to tax returns to claim these new benefits. However, the subgroup reassigning towards three child tax units actually increased total household tax liabilities, suggesting that some tax units may prioritize minimizing their own tax burden or focus on particularly salient aspects of tax policy."
D10|Inferring Inequality with Home Production|We revisit the causes, welfare consequences, and policy implications of the dispersion in households' labor market outcomes using a model with uninsurable risk, incomplete asset markets, and home production. Accounting for home production amplifies welfare-based differences across households meaning that inequality is larger than we thought. Home production does not offset differences that originate in the market sector because productivity differences in the home sector are significant and the time input in home production does not covary with consumption expenditures and wages in the cross section of households. The optimal tax system should feature more progressivity taking into account home production.
D10|Do parents leave a smaller carbon footprint?|While becoming a parent is transformational as one focuses more on the future, the time constraints are more binding right now. Using a unique data set that allows us to compare CO2 emissions from Swedish two-adult households with and without children, we find becoming a Swedish parent causes a person to leave a larger carbon footprint—due to changes in transportation patterns and food consumption choices.
D10|Forced gifts: The burden of being a friend|In many developing countries, gift expenses escalate with income growth and account for a substantial share of household expenditure. We develop a theoretical model to demonstrate how (unequal) income growth may trigger “gift competition” and drive up the financial burden associated with gift exchange. We use unique census-type panel data from rural China to test our model predictions and demonstrate that (1) the value of gifts responds to the average gift in the community, (2) the escalation of gift giving may have adverse welfare implications (especially for the poor), and (3) escalating gift expenses crowd out expenditures on other consumption items.
D10|When Solidarity Fails: Heterogeneous Effects of Orphanhood in Senegalese Households|The consequences of orphanhood have been an important topic on the research agenda in recent years, particularly against the backdrop of the AIDS epidemic in Sub-Saharan Africa. Previous literature has highlighted negative effects on children from prime-age adult deaths in the house- hold. Some authors have however pointed out that the effects are small, possibly as a result of well-functioning coping mechanisms prevailing in the region. In this article, we investigate the links between deaths in the household and subsequent economic outcomes of children by exploiting an unusually rich dataset from Senegal. Along the lines of Case, Paxson and Ableidinger (2004), we test whether impacts on children differ according to the relationship with the deceased. We find evidence that this is the case: deaths in the household are not associated with diminished school presence for those children who are not under the direct responsibility of the deceased. It however has a strong significant negative effect for those children who are. On the basis of our results, which include effects on child labor and fostering, we argue that in large and complex households, household budgetary arrangements are an essential part of the story that may well lead to a heterogeneous absorption of shocks among family members. As such, there seem to be limits to the much lauded African informal safety net.
D10|Jumping the welfare gap in designing public transfers|We consider three transfer models with a representative individual who discounts the utility of the merit good with respect to the standard one's. In each model, a paternalistic government taxes the consumer and transfers him additional merit goods in return. The private purchase of the merit goods is cheaper than the transfer. Even if the optimal transfer system is welfare superior to the transfer-free system, a system with much lower transfer may be inferior, therefore this welfare gap should be jumped. Various pension modelers (e.g. Feldstein, 1985; van Groezen, Leers and Meijdam, 2003) overlooked this problem and drew wrong conclusions.
D10|Intra-couple income distribution and subjective well-being: the moderating effect of gender norms|This paper examines the relationship between intra-couple income distribution and subjective well-being, using nationally representative data from Hungary. We show that the association between the woman’s relative income (the woman’s share of the couple’s total earnings) and life satisfaction is negative not only for men, but for women as well. Because we control for financial disadvantages on the individual and household level, as well as for socio-economic and job characteristics of the respondent and their partner, the result can be interpreted as the impact of traditional gender roles and the persistence of the traditional male breadwinner mentality. In addition, we show that gender norms moderate this negative association. Among those with low levels of traditional norms, the woman’s relative income has no effect on life satisfaction, whereas among those who prefer traditional gender roles, the negative association is stronger. Our results suggest that conflicts between the gender norms and the social and economic reality reduce life satisfaction.
D10|How did Feldstein (1985) undervalue the optimal level of social security benefits?|In his seminal model (Feldstein, 1985), the government operates a social security system to counter the representative worker's myopia. (i) For a complete myope, he determined a sizable optimal tax rate (and the corresponding benefit level). (ii) For a partially shortsighted worker, he determined another optimum, which was much lower, possibly zero. Departing from Feldstein, I take into account that neither a paternalistic government nor a cautious bank tolerates long-term negative saving, and then even in (ii), the government may choose the first rather than the second optimum. Having revised it, Feldstein's model regains its place in the textbooks.
D10|A Universal Childcare Expansion, Quality, Starting Age, and School Performance|In the first decade of the 2000s, the proportion of children aged one or two attending formal childcare in Norway more than doubled, from 38% to 79%. There was an especially large increase in public funding to childcare centers starting in 2003, which accelerated this attendance growth. The consequences of this expansion on children`s outcomes remain largely unknown. This paper study the effects of attending childcare on school performance by using the fact that the childcare expansion was greater in municipalities that had low prereform childcare coverage. The results do not indicate any average effect of the childcare expansion on test scores at age 10. Dividing the municipalities into groups by childcare quality as measured by pre-reform observables, the results show a positive effect on school performance in municipalities with high pre-reform quality and a negative effect in municipalities with low pre-reform quality. Further analyses suggest that not only quality differences between municipalities but also the age of entering formal childcare explain the findings.
D10|Education, norms, and gender equality|Despite major developments in gender equality, differences between men and women’s economic and social behaviors remain. Several studies demonstrate the importance of gender norms in explaining a significant part of the gender gap. But what shapes gender norms? I provide evidence on the role of education, considered to be a key factor to reach gender equality, in influencing attitudes on gender norms in two different domains: the labor market and household. Exploiting educational reforms in Europe, I find that mandatory education and years of education significantly reduces individuals’ level of agreement on the gender norm that the man should be the breadwinner but not on the gender norm that the woman should be the homemaker. The result is consistent with the hypothesis that part of the ”stalled revolution” in gender equality is because norms in the household are more rigid than in the labor market, and that educated women face a dilemma between a career and family, or a double burden where they continue to do the lion’s share of household work.
D10|The Educated Underdog Becomes the Ultimate Superstar|We fi…nd an inverted relation between a player'’s birthday and the likelihood of receiving the Ballon d'’Or (awarded to the best football player in the world). We develop a multi-period skill formation model with selection into elite education. We show that those born late (underdogs) need to work harder to be selected for elite educational programs. However, those born too late will not make the cut-off. Those born late –– but not too late –– will thus end up with the highest skill levels as adults (educated underdogs). We use detailed data on the performance of elite Swedish football players to illustrate our model. These data provide strong support for the predictions of the model.
D10|What limits the powerful in imposing the morality of their authority?|This paper models a game between an authority, seeking to implement its preferred morality, and a parental generation, seeking to socialize a younger generation into the their own morality. The authority chooses a coercion level for adhering to the non-state morality, whereupon the parental generation chooses whether to insurrect and, if not, how much to invest in socialization. The novel feature of this paper is that we formalize and explore the consequences of an intrinsic negative reaction to coercion: coercion resentment. The key result is to show the necessary micro Level assumptions for an inefficient interval of coercion that can account for authorities choosing to restrain their use of coercion. Furthermore, the paper characterizes the socialization and insurrection preferences needed for the long run equilibrium to be path dependent. Two historical periods are presented through the lens of the model: the Counter-Reformation in early modern France and the Holy Roman Empire (1517-1685) and the Soviet Secularization project (1922-1991).
D10|The effect of price on electricity contract choice|I explore how households switch between fixed-price and variable-price electricity contracts in response to variations in price and temperature, conditional on previous contract choice. Using panel data with roughly 54000 Swedish households, a dynamic probit model is estimated. The results suggest that the choice of contract exhibits substantial state dependence, with an estimated marginal effect of previous contract choice of 0:96, and that the short-run effects of variation in prices and temperature on the choice of electricity contract are small. Further, the state dependence and price responsiveness are similar across housing types, income levels and other dimensions. A plausible explanation of these results is that transaction costs are perceived to be larger than the relatively small cost savings from switching between contracts.
D10|Power to the people: Electricity demand and household behavior|"Paper [I] Using a unique and highly detailed data set on energy consumption at the appliance-level for 200 Swedish households, seemingly unrelated regression (SUR)-based end-use specific load curves are estimated. The estimated load curves are then used to explore possible restrictions on load shifting (e.g. the office hours schedule) as well as the cost implications of different load shift patterns. The cost implications of shifting load from ""expensive"" to ""cheap"" hours, using the Nord Pool spot prices as a proxy for a dynamic price, are computed to be very small; roughly 2-4% reduction in total daily costs from shifting load up to five hours ahead, indicating small incentives for households (and retailers) to adopt dynamic pricing of electricity. Paper [II] Using a detailed data set on appliance-level electricity consumption at the hourly level, we provide the first estimates of hourly and end-use-specific income elasticities for electricity. Such estimates are informative about how consumption patterns in general, and peak demand in particular, will develop as households’ income changes. We find that the income elasticities are highest during peak hours for kitchen and lighting, with point estimates of roughly 0.4, but insignificant for space heating. Paper [III] In this paper, I estimate the price elasticity of electricity as a function of the choice between fixed-price and variable-price contracts. Further, assuming that households have imperfect information about electricity prices and usage, I explore how media coverage of electricity prices affects electricity demand, both by augmenting price responsiveness and as a direct effect of media coverage on electricity demand, independent of prices. I also address the endogeneity of the choice of electricity contract. The parameters in the model are estimated using unique and detailed Swedish panel data on monthly household-level electricity consumption. I find that price elasticities range between -0.025 and -0.07 at the mean level of media coverage, depending on contract choice, and that households with monthly variation in electricity prices respond more to prices when there is extensive media coverage of electricity prices. When media coverage is high, for example 840 news articles per month (which corresponds to the mean plus two standard deviations), the price elasticity is -0.12, or 1.7 times the elasticity at the mean media coverage. Similarly, media coverage is also found to have a direct effect on electricity demand. Paper [IV] I explore how households switch between fixed-price and variable-price electricity contracts in response to variations in price and temperature, conditional on previous contract choice. Using panel data with roughly 54000 Swedish households, a dynamic probit model is estimated. The results suggest that the choice of contract exhibits substantial state dependence, with an estimated marginal effect of previous contract choice of 0.96, and that the effect of variation in prices and temperature on the choice of electricity contract is small. Further, the state dependence and price responsiveness are similar across housing types, income levels and other dimensions. A plausible explanation of these results is that transaction costs are larger than the relatively small cost savings from switching between contracts."
D10|Religiosity and life satisfaction in Russia: Evidence from the Russian data|Does religiosity make you happy? Many studies document positive associations between religiosity and various forms of subjective wellbeing. This is also true for general life satisfaction in normal economic conditions and in the case of economic shocks. However, both life satisfaction and religiosity may be correlated with unobserved individual and household traits or unobserved life shocks which can relate to reverse causality. These facts result in endogeneity and make ordinary least square estimates biased. In our study, we employ two methods to avoid possible endogeneity issues – we use fixed effects and instrumental variable estimations. Using Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS-HSE) data and different econometric models, we document positive associations between religiosity and life satisfaction. In particular, fixed effect and instrumental variable regressions provide evidence for a positive effect of religiosity.
D10|Early Childcare, Child Cognitive Outcomes and Inequalities in the UK|The objective of this research is to explore the impact of early childcare on child cognitive outcomes. We utilize the Millennium Cohort Survey (MCS) for the United Kingdom, which provides very detailed information about several modalities of childcare as well as several child outcomes. In our empirical analysis, we estimate the association between formal childcare and child cognitive outcomes, allowing the effect of formal childcare to be different for children from different family backgrounds, controlling for a large number of variables (regarding the child, the mother, the father, the household). In a second step, we simulate how an increase in formal childcare attendance can affect inequalities across children. Our results show that childcare attendance has a positive impact on child cognitive outcomes, which are stronger for children from low socio–economic background.
D10|The Cobb Douglas marriage matching function: Marriage matching with peer and scale effects|This paper proposes an elementary empirical framework to study behavioral marriage matching models, the Cobb Douglas marriage matching function (CD MMF). It accommodates different kinds of relationships, peer and scale effects, changes in population supplies and gains to relationships. The CD MMF encompasses the Choo and Siow (2006a, CS), Dagsvik (2000), Menzel (2015), Chiappori, Salanie and Weiss (1016) MMFs, and CS with peer and scale effects (CSPE). Given population supplies, the CD MMF equilibrium matching always exists and is unique. The CD MMF is estimated on marriage and cohabitation of the white population in US states from 1990 to 2010. Scale effects are present in US marriage markets. CSPE is not rejected by the data. The paper also extends the framework to consider Brock and Durlauf (2001) peer effects specification in marriage matching models.
D10|Family Inequality: Diverging Patterns in Marriage, Cohabitation, and Childbearing|"Popular discussions of changes in American families over the past 60 years have revolved around the ""retreat from marriage."" Concern has focused on increasing levels of nonmarital childbearing, as well as falling marriage rates that stem from both increases in the age at first marriage and greater marital instability. Often lost in these discussions is the fact that the decline of marriage has coincided with a rise in cohabitation. Many ""single"" Americans now live with a domestic partner and a substantial fraction of ""single"" mothers are cohabiting, often with the child's father. The share of women who have ever cohabited has nearly doubled over the past 25 years, and the majority of nonmarital births now occur to cohabiting rather than to unpartnered mothers at all levels of education. The emergence of cohabitation as an alternative to marriage has been a key feature of the post–World War II transformation of the American family. These changes in the patterns and trajectories of family structure have a strong socioeconomic gradient. The important divide is between college graduates and others: individuals who have attended college but do not have a four-year degree have family patterns and trajectories that are very similar to those of high school graduates."
D10|Risk Aversion and Son Preference: Experimental Evidence from Chinese Twin Parents|We study the role of risk aversion underlying son preference in patriarchal societies, where sons serve as better insurance for old-age support than daughters. The implications of an insurance motive on son preference are two-fold. First, prior to the birth of their children, more risk-averse parents have a stronger preference for sons than for daughters. Second, after the birth of their children, parents with sons are more risk seeking, compared to parents with daughters. We adopt a within-twin-pair fixed-effects estimator with a weak identification assumption, which enables us to jointly identify these two effects. We further conduct an incentivized choice experiment to assess parental risk attitude in a sample of Chinese twins with children, and follow up with a second twin sample to examine the replicability of the findings. In both samples, we find that parents with greater risk aversion before the birth of their children are more likely to have sons through sex selection than parents with less risk aversion. Additionally, having sons significantly decreases parental risk aversion. These results contribute to the literature on the sources of son preference and help shed light on the nature of gender inequality.
D10|Personality Traits, Intra-household Allocation and the Gender Wage Gap|A model of how personality traits affect household time and resource allocation decisions and wages is developed and estimated. In the model, households choose between two modes of behavior: cooperative or noncooperative. Spouses receive wage offers and allocate time to supplying labor market hours and to producing a public good. Personality traits, measured by the so-called Big Five traits, can affect household bargaining weights and wage offers. Model parameters are estimated by Simulated Method of Moments using the Household Income and Labor Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) data. Personality traits are found to be important determinants of household bargaining weights and of wage offers and to have substantial implications for understanding the sources of gender wage disparities.
D10|Higher Career Cost Can Actually Explain Why More Women Than Men Go to College|This paper shows how women’s relatively higher career cost can explain why in most of the developed countries women go to college at a higher rate than men and earn less on average. I assume men and women make costly college and career investments but women face an extra cost for career investment because such investment occurs during their fertile period. The extra career cost discourages women from investing in career but surprisingly encourages more women than men to go to college through a general-equilibrium marriage-market channel that results in an endogenously higher college marriage premium for women.
D10|The Nonmarket Benefits of Education and Ability|This paper analyzes the nonmarket benefits of education and ability. Using a dynamic model of educational choice, we estimate returns to education that account for selection bias and sorting on gains. We investigate a range of nonmarket outcomes, including incarceration, mental health, voter participation, trust, and participation in welfare. We find distinct patterns of returns that depend on the levels of schooling and ability. Unlike the monetary benefits of education, the benefits to education for many nonmarket outcomes are greater for low-ability persons. College graduation decreases welfare use, lowers depression, and raises self-esteem more for less-able individuals.
D10|The Welfare Implications of Unobserved Heterogeneity|Conditions are derived for relating household well-being functions to household utility. In particular, an isomorphic relationship between the equivalent incomes stemming from subsistence-based utility functions and well-being functions is established. This allows estimates from standard models of well-being based on a CDF (eg. probit and logit models) to be given a formal welfare interpretation. New measures of the welfare distortion due to unobserved heterogeneity are also derived. An Australian household-level dataset is used as a case study for exploring the proposed measures of distortion. The results indicate that the failure to account for unobserved heterogeneity produces significant welfare distortions (primarily in the form of under-compensation). A unique welfare sensitivity curve is also estimated that indicates the presence of non-linearities that impair the typically monotonic relationship between household income, the householdâ€™s capacity to adjust its income and its marginal utility of consumption. The results are significant for better understanding the welfare implications of tax and transfer policies.
D10|Entering the labour market in a weak economy: scarring and insurance| This paper estimates the effects of entering the labour market when the economy is weak on subsequent living standards using consistent long-running household survey data from the UK. In line with previous research, we find persistent scarring effects on employment and earnings. However, we also provide the first estimates of impacts on net household incomes and household expenditures – standard proxies for material living standards – and we find little or no impacts. This is primarily due to two particular forms of insurance: the UK tax and transfer system and, even more importantly on average, the incomes of parents, with whom many young adults live in the years after leaving education. The interplay between heterogeneity in labour market scarring and insurance is key to understanding why parental incomes insure so much of the shock: lower-educated young adults experience the worst labour market scarring effects, but they are also highly likely to live with their parents in the years after labour market entry (irrespective of economic conditions), and the negative labour market effects are not so persistent as to outlast the typical period of co-residence. However, young adults not living with parents do see negative and persistent scarring effects feed through to their net incomes and expenditures. It may therefore be useful for future research on scarring to focus on this group, as well as the degree to which resources are shared within households between parents and their co-resident adult children. Key findings of the research include: Leaving education when the economy is weak has a direct impact on employment and pay at least five years afterwards. Young adults five years after leaving education are still 1 percentage point less likely to be employed if they started out when the unemployment rate was 10% rather than 6% (unemployment has risen by 4 percentage points on average during the last three recessions). The average negative impact on the pre-tax earnings of young adults and their partners (if they have one) five years after leaving education is 4% – or £1,100 per year. These effects have faded away almost completely after a further five years. Some of the impact is offset by lower taxes and higher benefits. Once you account for taxes and benefits, the effect of leaving education when unemployment is high on the combined incomes of young adults and their partners (if they have one) five years later falls from 4% to 2%. Another important potential safety net is that most people live with their parents in the first few years after leaving education, irrespective of economic conditions. This is particularly important in the years immediately after leaving education, when the effects on employment and pay are the largest: between 2010 and 2015, 74% of young adults lived with their parents a year after leaving education, 54% three years in and 38% five years in. As a result, starting working life during a recession has little impact on the total resources available to the households that young adults live in, on average. Young adults’ net household incomes (including the incomes of all members of their household – most importantly parents) are hit by only 1% five years after leaving education. While there is no guarantee that resources in the household are always shared equally, at the very least this implies that many parents have the capacity to provide an important safety net for their children after they leave education. The safety net provided by parents is particularly significant because lower-educated people are both most affected by starting out in a recession and most likely to live with their parents. Five years after joining the labour market, the pre-tax earnings of young adults and their partners are 4% lower for those who left education at 16 but there is no effect on those who left when they were 19 or older. At the same five-year stage, 60% of those who left education at 16 still live with their parents, compared with 21% of those who left when they were 19 or older. For those young adults not living with parents, there are significant lasting effects on overall incomes and household spending. For this group, starting working life when the economy is weak causes household net incomes and spending to be 2–3% lower even five years later.
D10|Arbitration and Renegotiation in Trade Agreements|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Marinacci and Montrucchio. First, we prove a variant of their Recovery Theorem estabilishing the existence of extremal solutions to the Koopmans equation. Our approach applies the constructive Tarski-Kantorovich Fixed Point Theorem rather than the nonconstructive Tarski Theorem employed in their paper. We verify the Koopmans operator has the order continuity property that underlies invoking Tarski-Kantorovich. Then, under more restrictive conditions, we demonstrate there is a unique solution to the Koopmans equation. Our proof is based on $u_{0}-$ concave operator techniques as first developed by Kransosels'kii. This differs from Marinacci and Montrucchio's proof as well as proofs given by Martins-da-Rocha and Vailakis.
D10|Household bargaining, spouses' consumption patterns and the design of commodity taxes|"We study the role and structure of commodity taxes when consumption and labor supplies are determined through a bargaining procedure between spouses, and where an optimal income tax is also available. We focus on the question whether there should be differences in tax treatment between ""female""and ""male"" products. When weights (as well as wages) differ across couples, the heterogeneity is multidimensional and the Atkinson and Stiglitz theorem does not apply. In addition, when the social welfare function is individual-based, spouses'social weights may differ from their weights within the couples. This brings about Pigouvian considerations which in themselves may justify commodity taxes. We show that the expressions for the tax rates include Pigouvian and incentive terms. Their roles are most apparent in the case where some goods are consumed exclusively by one of the spouses. Supposing, for instance, that the female spouse has the lower bargaining weight, we ?nd conditions under which the Pigouvian term calls for a subsidization of the ""female good"", and a taxation of the ""male good""?. The incentive term depends on the distribution of bargaining weights across couples. For instance, for the exclusive consumption case, when the weight of the female spouse increases with wages, the female good tends to be consumed in larger proportion by more productive couples. Consequently, the incentive term makes it a candidate for taxation. In this case the Pigouvian term is mitigated."
D10|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern and Prospects for Cooperation|The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
D10|Child Discipline in Times of Conflict|Using a unique pairing of household survey data and geolocational conflict data, we investigate the relationship between local conflict intensity and the disciplinary methods employed by Iraqi households. We find that parents in high-conflict areas are more likely to use both moderate and severe corporal punishment, and are less likely to use constructive parenting techniques like redirection. While there is a general sense that war has profound long-term impacts on the psychological health of children, research on transmission mechanisms is very limited. These are among the first results that rigorously document an association between violent conflict and child maltreatment and, to our knowledge, the first that document changes in child discipline practices even across a mainstream parenting spectrum. Given the persistence of early childhood outcomes into adulthood, these results are potentially an important piece of assessing and mitigating the long-term costs of war on the civilian population.
D10|'Rational Overeating' in a Feast-or-Famine World: Economic Insecurity and the Obesity Epidemic|Obesity rates have risen dramatically in the US since the 1980s, but well-identified studies have struggled to explain the magnitude of the observed changes. In this paper, we estimate the causal impact of economic insecurity on obesity rates. Specifically, we construct a synthetic panel of demographic groups over the period 1988 to 2012 by combining the newly developed Economic Security Index (ESI) with data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES). According to our estimates, increased economic insecurity over this time period explains 50% of the overall population-level increase in obesity.
D10|Cohort at Risk: Long-Term Consequences of Conflict for Child School Achievement|We investigate the long-term effect of households' exposure to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict during the Second Intifada (2000-2005) on children's primary school achievement in the West Bank. Our identification strategy exploits the exogenous geographical variation in locality-level conflict intensity. We show that an increase in family experience of conflict has a negative long-term effect on the educational attainment of children, and that impaired non-cognitive skills are likely channels.
D10|Searching on Campus? Marriage Market Effects of the Student Gender Composition|This paper studies marriage market effects of the student gender composition for university graduates using German Microcensus data and aggregate information on the student sex ratio by field of study for 41 different fields from 1977 to 2011. Experiencing a higher own-gender share of students during university education reduces overall marriage market opportunities for women but not for men. Moreover, when students of the own gender are relatively abundant, the probability of having a partner from the same field decreases for women, while men are more likely to marry down with respect to educational status.
D10|¡®Arranged¡¯ Marriage, Education, and Dowry: A Contract-theoretic Perspective|This paper propounds a contract-theoretic model that addresses the empirically observed conundrum of increased education of the groom being associated with increased dowry transactions. Unlike the human capital approach, we impart a signaling role to education whereby education signals unobservable qualities of the groom that are valuable to the bride. In ¡®arranged¡¯ marriage settings that are characterized by incomplete information in the sense that the true quality of the groom remains unobservable to the bride, and in the presence of observable traits like education that are easier for the better quality groom to achieve, education-dowry contracts can potentially serve as a screening instrument to differentiate grooms of varying qualities. In equilibrium, different types of grooms select different education-dowry contracts, with better types being associated with both higher education and higher dowry. Hence the model has interesting and important policy implications since it means that increased public expenditure on education may actually be forcing dowry levels to rise. The paper also discusses historical and narrative evidences in support of its main hypotheses.This paper propounds a contract-theoretic model that addresses the empirically observed conundrum of increased education of the groom being associated with increased dowry transactions. Unlike the human capital approach, we impart a signaling role to education whereby education signals unobservable qualities of the groom that are valuable to the bride. In ¡®arranged¡¯ marriage settings that are characterized by incomplete information in the sense that the true quality of the groom remains unobservable to the bride, and in the presence of observable traits like education that are easier for the better quality groom to achieve, education-dowry contracts can potentially serve as a screening instrument to differentiate grooms of varying qualities. In equilibrium, different types of grooms select different education-dowry contracts, with better types being associated with both higher education and higher dowry. Hence the model has interesting and important policy implications since it means that increased public expenditure on education may actually be forcing dowry levels to rise. The paper also discusses historical and narrative evidences in support of its main hypotheses.
D10|Family Health Behaviors|We study how health behaviors are shaped through family spillovers. We leverage administrative data to identify the effects of health shocks on family members' consumption of preventive care and health-related behaviors, constructing counterfactuals for affected households using households that experience the same shock but a few years in the future. Spouses and adult children immediately improve their health behaviors and their responses are both significant and persistent. These spillovers are far-reaching as they cascade even to coworkers. While some responses are consistent with learning information about one's own health, the evidence points to salience as a major operative explanation.
D10|The Effects of Compulsory-Schooling Laws on Teenage Marriage and Births in Turkey|We estimate the effects of the extension of compulsory schooling from 5 to 8 years in Turkey on marriage and birth outcomes of teenage girls, using a regression discontinuity design. This law increases girls’ schooling by roughly 1 year on average, substantially reducing the probability of marriage by age 16 and first birth by age 17. These effects disappear after ages 17 for marriage and 18 for first birth. These results suggest that this law has strong compulsory-attendance effects during the newly mandated years and human capital effects afterward on marriage and birth outcomes. However, the human capital effects vanish after a couple of years, when students become free to leave school.
D10|The Housing Boom and Bust: Model Meets Evidence|We build a model of the U.S. economy with multiple aggregate shocks (income, housing finance conditions, and beliefs about future housing demand) that generate fluctuations in equilibrium house prices. Through a series of counterfactual experiments, we study the housing boom and bust around the Great Recession and obtain three main results. First, we find that the main driver of movements in house prices and rents was a shift in beliefs. Shifts in credit conditions do not move house prices but are important for the dynamics of home ownership, leverage, and foreclosures. The role of housing rental markets and long-term mortgages in alleviating credit constraints is central to these findings. Second, our model suggests that the boom-bust in house prices explains half of the corresponding swings in non-durable expenditures and that the transmission mechanism is a wealth effect through household balance sheets. Third, we find that a large-scale debt forgiveness program would have done little to temper the collapse of house prices and expenditures, but would have dramatically reduced foreclosures and induced a small, but persistent, increase in consumption during the recovery.
D10|LGBTI in OECD Countries: A Review|This paper presents an overview of the socio-economic situation of lesbians, gay men, bisexuals, transgender and intersex people (LGBTI), primarily in OECD countries. After investigating the size of this population, the paper zooms in on attitudes toward LGBTI, LGBTI rights and perceived discrimination among LGBTI. It goes on to discuss the empirical strategies used to identify whether LGBTI fare worse than non-LGBTI and provides a systematic review of survey-based and experimental evidence on such an “LGBTI penalty” and its causes. This exploration points to substantial hurdles for LGBTI. In particular, (i) low legal recognition of same-sex couples hampers partnership stability and children’s well-being; (ii) LGBTI are bullied at school and suffer academically; (iii) LGBTI face hiring and wage discrimination; (iv) LGBTI show higher rates of physical and mental health problems, in particular due to social rejection. The paper concludes by reviewing anti-discrimination policies and defining critical avenues for future research.
D10|What Accounts for the Differences in Rent-Price Ratio and Turnover Rate? A Search-and-Matching Approach|Abstract We build an on-the-house search model and show that two frequently used metrics for the housing market, the rent-to-price ratio (or rental yield) and the turnover rate, are jointly determined in equilibrium. We, therefore, estimate a simultaneous equations system on matched sale-rental pairs, as a housing unit cannot be owner-occupied and renter-occupied at the same time. We confirm that a higher turnover rate is associated with a lower rental yield. We also identify a form of “dichotomy” in empirical determinants of rental yields and turnover rates at the estate level: the demographic structure and past returns affect an estate’s turnover rate, while popularity, human capital, mortgage burdens, and long-run rent growth determine its rental yield. The robustness of our results is established through a series of tests. Our popularity index for 130 estates in Hong Kong, estate rankings, and the brand premia of major real estate developers may carry independent interests.
D10|Concordian Economics: Beyond Micro and Macroeconomics|In Concordian economics there is no distinction between micro and macro economics, because the economic process is the same for the individual person, the city, the nation, or the world, What changes is the scale, but not the structure of the process. When micro and macro economics are seen as one, it makes no sense to add monetary wealth to real wealth. It becomes then evident that monetary wealth is not wealth; monetary wealth is a legal representation of real wealth.
D10|Heritability of time preference: Evidence from German twin data|Intergenerational correlations of time preference are well documented. However, there is still limited empirical evidence about the role of genetics in this transmission process. In our paper, we use data on roughly 3,000 twins from the German TwinLife project to estimate the heritability of time preference. We rely on an experimentally validated survey measure of temporal discounting, namely, self-assessed patience. The analysis of monozygotic and dizygotic twins enables us to apply standard biometric models. We find that genetic differences explain up to 23 percent of individual variation in patience. Whereas the additive genetic effect and common environmental effects are of minor importance, a major dominant genetic effect is present. These results indicate a notable degree of genetic infuence on economic time preferences.
D10|Parental Transfers and Fertility: Does the Recipient's Gender Matter?|This paper examines the role of parental transfers on family size. We introduce a simple theoretical model of fertility decision where preferences towards children may differ between female and male spouses. Parental transfers increase both the household income and the bargaining power of the recipient spouse. Therefore, transfers from wife’s and husband’s parents may have dissimilar effects on the number of children. We empirically test and confirm this hypothesis using a unique household-level data for Japan. In particular, received transfers from the wife’s parents reduce the demand for children. In contrast, both received and expected transfers from the husband’s parents increase the demand for children. These results hold important policy implications.
D10|Religiosity and Life Satisfaction in Russia: Evidence from the Russian Data|Does religiosity make you happy? Many studies document positive associations between religiosity and various forms of subjective wellbeing. This is also true for general life satisfaction in normal economic conditions and in the case of economic shocks. However, both life satisfaction and religiosity may be correlated with unobserved individual and household traits or unobserved life shocks which can relate to reverse causality. These facts result in endogeneity and make ordinary least square estimates biased. In our study, we employ two methods to avoid possible endogeneity issues – we use fixed effects and instrumental variable estimations. Using Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS-HSE) data and different econometric models, we document positive associations between religiosity and life satisfaction. In particular, fixed effect and instrumental variable regressions provide evidence for a positive effect of religiosity.
D10|Using decision tree classifier to predict income levels|In this study Random Forest Classifier machine learning algorithm is applied to predict income levels of individuals based on attributes including education, marital status, gender, occupation, country and others. Income levels are defined as a binary variable 0 for income
D10|Parental Time and Material Investments in Rural Thailand|This paper studies the roles of family structure, wage and child's gender on parental time and material investments in rural Thailand. Our findings consistently show that female children received more time, but less material investments. The material investment was significantly lower for children in households with no parents, while the difference in time investment was not significant. Based on an economic model of parental investment, these results suggest the factor share of time relative to material input is larger for girls and households with no parents. We also identified the elasticity of substitution between time and material investments, which suggests that both of the inputs are surprisingly complementary. We cannot reject that the skill formation is a Cobb-Douglas production function.
D10|The Property Ladder after the Financial Crisis: The First Step is a Stretch but Those Who Make It Are Doing OK|The global financial crisis (GFC) focused attention on household debt in dramatic fashion. While Australia escaped much of the immediate fallout, concerns over the level of household debt have become more entwined in policy deliberations in recent years. Parallel concerns, flowing from the rapid growth in housing prices in Australia and focusing on first home buyers, have also emerged. Some are concerned that this rapid growth is shutting a generation out of the home ownership market. Others are worried that those who do manage to buy a first home are taking on inadvisable levels of debt to do so. This paper investigates how things have changed since the GFC for those stepping onto the property ladder. Is 'generation rent' an important trend? Are people buying first homes taking on 'too much' debt? And what implications does this have for our understanding of the growing level of aggregate household debt? We find that fewer people are making the transition from renters to owners than prior to the crisis. Those that do, however, are more financially stable than earlier cohorts. Thus, 'generation rent' is an important trend but a consequence is that those who do step onto the property ladder are, on average, better placed to pay off their loans. We attribute much of this change to the increase in housing prices and the associated hurdle that deposit requirements represent. While saving a deposit is a stretch, it is also a sign of financial discipline that is associated with fewer subsequent difficulties.
D10|Consumption- and Productivity-Adjusted Dependency Ratio with Household Structure Heterogeneity|This study constructs a new dependency ratio measure by taking into account the consumption needs of the young and elderly people, and the productivity of middle-aged people. Different from the way that Cutler et al. (1990) and Weil (1999) constructed the relative needs by using the average consumptions of each age cohort of people, it estimates the factor of relative needs of people at different ages based on a regression model, which embraces the household age compositions and size in the assessment. The analysis uses household survey data from five developing countries in Asiaâ€” Bangladesh, Cambodia, the Peopleâ€™s Republic of China (PRC), Thailand, and Viet Nam.
D10|The Impact of Intergenerational Transfers on Household Wealth Inequality in Japan and the United States| To help shed light on the implications of intergenerational transfers for wealth inequality, this paper examines whether or not individuals who receive intergenerational transfers from their parents are more likely to leave bequests to their children than those who do not using data for Japan and the United States. The estimation results show that the receipt of intergenerational transfers from parents and/or parents-in-law increases the likelihood of individuals' leaving bequests to their own children in both Japan and the United States, which in turn is likely to contribute to the persistence or widening of wealth disparities. However, such a tendency is found to be stronger among less better-off households in both countries, and this may help alleviate the disequalizing effect of intergenerational transfers on the distribution of wealth, at least to some extent.
D10|Financial Inclusion and Household Consumption: Case of Nigeria|The recent awareness of the important role of finance in economic growth and development has stimulated interests of policy-makers and other stakeholders in expanding households’ financial access for inclusion economic growth and economic development. This paper is a contribution to the scant literature using micro-data to investigate the effects of financial inclusion on economic outcomes of households. Based on the data of Living Standards and Demographic survey of 2010 and 2012, this paper focuses on households’ welfare through consumption in Nigeria. The study employs the panel data approach to analyze the effects of financial inclusion on household consumption, controlling for the endogeneity of the financial inclusion itself, and concludes that access to finance has a positive impact on households’ consumption. This has implication for policy makers and practitioners to use access to finance as a tool for poverty reduction in the Nigeria.
D10|The Role of Marriage in Fighting HIV: A Quantitative Illustration for Malawi|How might policies that promote marriage and/or dissuade divorce help in the fight against HIV/AIDS? This question is addressed employing a choice-theoretic general equilibrium search model, using Malawi as a case study. In the framework developed, individuals can choose between married and single life. A single person can select among abstinence and sex with or without a condom. The results suggest that marriage-friendly policies can help to abate HIV/AIDS. The policy predictions that obtain from general equilibrium analysis are compared with those that arise from simulated synthetic field experiments and epidemiological studies.
D10|Family Economics Writ Large|Powerful currents have reshaped the structure of families over the last century. There has been (1) a dramatic drop in fertility and greater parental investment in children; (2) a rise in married female labor-force participation; (3) a significant decline in marriage; (4) a higher degree of positive assortative mating; (5) more children living with a single mother; and (6) shifts in social norms governing premarital sex and married women's roles in the workplace. Macroeconomic models explaining these aggregate trends are surveyed. The relentless flow of technological progress and its role in shaping family life are stressed.
D10|La Familia - How Trust Towards Family Decreases Female Labor Force Participation|Abstract This paper investigates whether comprehensive trust towards immediate family members leads to a decrease in female labor force participation in Sub Saharan African countries. Using three recent waves, third, fourth and fifth rounds of the Afrobarometer survey data allows us to capture the willingness to participate in the labor market as well as the level of trust individuals have towards their family members. We find that a high amount of trust significantly decreases labor force participation vary in range from minimum of 7 percent to 13 percent at maximum in our probit estimations. Moreover, the statistical as well as economic effects are significantly stronger for females than the effect for males. Our main contribution to the emerging economies literature in informal institutions is that we are able to show how different cultural traits such as family ties lead to different choices in terms of participation in the labor market.
D10|The effect of neighbourhoods and school quality on education and labour market outcomes in South Africa|This study evaluates the relative importance of family, neighbourhood and school quality in explaining variation in standardized test results, reaching and passing matric, university attendance and labour market earnings. It adds to the literature, by using a spatial approach to link a neighbourhood wealth index from the Census 2011 community survey to a unique administrative school data set from the Western Cape. For the long-term perspective the household and school information from the National Income Dynamics Study are explored. The results from administrative school data show how student wealth and differences in school quality produce vastly different outcomes for a cohort of grade 6 to 12 learners in Cape Town. It shows how grade 6 children going to the richest 20% of all schools are 30% more likely to pass matric in time, furthermore by grade 9 the learning gap is approximately four grade-levels worth of learning in comparison to children going to the poorest 20% of schools. However, this study also demonstrates that even children from the poorest neighbourhood would perform well if they go to one of the richest 20% of schools. Yet, given the limited number of quality schools, the segregated location of quality schools, financial as well as transport constraints, only very few children from the poorest 60% actually attend a top quintile schools. These results can be replicated for the national data set and show that in order to achieve more equal education outcomes, the quality of schools in the poor neighbourhoods have to be drastically improved. In addition, using the new school wealth index as an instrument for school quality, there seems to be a significant premium for quality education in labour markets earnings regressions, which show the long-term implications of the schooling system.
D10|Household Bargaining, Spouses' Consumption Patterns and the Design of Commodity Taxes|"We study the role and structure of commodity taxes when consumption and labor supplies are determined through a bargaining procedure between spouses, and where an optimal income tax is also available. We focus on the question whether there should be differences in tax treatment between ""female"" and ""male"" products. When weights (as well as wages) differ across couples, the heterogeneity is multidimensional and the Atkinson and Stiglitz theorem does not apply. In addition, when the social welfare function is individual-based, spouses' social weights may differ from their weights within the couples. This brings about Pigouvian considerations which in themselves may justify commodity taxes. We show that the expressions for the tax rates include Pigouvian and incentive terms. Their roles are most apparent in the case where some goods are consumed exclusively by one of the spouses. Supposing, for instance, that the female spouse has the lower bargaining weight, we find conditions under which the Pigouvian term calls for a subsidization of the ""female good"", and a taxation of the ""male good"". The incentive term depends on the distribution of bargaining weights across couples. For instance, for the exclusive consumption case, when the weight of the female spouse increases with wages, the female good tends to be consumed in larger proportion by more productive couples. Consequently, the incentive term makes it a candidate for taxation. In this case the Pigouvian term is mitigated."
D10|Does providing informal elderly care hasten retirement? Evidence from Japan|This paper examines the implications of providing care to elderly parents for adult children's retirement plans using micro data from a Japanese survey. We find no significant effect of caregiving on family caregivers’ planned retirement age if we do not take into account caregiving intensity but find a negative and significant effect on retirement plans for intensive caregivers, particularly among women. These findings suggest that relying on family members to provide elderly care can pose a serious challenge to the ongoing efforts of the government to promote the labor supply of women and the elderly as a way of addressing the shrinkage of the working‐age population in Japan. The estimation results suggest that ensuring access to formal care services can help family members reconcile their paid work with caregiving requirements, thereby alleviating the adverse effect of caregiving on their retirement plans. The results also suggest that the financial burden of formal care services could require caregivers to postpone retirement in some cases.
D10|Can CSA Cost-Offset Programs Improve Diet Quality for Limited Resource Families?|No abstract is available for this item.
D10|Theme Overview: Transformations in the Food System, Nutritional and Economic Impacts|No abstract is available for this item.
D10|On the train to brain gain in rural China| This study investigates the well-researched relationship between migration and the formation of human capital in the source region using a novel instrument: the existence of a local train station. We make use of Chinese panel data and of the fact that the decision to build a new train station is taken by the central government and unrelated to characteristics of a rural village receiving the station. As an intermediate result we find that train stations are negatively related to migration outflows, thus indicating that the facilitation of local employment through economic integration outweighs the reduction of migratory costs. Investigating variation within villages over time in the instrumental variables approach for the central research question, we see a positive effect of out-migration on educational attainment in the source region. Additional results suggest that the effect is stronger for male and young stayers.
D10|Heritability of time preference: Evidence from German twin data|Intergenerational correlations of time preference are well documented. However, there is still limited empirical evidence about the role of genetics in this transmission process. In our paper, we use data on roughly 3,000 twins from the German TwinLife project to estimate the heritability of time preference. We rely on an experimentally validated survey measure of temporal discounting, namely, self-assessed patience. The analysis of monozygotic and dizygotic twins enables us to apply standard biometric models. We find that genetic differences explain up to 23 percent of individual variation in patience. Whereas the additive genetic effect and common environmental effects are of minor importance, a major dominant genetic effect is present. These results indicate a notable degree of genetic influence on economic time preferences.
D10|Household debt burden and financial vulnerability in Luxembourg|We construct debt burden indicators at the level of individual households and calculate the share of households that are financially vulnerable using Luxembourg survey data collected in 2010 and 2014. The share of households that were indebted declined from 58.3% in 2010 to 54.6% in 2014, but the median level of debt (among indebted households) increased by 22% to reach € 89,800. This suggests that indebted households in 2014 carried a heavier burden than indebted households in 2010. However, among several debt burden indicators considered, only the debt-to-income ratio and the loan-to-value ratio of the outstanding stock registered a statistically significant increase. The median debt service-to-income ratio actually declined, mainly reflecting lower costs on non-mortgage debt. Using conventional thresholds to identify financially vulnerable households, we find that their share in the population of indebted households increased, although the change was only statistically significant when measured by the debt-to-income ratio. The different indicators of debt burden and financial vulnerability are highly correlated with several socio-economic characteristics, including age, gross income and net wealth. In particular, low income households have lower leverage and disadvantaged socio-economic groups (in terms of education, employment status and homeownership status) tend to be less financially vulnerable. However, after controlling for other factors, low income or low wealth increase the probability of being identified as vulnerable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D10|A new measure of households’ energy poverty|We calculate the demand for heating at the household level by integrating the technological data on the heating needs of different types of buildings with the information available in Istat’s Household Budget Survey. This new dataset is used to estimate a measure of energy poverty (EP) that is not conditioned by household preferences. The new measure identifies households suffering from EP as those that become “poor” – according to Istat’s relative poverty measure – after purchasing a minimum basket of energy services. Given the high granularity of the information used, the proposed threshold could be used as part of Istat’s revised absolute poverty measure. This also contributes to the monitoring and implementation of the policies that each EU member state should set up against EP as required under the Energy Union.
D10|No free lunch, buddy: past housing transfers and informal care later in life|Abstract Previous empirical literature on the relation between intergenerational transfer of assets and services has mostly focused on contemporary exchanges. By contrast, we provide novel evidence showing that parents who helped their adult children in the past are rewarded by higher chances of receiving informal care later in life. To this end we use Italian data containing precise retrospective information about the help with housing that couples received from their parents when they got married, such as a real estate donation or down payment. Our estimates show that this type of past help is positively associated with the current provision of informal care to the parents. This result is robust to controlling for a large set of individual and family characteristics and is only partially due to increased geographical proximity. We suggest that this finding can be explained by mixed self-interest motives, related to theories based on either bilateral exchange or the presence of a third generation (grandchildren), such as the demonstration effect model or the family constitution model.
D10|Leaving your mamma: why so late in Italy?|In Italy, young adults tend to postpone their transition to adulthood and live with their parents until very late compared with other countries. A dynamic discrete choice model is proposed in which agents choose residential arrangements, together with labor supply and marital status, conditional on the economic and institutional framework and on other agents' choices. The model is structurally estimated with the Simulated Method of Moments for non-student high-school graduate males and then used to assess, through a variety of counterfactual experiments, the relative importance of factors that are claimed to influence the choice to leave home in the existing literature: labor market conditions, parental resources, housing market conditions and social interaction. Results suggest that Italians choose to remain with their parents due to a combination of poor labor market conditions and high housing costs. The relatively high income of parents could contribute to the patterns observed by acting as an insurance against unemployment. Finally, estimates indicate that individuals tend to conform to a social norm that is influenced by external conditions.
D10|Vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares en Colombia|El estudio sobre las vulnerabilidades financieras de los hogares es un tema que ha adquirido mayor relevancia en los últimos años debido al incremento en su endeudamiento y al potencial efecto que un choque negativo sobre este sector pueda tener sobre las instituciones financieras y el crecimiento económico. El objetivo de este trabajo es cuantificar las fragilidades financieras de los hogares colombianos en términos de su nivel de carga financiera, endeudamiento y morosidad, así como establecer un marco de referencia para ejercicios de sensibilidad sobre este sector en Colombia. La información que se emplea para este análisis proviene de la Encuesta de educación financiera y carga financiera (Iefic) realizada por el DANE y el Banco de la República. Los resultados muestran que en el periodo comprendido entre 2014 y 2016 la carga financiera de los hogares disminuyó, aunque la proporción de deuda que concentran los hogares vulnerables aumentó. Adicionalmente, las probabilidades de desempleo y default se han incrementado, lo que se ha visto reflejado en una mayor exposición del sistema hacia el riesgo proveniente de estos deudores. A pesar de que los ejercicios de sensibilidad no reflejan un aumento significativo en esta exposición, es importante realizar un monitoreo constante de las condiciones financieras de estos agentes, en un contexto de deterioro en las condiciones macroeconómicas del país.
D10|Sondage 2016 sur les Français et l’économie : comportements, préoccupations et attentes|Selon un sondage Kantar Sofres commandité par la Banque de France et présenté aux Journées de l’économie, l’intérêt des Français pour l’économie reste élevé mais baisse un peu tandis que la perception de leur niveau de connaissance, plutôt moyen, progresse légèrement. Leurs attentes en matière d’information économique se polarisent sur la situation des finances publiques, juste avant l’emploi. Leur comportement financier a été particulièrement examiné cette année. Interrogés sur l’utilisation de disponibilités imprévues, les Français confirment la préférence donnée à leur compte d’épargne (comme le livret A) devant l’assurance-vie ou le remboursement de leurs emprunts ; leurs projets immobiliers sont leur premier motif de recours au crédit mais trop de ménages aux revenus faibles envisagent d’utiliser un crédit pour payer des dépenses régulières. L’inflation est moins surestimée que d’habitude et la perception de la situation économique se dégrade. En nette majorité, les Français restent favorables à plus de libéralisation de l’activité économique mais l’allégement de certaines normes (comme en matière de droit du travail) les partagent. Inquiets pour certains acquis européens, ils se disent très majoritairement favorables à un renforcement de l’intégration européenne en matière économique, sociale, budgétaire et fiscale.
D10|Understanding the determinants of financial outcomes and choices: the role of noncognitive abilities|We explore how financial distress and choices are affected by noncognitive abilities. Our measures stem from research in psychology and economics. In a representative panel of households, we find that people in the bottom decile of noncognitive abilities are five times more likely to experience financial distress compared to those in the top decile. Relatedly, individuals with lower noncognitive abilities make financial choices that increase their likelihood of distress: They are less likely to plan for retirement and save, and more likely to buy impulsively and to have unsecured debt. Causality is shown using childhood trauma as an instrument.
D10|Is there a case for intergenerational transmission of female labour force participation and educational attainment? Evidence from Greece during the crisis|Using logit regressions techniques for binary response models, fit by maximum likelihood with robust standard errors, the analysis investigates the intergenerational transmission of female labour force participation and the intergenerational transmission of educational outcomes in Greece. To conduct this study, we pioneer in the utilization of a unique dataset, the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) for Greece. Data refer to 2011 when the first elements of the economic adjustment programme were being put into place. Most importantly, the EU-SILC 2011 wave is the latest one to include an ad hoc module on the intergenerational transmission of disadvantages. Results show that a wife’s labour force participation decision is related to her husband’s mother’s and mother’s participation, and even more strongly related to her own level of educational achievement along with the number of children in the household. The labour force participation of the mother of the husband is more important than that of the woman’s own mother, indicating a strong transmission of the husband’s cultural model. Concerning educational attainment, parental educational background, and especially maternal, is identified as a key determinant of women’s high level of educational achievement.
D10|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern und Prospects for Cooperation|Summary: The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
