D12|Soda Wars: The Effect Of A Soda Tax Election On University Beverage Sales|We examine how soda sales changed due to the campaign attention and election outcome of a local excise tax on sugar‐sweetened beverages. Using panel data of beverage sales from university retailers in Berkeley, California, we estimate that soda purchases relative to control beverages significantly dropped immediately after the election, months before the tax was implemented in the city of Berkeley or on campus. Supplemental scanner data from off‐campus retailers reveal this result is not unique to the university setting. Our findings suggest soda tax media coverage and election outcomes can have larger effects on purchasing behavior than the tax itself. (JEL D12, H20, C23, I38, Q18)
D12|A meta-analysis of the price and income elasticities of food demand|Food demand elasticities are crucial parameters in the calibration of simulation models used to assess the impacts of political reforms or to analyse long-term projections, notably in agricultural sectors. Numerous estimates of these parameters are now available in the economic literature. The main objectives of this work are twofold: we seek first to identify general patterns characterizing the demand elasticities of food products and second to identify the main sources of heterogeneity between the elasticity estimates available in the literature. To achieve these objectives, we conduct a broad literature review of food demand elasticity estimates and perform a meta-regression analysis. Our results reveal the important impacts of income levels on income and price elasticities both at the country (gross domestic product-GDP) and household levels: the higher the income is, the lower the level of elasticities. Food demand responses to changes in income and prices appear to follow different patterns depending on the global regions involved apart from any income level consideration. From a methodological viewpoint, the functional forms used to represent food demand are found to significantly affect elasticity estimates. This result sheds light on the importance of the specification of demand functions, and particularly of their flexibility, in simulation models.
D12|The Empirical Content of Binary Choice Models|Empirical demand models used for counterfactual predictions and welfare analysis must be rationalizable, i.e. theoretically consistent with utility maximization by heterogeneous consumers. We show that for binary choice under general unobserved heterogeneity, rationalizability is equivalent to a pair of Slutsky-like shape-restrictions on choice-probability functions.The forms of these restrictions differ from Slutsky-inequalities for continuous goods. Unlike McFadden-Richter's stochastic revealed preference, our shape-restrictions (a) are global, i.e. their forms do not depend on which and how many budget-sets are observed, (b) are closed-form, hence easy to impose on parametric/semi/non-parametric models in practical applications, and (c) provide computationally simple, theory-consistent bounds on demand and welfare predictions on counterfactual budget-sets.
D12|The Effect of Interest Rate Caps on Bankruptcy: Synthetic Control Evidence from Recent Payday Lending Bans|Citing consumer protection concerns, New Hampshire – along with three other states – recently banned payday lending by implementing an APR cap on small loans. New Hampshire presents a compelling quasi-experiment: its neighbors already had a payday loan ban inplace. Hence, New Hampshire consumers were completely shut out of the storefront payday loan market. We perform a synthetic control analysis for all four of the recently-banning states. Our results show that, on the aggregate, bankruptcies are largely unaffected by the bans. Our New Hampshire results are characterized by an initial rise in bankruptcies after the ban, followed by a fall. This is consistent with the notion that payday bans hurt credit-constrained consumers in the short-run, but could help them in the long-run. We also analyze survey data of payday borrowers and find that while bankruptcies are unaffected, consumers substitute toward paying their credit card bills late and using pawnshops.
D12|Home Equity Extraction and Household Spending in Canada|We use rich microdata to measure home equity extraction in Canada and track its evolution over time. We find home equity extraction has been rising in recent years and has likely contributed materially to dynamics in household spending.
D12|The effects of pension-related policies on household spending|This paper estimates the impact of pension-related policies on household spending. The identification strategy exploits the deviation in pensioner income and expenditure caused by the introduction of a new pension system during the 1980s and 1990s in Spain and constructs a new narrative series of legislated pension changes. I present a variety of estimates, some of them imply that increases in the average pension have a roughly one-for-one effect on pensioner spending. The strongest effects are on the pensioners with the highest levels of expenditure, income, and wealth. Estimates for different categories of expenditure indicate that benefit increases trigger these pensioners to spend more on durables. At the same time, pension-related policies targeted to pensioners with low income levels seem to affect the spending on non-durables and necessities such as food positively.
D12|The use of cash in Italy: evidence from the ECB Study on the use of cash by households|The study investigates the use of cash and other payment instruments at points of sale (POS) in Italy, using data from the Italian sample of the Study on the Use of Cash by Households (SUCH) conducted by the ECB in 2016. The aim of the study was to estimate the number and value of cash transactions and to obtain information on consumers’ payment behaviour. The results show that cash was the most used instrument, although alternative instruments and cards would be preferred if the method of payment could be selected without constraints. Cash was mainly used for low-value payments, whereas other instruments were used more frequently for higher value transactions. Daily payments were mainly made in cash, even when alternatives were available. The choice of payment instrument is more affected by the characteristics of the transaction than by socio-demographic factors: the significant use of cash is explained by the fact that only transactions at POS, where the value of payments is typically low, were recorded in the diaries.
D12|Understanding the Consumer Confidence Index in Colombia: A structural FAVAR analysis|The consumer confidence index (CCI) is very relevant for economic analysis due to its timely publication and forecasting capacities. Although there is extensive literature on the link between CCI and macroeconomic aggregates, in particular with households' consumption, few papers have studied the fundamental factors that explain the CCI behaviour. Actually, no attempt has been made for the Colombian case. In this paper we aim to fill this gap. We estimate a Structural Factor-Augmented VAR (SFAVAR) model and perform a historical decomposition (HD) on the CCI series to obtain the underlying structural innovations that drove the CCI dynamics over the past few years. Our findings suggest that the CCI responded to changes in the underlying determinants and to non-fundamental shocks possibly related to uncertainty periods and noneconomic, socio-political or electoral events. Moreover, a counterfactual analysis shows that households' consumption forecasts improve when using the CCI series that are not affected by these non-fundamental shocks. **** ABSTRACT: El Índice de Confianza del Consumidor (ICC) es un instrumento relevante para el análisis económico, dada su oportuna publicación y sus capacidades de pronóstico. A pesar de que existe una gran cantidad de trabajos que estudian la relación entre el ICC y los agregados macroeconómicos, y en particular con el consumo privado, son pocos los estudios que han analizado los factores fundamentales que definen el comportamiento del ICC. De hecho, no hay ningún estudio al respecto para el caso colombiano. Con este documento tratamos de resolver este problema. Estimamos un modelo VAR estructural de factores (SFAVAR) y realizamos una descomposición histórica de choques del ICC para obtener los errores estructurales que determinaron la dinámica del ICC en años recientes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el comportamiento observado del ICC obedeció tanto a cambios en sus determinantes como a choques no fundamentales relacionados, posiblemente, con eventos coyunturales de naturaleza no-económica, socio-política y/o electoral. Adicionalmente, un ejercicio contrafactual permite ver que el pronóstico del consumo privado mejora cuando se utiliza una serie del ICC que no está afectada por los choques no explicados por sus fundamentales.
D12|Tarjetas de crédito en personas de ingresos medios y bajos en Colombia: ¿qué determina su uso?|Se investigan los determinantes del uso de la tarjeta Crédito Fácil Codensa, utilizando las características demográficas de los tarjetahabientes. Este mecanismo de financiación, de uso generalizado en Bogotá por parte de personas cuyos ingresos se encuentran en la parte baja de la distribución, se utiliza para la financiación de consumo de bienes semidurables (muebles, electrodomésticos, computadores, etc.) y no durables (alimentos, prendas de vestir, etc.). Son algo más de 1.000.000 de clientes al finalizar el período de estudio. Analizamos los determinantes del cupo de crédito, la probabilidad de uso de la tarjeta y el valor de las compras para el período 2010-2015. Ingreso, educación, edad, género, estrato y vivienda propia son determinantes del cupo de crédito junto con variables indicadoras de la fase del ciclo, el comportamiento del mercado laboral y la liquidez de la economía (tasa de intervención de la autoridad monetaria, aproximada por la Tasa Interbancaria, TIB). La probabilidad de compra está determinada no solo por el ambiente macroeconómico, sino también por variables individuales, entre las cuales, el ingreso permanente figura reduciendo dicha probabilidad. El monto de las compras mensuales está determinado por la tasa de interés vigente en el mes de las compras, la tasa de usura y por características individuales como el ingreso, la edad, la educación y el género. Se presenta evidencia de restricciones de liquidez para personas que tienen una alta utilización el cupo; sin embargo, las decisiones de la mayoría de los agentes no distan de la hipótesis de ciclo de vida-ingreso permanente. **** ABSTRACT: The determinants of the Crédito Fácil Codensa card usage are investigated, using the demographic characteristics of cardholders. This financing mechanism, widely used in Bogotá by people (more than 1.000.000 at the end of the sample period) whose income is in the lower part of the distribution, is used to finance the consumption of semi-durable goods (furniture, household appliances, computers, etc.) and non-durable goods (food, clothing, etc.). We analyze the determinants of the credit quota, the probability of using the card and the value of purchases for the period 2010-2015. Income, education, age, gender stratum and own housing are determinants of the credit limit along with variables indicating the phase of the cycle, the labor market performance, and the liquidity of the economy represented by the policy rate (proxied by the Interbank Rate, TIB). The probability of purchase is determined not only by the macroeconomic environment, but also by individual variables. Permanent income reduces the likelihood of buying. The amount of monthly purchases is determined by the current interest rate in the month of purchases or usury rate and by individual characteristics such as income, age, education, gender of the individual. There is evidence of liquidity restrictions for people who have a high use of the card limit. However, the decisions of most agents are not that far from the permanent income-life cycle hypothesis.
D12|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D12|Non-salient fees in the mortgage market|This paper studies supply-side product pricing when consumers underreact to non-salient fees. Using comprehensive data on issued and offered mortgages in the UK, I document that lenders differ substantially in the fees they charge, and that borrowers appear less overall cost-sensitive to products with fees. In order to distinguish from demand factors such as unobservable preferences or product characteristics, I show that lenders pass on firm-specific funding cost shocks via fees, but not interest rates, consistent with strategic pricing of fees, and maintaining competitive prices in the salient price dimension, interest rates. I further find heterogeneity in pricing across lenders: those who rely on high fees tend to have higher funding cost, lower return on equity and larger branch networks, in line with a specialization equilibrium in which high-cost lenders are able to match with less cost-sensitive consumers.
D12|IQ, expectations, and choice|We use administrative and survey-based micro data to study the relationship between cognitive abilities (IQ), the formation of economic expectations, and the choices of a representative male population. Men above the median IQ (high-IQ men) display 50% lower forecast errors for inflation than other men. The inflation expectations and perceptions of high-IQ men, but not others, are positively correlated over time. High-IQ men are also less likely to round and to forecast implausible values. In terms of choice, only high-IQ men increase their propensity to consume when expecting higher inflation as the consumer Euler equation prescribes. High-IQ men are also forward-looking - they are more likely to save for retirement conditional on saving. Education levels, income, socio-economic status, and employment status, although important, do not explain the variation in expectations and choice by IQ. Our results have implications for heterogeneous-beliefs models of household consumption, saving, and investment.
D12|Housing wealth, household debt and financial assets: are there implications for consumption?|This paper evaluates the asymmetric transmission effects of housing wealth, household debt and financial assets on consumption spending in Greece over the period 1999Q4 to 2017Q4. We apply the Enders and Siklos (2001) methodology and use Stevans’s (2004) modification to capture these effects in a multivariate framework. Our results show that consumption responds asymmetrically to all types of changes applied. We provide evidence for the predominance of negative changes compared to positive ones. Our empirical findings are consistent with a stronger consumption response to decreases in financial assets and housing wealth. Furthermore, our results add to the existing literature in that the driving force of the rapidly reducing consumption spending is the deleveraging change. We also check the robustness of our results by applying Hansen’s (2017) kink regression model analysis. The empirical results provide evidence that consumption and wealth component data fit better a threshold model than a linear model.
D12|The Dynamics of Motivated Beliefs|A key question in the literature on motivated reasoning and self-deception is how motivated beliefs are sustained in the presence of feedback. In this paper, we explore dynamic motivated belief patterns after feedback. We establish that positive feedback has a persistent effect on beliefs. Negative feedback, instead, influences beliefs in the short-run, but this effect fades over time. We investigate the mechanisms of this dynamic pattern, and provide evidence for an asymmetry in the recall of feedback. Finally, we establish that, in line with theoretical accounts, incentives for belief accuracy mitigate the role of motivated reasoning.
D12|Gender wage gap across the quantiles:What is the role of firm segregation?|In this paper, we explore the role of firm segregation on the gender wage gap. Using linked employee-employer data for Turkey, we investigate whether female segregation into low-paying firms and into low-paying jobs within a firm influence the gender wage gap across the wage distribution. We find that there is a 'glass ceiling' effect in the Turkish labour market, but this effect is more apparent within a firm than between firms. We also find a 'sticky floor' effect, but only among workers employed at the same firm. Our results imply that the allocation of women into lowpaying jobs within each firm accounts for the existence of these effects more than the segregation of women into low-paying firms.
D12|Blurred Boundaries: A Flexible Approach for Segmentation Applied to the Car Market|Prominent features of differentiated product markets are segmentation and product proliferation that blurs the boundaries between segments. I develop a tractable demand model, the Ordered Nested Logit, which allows for asymmetric substitution between segments. I apply the model to the automobile market where segments are ordered from small to luxury. I find that consumers, when substituting outside their vehicle segment, are more likely to switch to a neighboring segment. Accounting for such asymmetric substitution matters when evaluating the impact of new product introduction or the effect of subsidies on fuel-efficient cars.
D12|Migration and Informal Insurance|Do new migration opportunities for rural households change the nature and extent of informal risk sharing? We experimentally document that randomly offering poor rural households subsidies to migrate leads to a 40% improvement in risk sharing in their villages. We explain this finding using a model of endogenous migration and risk sharing. When migration is risky, the network can facilitate migration by insuring that risk, which in turn crowds-in risk sharing when new migration opportunities arise. We estimate the model and find that welfare gains from migration subsidies are 42% larger, compared with the welfare gains without spillovers, once we account for the changes in risk sharing. Our analysis illustrates that (a) ignoring the spillover effects on the network gives an incomplete picture of the welfare effects of migration, and (b) informal risk sharing may be an essential determinant of the takeup of new income-generating technologies.
D12|Dynamics and Heterogeneity of Subjective Stock Market Expectations|Between 2004 and 2016, we elicited individuals' subjective expectations of stock market returns in a Dutch internet panel at bi-annual intervals. In this paper, we develop a panel data model with a finite mixture of expectation types who differ in how they use past stock market returns to form current stock market expectations. The model allows for rounding in the probabilistic responses and for observed and unobserved heterogeneity at several levels. We estimate the type distribution in the population and find evidence for considerable heterogeneity in expectation types and meaningful variation over time, in particular during the financial crisis of 2008&sol;09.
D12|Wealth Shocks and MPC Heterogeneity|We use the responses of a representative sample of Dutch households to survey questions that ask how much their consumption would change in response to unexpected, permanent, positive or negative shocks to their home value. The average MPC is in the 2.1-4.7% range, in line with econometric estimates that use housing wealth and consumption realizations. However, our analysis uncovers significant sample heterogeneity, with over 90% of the sample reporting no consumption adjustment to positive or negative wealth shocks. The relation between the MPC from wealth shocks and cash-on-hand is negative, consistent with models with precautionary saving and liquidity constraints.
D12|Risky assets in Europe and the US: risk vulnerability, risk aversion and economic environment|We use cross-country microdata to analyse the risk taking of households in Europe and the US. Concerning the extensive as well as the intensive margin of risky assets, European households differ substantially from US households; but also inside Europe we document substantial differences. Furthermore, average risk aversion is strongly correlated with the share of households holding risky assets across countries. We decompose the observed differences into two parts. A part explainable by household characteristics as well as differences in risk aversion and a remainder. We employ the unexplained part resulting from our microeconometric decomposition analysis together with country-level variables on the economic environment to relate observed differences in risky asset holdings to institutional ones. We find that institutional differences such as shareholder protection are strongly correlated with the unexplainable differences with regard to holdings of risky assets. JEL Classification: D12, D14, D31, G11
D12|The Effects of Internet Book Piracy: Case of Comics|In this study, the effects of internet book piracy in the case of the Japanese comic book market were examined using direct measurement of product level piracy ratio and a massive deletion project as a natural experiment. Total effect of the piracy is negative to the legitimate sales, but panel regression and difference-in-difference analysis consistently indicated that the effect of piracy is heterogeneous: piracy decreased the legitimate sales of ongoing comics, whereas increased the legitimate sales of completed comics. The latter result is interpreted as follows: piracy reminds consumers of past comics and stimulates sales in that market.
D12|The Effect of the Source of Inheritance on Bequest Attitudes: Evidence from Japan|A better understanding of the reasons for bequests can be pivotal for the effectiveness of fiscal policy and wealth inequality management as the different bequest motives underlying bequest behavior have different implications. This study examines community-based indirect reciprocity in bequest attitudes over three generations. The theoretical model, called community-based family tradition, suggests that the source of the inheritance impacts the amount of the bequest left to one's children or one's spouse. The study empirically analyzes survey data from the 2009 wave of the Preference Parameters Study for Japan. The results suggest that with some socio-economics characteristics controlled, those who have received an inheritance from their parents are more likely to intend to bequest as much as possible to their children, while those who have received an inheritance from their spouse's parents are more likely to intend to bequest as much as possible to both their children and their spouse. Hence, the source of inheritance does affect bequest attitudes, which suggests that there is community-based indirect reciprocity in bequest attitudes. The empirical results from gender comparison suggest that the taxation on inheritance is less functional for females than for males.
D12|Exchange rate, remittances and expenditure of foreign-born households: evidence from Australia|We examined the impact of the depreciation of the Australian dollar (AU$) during 2013-2015 on the expenditure of households with foreign-born members (HFBMs) in Australia. Employing the difference-in-differences method and 2013-2015 Nielson Homescan Panel Survey data, we found that HFBMs spent around 2.4 percent more on their food expenditure in 2014 and 4.0 percent more in 2015 compared to their native counterparts. Further investigation indicated that neither incomes nor food prices nor the expenditures on imported food items changed differently for any group in that period, while an analysis with HILDA survey data indicates a similar pattern for total expenditures. With reduced outward aggregate remittances from Australia over the same time, we argue that falling AU$ induces HFBMs to substitute for consumption in the home country with that in the host nation. Our empirical results provide fresh insights on how changes in the exchange rate may affect immigrants differently than natives.
D12|Consumers’ Perception of Food Safety Risk From Vegetables: A Rural - Urban Comparison|Rapid urbanization brings challenges to managing food safety in Vietnam. Today, consumers pay more attention to the safety of food, particularly vegetables. This paper investigates the impact of consumer perception of food safety risk on self-reported vegetable consumption and then compares the determinants of risk perception between the rural and the urban region. We conducted a survey and observe a decline in self-reported vegetable consumption as a consequence of heightened risk perception among residents in the Hanoi area. The differences, as well as the similarities in the underlying drivers of risk perception, were identified across regions. In both regions, information about food incidents and perceived consequence of hazards associated with vegetables shaped risk perception of vegetables. Respondents’ age, education, and trust in food retailers at wet markets determined risk perception in the rural area, but not in the urban region. Personal experience with vegetable poisoning, whether the household was growing vegetables, perceived control over hazards, and trust in responsible institutions only influenced risk perception in the urban region. We suggest that these spatial disparities in behaviours should be taken into account in designing and implementing risk communication programs and food safety policies in Vietnam.
D12|Consumers’ Perception of Inflation in Inflationary and Deflationary Environment|Abstract The paper employs survey data on quantitative inflation perceptions to investigate the formation of consumers’ opinions about current price developments. Firstly, we compare Polish consumers’ estimates of price changes with the consumer price index (CPI) and find that consumers react more quickly to inflation increases than decreases, and that they ignore small moves in inflation. Moreover, the previously stable relation between inflation perception and the CPI inflation was distorted during the deflationary period, leading to a smaller perception bias. Secondly, we relax the assumption that consumers perceive price changes in the CPI terms and show that consumers over-weight clothing and footwear prices and under-weight transport prices relative to the expenditure shares of these items. Prices of food and beverages, as well as prices related to housing, water, gas, electricity, etc. have similar impact on inflation perception as on the CPI inflation. Thirdly, selective attention of consumers to price changes and asymmetric reaction to increases and falls in prices, captured by alternative price aggregates, do not explain inflation perception during deflation.
D12|Assessing reliability of aggregated inﬂation views in the European Commission Consumer Survey|Using a novel approach based on micro-level survey responses, we assess the reliability of aggregated inflation expectations estimates in the European Commission Consumer Survey. We identify the share of consumers, whose qualitative and quantitative views on expected increase of prices do not match each other. Then we consider the impact of inconsistent survey responses on balance statistics and mean values of quantitative inflation expectations. We also analyze expectations’ formation estimating the sticky-information models. The results, based on Finnish and Polish data, suggest that even if the fraction of inconsistent survey responses is non-negligible, it matters neither for the aggregated figures of inflation views, nor for understanding of the formation of inflation expectations by consumers. We conclude that micro-level inconsistencies do not reduce the reliability of the current EC Consumer Survey dataset. Our results also indicate that inconsistent responses are not important drivers of the inflation overestimation bias displayed in the data.
D12|Minding Your Ps and Qs: Going from Micro to Macro in Measuring Prices and Quantities|Key macro indicators such as output, productivity, and inflation are based on a complex system across multiple statistical agencies using different samples and levels of aggregation. The Census Bureau collects nominal sales, the Bureau of Labor Statistics collects prices, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis constructs nominal and real GDP using these data and other sources. The price and quantity data are integrated at a high level of aggregation. This paper explores alternative methods for reengineering key national output and price indices using item-level data. Such reengineering offers the promise of greatly improved key economic indicators along many dimensions.
D12|The Welfare Effects of Social Media|The rise of social media has provoked both optimism about potential societal benefits and concern about harms such as addiction, depression, and political polarization. We present a randomized evaluation of the welfare effects of Facebook, focusing on US users in the run-up to the 2018 midterm election. We measured the willingness-to-accept of 2,743 Facebook users to deactivate their Facebook accounts for four weeks, then randomly assigned a subset to actually do so in a way that we verified. Using a suite of outcomes from both surveys and direct measurement, we show that Facebook deactivation (i) reduced online activity, including other social media, while increasing offline activities such as watching TV alone and socializing with family and friends; (ii) reduced both factual news knowledge and political polarization;(iii) increased subjective well-being; and (iv) caused a large persistent reduction in Facebook use after the experiment. Deactivation reduced post-experiment valuations of Facebook, but valuations still imply that Facebook generates substantial consumer surplus.
D12|How do Americans repay their debt? The balance-matching heuristic|In Gathergood et al. (forthcoming), we studied credit card repayments using linked data on multiple cards from the United Kingdom. We showed that individuals did not allocate payments to the higher interest rate card, which would minimize the cost of borrowing, but instead made repayments according to a balance-matching heuristic under which the share of repayments on each card is matched to the share of balances on each card. In this paper, we examine whether these results extend to the United States using a large sample of TransUnion credit bureau data. These data do not have interest rates, so we cannot examine the optimality of payments. However, we observe balances and repayments, so we can examine balance-matching behavior. We replicate our analysis and find that Americans also repay their debt in accordance with a balance-matching heuristic.
D12|Are Consumers Attentive to Local Energy Costs? Evidence from the Appliance Market|We estimate whether consumers respond to local energy costs when purchasing appliances. Using a dataset from an appliance retailer, we compare demand responsiveness to a measure of energy costs that varies with local energy prices versus purchase prices. We strongly reject that consumers are unresponsive to local energy costs under a wide range of assumptions. These findings run counter to the popular wisdom, which motivates energy standards, that energy costs are a shrouded attribute. Capital investments are an important channel for electricity demand response and may explain some of the large differences between short and long run electricity price elasticities.
D12|The Roots of Health Inequality and the Value of Intra-Family Expertise|"Mounting evidence documents a stark correlation between income and health, yet the causal mechanisms behind this gradient are poorly understood. This paper examines the impact of access to expertise on health, and whether unequal access to expertise contributes to the health-income gradient. Our empirical setting, Sweden, allows us to shut down inequality in formal access to health care; we first document that strong socioeconomic gradients nonetheless persist. Second, we study the effect of access to health-related expertise -- captured by the presence of a health professional in the extended family -- on health. Exploiting ""admissions lotteries"" into medical schools and variation in the timing of degrees, we show that access to intra-family medical expertise has far-reaching health consequences, at all ages: It raises longevity, improves drug adherence and reduces the occurrence of lifestyle-related disease in adulthood, raises vaccination rates in adolescence, and reduces tobacco exposure in utero. Third, we show that the effects of expertise are larger at the lower end of the income distribution -- precisely where access to expertise is scarcer. Unequal access to health-related expertise can account for as much as 18% of the health-SES gradient, and may thus play a significant role in sustaining health inequality."
D12|How Do We Choose Our Identity? A Revealed Preference Approach Using Food Consumption|Are identities fungible? How do people come to identify with specific groups? This paper proposes a revealed preference approach, using food consumption to uncover ethnic and religious identity choices in India. We first show that consumption of identity goods (e.g. beef and pork) systematically responds to forces suggested by social-identity research: group status and group salience, with the latter proxied by inter-group conflict. Moreover, identity choices respond to the cost of following the group's prescribed behaviors. We propose and estimate a modified demand system to quantify the identity changes that followed India's 1991 economic reforms. While social-identity research has focused on status and salience, economic costs appear to play a dominant role.
D12|The Income Elasticity for Nutrition: Evidence from Unconditional Cash Transfers in Kenya|We use a randomized controlled trial to study the effect of large income changes, through unconditional cash transfers, on the food share of expenditures and consumption of calories among poor households in rural Kenya. Our preferred estimate of the food elasticity following USD 709 transfers is 0.78 for expenditure, 0.60 for calories, and 1.29 for protein. Experimental elasticities are lower than cross-sectional estimates. These estimates are unaffected by spillovers or price changes at the village level: results are similar with vs. without an almost ideal demand system, and with a control group in treatment vs. control villages.
D12|Heterogeneous (Mis-) Perceptions of Energy Costs: Implications for Measurement and Policy Design|Quantifying heterogeneity in consumers’ misperceptions of product costs is crucial for policy design. We illustrate this point in the energy context and the design of Pigouvian policies. We estimate non-parametric distributions of perceptions of energy costs in the U.S. appliance market using a revealed preference approach. We show that the average degree of misperception is misleading— while the largest share of consumers correctly perceives energy costs, a significant share undervalues them, and smaller shares either significantly overvalues or completely ignores them. We show that setting a tax based on mean misperception deviates substantially from the optimal tax that accounts for heterogeneous misperceptions. While correctly characterizing misperception is crucial for setting optimal Pigouvian taxes for externalities, it is less important for setting optimal standards. We find that standards can largely outperform taxes. Standards’ advantage is they reduce variance in energy operating costs relative to taxes, which internalizes distortionary effects from misperceptions.
D12|Rational Illiquidity and Excess Sensitivity: Theory and Evidence from Income Tax Withholding and Refunds|Nearly a third of all personal income tax collected by the US, government is later returned in the form of tax refunds; and households tend to spend disproportionately from those refunds. This paper develops a theory of liquid assets management that explains why households voluntarily reduce liquidity by overwitholding, but then spend in response to the liquidity provided by tax refunds. Liquidity constraints that arise endogenously when income is uncertain and when adjusting tax payments is not frictionless explain these behaviors. Tax refunds tend to arrive in circumstances where income is lower than expected, so liquidity is low and the MPC is endogenously high. The average amount of income not subject to withholding and the average annual fluctuations in that income are more than sufficient to explain the size of tax refunds, and microevidence supports central mechanisms of the model.
D12|Consumer Myopia in Vehicle Purchases: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
D12|Borrowing to Save? The Impact of Automatic Enrollment on Debt|Does automatic enrollment into a retirement plan increase borrowing outside the plan? We study a natural experiment created when the U.S. Army began automatically enrolling newly hired civilian employees into the Thrift Savings Plan. Four years after hire, automatic enrollment causes no significant change in credit scores (point estimate 0.001 standard deviations) or debt balances excluding auto loans and first mortgages (point estimate -0.6% of annual salary). We also find no significant increase in auto loan and first mortgage balances in our main regression specification, although the estimated increases in these categories are economically and statistically significant in alternative specifications.
D12|Student Loan Choice Overload|What influences college student borrowing? In a field experiment with a large community college, we send emails about federal student loans to students who have received information about financial aid but have not made a borrowing decision. A treatment reminding students that they need not borrow the maximum amount of available loan aid does not affect borrowing. Treatments referencing amounts borrowed by recent graduates shift students from borrowing the maximum amount to not borrowing. Consistent with the hypothesis that students experience choice overload when observing multiple dollar amounts, the response is largest among low-performing students and arises from inaction.
D12|The Effect of SNAP on the Composition of Purchased Foods: Evidence and Implications|We use detailed data from a large retail panel to study the effect of participation in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) on the composition and nutrient content of foods purchased for at-home consumption. We find that the effect of SNAP participation is small relative to the cross-sectional variation in most of the outcomes we consider. Estimates from a model relating the composition of a household’s food purchases to the household’s current level of food spending imply that closing the gap in food spending between high- and low-SES households would not close the gap in summary measures of food healthfulness.
D12|How do Humans Interact with Algorithms? Experimental Evidence from Health Insurance|Algorithms increasingly assist consumers in making their purchase decisions across a variety of markets; yet little is known about how humans interact with algorithmic advice. We examine how algorithmic, personalized information affects consumer choice among complex financial products using data from a randomized, controlled trial of decision support software for choosing health insurance plans. The intervention significantly increased plan switching, cost savings, time spent choosing a plan, and choice process satisfaction, particularly when individuals were exposed to an algorithmic expert recommendation. We document systematic selection - individuals who would have responded to treatment the most were the least likely to participate. A model of consumer decision-making suggests that our intervention affected consumers’ signals about both product features (learning) and utility weights (interpretation).
D12|Should Electric Vehicle Drivers Pay a Mileage Tax?|In many countries the revenue from gasoline taxes is used to fund highways and other transportation infrastructure. As the number of electric vehicles on the road increases, this raises questions about the effectiveness and equity of this financing mechanism. In this paper, we ask whether electric vehicle drivers should pay a mileage tax. Though the gasoline tax has been traditionally viewed as a benefits tax, we take instead the perspective of economic efficiency. We derive a condition for the optimal electric vehicle mileage tax that highlights a key trade-off. On the one hand, there are externalities from driving including traffic congestion and accidents that imply a mileage tax is efficient. On the other hand, gasoline tends to be underpriced, so a low (or even negative) mileage tax might be justified to encourage substitution away from gasoline-powered vehicles. We then turn to an empirical analysis aimed at better understanding the current policy landscape for electric vehicles in the United States. Using newly available nationally-representative microdata we calculate that electric vehicles have reduced gasoline tax revenues by $250 million annually. We show that the foregone tax revenue is highly concentrated in a handful of states and is highly regressive, as most electric vehicles are driven by high-income households, and we discuss how this motivates and informs optimal policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D12|Migration and Informal Insurance|Do new migration opportunities for rural households change the nature and extent of informal risk sharing? We experimentally document that randomly offering poor rural households subsidies to migrate leads to a 40% improvement in risk sharing in their villages. We explain this finding using a model of endogenous migration and risk sharing. When migration is risky, the network can facilitate migration by insuring that risk, which in turn crowds-in risk sharing when new migration opportunities arise. We estimate the model and find that welfare gains from migration subsidies are 42% larger, compared with the welfare gains without spillovers, once we account for the changes in risk sharing. Our analysis illustrates that (a) ignoring the spillover effects on the network gives an incomplete picture of the welfare effects of migration, and (b) informal risk sharing may be an essential determinant of the takeup of new income-generating technologies.
D12|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual’s initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent neg-ative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 sig-nificantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public tran-sit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous in-come and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
D12|Credit Building or Credit Crumbling? A Credit Builder Loan’s Effects on Consumer Behavior, Credit Scores and Their Predictive Power|There is little evidence on how the large market for credit score improvement products affects consumers or credit market efficiency. A randomized encouragement design on a standard credit builder loan (CBL) identifies null average effects on whether consumers have a credit score and the score itself, with important heterogeneity: those with loans outstanding at baseline fare worse, those without fare better. Selection, treatment effect, and prediction models indicate the CBL reveals valuable information to markets, inducing positive selection and making credit histories more precise, while keeping credit scores’ predictive power intact. With modest targeting changes, CBLs could work as intended.
D12|Firms and Collective Reputation: A Study of the Volkswagen Emissions Scandal|This paper uses the 2015 Volkswagen emissions scandal as a natural experiment to provide evidence that collective reputation externalities matter for firms. We find that the Volkswagen scandal reduced the U.S. sales of the other German auto manufacturers—BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Smart—by about 105,000 vehicles worth $5.2 billion. The decline was principally driven by an adverse reputation spillover, which was reinforced by consumer substitution away from diesel vehicles and was partially offset by substitution away from Volkswagen. These estimates come from a model of vehicle demand, the conclusions of which are also consistent with difference-in-differences estimates. We provide direct evidence on internet search behavior and consumer sentiment displayed on social media to support our interpretation that the estimates reflect a reputation spillover.
D12|The Rise of Niche Consumption|We show that over the last 15 years, the typical household has increasingly concentrated its spending on a few preferred products. However, this is not driven by “superstar” products capturing larger market shares. Instead, households increasingly focus spending on different products from each other. As a result, aggregate spending concentration has in fact decreased over this same period. We use a novel heterogeneous agent model to conclude that increasing product variety is a key driver of these divergent trends. When more products are available, households can select a subset better matched to their particular tastes, and this generates welfare gains not reflected in government statistics. Our model features heterogeneous markups because producers of popular products care more about maximizing profits from existing customers, while producers of less popular niche products care more about expanding their customer base. Surprisingly, however, our model can match the observed trends in household and aggregate concentration without any resulting change in aggregate market power.
D12|The Effects of Competition in Consumer Credit Markets|Using changes in financial regulation that create exogenous entry in some consumer credit markets, we find that increased competition induces banks to become more specialized and efficient, while deposit rates increase and borrowing costs for riskier collateral decline. However, shadow banks change their credit policy when faced with more competition and aggressively expand credit to riskier borrowers at the extensive margin, resulting in higher default rates. These results show how the form of intermediation can shape economic fluctuations. They also suggest that increased competition can lead to large changes in credit policy at institutions outside the traditional supervisory umbrella, possibly creating a less stable financial system.
D12|The Impact of Socioeconomic and Cultural Differences on Online Trade|We use U.S. eBay data to investigate how trade is influenced by differences in socioeconomic characteristics, tastes, and trust. States’ similarity in cultural characteristics (ethnicity, religious affiliations, and political behavior) is predictive of online trade; cultural similarity similarly predicts trade between finer (three-digit zip code) geographies. The culture-trade relationship is mediated in part by consumers’ tastes, and is stronger for transactions with sellers who lack extensive reputations or certification, suggesting that consumers infer seller trustworthiness from cultural similarity. There is no correlation between cultural similarity and buyer satisfaction, consistent with perceived differences in trustworthiness not being validated by actual transactions.
D12|State-Dependent Demand Estimation with Initial Conditions Correction|We analyze the initial conditions bias in the estimation of brand choice models with structural state dependence. Using a combination of Monte Carlo simulations and empirical case studies of shopping panels, we show that popular, simple solutions that mis-specify the initial conditions are likely to lead to bias even in relatively long panel datasets. The magnitude of the bias in the state dependence parameter can be as large as a factor of 2 to 2.5. We propose a solution to the initial conditions problem that samples the initial states as auxiliary variables in an MCMC procedure. The approach assumes that the joint distribution of prices and consumer choices, and hence the distribution of initial states, is in equilibrium. This assumption is plausible for the mature consumer packaged goods products used in this and the majority of prior empirical applications. In Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the approach recovers the true parameter values even in relatively short panels. Finally, we propose a diagnostic tool that uses common, biased approaches to bound the values of the state dependence and construct a computationally light test for state dependence.
D12|Durables and Lemons: Private Information and the Market for Cars|We specify an equilibrium model of car ownership with private information where individuals sell and purchase new and second-hand cars over their life-cycle. Private information induces a transaction cost and distorts the market reducing the value of a car as a savings instrument. We estimate the model using data on car ownership in Denmark, linked to register data. The lemons penalty is estimated to be 18% of the price in the first year of ownership, declining with the length of ownership. It leads to large reductions in the turnover of cars and in the probability of downgrading at job loss.
D12|Consumer Valuation of Fuel Economy: Findings from Recent Panel Studies|Engineering-based studies of energy efficiency often find that firms and consumers fail to adopt technologies that appear to provide net private benefits absent regulation. We examine the recent empirical literature on the extent to which expected future fuel costs are reflected in vehicle prices and therefore valued by consumers when making purchase decisions. These studies improve upon the prior literature due to their use of highly disaggregated panel data that allows for defensible identification strategies. These studies found that vehicle purchase prices reflect about 50 to 100 percent of future fuel expenses, assuming static consumer expectations about future gasoline prices and a discount rate of five to six percent. Recent regulatory analyses have estimated the benefits of more stringent vehicle standards implicitly assuming that no improvements in fuel economy will occur in the baseline, absent regulation. This assumption is consistent with consumers placing no value on future fuel costs when making vehicle purchase decision. The recent empirical evidence supports using a range of consumer valuation assumptions and applying this range consistently in the baseline and regulatory scenarios when modeling consumer purchase and firm investment decisions.
D12|Lost in translation: What do Engel curves tell us about the cost of living?| The Hamilton method for estimating CPI bias is simple, intuitive, and has been widely adopted. We show that the method conflates CPI bias with variation in cost-of-living across income levels. Assuming a single price index across the income distribution is inconsistent with the downward sloping Engel curves that are necessary to implement the method. We develop and implement the Translated Engel curve (TEC) method that disentangles genuine CPI bias from differences caused by comparing changes in the cost of living across different income levels - non-homotheticity. The TEC method gives substantially different estimates of CPI bias prior to major reforms to the CPI in 1999 (post-Boskin), but both methods suggest very little CPI bias thereafter.
D12|Ownership and purchase intention of crypto-assets – survey results|The paper employs a survey among Austrian households to study ownership and purchase intentions of crypto-assets. About 1.5% of Austrians own crypto-assets and about 5% can be viewed as potential adopters. Owners, on average, have higher financial knowledge and are more risk-tolerant than non-owners. Distrust in banks or in conventional currencies is not found to be an important driver of ownership. Intentions to adopt are strongly affected by profit expectations and by beliefs that crypto-assets offer advantages for payments – most adopters or potential adopters hold both beliefs. Perceptions of high volatility or the risk of fraud and online theft dampen the demand for crypto-assets.
D12|Risk aversion among Australian households|This paper explores risk aversion among Australian households using panel data from the Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey. Using households’ share of risky assets, we test whether relative risk aversion is constant in wealth. After accounting for measurement error, we cannot reject the constant relative risk aversion (CRRA) assumption. Using an Euler equation that adjusts for measurement error in consumption data, we estimate the coefficient of relative risk aversion in the CRRA utility function. Point estimates from our preferred non-linear models suggest a moderate degree of risk aversion for the typical Australian household, with values ranging from 1.2 to 1.4. These findings can provide guidance for calibrating household preferences in macroeconomic models of the Australian economy.
D12|A Nonlinear Dynamic Factor Model of Health and Medical Treatment|Quantitative assessments of the relationship between health and medical treatment are of great importance to policy makers. However, simply looking at the raw correlation between health and medical care is unlikely to give the right answer because of endogeneity problems. We overcome these problems by formulating and estimating a tractable dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment where individual observed health outcomes are driven by the individual's latent health stock. The dynamics of latent health reflects both exogenous health depreciation and endogenous health investments. Our model allows us to investigate the effect of medical treatment on current health, as well as on future medical treatment and health outcomes. We estimate the model by maximum simulated likelihood and minimum distance methods using a rich longitudinal data set from Italy obtained by merging a number of administrative archives. These data contain detailed information on medical drug use, hospitalization, and mortality for a representative sample of elderly hypertensive patients. Our findings show that medical care consumption is highly correlated over time, and this relationship depends on both permanent and time-varying observed and unobserved heterogeneity. They also show that medical drug use significantly maintains future health levels and prevents transitions to worse health. These results suggest that policies aimed at increasing the awareness and the compliance of hypertensive patients help reduces cardiovascular risks and consequent hospitalization and mortality.
D12|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
D12|Gastos Médicos en España: Estimaciones del Sistema de Demanda Casi Ideal y del Modelo de Rotterdam<BR>[Medical Expenses in Spain: Estimations of the Almost Ideal Demand System and of the Rotterdam Model]|En este estudio analizamos los Gastos Médicos en España desde una perspectiva micro-econométrica. Observamos que el modelo microeconómico que mejor se asemeja con las preferencias de los consumidores españoles para los años 1980 a 2015 es el modelo Rotterdam dinámico y obtenemos una serie de valores para describir cómo se comporta el consumidor en la realidad.Las distintas categorías de Gastos Médicos presentan elasticidades totalmente diferentes. Vemos que gracias a la inversión pública, los productos médicos han pasado a comportarse como bienes de primera necesidad, mientras que la elasticidad de servicios y hospital ha aumentado. Sobre el análisis de las elasticidades precio, las elasticidades Marshallianas nos permiten constatar bienes complementarios brutos, mientras que las elasticidades precio Hicksianas nos confirman que los Gastos Médicos son sustitutivos netos.
D12|Análisis de los Patrones de Demanda en el Sector Textil Español<BR>[Demand Analysis of Clothing Sector in Spain]|In this study we wanted to analyze the demand for textile goods (clothing and footwear) in Spain. We have considered studying the demand through an AIDS model, as well as a Rotterdam model. The model chosen that best suits the demand of this type of goods is the dynamic Rotterdam model with two delays. The direct elasticities, Marshallian as Hicksian, indicate that clothing and footwear have a normal demand. However, through the Marshallian we see that the clothes have an elastic demand, while that of the shoes is inelastic. Finally, the two goods behave as luxury and, as could be observed in the evolution of their income elasticity, this would increase with the passage of time, being especially relevant the increase after the crisis occurred in 2008.
D12|Using local expert knowledge to measure prices: Evidence from a survey experiment in Vietnam|Many countries lack spatially disaggregated consumer price data. Yet these data are needed to estimate real inequality and spatial patterns of poverty, especially for poor countries where weak infrastructure and high transport costs create big price variation over space. We experimented in Vietnam with a new way of obtaining disaggregated price data, using local expert knowledge to derive the mean and variance for prices of 64 consumer items in over 1000 communities. We used photographs of the specified items to ensure comparability of the reported prices. These prices are used to calculate regional cost-of-living indexes, which provide a good approximation to benchmark multilateral price indexes that are calculated from data obtained from traditional market price surveys. In comparison, two widely used no-price methods, based on using food Engel curves to derive deflators and based on using unit values (survey group expenditures over group quantity) are very poor proxy indicators of prices and of the cost-of-living and would distort estimates of real inequality and the spatial pattern of poverty. Prices from local expert informants also exhibit a basic spatial feature of prices – the Alchian-Allen effect or ‘shipping the good apples out’ – in much the same way as do prices from the traditional survey approach. This effect is one reason why unit values are a bad proxy for prices and this effect should become more important as food systems commercialize. Using expert knowledge to measure local prices is a low-cost and feasible approach that could be adopted more widely in developing countries.
D12|Efectos de la renta y los precios en la demanda de alimentos: un análisis para el caso español 1980-2015<BR>[Efects of income and prices in food demand: an analysis for the Spanish case 1980-2015]|Throughout this work, a series of microeconomic models have been estimated for the Spanish case in order to make an explanatory analysis of the changes in the different groups of goods that make up the food category. After making the appropriate verifications, the Rotterdam model is selected as closer to the reality of the Spanish data. During the 1980s and 1990s, there was an expansion in spending on consumption of beverages -especially non-alcoholic- in Spain, which gradually weakened, leaving beverages as staples, losing participation in spending on an ongoing basis. The category of snuff has lost relative importance in spending on food, however, has become increasingly close to a luxury good as its price becomes more expensive with respect to the decrease in demand. The food category has been unequivocally maintained as a staple, although it has maintained its preponderance as a category of expenditure.
D12|Decent work and the effect of job instability on consumption of Colombian households|The aim of this paper is to study empirically the role of decent work on household consumption in Colombia. Using data from the Large Integrated Household Survey (GEIH) and the Colombian Longitudinal Survey (ELCA) we calculate for Colombia several of the decent work indicators proposed by the International Labour Organization and go one step further constructing their homologous at microeconomic level as measures of the job instability borne by the workers. The constructed indicators measure the poor quality of employment the individuals have which implies uncertainty about future labour income. This work addresses the effect this labour uncertainty has on household consumption. Our results show that being in a situation of vulnerability or labour instability, which generates uncertainty about future income, alters household consumption patterns. This is consistent with the evidence of the existence of precautionary saving in Colombian households.
D12|How to Break the Bandwagon Effect of Corruption|Corruption is considered as the most challenging issues of present economies of the world due to its impact on institutions, values and the sustainable development. It restricts almost all form of economic activities through redirecting the finance into unpredictable directions and weakens the economics system which locked as many countries continued to fail in controlling the corruption significantly. According to the World Corruption Perception Index (2018) India stands 78th rank out of 180 countries surveyed even after numerous policies adopted from the independence by the government of India to rectify it. Corruption is a behavioral aspect and the available literature on interlinking of corruption behavior and the Economics behind it are not well documented connecting various theories and their application of controlling corruption which triggers a call for integrated attempt to enquire into the behavioral Economics of corruption and to identify the relevant solution to rectify it. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research by exploring the behavior of corruption in the light of the micro economic theory of consumer behavior called Bandwagon effect in the society. The paper identify the interlink age among corruption behavior, and bandwagon effect and the Economics of information and explored that how the (includes asymmetric) information can be fine tuned towards mitigating the bandwagon effect and corruption.
D12|After the Great Recession; the Laws of Unintended Consequences|The United States (U.S.) financial crisis of 2008 created a recession: the Great Recession. A recession is technically declared over after two subsequent quarters of economic growth. By Q3 2009 this recession was declared over. However the laws of unintended consequences show a totally different picture. Between May 2007 and October 2009 nearly 7 million U.S. individuals lost their jobs and thereby their incomes. It took just over ten years before the unemployment rate had dropped again to 4.4% -to what it was in December 2006. Equally unintended was the development in the real median household income. In 2007 this income was $59,534. It dropped to $54,569 for 2012 and it only returned back to the levels of 2007, by 2016. Another unintended consequence was the difference between the fix for the banks in trouble and those for individual mortgage borrowers in trouble. Nearly all banks were bailed out in 2008, with the odd one declared bankrupt. For individual households/mortgage borrowers there was no respite in being pursued for outstanding mortgage debt. Over the period 2007-2014 21.228 million U.S. households were confronted with foreclosure proceedings. This number represented 41.4% of all household mortgage holders in the U.S. House prices tumbled after 2007. The S&P/Case-Shiller national home price index seasonally adjusted stood at 184.52 in January 2007 and for the first time only exceeded this level by November 2018 at 184.87. New housing starts also dropped significantly. In January 2006 the number was 2.273 million annualized new starts. The trend line moved from annualized 490,000 new starts in January 2009 to 1.230 million by January 2019. Another main unintended consequence of the financial crisis was the effect on U.S. government borrowings. U.S. Federal debt increased by $4.8 trillion between Q4 2007 and Q4 2010, while real GDP still shrank. In three years the Federal Government’s debt increased by more than 50% and its growth did not stop there. Could it be argued that the government’s debt increase paid the price for the bankers’ follies? Another major change was in interest rates. Fed funds rates have not been so low for over 60 years, until recently. All these factors show that a more streamlined approach to economic thinking is needed. The interactions between the financial markets and the real economy can be better handled. Some suggestions are made in this paper.
D12|Rentas de vivienda y suministros en el hogar: Selección del modelo microeconómico ideal para representar las preferencias del consumidor<BR>[Household income and supplies in the home: Selection of the ideal microeconomic model to represent consumer preferences]|The objective of the work has been to identify the most optimal model to estimate the demand of real rents, imputed rents, housing maintenance, housing acquisition and consumption of electricity and fuels of Spaniards for the period between 1980 and 2015. After the estimation and analysis of the two intra-temporal models most used in the micro-econometric literature, AIDS and Rotterdam, we can conclude that the model that best suits our objective is the dynamic modeling with time trend and five delays of the Rotterdam Model. The results indicate that the goods are normal and show normal elastic demand in relation to the Marshallian demand and normal demand in relation to the Hicksian. The results vary if we pay attention to the substitution and income effects, since some goods that take into account both are complementary / gross substitutes, change their behavior when considering only the substitution effect.
D12|Analysis of demand characteristics for transport and communication in Spain from 1980 to 2015|This paper investigates the characteristics of the demand for transport and communication in Spain in a period of 36 years. The period considered covers relevant events, such as the starting of democracy and the recent crisis in 2008. Transport and communication demand is a significant indicator of the development and welfare of a society. The evolution of demand is analysed with the direct characterization of the data available. Besides, different models for representation of consumer preferences are checked in order to determine the relationship between the different products considered. The study includes the results of the different elasticities obtained with the model that best fit with the data.
D12|One-off subsidies and long-run adoption: Experimental evidence on improved cooking stoves in Senegal|Free distribution of a technology can be an effective development policy instrument if its adoption is socially inefficient and hampered by affordability constraints. Improved cookstoves may be such a case: they generate high environmental and public health returns, but adoption is generally low. Based on a randomized controlled trial in rural Senegal, this paper studies whether one-time free cookstove distribution affects households' willingness to pay (WTP) in the long run. Effects might be negative because people anchor their WTP on the earlier zero price (reference dependence) or positive because information deficits about potential benefits are overcome. We find that households who received a free stove six years back exhibit a higher WTP today compared to control households. Potential reference dependence effects are thus at least compensated by learning effects. Our findings suggest that one-time free distribution does not spoil future prices and might even be a stepping stone for future market establishment.
D12|Cultura, educación y ocio en España: Estimaciones del Sistema de Demanda Casi Ideal y del Modelo de Rotterdam<BR>[Culture, education and laisure in Spain: Estimation of the Ideal demand system and Rotterdam model]|En este trabajo se analiza la evolución en la demanda de cultura, educación y ocio para los hogares españoles. El periodo estudiado comprende de 1980 a 2015, periodo caracterizado por profundos cambios en la forma de consumir ocio en nuestro país. Los datos utilizados proceden de las cuentas nacionales de la OCDE. El objetivo de este trabajo es cuantificar este cambio observando las interrelaciones y cambios que se han producido en el comportamiento de la demanda. Para satisfacer este objetivo someteremos a los datos a los modelos “Almost Ideal Demand System” (AIDS) y Rotterdam (ROT) realizando los pertinentes contrastes para verificar la validez de los modelos. Tras encontrar el modelo que mejor se ajuste a la realidad obtendremos las elasticidades precio hicksianas y marshallianas. El principal resultado indica la tendencia a la informatización del ocio. Se ha producido un cambio tecnológico en la forma en que consumimos ocio por el desarrollo tecnológico que se ha producido en los últimos años. También es destacable el cambio que se ha producido referente al subgrupo vacaciones, considerado actualmente como un bien de primera necesidad.
D12|Counter sanctions and well-being population of Russia: econometric analyses|This article examines the impact of counter-sanctions on the welfare of Russia’s population. We build a multiple-choice model and calculate the probability of being in a particular group of well-being based on the price (cost) of consumed counter-sanctions goods. The next step is the construction of a structural demand-supply system for estimating similar domestic good’s production elasticities. By knowing elasticity estimates we determine the price response to particular import closure. According to our estimates Russia's counter-sanctions led to an increase in poverty by 2.64 %.
D12|¿Cuál es el modelo microeconómico ideal para representar las preferencias de los consumidores españoles en el periodo 1980-2015?: El caso de muebles, mobiliario y equipamiento<BR>[Which is the ideal microeconomic model to represent the preferences of Spanish consumers in the period 1980-2015?: The case of furniture, furniture and equipment]|En este trabajo hemos identificado el mejor modelo microeconómico para representar las preferencias de los consumidores españoles respecto a la categoría de gasto “Muebles, mobiliario y equipamiento”. Concluimos que el modelo que se ajusta más correctamente a los datos es el modelo de Rotterdam dinámico, cumpliendo con las hipótesis de no autocorrelación y la propiedad de homogeneidad. De acuerdo a la elasticidad renta, los bienes pertenecientes a los subgrupos “Textiles”, “Appliances”, “Utensils” y “Garden” corresponde a bienes de lujo, mientras que el subgrupo “Maintenance” tiene una elasticidad renta que lo caracteriza como de primera necesidad. De acuerdo a la elasticidad precio directa marshalliana, todos los bienes de los subgrupos estudiados poseen demandas normales, los subgrupos “Furniture”, “Textiles”, “Appliances” y “Maintenance” presentan una demanda elástica, mientras que en el caso de los subgrupos “Utensils” y “Garden” existe una demanda inelástica, es decir, son poco sensibles a demandas en el precio.
D12|Who Loves to Gamble? Socio-Economic Factors Determining Gambling Behaviour in Germany|The interest among academics and policy makers in the economics of Gambling has risen substantially. Changes in gambling regulation, the relevance of gambling generated (tax) revenues and the usefulness to other fields of economics, increased the interest in understanding gambling demand. The focus of this paper is to provide one of the first comprehensive analyses of gambling demand in Germany, by studying the socio-demographic and socio-economic factors which influence gambling expenditures using one of the largest data sets available, the official income and consumption survey (Einkommens- und Verbrauchsstichprobe). Applying models suitable for censored data, we identify the factors influencing gambling demand. Some findings are in line with the previous literature on gambling demand, others are quite surprising. They show that female household heads spend less on gambling than their male counterparts. The number of dependants in the household influences gambling behaviour negatively, while married couples have higher expenditures than single person households. We find that while gambling expenditures increase with the age of the household head, they do so at a diminishing rate. Income is also a strong determinant of gambling expenditure. Gambling expenditures rise with the household's income. We find no evidence that expenditures increase regressively. Furthermore, the education and occupation of the Household head influences gambling behaviour. A higher education has a negative effect on the propensity to gamble. We also find that households with privately employed household heads tend to spend more on gambling than those with unemployed or self-employed household heads. On the other hand, a household head who is a civil servant or retired has a positive effect. In contrast to previous literature, we find a negative effect of urbanity on household gambling expenditure. We discuss these and other results in the context of the theory of risk taking preferences and also with a focus on gambling regulation and taxation.
D12|Estimating the Armington Elasticity: The Importance of Data Choice and Publication Bias|A key parameter in international economics is the elasticity of substitution between domestic and foreign goods, also called the Armington elasticity. Yet estimates vary widely. We collect 3,524 reported estimates of the elasticity, construct 34 variables that reflect the context in which researchers obtain their estimates, and examine what drives the heterogeneity in the results. To account for inherent model uncertainty, we employ Bayesian and frequentist model averaging. We present the first application of newly developed non-linear techniques to correct for publication bias. Our main results are threefold. First, there is publication bias against small and statistically insignificant elasticities. Second, differences in results are best explained by differences in data: aggregation, frequency, size, and dimension. Third, the mean elasticity implied by the literature after correcting for both publication bias and potential misspecifications is 3.
D12|An investigation on price elasticity of demand for protein consumption in Sylhet City, Bangladesh|The study was carried out to measure the price elasticity of protein consumption in Sylhet City, Bangladesh. The objective of this study is to find out how people's protein consumption response with price changes. From various sources of proteins, 4 items (beef, chicken, egg, and milk) were selected to measure the protein intake of households. Simple random sampling was used to select four wards and households in the study area. A total number of 67 households were used for conducting the survey. The study is analyzed using descriptive statistics. The elasticity equation is used to measure the responsiveness between protein consumption and price changes. The correlations between income, household size, and protein consumption are also demonstrated here. The article is also discussed about the substitute goods which are replaced by household in case of price change. From the study, it is found that total protein consumption is negatively related to price and positively correlated with income. Protein consumption also depends on the size of the household and both are positively correlated. Among four protein sources, beef and milk are highly price elastic than chicken and egg. The elasticity of beef, chicken, egg, and milk are -2.43, -1.78, -1.72 and -2.14 respectively. Around 53.7 percent of households substitute fish, pulse, vegetables or other goods with those goods when the price increased. Again it is also showed that protein consumption varied with income level changes. Moreover low-income household is more responsive with price changes than high-income household.
D12|The Effect of Financial Inclusion on Household Welfare in China|Financial inclusion is one of the key factors contributing to household welfare. We explore this effect in China utilizing a unique household survey panel data. Financial inclusion is measured by owning a transaction account at formal financial institutions. We employ an innovative method of heteroscedasticity-based identification recently developed by Klein and Vella (2009a; 2010) to identify the causal effect of financial inclusion. We find that welfare effects of financial inclusion varied across urban and rural areas and income groups. Financial inclusion significantly increased overall consumption, but the impact was greater among urban than rural households. The effect was stronger in the case of food consumption. Financial inclusion also decreased consumption inequality but only among urban households. The uneven effect of financial inclusion across level of urbanization and commodity types have important policy implications for promoting financial inclusion not only in China but also in other developing countries.
D12|Pension savings: A key question about returns|The two key financial decisions that nearly all households have to make are related to a place to live (especially if this involves a mortgage), and the savings needed to have an acceptable income during retirement: pension savings. In a previous paper: “After the Great Recession: the Laws of Unintended Consequences” the writer sets outs the impact on U.S. mortgage holders as a result of the U.S. financial crisis of 2007-2008. This paper will explore the situation in the Eurozone countries (which share one base rate for the Euro, but have fundamentally different inflation rates and government bond yields) after first examining the links between the U.S. financial crisis and the pensions crisis in Europe. Pension savings, by their very nature, represent postponed expenditure. This raises a number of issues: what are the returns going to be? Should such savings be made in collective vehicles - like pension funds, either company or industry wide ones - or in individual accounts? Setting aside savings for future pension payments automatically affects an individual’s current spending levels. The reward for postponing current spending depends mainly on Central Banks’ and Governments’ economic policies. As will be explained in this paper, the main problem is that government bond yields no longer compensate for inflation levels in some countries. Pension savings are very much a national issue, rather than a Eurozone area one. Therefore national solutions need to be found, rather than pan-Eurozone ones. One option that will be explored is to compensate pension savers on their government bond holdings to a level equivalent of CPI levels plus 0.25%. The economic implications of this for both a central bank and a government will be set out in this paper. The Netherlands –as the country that in the Eurozone has the highest accumulated collective pension savings compared to its GDP- has been selected to show how this may work. As the current levels of interest rates are a consequence of the 2007-2008 financial crisis that started in the U.S., attention will first be paid to what was, and what was not, done to solve that crisis.
D12|Intergenerational transmission of homeownership decisions in Spain|The aim of this paper is to analyze whether parent’s decision about owning one’s own dwelling may be an important determinant of the future homeownership decisions of their children in Spain. To address this issue, we use data from the Survey of Living Conditions (2011). Our results confirm the intergenerational transmission of homeownership in Spain, in such a way that the probability that the respondent own their home is determined, although not exclusively, by their parent’s homeownership decision during their teenage years.
D12|A meta-analysis of the price and income elasticities of food demand| Food demand elasticities are crucial parameters in the calibration of simulation models used to assess the impacts of political reforms or to analyse long-term projections, notably in agricultural sectors. Numerous estimates of these parameters are now available in the economic literature. The main objectives of this work are twofold: we seek first to identify general patterns characterizing the demand elasticities of food products and second to identify the main sources of heterogeneity between the elasticity estimates available in the literature. To achieve these objectives, we conduct a broad literature review of food demand elasticity estimates and perform a meta-regression analysis. Our results reveal the important impacts of income levels on income and price elasticities both at the country (gross domestic product-GDP) and household levels: the higher the income is, the lower the level of elasticities. Food demand responses to changes in income and prices appear to follow different patterns depending on the global regions involved apart from any income level consideration. From a methodological viewpoint, the functional forms used to represent food demand are found to significantly affect elasticity estimates. This result sheds light on the importance of the specification of demand functions, and particularly of their flexibility, in simulation models.
D12|The Effect of Mortgage Debt on Consumer Spending: Evidence from Household-level Data|We explore the relationship between owner-occupier mortgage debt and spending using detailed panel data on Australian households. We find evidence consistent with a 'debt overhang effect' – households cut back on their spending when they have higher levels of outstanding mortgage debt. This overhang effect holds even when households' net housing wealth remains constant, implying that households reduce their spending when the gross value of both their debt and assets increases. This suggests that changes in the composition of household balance sheets affect spending, which runs counter to macroeconomic models that combine assets and liabilities into a single measure of net wealth. We find the overhang effect to be pervasive across owner-occupier households and not exclusively driven by households that are financially constrained or that have strong precautionary saving motives. We find evidence that indebted households reduce their spending by more than other households during adverse macroeconomic shocks, such as the global financial crisis, but the negative effect of debt is also pervasive at other times.
D12|On Factors of Consumer Heterogeneity in (Mis)Valuation of Future Energy Costs: Evidence for the German Automobile Market|In this paper, we first recover the individual valuation of expected future fuel costs at the time of a car purchase and then explore how various factors relate to the recovered consumer undervaluation of fuel savings (on average, consumers\' willingness-to-pay for a €1 reduction in fuel costs is below €0.20).
D12|The Moderating Effect of Fuel Prices On the Market Value of Fuel Efficiency, Driving Intensity, and Co2 Emissions|In the current paper, we quantify the effect that fuel prices have on vehicle prices\' responsiveness to fuel economy. We apply a hedonic price model to the German automobile market by using data on detailed technical specifications of high-sales vehicles of three sequential model years. In the contribution to previous research, our specification enables us to distinguish between consumers\' valuation of fuel economy versus their reaction to changes in fuel prices. Two sources of changes in consumers\' willingness-to-pay for better fuel economy are discussed - changes in the budget for driving a car and changes in capital investments in better car quality. We also discuss the subsequent changes in the optimal driving intensity and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions. Differences in the effects are studied for various car makes of both diesel and gasoline engines.
D12|Equilibria Under Knightian Price Uncertainty|We study economies with Knightian uncertainty about state prices. We introduce an equilibrium concept with sublinear prices and prove that equilibria exist under weak conditions. In general, such equilibria lead to inefficient allocations; they coincide with Arrow–Debreu equilibria if and only if the values of net trades are ambiguity‐free in mean. In economies without aggregate uncertainty, inefficiencies are generic. Equilibrium allocations under price uncertainty are efficient in a constrained sense that we call uncertainty–neutral efficient. Arrow–Debreu equilibria turn out to be non‐robust with respect to the introduction of Knightian uncertainty.
D12|Metric and Scale Effects in Consumer Preferences for Environmental Benefits|No abstract is available for this item.
D12|Dynamics and heterogeneity of subjective stock market expectations|Between 2004 and 2016, we elicited individuals' subjective expectations of stock market returns in a Dutch internet panel at bi-annual intervals. In this paper, we develop a panel data model with a finite mixture of expectation types who differ in how they use past stock market returns to form current stock market expectations. The model allows. For rounding in the probabilistic responses and for observed and unobserved heterogeneity at several levels. We estimate the type distribution in the population and find evidence for considerable heterogeneity in expectation types and meaningful variation over time, in particular during the financial crisis of 2008/09.
D12|Magnitude Effect in Intertemporal Allocation Tasks|We investigate how intertemporal allocation of monetary rewards is influenced by the size of total budget, with a particular interest in the channels of influence. We find a significant magnitude effect: the budget share allocated to the later date increases with the size of the budget. At the aggregate level as well as at the individual level, we find magnitude effects both on the discount rate and on intertemporal substitutability (i.e. utility curvature). The latter effect is consistent with theories in which the degree of asset integration is increasing in the stake.
D12|Human frictions in the transmission of economic policy|Intertemporal substitution is at the heart of modern macroeconomics and finance as well as economic policymaking, but a large fraction of a representative population of men - those below the top of the distribution by cognitive abilities (IQ) - do not change their consumption propensities with their inflation expectations. Low-IQ men are also less than half as sensitive to interest-rate changes when making borrowing decisions. Our microdata include unique administrative information on cognitive abilities, as well as economic expectations, consumption and borrowing plans, and total household debt from Finland. Heterogeneity in observables such as education, income, other expectations, and financial constraints do not drive these patterns. Costly information acquisition and the ability to form accurate forecasts are channels that cannot fully explain these results. Limited cognitive abilities could be human frictions in the transmission and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies that operate through household consumption and borrowing decisions.
D12|Rational Illiquidity and Excess Sensitivity: Theory and Evidence from Income Tax Withholding and Refunds|There is a tight relationship between having low liquidity and a high marginal propensity to consume both in theoretical models and in econometric evidence about behavior. This paper analyzes the theory and behavior surrounding income tax withholding and refunds. It develops a model where rational cash management with asymmetric cost of increasing or decreasing liquidity endogenizes the relationship between illiquidity and excess sensitivity. The analysis accounts for the finding that households tend to spend tax refunds as if they were liquidity constrained despite the fact that they could increase liquidity by reducing withholding. The model’s predictions are supported by evidence from a large panel of individuals.
D12|The Housing Wealth Effect: Quasi-Experimental Evidence|We exploit a quasi-experiment to provide new evidence on the magnitude of the housing wealth effect. We estimate an immediate shock of approximately - 15% to house prices close to one of Stockholm's airports after its operations were unexpectedly continued as a result of political bargaining. This source of price variation is ideal to identify housing wealth effects since it is local and unrelated to variation in macroeconomic conditions. Using a household data set with granular geographic information on location of primary residence, we find an elasticity of 0.45 among purchasers of new cars. Converting our estimate to an aggregate MPC on cars, it is however only 0.13 cents per dollar. The MPC is entirely concentrated to homeowners with a combined loan-to-value ratio between 0.6 and 0.8 which, on the one hand, confirms the key role of household balance sheets but on the other hand refutes a monotone relationship between response and household leverage.
D12|Impacts of Financial Literacy on the Loan Decisions of Financially Excluded Households in the People's Republic of China|Financial literacy is a key tool being used to bring economically vulnerable populations into the financial mainstream. Data from the 2013 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) were used to investigate the impacts of various dimensions of financial literacy on the use of bank and non-bank loans among rural, illiterate, and migrant populations in the People’s Republic of China. The findings show that the most vulnerable groups may be less likely to benefit from financial literacy, especially when it comes to usage of formal bank loans. Other factors such as those related to social networks and infrastructure may matter more than financial literacy. Results were found to vary across measures of financial literacy and financial inclusion. The findings suggest that barriers to access likely need to be overcome so that financial literacy can be more effective. The current study provides important insights for policy makers and international organizations designing national strategies to improve financial inclusion via financial literacy, especially for populations that have been traditionally excluded. Researchers are encouraged to reexamine previous definitions and measures of financial literacy and inclusion to develop a better understanding of the relationship between the two dimensions.
D12|Consumption Smoothing Channels Within And Between Households|This paper aims to ﬁll the gap on the analysis of consumption smoothing/risksharing channels at the micro level, both within and across households. Using data from the Bank of Italy’s Survey on Household Income and Wealth covering the ﬁnan- cial crisis, we are able to quantify in a uniﬁed and consistent framework several risksharing mechanisms that so far have been documented separately. We ﬁnd that Italian households were able to smooth about 83% of shocks household head’s earnings in 2008-2010, a fraction rising to almost 87% in 2010-2012. The most im- portant smoothing mechanisms turns out to be self-insurance through saving/dis- saving and within-household risksharing Interestingly, risksharing through port- folio diversiﬁcation and private transfers are rather limited, but the overall degree of shock absorption occurring through private risksharing channels hovers around two thirds, as opposed to around one ﬁfth of a shock cushioned by public transfers and taxes.
D12|Social groups and credit shocks: Evidence of inequalities in consumption smoothing|A strand of research holds the view that restricting access to credit to regulate over-borrowing can worsen consumers’ financial condition. Another strand of research holds the view that access to credit in the developing countries with subprime credit markets is determined by social groupings and ethnic affiliations. By merging these two strands of research, we investigate the impact of Andhra Pradesh microfinance act (2010) on the consumption expenditure of marginalised social groups and the upper caste Hindu groups in India. We construct an aggregated district level panel data for eight quarters and estimate the impact of unanticipated policy change. The results of our analysis show that the sudden restriction of access to credit has larger impact on the consumption levels of the marginalised social groups: lower castes, tribes, and Muslims. The findings also confirm the failure of contingency policy enacted for smoothing consumption.
D12|Verantwortungsübernahme bei nachhaltigem Verhalten - Eine empirische Analyse aus sozialpsychologischer Sicht|Das Forschungsprojekt beruht auf zwei Elementen: Die erste Untersuchung, ein Verhaltensexperiment mit 35 Studierenden der Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, erforschte den Einfluss von Gruppengröße (Zuschauereffekt) und dargebotenen Informationen zu Verantwortungsdiffusion (Priming) auf nachhaltiges Verhalten. Mithilfe eines zweiten Online-Experiments folgte eine Erhebung zum Einfluss von wahrgenommener persönlicher Bedrohung auf die Bereitschaft zu nachhaltigem Verhalten (N = 72). Die Ergebnisse des ersten Experimentes zeigen einen schwachen, statistisch nicht signifikanten Einfluss der Gruppengröße sowie einen, z.T. statistisch signifikanten, Einfluss der dargebotenen Informationen zu Verantwortungsdiffusion auf das gemessene nachhaltige Verhalten. Bequemlichkeit sowie monetärer Aufwand stellen mit Abstand die größten Hindernisse für nachhaltiges Verhalten dar, während die Beeinflussung durch andere und das Ziel des Umweltschutzes als positive Argumente für nachhaltiges Verhalten genannt wurden. In der Folgestudie konnte ein statistisch signifikanter kausaler Zusammenhang zwischen der wahrgenommenen persönlichen Bedrohung durch die aktuelle Umwelt- und Klimasituation und der Bereitschaft zu nachhaltigem Verhalten nachgewiesen werden. Alle Resultate zu Verhaltensintentionen zeigten insgesamt eine hohe Bereitschaft der Probanden zu nachhaltigem Verhalten.
D12|A nonlinear dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment|Quantitative assessments of the relationship between health and medical treatment are of great importance to policy makers.However, simply looking at the raw correlation between health and medical care is unlikely to give the right answer because of endogeneity problems. We overcome these problems by formulating and estimating a tractable dynamic factor model of health and medical treatment where individual observed health outcomes are driven by the individual’s latent health stock. The dynamics of latent health reflects both exogenous health depreciation and endogenous health investments. Our model allows us to investigate the effect of medical treatment on current health, as well as on future medical treatment and health outcomes. We estimate the model by maximum simulated likelihood and minimum distance methods using a rich longitudinal data set from Italy obtained by merging a number of administrative archives. These data contain detailed information on medical drug use, hospitalization, and mortality for a representative sample of elderly hypertensive patients. Our findings show that medical care consumption is highly correlated over time, and this relationship depends on both permanent and time-varying observed and unobserved heterogeneity. They also show that medical drug use significantly maintains future health levels and prevents transitions to worse health. These results suggest that policies aimed at increasing the awareness and the compliance of of hypertensive patients help reduce cardiovascular risks and consequent hospitalization and mortality.
D12|Pension Uncertainty and Demand for Retirement Saving|According to the life-cycle model, if there is an expectation that social security benefits will fall, demand for retirement saving should increase. In precautionary saving models, the risk associated to future benefits matters and, if benefits become more uncertain, individuals will react by increasing their demand for retirement saving. To assess the empirical relevance of this mechanism, we rely on unique Italian data to obtain individual level measures of the subjective distribution of the social security benefit replacement rate. Italy is an interesting example, because of the frequent changes to eligibility rules and benefits implemented in the past thirty years, fueling individual uncertainty about future pension outcomes. We find evidence of wide cross-sectional heterogeneity in both the location and scale of the subjective replacement rate distribution. Our results indicate higher participation in private pension funds among individuals who expect lower and more uncertain replacement rates. JEL Classifications: D12, D14, E21
D12|Holiday gift-giving - is there a deadweight loss or a welfare gain?|For macro-economists, the importance of holiday gift-giving is the effect of spending on the macro economy. However, for micro-economists, gift-giving has a different important aspect. The choices of purchasing are made by someone other than the recipient, the final consumer. Recipients sometimes receive gifts they do not like because the giver does not really know with any degree of accuracy the recipients' preferences. Such gifts are welfare reducing (deadweight loss) compared to giving cash. The cost of the gift is higher than its value to the recipient. In this study, we examine whether purchasing holiday gifts in Israel leads to welfare gains or deadweight losses. We also explored how the relationship type (family, social, workplace) affects the difference between the costs and values of gifts.
D12|News shocks and consumer expectations: evidence for Brazil|Consumer confidence/expectation indexes are frequently used by the media and the market in order to forecast the behavior of the economy. Agentsâ€™ expectations are believed to explain output and employment fluctuations, either moderate or drastic as the â€œ.comâ€ and the American subprime crisis. In Brazil, more attention has been drawn to this topic due to the recent economic crisis. The estimation of a VAR with Brazilian data for consumption, output and expectations suggests that innovations to the expectation indexes do have impact on aggregate consumption and GDP in the medium/long-run, as well as the indexes themselves. Inspired by this evidence, a DSGE model is used in order to assess how much of these impacts are due to anticipation of future economic fundamentals and how much are due to animal spirits. The results indicate that animal spirits and index-specific noise are responsible for a non-negligible amount of fluctuations up to 2 quarters, whereas news of future economic conditions prevail on lower frequencies.
D12|In-kind transfers in Brazil: household consumption and welfare effects|Programa de AlimentaÃ§Ã£o dos Trabalhadores (PAT) creates tax incentives for firms to provide 20 million workers with in-kind transfers in Brazil. Economic theory supports they are distortive when compared to cash transfers but this is not clear when the latter are subject to payroll taxes. Using a propensity score analysis we find evidence that PAT increases poor households food consumption between 15.7% and 25.0% and deadweight loss associated with distortions reach US$63.1 (R$150.1) million. Overconsumption, however, may not be increasing workerâ€™s nutrition, as aimed by the program.
D12|Heterogeneous welfare and emission effects of energy tax policies in Brazil|The consolidation of the energy sector as one of the main emitters of greenhouse gases in Brazil is directly related to the expansion of fuel consumption in passenger and cargo transport and to the higher use of thermal power plants for electricity generation. This fact reflects a detachment from the historical renewable energy and biofuels production and goes against the global efforts to reduce GHG emissions. Our paper analyzes the short run emissions and distributional effects of energy price changes in a partial equilibrium framework. Our findings suggest that taxes and subsidies in fuel prices (oil and diesel, respectively) are progressive, but have positive impact on total household emissions due to substitution effects. Despite being regressive, changes in electricity price have large effects on household emissions due to the characteristics of electric energy supply in Brazil. More environment-friendly policies that subsidize ethanol have a small but positive effect on the economy and tend to reduce households emissions. However, large substitution effects - due to an increase in the demand for CO2eq intensive goods, such as commuting and transportation services - when also taxing oil do not offset the reduction in emissions caused by a lower ethanol price. Therefore, understanding who benefits from energy price taxes and subsidies and their welfare impacts policies are key to gaining public support for a greener energy matrix.
D12|Effects of a 20% price increase of sugar-sweetened beverages on consumption and welfare in Brazil|Background: The consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) is associated with increased risk of obesity, diabetes and heart disease. In 2016, the World Health Organization recommended fiscal policies aiming at increasing SSB prices by at least 20% to reduce its consumption and the occurrence of these outcomes. Objective: To estimate the effects of a 20% price increase of SSB on consumption and welfare outcomes in Brazil. Design: Data from the 2008-09 National Household Budget Survey (HBS) were used to estimate price and income elasticities of consumption. We propose a two-step procedure. First, we estimate the unconditional price elasticities of food and non-food goods. Second, using a QUAIDS model, we build a system of demand equations for food groups. Welfare effects were estimated based on the change on utility and on the excess burden of the simulated tax policy. Results: We find that a 20% price increase in SSB price would lead to a 16.6% reduction on its consumption. The demand for unhealthy foods (SSB, processed and ultra-processed foods) is expected to decrease by 6.2%. The tax could generate US$ 61.3 million per month in government revenues, and the estimated short-term inefficiencies, or dead-weight losses are US$ 6 million per month. Average households would need to receive US$ 0.29 per week to become welfare neutral after the tax is implemented. Conclusions: Due to the potential high benefits of the policy, the proposed 20% tax might be cost-beneficial in Brazil.
D12|Challenges in predicting poverty trends using survey to survey imputation. Experiences from Malawi|Poverty in low-income countries is usually measured with large and infrequent household surveys. A challenge is to find methods to measure poverty more frequently. The objective of this study is to test a method for predicting poverty, based upon a statistical model utilizing consumption surveys and light annual surveys. A decade of poverty predictions and regular poverty estimates in Malawi provides us with a unique real-life experience to better understand the suitability of such approaches to monitor trends in poverty. The analysis from Malawi suggests that a modelling approach works per se, given that information on the household’s demographic composition is included in the model. The main challenge when predicting onto other surveys seems to be related to comparability between the surveys. Differences in implementation, questionnaire design and survey sample size are aspects that may contribute to incomparability of data collected between the surveys.
D12|Gambling with the family silver. Household consumption and saving responses to fiscal uncertainty|In the early 2000s, eight Norwegian energy producing municipalities sold up to ten years of future electricity earnings and let two brokers from Terra Securities make investments on their behalf. In the wake of the 2007 credit crash the municipalities lost up to 80 percent of their assets. This paper uses a difference in difference analysis to show that this tightening of the local government budget, and accompanying uncertainty about future economic outcomes, led to a reduction in private consumption of around 2 percent in 2008. I show that the response is driven by households who are the largest recipients of public services - the young and the elderly. The reduction in consumption is a result of households saving more, and not a direct consequence of changes in their disposable income. I also find that households in the affected municipalities rebalance their portfolios to holding a lower share of risky assets. The results are interpreted as households holding back consumption, and reallocating towards safer assets, until uncertainty regarding fiscal outcomes is resolved.
D12|Just-noticeable difference as a behavioural foundation of the critical cost-efficiency index|Critical cost-efficiency index (or CCEI), proposed in Afriat (1973) and Varian (1990), is one of the most commonly used measures of departures from rationality. We show that this index is equivalent to a particular notion of the just-noticeable difference, that is, a measure of dissimilarity between alternatives that is sufficient for the agent to tell them apart. Therefore, we show that CCEI evaluates the consumer's cognitive inability to discriminate among options.
D12|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D12|Nutritional Inequality: The Role of Prices, Income, and Preferences|In the U.S., lower income households have a less healthy consumption basket than higher income ones. This paper studies the drivers of such nutrition inequality. I use longitudinal home-scanner data to estimate a demand system on food products, and measure the contribution of prices, disposable income and preferences to nutrition inequality. Disposable income and preferences have a predominant and quantitatively similar role in explaining consumption basket differences across income groups. Instead, prices have a limited effect. Further, I merge nutritional label information to assess, through a series of counterfactual exercises, the effect of income subsidies on nutrition quality. For example, I show that increasing the budget of a low-income household to the average level of the higher income households (a 45% increase in food expenditures) leads to an increase in protein consumption of approximately 5% and a decrease in sugar consumption of approximately 10%.
D12|Informative Social Interactions|We design, field and exploit novel survey data, from a representative sample of the French population in December 2014 and May 2015, that provide insights regarding two channels via which social interactions may generally affect financial decisions. The first is a pure information effect, which arises solely from communicating and disseminating information to and from friends and acquaintances. The second is an imitation effect, broadly understood as comprising of social norm effects, complementarities, fads, etc. We find that both effects are positive, sizeable and significant. The more (and better) informed about the stock market members of respondents' social circles are, the higher the share of respondents' financial wealth that is invested in the stock market (information), in accordance with theoretical predictions. The same effect is found for more members of respondents' circles participating in the stock market (imitation). In the latter case however, we only find evidence of selective imitation, by identifying a positive and significant effect coming only from a subset of respondents' social circle with whom respondents interact regarding financial matters. These findings suggest that both directly and indirectly informative social interactions are important for financial behavior and stock market participation.
D12|Consumer Confidence and Household Investment|Household investment displays a robust leading indicator property over the US business cycle. It has been challenging to account for this stylized fact. In this paper, we develop the hypothesis that consumer confidence drives household investment. Using a survey based consumer confidence measure for 1960Q1–2017Q4 we find that it leads household investment by two quarters and housing starts by one quarter, lending support to the hypothesis. We then use VAR analysis to identify a confidence shock. Household investment increases and follows a persistent hump-shaped response after a positive confidence shock. The responses of total hours-worked and output also show a persistent increase and so do real house prices. Confidence shocks account for a substantial share of variation in household investment, total hours-worked and output. We show that household investment plays a quantitatively important role in the transmission of confidence shocks in the economy. Moreover, confidence shocks do not appear to be related to movements in future fundamentals, total factor productivity and the relative price of investment, representing supply side developments. Our findings, therefore, suggest that demand side forces originating in consumers’ social and psychological factors may be a fruitful direction for studying household investment dynamics and their relationship with the business cycle.
D12|Not Just a Work Permit: EU Citizenship and the Consumption Behavior of Documented and Undocumented Immigrants|This paper explores the impact of the 2007 European Union enlargement on the consumption behavior of immigrant households. Using data from a unique Italian survey and a difference-in-differences approach, we find that the enlargement induced a significant consumption increase for the immigrant households from new member states both in the short- and in the medium-run. This enlargement effect cannot be attributed to the mere legalization as it concerns both undocumented and documented immigrants, albeit through different channels. Detailed information on immigrants' legal status (undocumented/documented) and sector of employment (informal/formal) allows us to shed light on the exact mechanisms. Following the enlargement, previously undocumented immigrants experienced an increase in the labor income by moving from the informal towards the formal economy, whereas immigrants who were already working legally in Italy benefitted from the increased probability of getting a permanent contract. Enhanced employment stability in turn reduced the uncertainty about future labor income leading to an increase in documented immigrants' consumption expenditure.
D12|Making Smart Meters Smarter the Smart Way|We report first results from a large scale randomized control trial of different forms of energy consumption feedback facilitated by smart meters and smart phone feedback apps. Nearly 40,000 customers of a large energy retailer in the UK were exposed to either very basic feedback apps - i.e. simply giving consumers access to monthly energy consumption - or more advanced feedback involving peer group comparisons as well as dis-aggregation of total electricity consumption. We find that more advanced feedback can lead to an average consumption reduction of nearly 4% (Intent to Treat). Taking into account that a large number of customers never sign in to any feedback apps suggests that the reduction effect among customers that do sign in is up to 12%. The smart meter installation was implemented by different installation firms across our sample and we find the reduction effect only for one customers of one installer who displays higher capabilities along a number of metrics. This could suggest that achieving energy preservation objectives does not only depend on the technology involved but also on the capabilities and skills of firms installing those technologies. In the UK, smart meters are by default installed with In Home Displays (IHD) that provide real time feedback on energy use. Some of the customers in our sample did not receive an IHD and we explore if this had any impact on the consumption reduction effect described above. Customers with (and without) IHD comprise a self-selected sample so we have to be careful in drawing causal conclusions. However, we do not find any evidence that any energy reducing effect is contingent on IHDs.
D12|Crowdsourcing financial information to change spending behavior|We document five effects of providing individuals with crowdsourced spending information about their peers (individuals with similar characteristics) through a FinTech app. First, users who spend more than their peers reduce their spending significantly, whereas users who spend less keep constant or increase their spending. Second, users’ distance from their peers’ spend-ing affects the reaction monotonically in both directions. Third, users’ reaction is asymmetric - spending cuts are three times as large as increases. Fourth, lower-income users react more than others. Fifth, discretionary spending drives the reaction in both directions and especially cash withdrawals, which are commonly used for incidental expenses and anonymous transactions. We argue Bayesian updating, peer pressure, or the fact that bad news looms more than (equally-sized) good news cannot alone explain all these facts.
D12|Consumer myopia in vehicle purchases: evidence from a natural experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
D12|Intratemporal Nonseparability between Housing and Nondurable Consumption: Evidence from Reinvestment in Housing Stock|Using the data on maintenance expenditures and self-assessed house value, I separate the measure of individual housing stock and house prices, and use these data for testing whether nondurable consumption and housing are characterized by intratemporal nonseparability in households' preferences. I find evidence in favor of intratemporal dependence between total nondurable consumption and housing. I reach a similar conclusion for some separate consumption categories, such as food and utility services. My findings also indicate households are more willing to substitute housing and nondurable consumption within a period than to substitute composite consumption bundles over different time periods.
D12|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual’s initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
D12|Managing Households' Expectations with Salient Economic Policies|The empirical effectiveness of economic policies that operate theoretically through similar channels differs substantially. We document this fact by comparing an easy-to-grasp expectations-based policy, unconventional fiscal policy, with a policy whose implications are harder to understand by non-expert consumers, forward guidance. Both policies aim to stimulate consumption via managing inflation expectations based on the Euler equation. Unconventional fiscal policy uses trivial announcements of future consumer-price increases to boost inflation expectations and consumption expenditure on impact. Instead, forward guidance requires that agents understand the inflationary effects of future low interest rates to increase their inflation expectations and spending today. We find households’ inflation expectations and readiness to spend react substantially to unconventional fiscal policy announcements. The reaction is homogeneous across households with different levels of sophistication. Instead, households do not react after forward guidance announcements. These results support recent work stressing the importance of limited cognition for the effectiveness of policies.
D12|Subjective Models of the Macroeconomy: Evidence from Experts and a Representative Sample|We propose a method to measure people’s subjective models of the macroeconomy. Using a sample of 2,200 households representative of the US population and a sample of more than 1,000 experts, we measure beliefs about how the unemployment rate and the inflation rate respond to four different hypothetical exogenous shocks: a monetary policy shock, a government spending shock, an income tax shock, and an oil price shock. While expert predictions are quantitatively close to benchmarks from standard DSGE models and VAR evidence and relatively homogeneous, there is strong heterogeneity among households. Households predict changes in unemployment that are largely in line with the experts’ responses for all four shocks. However, their predictions of changes in inflation are at odds with those of experts both for the tax shock and the interest rate shock. We show that a substantial fraction of deviations of household predictions from expert predictions can be explained by the use of a simple heuristic according to which people expect a positive co-movement among variables they perceive as good and among variables they perceive as bad. Our findings inform the validity of central assumptions about the expectation formation process and have important implications for the optimal design of fiscal and monetary policy.
D12|Canadian Legalization of Cannabis reduces both its cash usage and 'Black' Economy|The Canadian Government legalized Cannabis usage on October 17th, 2018. During the same month, primarily in the week before and after such legalization, the amount of cash in circulation fell quite materially, in contrast to the rises typically observed in previous years. A key driver is likely to have been Cannabis users switching from cash payments for illegal purchases to using standard recordable electronic payments for their purchases, which have now become legal. The legalization of Cannabis should ultimately reduce the size of the Underground economy by around 4 or 5 percent, with a much bigger decline likely in the black economy.
D12|Mutually Consistent Revealed Preference Demand Predictions|Revealed preference restrictions are increasingly used to predict demand behaviour at new budgets of interest and as shape restrictions in nonparametric estimation exercises. However, the restrictions imposed are not sufficient for rationality when predictions are made at multiple budgets. I highlight the nonconvexities in the set of predictions that arise when making multiple predictions. I develop a mixed integer programming characterisation of the problem that can be used to impose rationality on multiple predictions. The approach is applied to the UK Family Expenditure Survey to recover rational demand predictions with substantially reduced computational resources compared to known alternatives.
D12|The Roots of Health Inequality and The Value of Intra-Family Expertise|Mounting evidence documents a stark correlation between income and health, yet the causal mechanisms behind this gradient are poorly understood. This paper examines the impact of access to expertise on health, and whether unequal access to expertise contributes to the health-income gradient. Our empirical setting, Sweden, allows us to shut down inequality in formal access to health care; we first document that strong socioeconomic gradients nonetheless persist. Second, we study the effect of access to health-related expertise – captured by the presence of a health professional in the extended family – on health. Exploiting “admissions lotteries” into medical schools and variation in the timing of degrees, we show that access to intra-family medical expertise has far-reaching health consequences, at all ages: It raises longevity, improves drug adherence and reduces the occurrence of lifestyle-related disease in adulthood, raises vaccination rates in adolescence, and reduces tobacco exposure in utero. Third, we show that the effects of expertise are larger at the lower end of the income distribution – precisely where access to expertise is scarcer. Unequal access to health-related expertise can account for as much as 18% of the health-SES gradient, and may thus play a significant role in sustaining health inequality.
D12|Consumer Myopia in Vehicle Purchases: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
D12|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual's initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
D12|Credit Building or Credit Crumbling? A Credit Builder Loan's Effects on Consumer Behavior, Credit Scores and Their Predictive Power|There is little evidence on how the large market for credit score improvement products affects consumers or credit market efficiency. A randomized encouragement design on a standard credit builder loan (CBL) identifies null average effects on whether consumers have a credit score and the score itself, with important heterogeneity: those with loans outstanding at baseline fare worse, those without fare better. Selection, treatment effect, and prediction models indicate the CBL reveals valuable information to markets, inducing positive selection and making credit histories more precise, while keeping credit scores' predictive power intact. With modest targeting changes, CBLs could work as intended.
D12|Housing Wealth Effects and Mortgage Borrowing: The Effect of Subjective Unanticipated Changes in Home Values on Home Equity Extraction in Denmark|In this paper we examine whether changes in home values drive mortgage-based equity extraction. To do this we use longitudinal survey data with subjective information about current and expected future home values to calculate unanticipated home value changes. We link this information at the individual level to high quality administrative records containing information about mortgage borrowing as well as savings in various financial instruments. We find that the marginal propensity to increase mortgage debt is 2-5 percent of unanticipated home value gains. We find no adjustment to other components of the portfolio, and we find that mortgage extraction leads to an increase in spending. The effect is driven by young households with high loan-to-value ratios which is consistent with the effect being driven by collateral constraints. Further, we find that the effect is driven by home owners who actively take out a new mortgage. The price effect is magnified among FRM borrowers who have an incentive to refinance their loans to lock in a lower market rate. These results point to the importance of the mortgage market in transforming price increases into spending and suggest that monetary policy can play an important role in transforming housing wealth gains into spending by affecting interest rates on mortgage loans.
D12|A model-based clustering approach for analyzing energy-related financial literacy and its determinants|Recent research highlights the role of consumer’s energy-related financial literacy in adoption of energy efficient household appliances in order to reduce the energy-efficiency gap within the household sector. The computation of an indicator for such a literacy measure has followed a somewhat less refined approach though. This paper demonstrates the use of a model-based clustering strategy in order to differentiate the population based on the level of energy-related financial literacy. Using a Swiss data with 6, 722 respondents, we are able to identify three latent groups that represent low, mid and high levels of literacy. We use this new measure within an ordered logit setting with the goal of explaining the determinants of the level of energy-related financial literacy and compare empirical results using classical indicators and approaches. The empirical findings suggest a significant gender-gap among the Swiss population, i.e. females, even those with university education, are less likely to possess a high level of energy-related financial literacy. Individuals who display strong concern for free-riding on their own energy reduction behavior, are also found to have higher odds of belonging to the low literacy group. The results show that it is possible to identify latent classes that have a general and intuitive meaning and provides support to the model-based clustering approach as a sophisticated alternative. This could be a useful approach when empirical researchers are interested in (attribute-based) latent groups of consumers. The identification of latent classes also provides a possibility to target consumers belonging to these classes with specific policy measures in order to increase their level of literacy.
D12|Are Consumers Attentive to Local Energy Costs? Evidence from the Appliance Market|We estimate whether consumers respond to local energy costs when purchasing appliances. Using a dataset from an appliance retailer, we compare demand responsiveness to a measure of energy costs that varies with local energy prices versus purchase prices. We strongly reject that consumers are unresponsive to local energy costs under a wide range of assumptions. These findings run counter to the popular wisdom, which motivates energy standards, that energy costs are a shrouded attribute. Capital investments are an important channel for electricity demand response and may explain some of the large differences between short and long run electricity price elasticities.
D12|Heterogeneous (Mis-) Perceptions of Energy Costs: Implications for Measurement and Policy Design|Quantifying heterogeneity in consumers’ misperceptions of product costs is crucial for policy design. We illustrate this point in the energy context and the design of Pigouvian policies. We estimate non-parametric distributions of perceptions of energy costs in the U.S. appliance market using a revealed preference approach. We show that the average degree of misperception is misleading— while the largest share of consumers correctly perceives energy costs, a significant share undervalues them, and smaller shares either significantly overvalues or completely ignores them. We show that setting a tax based on mean misperception deviates substantially from the optimal tax that accounts for heterogeneous misperceptions. While correctly characterizing misperception is crucial for setting optimal Pigouvian taxes for externalities, it is less important for setting optimal standards. We find that standards can largely outperform taxes. Standards’ advantage is they reduce variance in energy operating costs relative to taxes, which internalizes distortionary effects from misperceptions.
D12|Energy-related financial literacy and bounded rationality in appliance replacement attitudes: Evidence from Nepal|Bounded rationality is an example of an important behavioral failure responsible for the energy-efficiency gap, whereby agents under-invest in energy-efficient technologies. One means of addressing this is by improving the energy-related financial literacy of households, which is defined as the combination of energy knowledge and cognitive abilities that are needed in order for agents to take sound decisions with respect to investment in durables. This has been found to improve the ability of agents to calculate the lifetime costs of technologies. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the determinants of energy-related financial literacy of respondents from about 2000 urban households in the Terai region of Nepal, and to analyze whether this ability has an effect on replacement attitudes of households regarding inefficient technologies. Using a novel household survey data, we find that respondents have low levels of energy-related financial literacy. While we find differences in the role of some socio-economic determinants of energy-related financial literacy compared to previous studies from developed countries, we also find certain common results, such as female respondents having lower scores. Additionally, we find that higher levels of energy-related financial literacy, especially stronger computational abilities, lead to more rational attitudes with regards to replacement of old appliances. As development has brought, and continues to bring, more households in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) closer to technologies of their liking, ensuring the adoption of energy-efficient technologies may be critical for ensuring sustainable development in the decades to come, and higher energy-related financial literacy may be one means of achieving that.
D12|The Impact of Policy Awareness: Evidence from Vehicle Choices Response to Fiscal Incentives|Isolating the role of limited knowledge, psychological frictions and policy characteristics is key when evaluating a public program and designing future policies. This paper explores the role of awareness about the presence of fiscal programs in determining their impact on individual choices. Our identification strategy exploits quasi-experimental variation in the introduction of fiscal incentives aimed at promoting the purchase of energy efficient vehicles, and a direct measure of policy awareness at the individual level. We find an important impact of awareness on consumers’ vehicle choices, highlighting that limited awareness may represent a critical barrier to the effectiveness of public programs.
D12|Consumer Myopia in Vehicle Purchases: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
D12|Inflation Expectations, Consumption and the Lower Bound: Micro Evidence from a Large Euro Area Survey|This paper exploits a very large multi-country survey of consumers to investigate empirically the relationship between inflation expectations and consumer spending. We document that for the Euro Area and almost all of its constituent countries this relationship is generally positive: a higher expected change in inflation is associated with an increase in the probability that a given consumer will make major purchases. Moreover, in line with the predictions of macroeconomic theory, the impact is stronger when the lower bound on nominal interest rates is binding. Also, using the estimated spending probabilities from our micro-level analysis, we indirectly estimate the impact of a gradual increase in inflation expectations on aggregate private consumption. We find the effects to be economically relevant, especially when the lower bound is binding.
D12|How does liquidity affect consumer payment choice?|We measure consumers’ readiness to face emergency expenses. Based on data from a representative survey of US consumers, we find that financial readiness varies widely across consumers, with lowest-income, least-educated, unemployed, and black consumers most likely to have $0 saved for emergency expenses. For these consumers, even a temporary financial shock, either an unexpected negative income shock (such as a layoff or a short-term government shutdown) or an unexpected expenditure (such as a medical expense or a car repair), could have severe financial consequences. The literature likely underestimates the consequences, because consumers who are not financially prepared to cover unexpected expenses are more likely to borrow on their credit cards, adding to their existing debt. Thus the cost of relying on credit cards is likely very high for consumers who are already financially vulnerable. We use panel data to examine whether consumers who experienced a substantial drop in income from one year to the next, like one resulting from a layoff or a government shutdown, increased their credit card borrowing. We do not find evidence that a negative income shock raises consumers’ likelihood of revolving on credit cards or increasing the amount borrowed.
D12|Sellin’ in the Rain: Adaptation to Weather and Climate in the Retail Sector|Using novel methodology and proprietary daily store-level sporting goods and apparel brand data, I find that, consistent with long-run adaptation to climate, sales sensitivity to weather declines with historical norms and variability of weather. Short-run adaptation to weather shocks is dominated by changes in what people buy and how they buy it, with little intertemporal substitution. Over four weeks, a one-standard deviation one-day weather shock shifts sales by about 10 percent. While switching between indoor and outdoor stores offsets a small portion of contemporaneous responses to weather, I find no evidence that ecommerce offsets any of the effects.
D12|Trends in household debt and credit|Since the onset of the 2008 financial crisis, consumer financial and borrowing behavior, once considered a relatively quiet little corner of finance, has been of enormously increased interest to policymakers and researchers alike. Prior to the Great Recession, there was a historic run-up in household debt, driven primarily by housing debt, which coincided with a speculative bubble and sharp rises in home prices. Then, as prices began to fall, millions of households began defaulting on their mortgages, unable to keep up with home payments, and greatly contributing to the onset of the deepest recession since the 1930s. Following the steep increase in debt balances during the boom, households began rapidly paying off their loans during and immediately after the Great Recession. Since 2013, debt has begun to increase and eventually rise above its previous levels, albeit at a much slower rate than before, at least partially owing to stricter lending standards. We examine the trends in household debt before, during, and since the 2000s financial crisis and Great Recession. As we will show, this period is unique in American history in several ways. Our analysis will show the sources of the historic run-up in debt during the bubble period of the early 2000s, the change in borrowing behavior that took place as the financial crisis and Great Recession took hold, and the nature of the recovery that began in 2013. We find that while total household debt has recovered to its previous level in nominal terms, its composition and characteristics have changed dramatically along many dimensions.
D12|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual's initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
D12|When I was your age...Population Dynamics and Household Energy Consumption|Generational values inspire behaviour in numerous areas such as politics, labour markets, social cohesion, consumption and energy use. Stephenson et al. (2015) highlight the role of so-called energy culture in shaping the behaviour of different population cohorts regarding energy consumption and environmental protection, and empirical studies have confirmed the relevance of cohort effects in residential and transport-related energy use (Bardazzi and Pazienza, 2017; Chancel, 2014). This paper aims to assess how ageing and evolving generational energy cultures in Italy affect the future path of energy consumption, considering the expected changes in the Italian population size, composition and location. We use a pseudo-panel of Italian households to estimate cohort and age effects by macro-area and then we combine these effects with official demographic projections to forecast the potential consequences for energy consumption up to 2050. Our findings show that age and generation are key determinants of household behaviour regarding residential energy consumption and these effects interplay with future population dynamics, which are also area-specific due to internal migration.
D12|Does Increasing Block Pricing Decrease Energy Use? Evidence from the Residential Electricity Market|Many electric utilities in the United States have replaced flat pricing schedules with increasing block prices (IBPs) in an effort to decrease aggregate energy use without imposing costs on low-income households. IBPs are step functions where the price per kilowatt-hour increases as a household uses more electricity. It is not clear, however, in theory or in practice, whether IBPs decrease aggregate energy use and protect low-income households relative to a revenue-neutral flat rate. I use detailed monthly billing records combined with demographic data for 11,745 California households and price differences over time across utility climate zones to estimate price elasticities of energy demand by income. The resulting estimates find that wealthier households are more price elastic than low-income households. I use these elasticities to show that IBPs increase total electricity use relative to a revenue-neutral flat price, therefore failing to achieve their goal of conservation. Finally, this paper finds that IBPs decrease electricity bills for low-income households while pushing costs to high-income households.
D12|Developing an Energy Poverty Index for Queensland|No abstract is available for this item.
D12|A meta-analysis of the price and income elasticities of food demand|Food demand elasticities are crucial parameters in the calibration of simulation models used to assess the impacts of political reforms or to analyse long-term projections, notably in agricultural sectors. Numerous estimates of these parameters are now available in the economic literature. The main objectives of this work are twofold: we seek first to identify general patterns characterizing the demand elasticities of food products and second to identify the main sources of heterogeneity between the elasticity estimates available in the literature. To achieve these objectives, we conduct a broad literature review of food demand elasticity estimates and perform a meta-regression analysis. Our results reveal the important impacts of income levels on income and price elasticities both at the country (gross domestic product-GDP) and household levels: the higher the income is, the lower the level of elasticities. Food demand responses to changes in income and prices appear to follow different patterns depending on the global regions involved apart from any income level consideration. From a methodological viewpoint, the functional forms used to represent food demand are found to significantly affect elasticity estimates. This result sheds light on the importance of the specification of demand functions, and particularly of their flexibility, in simulation models.
D12|Beyond Truth-Telling: Preference Estimation with Centralized School Choice and College Admissions|We propose novel approaches to estimating student preferences with data from matching mechanisms, especially the Gale-Shapley deferred acceptance. Even if the mechanism is strategy-proof, assuming that students truthfully rank schools in applications may be restrictive. We show that when students are ranked strictly by some ex ante known priority index (e.g., test scores), stability is a plausible and weaker assumption, implying that every student is matched with her favorite school/college among those she qualifies for ex post. The methods are illustrated in simulations and applied to school choice in Paris. We discuss when each approach is more appropriate in real-life settings.
D12|Does inequality matter for the consumption-wealth channel? Empirical evidence|This paper studies the heterogeneity of the marginal propensity to consume out of wealth based on French household surveys. This heterogeneity is driven by differences in both wealth composition and wealth levels. We find a decreasing marginal propensity to consume out of wealth across the wealth distribution for all net wealth components. The marginal propensity to consume out of financial assets tends to be higher compared with the effect of housing assets, except at the top of the wealth distribution. The marginal propensity to consume out of housing wealth increases with debt pressure and depends on debt composition.
D12|Time preferences and their life outcome correlates: Evidence from a representative survey|We collect data on time preferences of a representative sample of the Hungarian population in a non-incentivized way and investigate how patience and present bias associate with important life outcomes in five domains: i) educational attainment, ii) unemployment, iii) income and wealth, iv) financial decisions and difficulties, and v) health. Based on the literature, we formulate the broad hypotheses that patience fosters, while present bias hinders positive outcomes in the domains under study. We document a consistent and often significant positive effect of patience in almost all areas (except unemployment), with the strongest effects in escaping low educational attainment, wealth and financial decisions. We find that present bias associates significantly with saving decisions and financial troubles.
D12|Past and present outage costs – A follow-up study of households’ willingness to pay to avoid power outages|Households’ demand for electricity continues to increase. This trend per se should indicate increased disutility from power outages. On the other hand, batteries and other back-up systems have been improved and the frequency and duration of outages have been reduced in many countries. By comparing the results from two stated preference studies on Swedish households’ willingness to pay to avoid power outages in 2004 and 2017, we investigate whether the willingness to pay has changed. The willingness to pay is assessed for power outages of different durations, and whether it is planned or unplanned. We find three main differences: i) The proportion of households stating zero willingness to pay to avoid power outages decreased significantly from 2004 to 2017 and ii) the overall WTP was considerably higher in 2017 than in 2014, but iii) the WTP for duration of an outage has decreased. These results have implications for how regulators incentivize and regulate electricity suppliers since they suggest that a reliable supply of electricity is of greater importance now than what earlier studies have suggested.
D12|Financial Protection Against Medical Expense|Financial protection is claimed to be an important objective of health policy. Yet there is a lack of clarity about what it is and no consensus on how to measure it. I address the ambiguity of meaning by considering three questions: Protection of what? Protection against what? Protection with what? The proposed answers lead to the suggestion that financial protection is about shielding nonmedical consumption from the cost of healthcare using formal health insurance and public finances, as well as informal and self insurance mechanisms that do not impair earnings potential. Given this definition, I evaluate four approaches to the measurement of financial protection: a) consumption smoothing over health shocks; b) the risk premium; c) catastrophic healthcare payments; and, d) impoverishing healthcare payments. The first of these does not restrict attention to medical expenses, which limits its relevance to health financing policy. The second rests on assumptions about risk preferences. No measure is entirely satisfactory in its treatment of medical expenses that are financed through informal and self insurance instruments. By ignoring these sources of imperfect insurance, the catastrophic payments measure overstates the impact of out-of-pocket medical expenses on living standards, while the impoverishment measure does not credibly identify poverty caused by them. It is better thought of as a correction to the measurement of poverty.
D12|Access to Banking and the Role of Inequality and the Financial Crisis|No abstract is available for this item.
D12|Measuring the Services of Durables and Owner Occupied Housing|This paper provides an update to the chapter on the treatment of durables in the Consumer Price Index Manual (2004). The most important durable is housing, which typically accounts for approximately 20% of total consumption services. A large fraction of total housing services consists of the services of Owner Occupied Housing (OOH). The main approaches to measuring the services of OOH are (i) the acquisitions approach; (ii) the rental equivalence approach and (iii) the user cost approach. Two other approaches are sometimes used: (iv) the opportunity cost approach and (v) the payments approach. A main purpose of this paper is to present the main approaches to the treatment of OOH and to discuss the benefits and costs of the alternative approaches. The paper also discusses the problems associated with forming imputations for the services of â€œordinaryâ€ consumer durable goods.
D12|Measuring the Services of Durables and Owner Occupied Housing|This paper provides an update to the chapter on the treatment of durables in the Consumer Price Index Manual (2004). The most important durable is housing, which typically accounts for approximately 20% of total consumption services. A large fraction of total housing services consists of the services of Owner Occupied Housing (OOH). The main approaches to measuring the services of OOH are (i) the acquisitions approach; (ii) the rental equivalence approach and (iii) the user cost approach. Two other approaches are sometimes used: (iv) the opportunity cost approach and (v) the payments approach. A main purpose of this paper is to present the main approaches to the treatment of OOH and to discuss the benefits and costs of the alternative approaches. The paper also discusses the problems associated with forming imputations for the services of â€œordinaryâ€ consumer durable goods.
D12|Who Cares When You Close Down? The Effects of Primary Care Practice Closures on Patients|This paper investigates the consequences that patients face when their regular primary care provider closes down her practice, typically due to retirement. We estimate the causal impact of closures on patients’ utilization patterns, medical expenditures, hospitalizations, and health plan choice. Employing a difference-in-difference framework, we find that patients who experience a discontinuity of care persistently adjust their utilization pattern by shifting visits away from ambulatory primary care providers (-12%) towards specialist care (+10%), and hospital outpatient facilities (+5%). The magnitude of these effects depends considerably on the local availability of primary care. We also observe that patients with chronic conditions shift their utilization more strongly towards other providers. Our results have potential implications for health policy in at least two dimensions: practice closures may lead to an inefficient use of healthcare services and deteriorate access to primary care, particularly in regions where the supply of primary care doctors is low.
D12|Does climate influence households’ thermal comfort decisions?|This paper investigates how households have been adapting to climate change through the use of two technologies important for thermal comfort, air conditioning and thermal insulation. Merging a global gridded dataset of historical temperatures with the 2011 OECD EPIC survey, we study the determinants of installing air conditioning or adopting thermal insulation in response to a warmer climate in eight countries. After controlling for a set of demographic, socio-economic and attitudinal variables, we apply a binary probit model and find that exposure to a warmer climate influences only air conditioning adoption whereas, climatic conditions seem not to affect thermal insulation decisions which, instead, mainly depends on household wealth, dwelling characteristics, age, household size and propensity to energy-saving behaviours. This study does not find any evidence of a possible joint decision for the two technologies.
D12|The downside of being upbeat: The effects of consumer optimism on real economic activity|Using a quarterly consumer survey, we propose two novel measures of consumer optimism, ex ante optimism and ex post optimism. We demonstrate that excessive optimism about future family finances impacts the real economy. The excessive optimism (ex ante optimism) compels consumers to save less and borrow more, putting upward pressure on consumption growth. When family finances improve persistently less than expected (ex post optimism), consumers cut back on credit and save more which puts downward pressure on consumption growth. This saving and borrowing channel of the optimism bias is robust to age and income.
D12|Perspectives of smart meters' roll-out in India: an empirical analysis of consumers' awareness and preferences|This papers focuses on the smart meters' roll-out in India - third largest economy, one of the developing countries with the fastest economic growth rate and third largest power producing nation. The Indian power system is weak and experiences severe problems and challenges that could be solved by means of the smart grid approach and broader implementation of smart meters (SM). Within this study, we focus on the consumers' preferences regarding SM. An empirical study has been conducted among Indian social media users, who are predicted to be potential early adopters or innovators in case of SM further market penetration. By dividing the respondents into a few market segments, the study highlights differences between consumers already having SM installed at their household, consumers in the process of installing SM, consumers who would like to have SM in the future, and consumers' preferences based on potential benefits and information availability. The study also outlines the profile of consumers who currently have SM installed in their household. Results show that tech-savviness of India's consumers, common access to the Internet for citizens, possession of smart phones by most of the population and ambitious goals of the Indian government, are a very productive mix for a nation wide roll-out of SM in India in the coming years.
D12|Competition Between Public and Private Maternity Care Providers in France: Evidence on Market Segmentation|The French market for hospital care is shared by public and private providers. In addition to covering a number of mandates usually not undertaken by the private sector such as training, research, and disease prevention, public hospitals are required to provide basic care across the French territory. To investigate the existence of market segmentation between public and private care providers, we focus on maternity care and first examine to what extent public and private maternity units substitute each other on an extensive margin, to then analyze how competition plays out on an intensive margin. Consistent with the public mandate, our findings indicate that, after a private unit closure, public maternity units are less likely to exit a low-populated area than a high-populated area. In addition, we find evidence of an asymmetric intensive margin substitution between private and public maternity units. Maternity users tend to substitute private units (non for-profit and for-profit) for public units more often than the reverse.
D12|Financial literacy among German students at secondary schools: Some empirical evidence from the state of Hesse|Since the financial crisis financial literacy has attracted growing interest among researchers and policy makers, as there is international empirical evidence that financial literacy is poor among both adults and students. In Germany we have almost no empirical evidence on financial literacy, especially in the case of students attending secondary schools, as financial education has not featured on German school curricula to date. Besides, Germany has not yet participated in the optional financial literacy module of PISA, which was offered for the first time in 2012. However, a lack of private pension provisioning, in spite of demographic change, and low stock ownership among German households indicate a deficit in financial knowledge and skills in this country as well. In this paper we investigate financial literacy among students aged 14 to 16 attending a secondary school in the state of Hesse. The foundation is a test designed according to international standards. The statistical analysis of the test reveals substantial deficits in key areas of financial literacy. Particular deficits could be identified in the fields of basic knowledge of financial matters and, to an even greater degree, in more advanced concepts such as risk diversification. Applying interest calculations to financial matters turned out to be problematic for many students. Furthermore, the paper analyses the impact of gender and type of school on the overall test score as well as test performance in specific tasks. The findings suggest that financial matters should be covered in some form at secondary schools. In light of the potentially far-reaching consequences of financial illiteracy for financial wellbeing, German participation in future PISA financial literacy tests seems highly advisable to gain a deeper understanding of the preliminary findings presented in this paper.
D12|Market power, efficiency and welfare performance of banks: evidence from the Ghanaian banking industry|The study analyses the welfare performance of banks’ lending services in the Ghanaian banking industry with emphasis on the role of market power and efficiency. We made use of pooled OLS regression with fixed effect model. For robustness, we adopted Prais–Winsten (1954) regression and two-stage least squares (2SLS) instrumental variables procedures on an unbalanced panel data of 24 banks for years 2009 through 2017. The results reveal that during our study period, there was a welfare loss of about 0.433 percent of observed total loans. Encouragingly, cost efficiency in the banking system fits well within the world’s mean efficiency but has been decreasing over time. Further, there is evidence that prices have not moved toward a competitive level. Cost efficiency estimates are found to be negatively associated with loss of consumer surplus estimates. Market power is found to be positively related to a loss in consumer surplus. Additional analysis shows that the market power effect is dominant in both domestic and large banks. Overall, the results indicate that market power and bank efficiency are competing interests for policymakers in their consideration of policy reforms geared toward an efficient and well-functioning banking system. An additional implication of these results suggests that antitrust enforcement may be socially beneficial to provide an incentive for competitive pricing in the lending business segment of banking. Other implications are also discussed.
D12|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D12|The Elasticity of Substitution between Domestic and Foreign Goods: A Quantitative Survey|A key parameter in international economics is the elasticity of substitution between domestic and foreign goods, also called the Armington elasticity. Yet estimates vary widely. We collect 3,524 reported estimates of the elasticity, construct 34 variables that reflect the context in which researchers obtain their estimates, and examine what drives the heterogeneity in the results. To account for inherent model uncertainty, we employ Bayesian and frequentist model averaging. We present the first application of newly developed non-linear techniques to correct for publication bias. Our main results are threefold. First, there is publication bias against small and statistically insignificant elasticities. Second, differences in results are best explained by differences in data: aggregation, frequency, size, and dimension. Third, the mean elasticity implied by the literature after correcting for both publication bias and potential misspecifications is 3.
D12|Do couples pool their income? Evidence from demand system estimation for Germany|Whether couples pool their resources and behave like a unit or spend their income individually is crucial for social and tax policy. In this paper, I provide a test of the income pooling hypothesis using administrative cross-sectional survey data on expenditures and individual incomes of couple households in Germany. The test is performed within the Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System (QUAIDS) framework, which allows for an endogenous expenditure budget and endogenous individual income contribution shares in an instrumental variables approach. Although the hypothesis is broadly rejected, there are significant differences regarding the marital status, the presence of at least one child in the household and whether the household is located in a former West or East German federal state. Married couples and couples with children are closer to the acceptance of the hypothesis than unmarried couples without children.
D12|Time preferences and political regimes: Evidence from reunified Germany|This paper presents evidence on the impact of political regimes on time preferences using survey measures of present bias and patience. Treating the German separation and reunification as a natural experiment, our results indicate that the GDR's socialist regime significantly diminished the present bias of its former citizens, while their patience appears to be unaffected.
D12|Exchange rate, remittances and expenditure of foreign-bornhouseholds: evidence from Australia|We examined the impact of the depreciation of the Australian dollar (AU$) during 2013-2015 onthe expenditure of households with foreign-born members (HFBMs) in Australia. Employing the difference-in-differences method and 2013-2015 Nielson Homescan Panel Survey data, we found that HFBMs spent around 2.4 percent more on their food expenditure in 2014 and 4.0 percentmore in 2015 compared to their native counterparts. Further investigation indicated that neither incomes nor food prices nor the expenditures on imported food items changed differently for any group in that period, while an analysis with HILDA survey data indicates a similar pattern fortotal expenditures. With reduced outward aggregate remittances from Australia over the sametime, we argue that falling AU$ induces HFBMs to substitute for consumption in the homecountry with that in the host nation. Our empirical results provide fresh insights on how changesin the exchange rate may affect immigrants differently than natives.
D12|Trade and dietary diversity in Eastern Europe and Central Asia|In public and academic debates, the linkages between agricultural markets and nutrition across the world are vividly discussed. This paper contributes to the ongoing debate by analyzing the relationship between greater openness to trade and dietary diversity. It focuses on the post-communist countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia where trade reforms as part of the economic and political transition provide a natural experiment for studying the effects of trade openness on agricultural markets and consumer behaviour. Reduction in trade barriers, for instance in the context of the accession to the WTO and the EU, and the gradual integration with world markets after 1991 had implications for diets through changes in production, prices and incomes. We utilize country-level panel data for 26 post-communist countries in the period 1996-2013 to assess the effects of trade costs, openness to trade and incomes on dietary diversity measured by the Shannon entropy index. The results arising from fixed effects and instrumental variables estimation are consistent with previous findings that income growth affects dietary diversity positively and provide novel evidence that trade barriers reduce variety of products available in domestic markets, in particular fruits and vegetables.
D12|"""And forgive US our debts"": Do Christian moralities influence over-indebtedness of individuals?"|This paper analyses whether Christian moralities and rules formed differently by Catholics and Protestants impact the likelihood of households to become overindebted. We find that over-indebtedness is lower in regions in which Catholics outweigh Protestants, indicating that Catholics' forgiveness culture and a stricter enforcement of rules by Protestants serve as explanations for our results. Our results provide evidence that religion affects the financial situations of individuals and show that even 500 years after the split between Catholics and Protestants, the differences in the mind-sets of both denominations play an important role for situations of severe financial conditions.
D12|Cognitive Abilities and Inflation Expectations|Cognitive abilities help explain the large cross-sectional variation in inflation expectations at the household level. But which type of cognitive abilities are important? We find that not only quantitative abilities but also logical and verbal abilities are important to explain the accuracy and plausibility of households' inflation expectations. We discuss the channels through which different forms of cognition might shape households' abilities to forecast future macroeconomic variables. We also draw implications for the effectiveness of policies that aim to manage households' expectations.
D12|IQ, Expectations, and Choice|Forecast errors for inflation decline monotonically with both verbal and quantitative IQ in a large and representative male population. Within individuals, inflation expectations and perceptions are autocorrelated only for men above the median by IQ (high-IQ men). High-IQ men's forecast revisions are consistent with the diagnostic-expectations framework, whereas anything goes for low-IQ men. Education levels, income, socioeconomic status, or financial constraints do not explain these results. Using ad-hoc tasks in a controlled environment, we investigate the channels behind these results. Low-IQ individuals' knowledge of the concept of inflation is low; they associate inflation with concrete goods and services instead of abstract economic concepts, and are less capable of forecasting mean-reverting processes. Differences in expectations formation by IQ feed into choice—only high-IQ men plan to spend more when expecting higher inflation as the consumer Euler equation prescribes. Our results have implications for heterogeneous-beliefs models of consumption, saving, and investment.
D12|Human Frictions to the Transmission of Economic Policy|Intertemporal substitution is at the heart of modern macroeconomics and finance as well as economic policymaking, but a large fraction of a representative population of men -- those below the top of the distribution by cognitive abilities (IQ) -- do not change their consumption propensities with their inflation expectations. Low-IQ men are also less than half as sensitive to interest-rate changes when making borrowing decisions. Our microdata include unique administrative information on cognitive abilities, as well as economic expectations, consumption and borrowing plans, and total household debt from Finland. Heterogeneity in observables such as education, income, other expectations, and financial constraints do not drive these patterns. Costly information acquisition and the ability to form accurate forecasts are channels that cannot fully explain these results. Limited cognitive abilities could be human frictions in the transmission and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies that operate through household consumption and borrowing decisions.
D12|Schnellschätzung des RWI/ISLContainerumschlag-Index: Evaluierung und Weiterentwicklung|Etwa 20 Tage nach Ende eines Berichtsmonats wird eine Schnellschätzung des RWI/ISL-Containerumschlag-Index veröffentlicht. Diese basiert jeweils auf Angaben für knapp die Hälfte der in den Index eingehenden Häfen, die rund 70% des abgebildeten Umschlags auf sich vereinigen. Fehlende Angaben werde dabei mit einfachen Verfahren geschätzt. Mit Veröffentlichung jeder Schnellschätzung erscheint ein revidierter Wert für den jeweiligen Vormonat, der die in der Zwischenzeit eingegangenen Daten berücksichtigt. Das Ausmaß, in dem die Schnellschätzung revidiert wird, ist mit rund 0,7 Indexpunkten im Durchschnitt relativ groß. Wesentliche Ursache der Revisionen sind Fehler bei der Fortschreibung fehlender Daten. Der Beitrag stellt ein modifiziertes Fortschreibungsverfahren vor und zeigt, dass es den Revisionsbedarf verringert. Dies gilt insbesondere für Fälle, in denen die Revisionen in der Vergangenheit besonders groß waren.
D12|Präferenzen und Einstellungen zu vieldiskutierten verkehrspolitischen Maßnahmen: Ergebnisse einer Erhebung aus dem Jahr 2018|Der Autoverkehr ist in vielen Städten zu einer hohen Belastung geworden. Um die Alternativen zum Autoverkehr zu stärken, kursiert eine Vielzahl von Vorschlägen, etwa der Ausbau von Fahrradwegen, wenn nötig auch auf Kosten des Autoverkehrs. Dieser Beitrag präsentiert die Ergebnisse einer Erhebung unter knapp 7.000 Haushalten aus dem Jahr 2018, mit der die Zustimmung zu derartigen Vorschlägen eruiert wurde. Die daraus resultierenden Ergebnisse sind zwiespältiger Natur. Einerseits stimmt die absolute Mehrheit von 69 % der Befragten für die Ausweisung von für Busse reservierte Fahrstreifen auf staubelasteten Straßen und knapp die Hälfte ist für Fahrverbote für Fahrzeuge, die Schadstoffgrenzwerte überschreiten. Andererseits ist die absolute Mehrheit von 57 % der Befragten gegen höhere Kosten für das Parken in Innenstädten und knapp die Hälfte lehnt ein Verbot von Fahrzeugen mit Verbrennungsmotor ab dem Jahr 2035 ab.
D12|Increased market transparency in Germany's gasoline market: What about rockets and feathers?|"Drawing on panel data on daily fuel prices covering over 5,000 filling stations in Germany, this paper documents a change in the stations' price setting behavior following the introduction of a legally mandated online price portal in 2013. Prior to the portal, positive asymmetry is found on the basis of error correction models, with prices following the ""rockets and feathers"" pattern that is typically found for fuels. In the aftermath of the portal, by contrast, negative asymmetry is observed: fuel price decreases in response to refinery price decreases are stronger than fuel price increases due to refinery price increases."
D12|Application of the economic theory of self-control to model energy conservation behavioral change in households|Smart meters and in-house displays hold a promise of energy conservation for those who invest in such technology. Research has shown that households only have a limited interest in such technology and information is thus often neglected, with rather limited energy savings. Surprisingly few empirical investigations have a theoretical foundation that may explain what is going on from a behavioral perspective. In this study the economic theory of self-control is used to model energy-eﬃcient behavior in middle-income households in Sweden. Our results show that diﬀerent levels of energy-eﬃcient behavior do not really have any impact on the actual consumption levels of electricity. Instead, diﬀerent beliefs exist of being energy-eﬃcient, but the households do not act accordingly. Our results suggest that the payment time period should be changed to stimulate the monitoring of bills and to introduce a gaming strategy to change incentives for energy conservation.
D12|Hourly demand for electricity in Sweden: Implications for load, welfare and emissions|In this study, using sub-hourly appliance-level data from a representative sample of Swedish households on standard tariffs, we investigate the welfare and emission implications of moving to a mandatory dynamic pricing scheme. We treat demand during different hours of a day to affect utility differently, and account for the derived nature of electricity demand by explicitly considering the services (end-use demands) that drive hourly electricity demand. We use the flexible EASI demand system, which accommodates both observed and unobserved heterogeneity in preferences, to understand changes in load consequent to moving to dynamic pricing schemes. We find changes in load patterns across hours to be relatively small (with at most a three percent reduction during the morning peak, and a two percent increase in the off-peak times), and welfare and emissions to decrease slightly (a maximum of 0.2 percent and 0.25 percent, respectively). Overall, in the context of a decentralized electricity retail setting such as in Sweden, our results call into question both the desirability (from a short-run welfare perspective) or the feasibility (from a consumer perspective) of the emphasis on ensuring that the retail price of electricity be aligned to the hourly marginal cost.
D12|A new approach to estimating state dependence in consumers’ brand choices applied to 762 pharmaceutical markets|This article shows how state dependence effects can be estimated for many markets and with few assumptions by using data on how the shares buying specific products differ between those who bought the same product on their latest purchase occasion and other consumers. Using as instrument information regarding which product was cheapest when consumers made their last purchase, I estimate that state dependence increases the probability that consumers will buy the product they bought the last time by 8 percentage points. This effect is larger for women and the elderly than for men and younger consumers. The state dependence effect is also larger for brand-names than for generic products, but not significantly related to number of previous purchases.
D12|When do people exploit moral wiggle room? An experimental analysis in a market setup|We investigate if decision makers exploit moral wiggle room in green market settings. We therefore implement a laboratory experiment in which subjects purchase products associated with externalities. In six between-subjects treatments, we alter the availability of information on the externalities, the price of revealing information as well as the nature of the externality, which could either affect another subject or change the amount spent by the experimenters on carbon offsets. We find that subjects do not exploit moral wiggle room when revealing information is costless. When a very small cost of revealing information is introduced, their behavior depends on the relation between prices and externalities. In situations in which it is relatively cheap to have a large impact on the recipient's payoff, subjects exploit moral wiggle room in order to choose selfishly. For other parametrizations, subjects behave either honestly egoistically or altruistically.
D12|How much do households repond to electricity prices? Evidence from Australia and abroad|In this paper we review studies to understand how much households change their electricity consumption when there is a price change. We are particularly focussed on finding results from econometric studies that estimate elasticities of demand. Many studies find residential households demonstrate responsiveness to price, with long term and short run elasticities behaving as economic theory would suggest. For instance, the elasticities are negative which means that as price increases, consumption decreases; long run elasticities are larger than shorter run elasticities which indicates that households can respond over time through investment in more energy efficient appliances; and very short run elasticities exist - while very short run elasticities are small, household responsiveness seems to increase when paired with technology. Long run elasticities range from -0.75 to -0.3 and short run elasticities range from -0.47 to -0.026. The major gaps in research from the empirical economics literature are how low income and vulnerable Australian households could be affected by price changes and how Australians respond to within-day variation in prices.
D12|Tobacco Sales Prohibition and Teen Smoking|We evaluate one of the most prevalent prohibitory policies: banning the sales of tobacco to teens. We exploit the staggered introduction of sales bans across Switzerland and the European Union from 1990 to 2016. The estimates indicate a less than 1 percentage point reduction in teen smoking because of the bans. The reduction is substantially lower than the 5 percentage point reduction expected by health officials. We examine additional outcomes relevant to assessing any prohibitory policy. We find that teens circumvent the bans through peers. Moreover, they consider smokers less cool but do not think smoking is more dangerous.
D12|Comparison Dimensions and Similarity: Addressing Individual Heterogeneity|How many comparison dimensions individuals consider when they are asked to judge how similar two different objects are? I address individual heterogeneity in the number of comparison dimensions with data from a laboratory experiment. I estimate the smallest number of dimensions such that objects may be represented in space where distance corresponds to similarity. I find that the mean smallest number of dimensions in real data is one standard deviation smaller than in randomly simulated data. Furthermore, I find that individuals who find the objects relatively similar to each other are also the ones who implicitly consider fewer dimensions.
D12|Euler Equations, Subjective Expectations and Income Shocks|In this paper, we make three substantive contributions: first, we use elicited subjective income expectations to identify the levels of permanent and transitory income shocks in a life-cycle framework; second, we use these shocks to assess whether households' consumption is insulated from them; third, we use the shock data to estimate an Euler equation for consumption. We find that households are able to smooth transitory shocks, but adjust their consumption in response to permanent shocks, albeit not fully. The estimates of the Euler equation parameters with and without expectational errors are similar, which is consistent with rational expectations. We break new ground by combining data on subjective expectations about future income from the Michigan Survey with micro data on actual Income from the Consumer Expenditure Survey.
D12|What Do You Buy When No One’s Watching? The Effect of Self-Service Checkouts on the Composition of Sales in Retail|Buying items that are unhealthy or are of a private nature may carry a stigma and cause embarrassment. I analyze whether the anonymity provided by self-service checkouts changes customers' shopping patterns in grocery stores. I look at a natural experiment where two stores in a grocery-chain implement self-service checkouts. Using a triple difference estimator, comparing the sales of stigma items to the sales of mundane items and to the sales of a group of control stores, I find that the sales of stigma items increase by 10-15 percent. The increase comes from the product categories candy, chips, soda, ready-made food and alcohol. I find that the increase is caused by existing customers buying more, rather than from self-service checkouts changing the customer base. However, fully converting to self-service seems to scare away some customers and decreases overall sales.
D12|Investigating the U-Shaped Charitable Giving Profile Using Register-Based Data|The present paper investigates the relationship between income and the proportion of income donated by use of register-based data merged with individual data on charitable giving, in a European setting. This paper contributes to the very scarce European literature concerning the U-shaped charitable giving profile. We find a strong, negative relationship between income and the proportion of income donated for the total donor population as well as for specific income groups. This contradicts some of the previous literature on the subject. With information on actual donations, we find evidence of a ‘standard of giving’ that is very likely to be an important explanation to the higher proportion of income donated amongst low-income individuals. Our findings suggest that researchers and policy makers should be careful when drawing conclusions regarding charitable giving from US-based studies to Europe and vice versa.
D12|Benefits of real-time pricing and rooftop solar PV generation: Explorations using Swedish micro-data|Previous empirical literature on residential dynamic pricing for the Nordic market has questioned whether households will in fact appropriately respond, in view of the low price variability and price responsiveness in the Swedish setting. Household demand response is an issue of some importance in view of increasingly smart grids in which high shares of renewable supply are being promoted partly in view of these possibilities. In addition, an important development in the Nordic market relates to increasing thrust on household PV panels. In view of the interaction between RTP-driven and PV generation-driven load changes, an analysis of the combined effects in relation to system timing is important to understand, not least because this can affect the nature of benefits to households and the electric grid. Using a unique and very detailed dataset on household electricity consumption, in combination with simulated solar panel micro-generation data, these aspects are explored in an empirical framework similar to that used in the prior literature. Our findings indicate that even with minimal price responsiveness, household response to dynamic pricing can lead to load changes with sizeable benefits. In addition, the introduction of PV panels, contrary to what may be assumed at a first glance, appear to be beneficial to the electric grid, largely due to the time pattern of winter PV generation. Overall, our empirical findings provide tentative evidence to indicate that RTP, by incentivizing households to provide demand response at appropriate times, can aid in integration of renewables.
D12|Peak and off-peak demand for electricity: subsistence levels and price elasticities|In this paper, we explore subsistence levels and price elasticities for residential electricity demand in Sweden. Using a Stone-Geary functional form and unique Swedish data on residential electricity usage, we estimate demand Equations for peak and off-peak demand. We find that the subsistence levels are larger during peak than off-peak, and that there is a substantial variation in these subsistence levels across months. As a result, price responsiveness varies across hours and seasons. This has important policy implications, not the least with respect to effects of real time pricing, as it suggests that there are limits to households’ price responsiveness.
D12|Does revolution change risk attitudes? Evidence from Burkina Faso|A popular uprising in 2014, led to a revolution overthrowing the sitting president of Burkina Faso. We investigate if individuals’ risk attitudes changed due to this revolution. Specifically, we investigate the impact of the revolution on risk attitudes, by gender, age and level of education. The analysis is based on a unique nationally representative panel Household Budget Survey, which allows us to track the changes in the risk attitudes of the same individuals before, during and after the revolution. Our results suggest that the impact of the revolution is short-term. Individuals become risk averse during the revolution but converge back to the pre-revolution risk attitudes, slightly increasing their risk taking, after the revolution is over. Women are more risk taking than the men after the revolution but are more risk averse during the revolution. In general, older individuals tend to have higher risk aversion than the younger individuals. During the revolution, however, the individuals with higher level of education are less willing to take risk.
D12|Segmentation of Theatre Audiences: A Latent Class Approach for Combined Data|Theatrical productions are perishable goods, since the tickets for a particular play cannot be inventoried and sold after the time of the play. In the revenue management of a perishable good, price discrimination is widely used. Since the theatre audience is heterogeneous in terms of visit purpose, ability to perceive quality, willingness-to-pay, the strategy of price discrimination should be developed in the context of theatre segments. In this paper, we segment consumers of the Perm Opera and Ballet Theatre and propose marketing instruments to increase theatre revenue. Since the development of a detailed price discrimination strategy requires data on consumer purchase history, behavioral and socio-demographic characteristics, we combine two data sources: data on ticket purchases and survey data. Using a modication of a latent class logit model for joint revealed and stated preference data we identify four segments of the theater's audience. The study reveals theatregoer segments with dierent willingness-to-pay for performance and seat location characteristics, which allows the development of detailed recommendations on the pricing strategy for various theatre audiences
D12|The Ensemble Method For Censored Demand Prediction|Many economic applications, including optimal pricing and inventory management, require predictions of demand based on sales data and the estimation of the reaction of sales to price change. There is a wide range of econometric approaches used to correct biases in the estimates of demand parameters on censored sales data. These approaches can also be applied to various classes of machine learning (ML) models to reduce the prediction error of sales volumes. In this study we construct two ensemble models for demand prediction with and without accounting for demand censorship. Accounting for sales censorship is based on a censored quantile regression where the model estimation was split into two separate parts: a) a prediction of zero sales by the classification model; and b) a prediction of non-zero sales by the regression model. Models with and without censorship are based on the prediction aggregations of least squares, Ridge and Lasso regressions and the Random Forest model. Having estimated the predictive properties of both models, we empirically test the best predictive power of the model taking into account the censored nature of demand. We also show that ML with censorship provides bias corrected estimates of demand sensitivity to price change similar to econometric models
D12|世代間資産移転と相続税|本稿では日本の世代間資産移転の実態とそれに関わる相続・贈与行動を概観し、それが少子高齢化社会のなかでどのような意味を持つのかを検討した。まず、Piketty(2011)の手法を援用し、日本における年間世代間資産移転額を推定した。それによると年間80兆円程度と推計された。次いで、相続税の考え方についてであるが、相続税は大別して、遺産を残す人（被相続人）が納税すると考える遺産税方式と遺産を受け取る人（相続人）が納税義務を負うとする取得税方式に分かれるが、日本では両方の折衷様式である法定相続分方式がとられている。ここではそれぞれの方式の優劣を比較検討し、さらに最近の相続税改革の実態について検討を加えた。その中で、世界の相続税に対する考え方が、相続税を廃止する国から相続税を強化する国までかなり分散していることを明らかにする。それを反映して相続税の理論研究でも、最適相続税率はマイナスから、ゼロ、そして50－60%の高率なものまでさまざまな提案がなされており、学界でも合意形成に至っていない。相続・贈与行動は極めて多様で、かつ長期にわたって観測されるべきものであり、政策立案に用いることのできる統計的エビデンスの蓄積が少なく、あったとしても非公開であることが、理論・実証研究に混乱をもたらしている。今後は、国税庁などの行政機関と協力して、相続行動の実態を解明し、現実に即した相続税制の構築を目指すべきであろう。, This paper explores the amount of intergenerational transfers in Japan, including bequests and gifts, and provides some implications for inheritance and gift taxes. Piketty’s (2011)’s methodology is employed to estimate annual intergenerational transfers. We found that annually, about 80 trillion yen are transferred, of which 48 trillion are inheritance transfers and 32 trillion yen are gift transfers. In addition, we investigate the inheritance and gift tax systems in Japan. In doing so, we estimate the elasticity of taxable bequest transfers with respect to the net-of-inheritance tax rate, which falls in the range of 0.077–0.114. Fairly low elasticity implies that the current top inheritance rate of 55% is justifiable. Nevertheless, that tax rate is based on macro (aggregate) time-series data. Hence, studying it requires the solid analysis using microdata from the National Tax Agency of Japan. Doing so forms the basis for future research.
D12|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
D12|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
D12|Pre-release leaks as one-time incentives for switching to unauthorised sources of cultural content|Pre-release leaks of cultural content incentivise consumers to look for unauthorised sources. I find that such events may induce some television viewers to switch to unauthorised sources to gain access even to content that had not been leaked. To demonstrate that this is the case, I use a unique dataset on a sample of TV shows aired around the time of a pre-release leak of a very popular TV show (Game of Thrones). The results of a difference-in-differences analysis indicate that the leaked TV show lost viewership for both the leaked episodes and those that followed. Moreover, the event also had negative effects for other TV shows that may share an audience with the leaked show. Finally, my results for the shows with a shared audience are corroborated by evidence of an increase in Google searches for phrases including the show names and the words “watch online”, after the leak. I argue that the one-time incentive to use unauthorised sources caused some viewers to engage in unauthorised consumption even of shows not affected directly by the leak. These conclusions are consistent with the existence of one-time costs of switching channels of content acquisition.
D12|How Effective is Energy-Efficient Housing? Evidence from a Field Experiment in Mexico|Despite growing enthusiasm, there is little empirical evidence on how well energy efficiency investments work. Evidence is particularly lacking from low- and middle-income countries, despite a widespread view that these countries have many of the best opportunities. This paper evaluates a field experiment in Mexico in which a quasi-experimental sample of new homes was provided with insulation and other energy-efficient upgrades. A novel feature of our study is that we deploy large numbers of data loggers which allow us to measure temperature and humidity at high frequency inside homes. We find that the upgrades had no detectable impact on electricity use or thermal comfort, with essentially identical temperature and humidity levels in upgraded and non-upgraded homes. These results stand in sharp contrast to the engineering estimates that predicted up to a 26% decrease in electricity use. Part of the explanation is that air conditioner ownership is lower than expected, thus reducing the potential for reductions in energy use. In addition, we document that most households have their windows open on hot days, nullifying the thermal benefits of roof and wall insulation. Overall, we conclude that the benefits from these investments are unlikely to exceed the costs, which added $400-$500 USD to the cost of each home. Our results underscore the urgent need to fully incorporate socioeconomic conditions and human behavior into engineering models of energy use.
D12|Civic Engagement in the Americas|This paper estimates the effect of voting eligibility on civic engagement measured along three dimensions: political motivation, political activities, and political knowledge. These outcomes originate in the AmericasBarometer 2004-2016 surveys of eligible voters. To identify the effects the paper exploits variation in field survey dates relative to election dates, given country-specific voting age laws. It is found that voter enfranchisement increases self-reported interest in politics, political socialization, and attendance of political meetings; however, consumption of political news is not statistically different between eligible and non-eligible citizens. Some evidence indicates that the political activities voters engage in translate into increased political knowledge, in contrast with the view that voters are rationally ignorant. The effects are larger in countries with enforced mandatory voting.
D12|The effect of gender-targeted conditional cash transfers on household expenditures: Evidence from a randomized experiment| This paper studies the differential effect of targeting cash transfers to men or women on the structure of household expenditures on non-durables. We study a policy intervention in the Republic of Macedonia, offering cash transfers to poor households, conditional on having their children attending secondary school. The recipient of the transfer is randomized across municipalities to be either the household head or the mother. Using data collected to evaluate the conditional cash transfer program, we show that the gender of the recipient has an effect on the structure of expenditure shares. Targeting transfers to women increases the expenditure share on food by about 4 to 5%. To study the allocation of expenditures within the food basket, we estimate a demand system for food and we find that targeting payments to mothers induces, for different food categories, not only a significant intercept shift, but also a change in the slope of the Engel curve.
D12|Lost in Translation: What do Engel Curves Tell us about the Cost of Living?|The Hamilton method for estimating CPI bias is simple, intuitive, and has been widely adopted. We show that the method confiates CPI bias with variation in cost-of-living across income levels. Assuming a single price index across the income distribution is inconsistent with the downward sloping Engel curves that are necessary to implement the method. We develop and implement the Translated Engel curve (TEC) method that disentangles genuine CPI bias from differences caused by comparing changes in the cost of living across different income levels - non-homotheticity. The TEC method gives substantially different estimates of CPI bias prior to major reforms to the CPI in 1999 (post-Boskin), but both methods suggest very little CPI bias thereafter.
D12|A Lattice Test for Additive Separability|We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for a finite data set of price and demand observations to be consistent with an additively separable preference. We do so without imposing concavity on any of the subutility functions or convexity of the budget set a priori, thereby generalizing earlier results. Our simple and intuitive lattice test easily accommodates departures from rationality, or errors, which subsequently facilitates a rich empirical analysis. We apply our econometric techniques to the food consumption of a panel of British households. The primary empirical finding is that additive separability has considerable success in explaining the data.
D12|Insurance in Extended Family Networks|We investigate partial insurance and group risk sharing in extended family networks. Our approach is based on decomposing income shocks into group aggregate and idiosyncratic components, allowing us to measure the extent to which each is insured, having accounted for public insurance programs. We apply our framework to extended family networks in the United States by exploiting the unique intergenerational structure of the PSID. We find that over 60% of shocks to household income are potentially insurable within family networks. However, we find little evidence that the extended family provides insurance for such idiosyncratic shocks.
D12|“A new metric of consensus for Likert scales”|In this study we present a metric of consensus for Likert-type scales. The measure gives the level of agreement as the percentage of consensus among respondents. The proposed framework allows to design a positional indicator that gives the degree of agreement for each item and for any given number of reply options. In order to assess the performance of the proposed metric of consensus, in an iterated one-period ahead forecasting experiment we test whether the inclusion of the degree of agreement in consumers’ expectations regarding the evolution of unemployment improves out-of-sample forecast accuracy in eight European countries. We find evidence that the degree of agreement among consumers contains useful information to predict unemployment rates in most countries. The obtained results show the usefulness of consensus-based metrics to track the evolution of economic variables.
D12|“Major Reforms in Electricity Pricing: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment”|The global energy mix is being redefined, and with it the power industry’s cost structure. In many countries, electricity-pricing systems are being revamped so as to guarantee fixed-cost recovery, often by raising the fixed charge of two-part tariff (TPT) schemes. However, consumer misperception of TPTs threatens to undermine the policy’s outcome and puts the sector’s much-needed transformation in jeopardy. We conduct a quasi-experiment with data from a major electricity price reform recently implemented in Spain and find robust evidence that consumers are failing to distinguish between fixed and marginal costs. As a result, the policy goal of cost recovery is not being achieved.
D12|Price elasticities of electricity demand in Switzerland: Results from a household panel|In this paper, we use data from a new household-level panel survey to estimate short- and long-run price elasticities of residential electricity demand in Switzerland. We exploit Switzerland's unique local variation in topography-related grid maintenance costs and electricity taxation, to address endogeneity of average prices in our models. Using first difference and gradual adjustment models, we find short-run elasticities of -0.3 and long-run elasticities in excess of negative unity. Results thus suggest that a tax on electricity, as initially foreseen as a part of Switzerland's Energy Strategy 2050, is likely to have a moderate effect in the short run, but an important one in the long run.
D12|When within- and outgroup norms conflict: A public good experiment with strategic ignorance of social norms|Social norm feedback, i.e. informing people about the behavior of others, has been shown to influence prosocial behavior in many domains, including tax compliance and energy conservation. We introduce social norm feedback in a public good setting and study the interplay between payoff-relevant within-group norms and payoff-irrelevant outgroup norms. We show that conflict between within- and outgroup norms dampens within-group conditional cooperation. Further, participants strategically ignore outgroup norms when these go against self-interest, instead consulting norm information that allows them reducing their contributions. On aggregate, such information acquisition/avoidance strategy favors exposition to norms that hastens the breakdown of cooperation. Finally, norm avoidance is higher when feedback is based on individual rather than group-level comparisons, which is consistent with a self-image cost associated with social norm feedback.
D12|From average Joe to frugal Jane and wasteful John: A quantile regression analysis of Swiss households' electricity use|"In this article, we investigate the heterogeneity in household electricity demand in Switzerland. We use a quantile regression approach in order to assess the impacts of electricity prices, income and other socio-demographic characteristics across consumer groups with increasing energy intensities. Estimations show important differences between the ""average Joe"", the ""frugal Jane"" and the ""wasteful John"" for the majority of these variables. Most importantly, households in the lowest deciles of electricity use do not react to changes in electricity prices, while those situated at upper-end of the electricity spectrum exhibit significantly negative short-run price elasticities varying between -0.16, -0.19, -0.21 and -0.27 at the at the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th deciles, respectively. We also find that low users of electricity react positively and significantly to changes in their wealth compared to intensive electricity consumers. The main policy implications of this work concern the design of price-based measures for reducing electricity consumption in the residential sector and the possibility of accounting for individual responses in tailoring policies, governance mechanisms and business models."
D12|Wages and Family Time Allocation|This paper examines changes in married people's allocation of time since 1980, a period in which female labor supply increased substantially, men's share of household work rose, and the gender wage gap narrowed down. I develop a life-cycle collective household model for market and non-market work, consumption and asset accumulation, which also features lack of commitment to lifetime marriage. Wages in the model shift intra-family bargaining power and induce bargaining effects on outcomes in addition to standard income and substitution effects. I estimate gender-specific preferences and how intra-family bargaining power changes with a narrowing gender gap using data from the PSID. The results suggest that a narrowing gender gap improved women's bargaining power in the family resulting in a shift of household work to their husbands. It also contributed to the increase in female labor market participation. If the gender gap is counterfactually eliminated, the proportion of women in full-time work rises throughout the lifecycle to match approximately that of men. The increase comes from women who cut down household chores and enter the labor market when they previously did not participate.
D12|Program evaluation and ethnic differences: the Pension 65 program in Peru|We show that the introduction of a non-contributory pension program (Pension 65) in Peru had remarkably different effects for its three main ethnic groups, i.e., Mestizo, Quechua, and Aymara. The Aymara beneficiaries of the program have experienced larger increases in health and life satisfaction compared to other Peruvians. Using a panel life satisfaction regression, we find evidence for preference heterogeneity between the Aymara and the other ethnic groups that is consistent with the observed differences. Finally, we turn to the question of how the pension program can be evaluated in a robust manner while respecting the preference heterogeneity between the ethnic groups. We propose the natural criterion that a program benefits a recipient if she is lifted to a higher indifference curve. We show that the pension program was beneficial for all groups, but that more Aymara beneficiaries were lifted to a higher indifference curve compared to other Peruvians. Our proposed criterion can be useful to evaluate programs in all cases where preference differences matter.
D12|MPC heterogeneity and household balance sheets|Using Norwegian administrative data, we study how sizable lottery prizes affect household expenditure and savings. Expenditure responses (MPCs) spike in the year of winning, with a mean estimate of 0.35, and thereafter fall markedly. Controlling for all items on the household balance sheet and characteristics such as education and age, MPCs vary with the amount won and liquid assets only. Shock size matters: The MPC among the 25 percent winning least is twice as high as among the 25 percent winning most. Many households are wealthy, illiquid and have high MPCs, consistent with 2-asset models of consumer choice.
D12|A path out: Prescription drug abuse, treatment, and suicide|In this paper we investigate the dual role of supply restrictions and drug treatment in combating the concurrent rise of opioid abuse and suicide in the United States over the last two decades. We find that supply-side interventions decrease suicides in places with strong addiction-help networks, implying that prescription drug abuse is associated with an inherent risk of suicide. Our findings support an important role for access to treatment services in policies designed to combat the opioid epidemic.
D12|Water Tariffs and Consumers' Inaction|We study adoption by more than 150,000 households of an optional transitional water tariff implemented in the South-East of England in conjunction with an universal metering pro- gramme. We document how inertia leads customers to relinquish substantial financial gains, with less than a third of customers who would benefit from adopting the transitional tariff actually doing so. We also show how households responds not only to overall gains, but also to more short-term gains from adopting the tariff. Households in high income/high education neighbourhoods display a higher responsiveness to potential savings, as do households where the contract holder is of prime age instead of being more senior or junior. Finally, the probability of adoption is positively impacted by adoption by neighbours, thus suggesting the presence of peer effects. We also look at the timing of the call, showing how most customers choose to call early on, when less information is available, but the issue is more prominent. The choice of when to call is consistent with customers taking into account the option value of waiting, as well as future consumption patterns.
D12|The health effects of smoking bans: Evidence from German hospitalization data|This paper studies the short‐term impact of public smoking bans on hospitalizations in Germany. It exploits the staggered implementation of smoking bans over time and across the 16 federal states along with the universe of hospitalizations from 2000 to 2008 and daily county‐level weather and pollution data. Smoking bans in bars and restaurants have been effective in preventing 1.9 hospital admissions (−2.1%) due to cardiovascular diseases per day, per 1 million population. We also find a decrease by 0.5 admissions (−6.5%) due to asthma per day, per 1 million population. The health prevention effects are more pronounced on sunny days and days with higher ambient pollution levels.
D12|Validating the Collective Model of Household Consumption Using Direct Evidence on Sharing|Recent advances in the collective model literature suggest ways to estimate the complete allocation of resources within households, using assignable goods and assuming adult preference similarity across demographic groups (or across spouses). While it makes welfare analysis at the individual level possible, the predictive power of the model is unknown. We propose the first validation of this approach, exploiting a unique dataset from Bangladesh in which the detailed expenditure on private goods by each family member is collected. Individualized expenditure allows us to test the identifying assumptions and to derive 'observed' resource sharing within families, which can be compared to the resource allocation predicted by the model. Sharing between parents and children is well predicted on average while the model detects key aspects like the extent of pro-boy discrimination. Results overall depend on the identifying good: clothing provides the best fit compared to other goods as it best validates the preference-similarity assumption. The model leads to accurate measures of child and adult poverty, indicating the size and direction of the mistakes made when using the traditional approach based on per adult equivalent expenditure (i.e. ignoring within-household inequality). This assessment of existing approaches to measure individual inequality and poverty is crucial for both academic and policy circles and militates in favor of a systematic use of collective models for welfare analyses.
