D20|Improved productivity measurement in New Zealand's Longitudinal Business Database|Accounts information that businesses supply to Inland Revenue for tax purposes provide over 96% of the observations in the productivity dataset in the Longitudinal Business Database. In 2013, material changes in the data collected halted the annual updating of the productivity dataset. This paper describes a method for accounting for these raw data discontinuities, and revisits the prior productivity dataset methodology, implementing wholesale changes that improve the overall quality of the data and the versatility of the productivity dataset.
D20|Beyond the Doomsday Economics of “Proof-of-Work” in Cryptocurrencies|This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, i.e., “proof-of-work.” Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via “double-spending” attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of “mining” income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation.
D20|Embedded supervision: how to build regulation into blockchain finance|The spread of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in finance could help to improve the efficiency and quality of supervision. This paper makes the case for embedded supervision, ie a regulatory framework that provides for compliance in tokenised markets to be automatically monitored by reading the market's ledger, thus reducing the need for firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data. After sketching out a design for such schemes, the paper explores the conditions under which distributed ledger data might be used to monitor compliance. To this end, a decentralised market is modelled that replaces today's intermediary-based verification of legal data with blockchain-enabled data credibility based on economic consensus. The key results set out the conditions under which the market's economic consensus would be strong enough to guarantee that transactions are economically final, so that supervisors can trust the distributed ledger's data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the legislative and operational requirements that would promote low-cost supervision and a level playing field for small and large firms.
D20|Market power and monetary policy|In this paper we explore the link between monetary policy and market power. We start by establishing several facts on market power in UK markets using micro data. First, while no clear trend emerges for market concentration, market power measured by markups estimated at the firm level have clearly increased in recent years, with the rise being reasonably broad-based across sectors. Second, we show that the increase is heavily concentrated in the upper tail of the distribution — companies whose mark-ups are in, say, the top quartile. Third, internationally-oriented firms are the driving force behind the rise in markups. Fourth, following Díez et al (2018), we find some reduced-form evidence of a non-monotonic relation between markups and investment at the firm level, with high levels of markups being associated with lower investment. Having established these facts, we show that the Phillips curve becomes steeper in the textbook New Keynesian model when firms tend to have more market power, reducing the sacrifice ratio for monetary policy. As inflation becomes less costly in an economy with high market power, however, the optimal targeting rule for monetary policy also changes. A rise in both the trend and volatility of mark-ups may lead to a significant rise in inflation variability. But a secular rise in mark-ups by itself improves monetary policy’s ability to stabilise inflation without inducing large movements in output.
D20|Firm Heterogeneity and the Aggregate Labour Share|Using a static model of firm behaviour with imperfect competition on the product and labour markets, we quantify the effect of firm heterogeneity in total factor productivity, market power, capital, wages and prices on the aggregate labour share. In particular, we suggest a new decomposition of the aggregate labour share in terms of the first moments of the joint distribution of these variables across firms, providing a bridge between the micro and the macro approach to functional distribution. We provide an application of our method to the UK manufacturing sector, using firm-level data for the period 1998-2014. The analysis confirms that heterogeneity matters: in an economy populated only by representative firms, the labour share would be 10 percentage points lower. Among all the dimensions studied, heterogeneity in total factor productivity and labour market power are the most relevant ones, whereas heterogeneity in product market power matters the least, with wages and prices in between. However, the observed fall in the aggregate labour share over the period is mostly explained by a widening of the disconnect between average productivity and real wages, with a smaller role for an increase in the average product and labour market power of firms after the Great Recession, while changes in the dispersion of these variables mostly offset each other.
D20|The Risk of Policy Tipping and Stranded Carbon Assets|If global warming is to stay below 2°C, there are four risks of assets stranding. First, substantial fossil fuel reserves will be stranded at the end of the fossil era. Second, this will be true for exploration capital too. Third, unanticipated changes in present or expected future climate policy cause instantaneous discrete jumps in today’s valuation of physical and natural capital. Fourth, if timing and intensity of climate policy are uncertain, revaluation of assets occurs as uncertainty about future climate policy is resolved. E.g. abandoning climate policy plans immediately boosts scarcity rent, market capitalization, exploration investment and discoveries. To explain and quantify these four effects, we use an analytical model of investment in exploration capital with intertemporal adjustment costs, depletion of reserves and market capitalization, and calibrate it to the global oil and gas industry. Climate policy implements a carbon budget commensurate with 2°C peak warming and we allow for different instruments: immediate or delayed carbon taxes and renewable subsidies. The social welfare ranking of these instruments is inverse to that of the oil and gas industry which prefers renewable subsidy and delaying taxes for as long as possible. We also pay attention to how the legislative “risk” of tipping into policy action affects the timing of the end of the fossil era, the profitability of existing capital, and green paradox effects.
D20|Using Social Connections and Financial Incentives to Solve Coordination Failure: A Quasi-Field Experiment in India's Manufacturing Sector|Production processes are often organised in teams, yet there is limited evidence on whether and how social connections and financial incentives affect productivity in tasks that require coordination among workers. We simulate assembly line production in a lab-in-the-field experiment in which workers exert real effort in a minimum-effort game in teams whose members are either socially connected or unconnected and are paid according to the group output. We find that group output increases by 15% and wasted individual output is lower by 30% when workers are socially connected with their co-workers. Unlike the findings of existing research, increasing the power of group-based financial incentives does not reduce the positive effect of social connections. Our results are driven by men whose average productivity is significantly lower than that of women. These findings can be explained by pro-social behavior of workers in socially connected teams.
D20|"Beyond the doomsday economics of ""proof-of-work"" in cryptocurrencies"|"This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, ie ""proof-of-work"". Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via ""double-spending"" attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of ""mining"" income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation."
D20|The Collaborative Innovation Bloc: A Reply to our Commentators|We are grateful for the comments to our article, and for the opportunity to respond to them. In our original contribution, we argued that the application of the EOE perspective could help make Austrian economics more concrete, relevant and persuasive, especially regarding policy prescriptions. At the heart of this perspective is the idea that entrepreneurship, when construed as the act of building an innovative firm, is an inherently collaborative activity. The comments have strengthened our conviction that the EOE perspective is of value for Austrian economics and been of great help in furthering our thinking on the matter. The comments have also helped us see how the perspective fits in with the broader tradition of Austrian economics.​
D20|Efficient and sustainable bioenergy production in Swedish forests – a network DEA approach|Forest fuel defined as branches and tops (GROT) of harvested trees represents a large share of forest biomass and is increasingly viewed as a potential energy source. This study assesses the economic potentials of forest bioenergy production in Swedish forests, using a network data envelopment analysis (DEA) model to estimate the technology for biofuel and other forest products. We consider that forests are managed to use multiple inputs to produce multiple outputs. Outputs include sawtimber, pulpwood, fuelwood, and bioenergy in terms of GROT. Our model also considers environmental concerns over biodiversity and CO2 emissions from burning biomass. We apply the network DEA model to measure the revenue efficiency of forest production of Swedish forests using a panel consisting of 20 counties and covering the years from 2008 to 2014. Our results show that there exist persistent economic inefficiencies of forest production in some counties, reducing the overall efficiency of Sweden’s forest and wood products industry. In addition, we also estimate the potential increase in bioenergy, deadwood and CO2 emissions reduction from combustion of bioenergy and by-products from sawtimber and pulpwood.
D20|The Effects of Access to Credit on Productivity: Separating Technological Changes from Changes in Technical Efficiency|Improving productivity among microenterprises is important, especially in low-income countries where market imperfections are pervasive, and resources are scarce. Relaxing credit constraints can increase the productivity of microenterprises. Using a field experiment involving agricultural microenterprises in Bangladesh, we estimated the impact of access to credit on the overall productivity of rice farmers and disentangled the total effect into technological change (frontier shift) and technical efficiency changes. We found that relative to the baseline rice output per decimal, access to credit resulted in, on average, approximately a 14 percent increase in yield, holding all other inputs constant. After decomposing the total effect into the frontier shift and efficiency improvement, we found that, on average, around 11 percent of the increase in output came from changes in technology, or frontier shift, while the remaining 3 percent was attributed to improvements in technical efficiency. The efficiency gain was higher for modern hybrid rice varieties, and almost zero for traditional rice varieties. Within the treatment group, the effect was greater among pure tenant and mixed-tenant microenterprise households compared with microenterprises that only cultivated their own land.
D20|Surveying Business Uncertainty|We develop a new monthly panel survey of business executives and a new question design that elicits subjective probability distributions over own-firm outcomes at a one-year lookahead horizon. Our Survey of Business Uncertainty (SBU) began in 2014 and now covers 1,500 firms drawn from all 50 states, every major industry in the nonfarm private sector, and a full range of firm sizes. We use SBU data to measure expected future outcomes for the growth of sales, employment, and investment for each firm and the uncertainty surrounding those expectations. Mean expectations are highly predictive of realized growth rates in the firm-level data, and subjective uncertainty is highly predictive of absolute forecast errors. We also use the SBU data to produce a Business Expectations Index (first moment) and a Business Uncertainty Index (second moment) for the U.S. economy. In Granger causality tests, the Business Expectations Index has statistically significant predictive power for a range of prominent business cycle indicators. The SBU also includes special questions that elicit additional information, including the perceived effects of specific government policy developments on the firm's decisions and outcomes.
D20|Firm Heterogeneity and the Aggregate Labour Share|Using a static model of firm behaviour with imperfect competition on the product and labour markets, we quantify the effect of firm heterogeneity in total factor productivity, market power, capital, wages and prices on the aggregate labour share. In particular, we suggest a new decomposition of the aggregate labour share in terms of the first moments of the joint distribution of these variables across firms, providing a bridge between the micro and the macro approach to functional distribution. We provide an application of our method to the UK manufacturing sector, using firm-level data for the period 1998-2014. The analysis confirms that heterogeneity matters: in an economy populated only by representative firms, the labour share would be 10 percentage points lower. Among all the dimensions studied, heterogeneity in total factor productivity and labour market power are the most relevant ones, whereas heterogeneity in product market power matters the least, with wages and prices in between. However, the observed fall in the aggregate labour share over the period is mostly explained by a widening of the disconnect between average productivity and real wages, with a smaller role for an increase in the average product and labour market power of firms after the Great Recession, while changes in the dispersion of these variables mostly offset each other.
D20|Firm export diversification and change in workforce composition|The objective of this paper is to show that part of the fixed cost of firms’ trade expansion is due to the acquisition of new internal capabilities (e.g. technology, production processes or skills), which imply a costly change in the firm’s internal labor organisation. We investigate the relationship between a firm’s structure of labor, in terms of relative number of managers, and the scope of its export portfolio, in terms of product-destination varieties. The empirical analysis is based on a matched employer- employee dataset covering the population of French firms from tradable sectors over theperiod 2009-2014. Our analysis suggests that market expansion, and in particular export diversification, is associated with a change in the firm’s workforce composition, namely an increase in the number of managerial layers and in the ratio of managers. We show how these results are consistent with a simple model where the complexity of a firm’s operations increases in the number of product-destination couples exported, and where managers’ role is to address the unsolved problems arising from such increased complexity of operations.
D20|Let’s meet as usual: Do games on non-frequent days differ? Evidence from top European soccer leagues|Balancing the allocation of games in sports competitions is an important organizational task that can have serious financial consequences. In this paper, we examine data from 9,930 soccer games played in the top German, Spanish, French, and English soccer leagues between 2007/2008 and 2016/2017. Using a machine learning technique for variable selection and applying a semi-parametric analysis of radius matching on the propensity score, we find that all four leagues have a lower attendance as the share of stadium capacity in games that take place on non-frequently played days compared to the frequently played days. In addition, we find that in all leagues except for the English Premier League, there is a significantly lower home advantage for the underdog teams on non-frequent days. Our findings suggest that the current schedule favors underdog teams with fewer home games on non-frequent days. Therefore, to increase the fairness of the competitions, it is necessary to adjust the allocation of the home games on non-frequent days in a way that eliminates any advantage driven by the schedule. These findings have implications for the stakeholders of the leagues, as well as for coaches and players.
D20|Employment Effects of Offshore Oil and Gas Regulations|The estimation of the employment effects of offshore safety and environmental regulation is often highly speculative and based on questionable assumptions. Nevertheless, it is still highly publicized and used as a basis for policy statements in support or, or in opposition to, proposed regulations. Much more reliable estimates of such employment effects can be made, however, based on fundamental principles of microeconomic analysis. This paper demonstrates this by developing a microeconomic model explaining the effects of offshore regulations on employment, assuming the standard profit-maximization behavior of firms. The paper finds that the most relevant and reliable measures of employment effects are: reductions in employment from operations that are terminated because of the new regulation, increases in employment because of additional labor needed to meet the new requirements, and increases in employment in equipment manufacturing when the regulation calls for the expanded use of certain equipment. The costs related to these contractions or expansions of employment can often be gleaned from information in the benefit-cost analysis that was required to accompany the proposed regulation by the regulatory agency involved. For example, the daily costs of offshore rigs and the costs of equipment can be translated to increases in employment.
D20|Overburdened judges|We develop a double-sided moral hazard model in which the production of justice depends on two tasks (jurisdictional and administrative). The jurisdictional task can be provided only by a judge (the agent) while the administrative task can be provided either by the government (the principal) and/or by the judge. However, the judge performs the administrative task at a higher unit cost. First, we show that the first-best situation is such that the judge exerts no effort to provide the administrative task. Second, we show that two forms of (second-best) optimal contract can emerge when neither the government's effort nor the judge's effort is contractible: either the incentives are shared between the government and the judge and the judge exerts no effort to provide the administrative task, or the judge faces high-powered incentives which induce her to exert effort to provide both tasks. Our model proposes a rationale for judges work overload observed in many countries.
D20|Termination Risk and Agency Problems: Evidence from the NBA|When agents with a significant risk of termination in the short term have discretion over project selection, they may have incentives to underinvest in projects whose results would be realized only in the long term, and owners may take this agency problem into account when deciding whether to grant those agents discretion in decision-making. Because NBA rookies who participate in games gain NBA experience that likely improves their long-term performance, decisions of NBA teams about whether to let rookies play provide a useful context for investigating this potential agency problem. We develop a model that identifies when owners will choose to leave coaches with discretion over rookie participation decisions and shows that, in the presence of such discretion, coaches facing a higher termination risk can be expected to use rookies less often. Testing our model using NBA data, we find evidence that is consistent with the predictions of our model.
D20|Granular Comparative Advantage|Large firms play a pivotal role in international trade, shaping the export patterns of countries. We propose and quantify a granular multi-sector model of trade, which combines fundamental comparative advantage across sectors with granular comparative advantage embodied in outstanding individual firms. We develop an SMM-based estimation procedure, which takes full account of the general equilibrium of the model, to jointly estimate these fundamental and granular forces using French micro-data with information on firm domestic and export sales across manufacturing industries. We find that granularity accounts for about 20% of the variation in realized export intensity across sectors, and is more pronounced in the most export-intensive sectors. In turn, idiosyncratic firm dynamics accounts for a large share of the evolution of a country's comparative advantage over time. Governments face strong incentives to target trade policy at large individual foreign exporters, and to use lenient antitrust regulation at home to substitute for beggar-thy-neighbor trade policy.
D20|Microeconomics of tourism among selected CEE countries: What influences profitability in a case of those profitable firms?| The paper has focused on financial management of medium-sized hotels and travel agencies in eight selected Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries. According to a business finance theory, there should be inverse relation between liquidity and profitability of companies. In general, if managers decrease firm's liquidity through investing into the fixed assets they should increase firm's profitability, which is caused by possible higher earnings from those investments. The aim of the study is to estimate how is profitability of those profitable tourism companies affected by selected financial variables, and decide whether the business finance theory is valid also within tourism industry among selected CEE countries. Annual data from Amadeus, the international statistical database are obtained from 1,957 hotels and 785 travel agencies from Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia. General Methods of Moments (GMM) with panel data is used as the main estimation method for period from 2006 to 2015. However, results of the paper have shown that the business finance theory is not valid either within both types of tourism companies nor among all selected CEE countries. Furthermore, it is obvious that a conflict between managers of tourism companies and their owners should have been paid more attention. A creating of retained earnings within the stockholders' funds when owners had reinvested the earnings back to the business had particular significance for tourism companies' profitability within the period affected by the global financial crisis, even in the case of those profitable companies.
D20|Climate Policy and Stranded Carbon Assets: a Financial Perspective|Unanticipated climate policy curbs the value of physical capital that is costly to adjust. We illustrate this by showing that climate policy to keep peak global warming below 2°C depresses the share prices of oil and gas majors and their market capitalisation, curbs exploration investment and oil and gas discoveries, boosts proven reserves left abandoned in the crust of the earth, cuts exploitation investment, and induces an earlier onset of the carbon-free era. For a given carbon budget, an immediate carbon tax is the first-best response but delaying the carbon tax or a renewable energy subsidy to meet the same temperature target are preferred by shareholders because they introduce Green Paradox effects and protect the profitability of existing capital.
D20|The Superiority of Biased Reviewers in a Model of Simultaneous Sales|This paper considers the impact of reviewers on sales of products of quality unknown to consumers. Sales occur simultaneously after consideration by a reviewer with a known level of bias. Consumers observe the reviewer`s decision and a private signal. We find that: (a) with flexible prices and signals that are not too revealing the reviewer most biased against the product is best for profits; (b) with flexible prices and very revealing private signals the reviewer most biased in favour is optimal; (c) with fixed prices then a reviewer biased against, but close to unibased, is optimal.
D20|The Institutionalist Theory of the Business Enterprise: Past, Present, and Future|This paper examines the historical developments of the institutionalist theory of the business enterprise since early 1900s. We will examine the major contributions in order to find the theoretical characteristics of the institutionalist theory of the business enterprise vis-à-vis evolving capitalism. The paper begins with a discussion of the present state of the institutional theory, looks back on the original ideas of Veblen and Commons, and goes on to later contributions, such as Gardiner Means, John Kenneth Galbraith, William Dugger, and Alfred Eichner. The paper concludes with a discussion as to what should be done for the further development of the institutionalist theory of the business enterprise.
D20|The behaviour of disaggregated transitory and potential output over the economic cycle|This paper examines the behaviour of disaggregated transitory and potential output over the economic cycle in South Africa. Aggregate output and output of the economic sectors and industries were decomposed into their transitory and potential components. These components were then examined for comovement. The results of the transitory component generally show a moderate to strong positive comovement between aggregate output and output of all the economic sectors and majority of the industries. The results of the potential component have generally show a weak positive comovement between aggregate output and output of majority of economic sectors and the economic industries. A generally weak comovement between aggregate output and output of general government services and community, social and personal services highlights a more laissez faire approach to economic management. Contrary to the investment literature, there does not seem to be a definite distinction between the companies industry categories, such as the defensive, cyclical and sensitive industries.
D20|Estimating risk efficiency in MiddleEast banks before and after the crisis.A Metafrontier framework|The aim of this study is two-fold. Firstly, it attempts to analyse the effect of risk on Middle East bank's efficiency levels before and after the recent financial crisis. Secondly, it seeks to determine the influence of bank size taking into consideration the possible inefficiency originated to risk abatement cost. To examine the aforementioned issues we introduce a risk efficiency index based on an output orientated directional distance function with weak and strong disposability assumptions. The methodology has been applied on a panel data of Middle East banks spanning the period 1998-2014.The empirical findings suggest that on average small banks are more efficient and their size have less negative impact on their technical efficiency and risk management. On the other hand, large banks' risk management is found to be more flexible during financial crisis. Finally, banks with higher fixed assets are associated with more costly dispose of non performing loans justifying the rejection of a positive relation between bank size and technical efficiency.
D20|Managing Strategic Change and ERP Implementation under Distinctive Learning Styles: Quantitative case of Burberry PLC|This paper examines the effective strategic change management and Enterprise Resource Planning implementation under distinctive learning styles namely; diverging, converging, assembling, and accommodating learning styles through case of Burberry brand at Bicester Village, Cheshire Oaks, and Chatham Place. Additionally, paper investigates the strategic changes and organizational factors in relation with the ability to adopt change and successful ERP implementation. Total 87 respondents were approached through snowball, purposive, and convenience sampling. Findings revealed that accommodating learning style is the most influential learning style that significant positively affects the ERP implementation process. Interestingly, all learning styles (diverging, converging, assimilating, and accommodating) have statistically significant correlation with organizational change process. Additionally, complexity is the most critical organizational component affecting employees' ability to accept changes.
D20|Why Companies Fail? The Boiling Frog Syndrome|Why nations fail? An answer is given by Acemoglu and Robinson (2012) by pointing out the importance of institutions for an economy that leads to innovations for economic growth. Christensen (2012) asks a similar question for a firm and diagnoses why companies fail. In this study, I relate Acemoglu and Robinson (2012) with Christensen (2012) in order to better understand how to make companies more prosperous, more powerful, healthier, and live longer via innovations.
D20|Komparatif dropshipping dengan jual beli salam paralel<BR>[Comparative dropshipping with sale and purchase greetings Parallel]|There is a slight difference between dropship and buying and selling greetings. Dropship does not accommodate items sold. Thus, it creates unclear legal status of dropshipping in the realm of shari'a economic law. So to avoid doubts in transactions in dropshipping then there must be a clear law in shari'ah, so that business can freely in transactions. The objectives of this research are: first to know the concept of dropshipping in the business world, secondly to know the concept of bai 'as-salam in business world, and third to know whether the dropshipping transaction is in line with bai' as-salam concept. Based on the results of research, dropshipping transactions is an online sale by way of order but the seller does not menyetok goods, while bai 'as-salam is a sale and purchase orders are legalized by Islam. Then dropshipping can be said not in line with the concept bai 'as-salam. Due to the non-fulfillment of the terms of the seller bai 'as-salam by dropship (online store), ie where the dropship never holds goods so that it has no power over the goods to sell, and acts dishonestly over the shipping label of goods as if the dropship is the owner and the real shippers. So the dropship has made the sale of goods that are not owned which is not allowed in sharia economic law.
D20|Performances management when modelling internal structure|The performances management is a key issue for public as well as private organizations. The core of the performances management in the DEA context are essentially the relative efficiency measurement for organizations considered as a “black box” that use inputs to produce two or more outputs. In reality, organizations/ production process are comprised of a number of divisions/stages which performs different functions/tasks interacting among them. For these reasons modelling internal structures of organizations/production process allow to discover the inefficiency of individual divisions/stages. In this paper we estimate the relative efficiency of a production process once modelling its internal structure with a network structure of three divisions/stages interrelated among them. To outline the differences in the performances management in the two cases (“black box” vs network structure) we compare they empirical cumulative distribution functions.
D20|Electricity Outages and Firm Performance Across the Six Geo-Political Zones in Nigeria: The Role of Corruption|This paper provides evidence on the role of corruption in mitigating the effect of electricity outages on firm performance across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria. In addition, this study also assessed effect of self-generation on firm performance across the six geo-political zones and comparison were made as to whether it is more profitable for firms to self-generate electricity during outage periods or bribe electricity officials to mitigates the effect of electricity outages on their performance. Using the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES), the study employed a cross sectional Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and Two-Stage Least Squares (2SLS) techniques and the results of the findings indicate that, bribery does not mitigate the effect of electricity outages on firms across all the geo-political zones in Nigeria with exception of the North-East and the South-East geo-political zones. Although, electricity outage is relatively low in the North-East region, further findings revealed that; firms in the south-east region experience the highest outage intensity of an average of 122.025 times in a typical month, while those in the South-South region experience the lowest outage intensity of an average of 25.845times in a typical month. Lastly, contrary to the arguments in the literature that self-generation during power holidays improves firm performance, evidence from this study suggests otherwise for some geo-political zones in Nigeria. For instance, this study discovered that self-generation is a form of indirect tax which has a negative effect on firm performance especially the North-West, South-West and South-South geo-political zones. Also, while it is more profitable for firms in the North-Central, North East, and South-East regions to self-generate during power holidays, the findings for North-West, South-West and South-South geo-political zones reveal that firms in the zones are better off by relying on electricity supply from the public grid.
D20|Electricity Outages and Firm Performance Across the Six Geo-Political Zones in Nigeria: The Role of Corruption|This paper provides evidence on the role of corruption in mitigating the effect of electricity outages on firm performance across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria. In addition, this study also assessed effect of self-generation on firm performance across the six geo-political zones and comparison were made as to whether it is more profitable for firms to self-generate electricity during outage periods or bribe electricity officials to mitigates the effect of electricity outages on their performance. Using the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES), the study employed a cross sectional Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and Two-Stage Least Squares (2SLS) techniques and the results of the findings indicate that, bribery does not mitigate the effect of electricity outages on firms across all the geo-political zones in Nigeria with exception of the North-East and the South-East geo-political zones. Although, electricity outage is relatively low in the North-East region, further findings revealed that; firms in the south-east region experience the highest outage intensity of an average of 122.025 times in a typical month, while those in the South-South region experience the lowest outage intensity of an average of 25.845times in a typical month. Lastly, contrary to the arguments in the literature that self-generation during power holidays improves firm performance, evidence from this study suggests otherwise for some geo-political zones in Nigeria. For instance, this study discovered that self-generation is a form of indirect tax which has a negative effect on firm performance especially the North-West, South-West and South-South geo-political zones. Also, while it is more profitable for firms in the North-Central, North East, and South-East regions to self-generate during power holidays, the findings for North-West, South-West and South-South geo-political zones reveal that firms in the zones are better off by relying on electricity supply from the public grid.
D20|The Performance of Financial Institutions: Modeling, Evidence, and Some Policy Implications|The unique capital structure of commercial banking – funding production with demandable debt that participates in the economy’s payments system – affects various aspects of banking. It shapes commercial banks’ comparative advantage in providing financial products and services to informationally opaque customers, their ability to diversify credit and liquidity risk, and how they are regulated, including the need to obtain a charter to operate and explicit and implicit federal guarantees of bank liabilities to reduce the probability of bank runs. These aspects of banking affect a bank’s choice of risk versus expected return, which, in turn, affects bank performance. Banks have an incentive to reduce risk to protect their valuable charters from episodes of financial distress, and they also have an incentive to increase risk to exploit the cost-of-funds subsidy of mispriced deposit insurance. These are contrasting incentives tied to bank size. Measuring bank performance and its relationship to size requires untangling cost and profit from decisions about risk versus expected return because both cost and profit are functions of endogenous risk-taking. This chapter gives an overview of two general empirical approaches to measuring bank performance and discusses some of the applications of these approaches found in the literature. One application explains how better diversification available at a larger scale of operations generates scale economies that are obscured by higher levels of risk-taking. Studies of commercial banking cost that ignore endogenous risk-taking find little evidence of scale economies at the largest banks, while those that control for this risk-taking find large scale economies at the largest banks – evidence with important implications for regulation.
D20|A New Approach In Quality Function Deployment And It?S Application|In today?s world it is necessary to ensure sustainable development. Quality Function Deployment model is a dynamic model that can help to achieve this objective. Quality Function Deployment model has been widely used in the manufacturing industry and its use in the services industry is also felt these days. The literature available on the model generally presents the conceptual framework of the model. The authors have attempted to present through this paper the computations involved in reaching to the solution of the QFD model by way of a toy problem. The paper outlines computations for Goal, Raw weight and Priority scores. By knowing their values the practitioners can take judicious decisions regarding product design, quality improvement, market competition, etc.
D20|Platform-mediated reputation systems in the sharing economy and incentives to provide service quality: the case of ridesharing services|Sharing economy platforms often use reputation systems to actively perform a ‘regulatory’/control role, by excluding from access to the platform users with ratings below a given threshold. We provide a multiple case study analysis of 9 platforms and investigate through a simple inter-temporal choice model the effect of the design of this specific application of online rating systems on users/providers’ incentives to ensure a high level of service quality. Compliance with the platform’s behavioural rules is imperfect even with perfect reviews and even if riders cannot switch across platforms. It can be increased by linking remuneration to performance and by increasing the opportunity cost of reintegrating the endowment of reputation, also by influencing providers’ perception of the magnitude of this cost. Thus, there may be an efficiency rationale for the controversial choice to willingly preserve riders’ uncertainty as to the operation of the algorithm and for portability of reputation.
D20|Anti-Migration as a Threat to Internationalization? A Review of the Migration- Internationalization Literature|Does anti-migration sentiment threaten internationalization? One major pro-Brexit argument was that it would enable more control over immigration. The most recent US presidential election also focused on immigration. Anti-migration sentiment could be a threat to internationalization, given that migrants can help lower the costs of internationalization. Since trade contributes to economic growth, this could, in turn, impede economic development. Despite extensive literature on the migration-trade nexus, there are few examples of policymakers highlighting the role of migration for internationalization. One possible explanation is the absence of an accessible survey of the available theory and evidence on this relationship, and this article intends to bridge the gap. We review and discuss over 100 papers published on the subject, from pioneering country-level studies to nascent firm-level studies that utilize employer-employee data. To our knowledge, this is the first paper offering a wide-ranging review of the different strands of theory on the relationship between migration and internationalization, as well as new empirical findings. Although the evidence suggests that migration can facilitate internationalization we also note substantial gaps and inconsistencies in the extant literature. The aim of this article is to encourage future research and assist policymakers in their efforts to promote internationalization.
D20|Fortalecimiento institucional y expansión del crédito mediante el uso de TICs en Entidades Financieras Comunales en Bolivia|Este documento analiza la implementación de un sistema financiero (software) para las Entidades Financieras Comunales (EFC) que se realizó entre los años 2011 y 2012, el cual fue un conjunto de módulos financieros que facilitaban la administración de información y prácticas operativas en cada una de estas entidades. La utilización del sistema pretendía mejorar su institucionalidad, además de expandir sus créditos e incrementar los ingresos de sus prestatarios. Empleando métodos cualitativos (entrevistas) y datos cuantitativos (Data Mart), se pudo concluir que el sistema tuvo beneficios dentro del manejo operativo de las instituciones financieras, pero no se pudo demostrar un impacto evidente en el incremento de los créditos y tampoco sobre los ingresos de los prestatarios.
D20|Minimum Wage and Productivity: Analysis of Manufacturing Industry of Korea (in Korean)|Recent discussions on minimum wage increase (MWI) and its influences on the economy have mainly focused on the quantitative aspects such as labor cost and employment. However, on the qualitative aspects, MWI could have positive effects by enhancing firm productivity and crowding out marginal firms in the market. These positive effects of MWI can offset, to some extent, its potential negative effects ? the increase of labor cost and the decrease of employment among others. In this regard we empirically examine the impact of MWI on the firm productivity (total factor productivity). Using firm level panel data in the manufacturing industry of Korea, we calculate the influence rates of minimum wage by sector and by size (number of workers) and analyze their effect on the firm productivity. In particular the production functions of the firms are estimated by the way of taking into account endogeneity among input factors, in order to resolve the drawbacks of existing studies ? underestimating capital factor coefficient and overestimating labor factor coefficient. This study finds that the influences of MWI on wage, employment, and productivity differ across sectors and firm sizes. While MWI has shown positive influences on the productivity growth in the manufacturing industry as a whole, each sector demonstrates different direction of effect and the degree of productivity change is also varying by sector. The impacts of MWI on the firm productivity are estimated generally to be more negative for smaller firms but for some sectors the effects are found to be positive. In addition, the wage increases resulted from MWI seem to cause productivity enhancement throughout all sectors in the manufacturing industry. The policy implications of this study are as follows. Considering the empirical finding that MWI causes the increases of productivity in many sectors of the manufacturing industry, it will be desirable to evaluate not only the negative side effects but also the positive effects of MWI for designing future minimum wage policy. Moreover, in spite of the uniform minimum wage, this study finds that the diverse influence rates of minimum wage across firms have differential impacts on wage, employment, and productivity across sectors or different sizes of establishment. This finding could be conducive to discussing about the differentiation of minimum wage scheme by sector or by size.
D20|Come Together: Firm Boundaries and Delegation|Little is known about the relationship between firm boundaries and the allocation of decision rights within firms. We develop a model in which final good producers choose which suppliers to integrate and whether to delegate decisions to integrated suppliers, when they are ex-ante uncertain about their ability. In this setting, integration has an option value: ownership rights give producers authority to delegate or centralize production decisions, depending on the realized ability of suppliers. To assess the evidence, we construct measures of vertical integration and delegation for thousands of firms in many countries and industries. Consistent with the model, we find that (i) integration and delegation co-vary positively; (ii) firms delegate more decisions to integrated suppliers of more valuable inputs; and suppliers are more likely to be integrated if (iii) they produce more valuable inputs and (iv) operate in industries with greater productivity dispersion.
D20|Network formation with myopic and farsighted players|We study the formation of networks where myopic and farsighted individuals decide with whom they want to form a link, according to a distance-based utility function that weighs the costs and benefits of each connection. We propose the notion of myopic-farsighted stable set to determine the networks that emerge when some individuals are myopic while others are farsighted. A myopic-farsighted stable set is the set of networks satisfying internal and external stability with respect to the notion of myopic-farsighted improving path. In the case of a homogeneous population (either all myopic or all farsighted), a conflict between stability and efficiency is likely to arise. But, once the population becomes mixed, the conflict vanishes if there are enough farsighted individuals. In addition, we characterize the myopic-farsighted stable set for any utility function when all individuals are myopic.
D20|Credit shocks, employment protection, and growth: firm-level evidence from Spain|We offer new evidence on the real effects of credit shocks in the presence of employment protection regulations by exploiting a unique provision in Spanish labor laws: dismissal rules are less stringent for Spanish firms with fewer than 50 employees, lowering the cost of hiring new workers. Using a new dataset, we find that during the financial crisis, healthy firms with fewer than 50 employees borrowing from troubled banks grew faster in sectors where capital and labor were sufficiently substitutable. This result does not obtain when we use a different cut-off for Spain or the same cut-off for firms in Germany. Our evidence suggests that labor market flexibility can dampen the negative effect of credit shocks by allowing firms to keep growing by substituting labor for capital. JEL Classification: G21, J80, D20
D20|"Fast, ""robust"", and approximately correct: estimating mixed demand systems"|" Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifi cations in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D20|Credit Shocks, Employment Protection, and Growth: Firm-level Evidence from Spain|We offer new evidence on the real effects of credit shocks in the presence of employment protection regulations by exploiting a unique provision in Spanish labor laws: dismissal rules are less stringent for Spanish firms with fewer than 50 employees, lowering the cost of hiring new workers. Using a new dataset, we find that during the financial crisis, healthy firms with fewer than 50 employees borrowing from troubled banks grew faster in sectors where capital and labor were sufficiently substitutable. This result does not obtain when we use a different cut-off for Spain or the same cut-off for firms in Germany. Our evidence suggests that labor market flexibility can dampen the negative effect of credit shocks by allowing firms to keep growing by substituting labor for capital.
D20|Optimal Delegation Under Unknown Bias: The Role of Concavity|A principal is uncertain of an agent's preferences and cannot provide monetary transfers. The principal, however, does control the discretion granted to the agent. In this paper, we provide a simple characterization of when it is optimal for the principal to screen by offering different terms of discretion to the agent. When the principal's utility is sufficiently concave, it is optimal for the principal to pool and to offer all agents the same discretion. Thus, for any number of agents and any distribution over agent preferences, the optimal contract is simple: the principal sets a cap and forbids actions above this cap (interval delegation). For less concave preferences, it is optimal for the principal to screen. The principal benefits by providing agents a choice between interval delegation and gap delegation, which allows for more extreme actions but prohibits intermediate actions. Moreover, we provide new intuition for the optimality of interval delegation when the principal knows the agent's preferences: the payoff distributions generated by sets containing gaps are mean-preserving spreads of those generated by intervals.
D20|La régulation du secteur des jeux entre Charybde et Scylla|The liberalization of the gaming and gambling industries initiated by the 12 May 2012 French law can be mainly explained by external pressures exerted by illegal on-line offers and the EU competition law. While this regulatory framework is sharply criticised by the French National Accounts Audit Office and by the Parliament, this paper proposes to assess its main characteristics and constraints.
D20|The Collaborative Innovation Bloc: A New Mission for Austrian Economics|We argue that scholars in the Austrian tradition of economics should incorporate the notion of a collaborative innovation bloc into their study of spontaneous market order. We demonstrate how successful entrepreneurship depends on an innovation bloc of this kind, a system of innovation that evolves and within which activity takes place through time. The innovation bloc consists of five pools of economic skills from which people are drawn or recruited to form part of a collaborative team, which is necessary if innovation-based venturing is to flourish. The five skills are entrepreneurs, early- and later-stage-financiers, key personnel, and customers. Through real-world examples, we show how the application of the collaborative innovation bloc perspective could help make Austrian economics more concrete, relevant and persuasive, especially in regard to policy prescriptions.
D20|Relational Incentive Contracts and Performance Measurement|This paper analyzes relational contracts under moral hazard. We first show that if the available information (signal) about effort satisfies a generalized monotone likelihood ratio property, then irrespective of whether the first-order approach (FOA) is valid or not, the optimal bonus scheme takes a simple form. The scheme rewards the agent a fixed bonus if his performance index exceeds a threshold, like the FOA contract of Levin (2003), but the threshold can be set differently. We next derive a sufficient and necessary condition for non-verifiable information to improve a relational contract. Our new informativeness criterion sheds light on the nature of an ideal performance measure in relational contracting.
D20|Relational Contracting, Negotiation, and External Enforcement|We study relational contracting and renegotiation in environments with external enforcement of long-term contractual arrangements. An external, long-term contract governs the stage games the contracting parties will play in the future (depending on verifiable stage-game outcomes) until they renegotiate. In a contractual equilibrium, the parties choose their individual actions rationally, they jointly optimize when selecting a contract, and they take advantage of their relative bargaining power. Our main result is that in a wide variety of settings, in each period of a contractual equilibrium the parties agree to a semi-stationary external contract, with stationary terms for all future periods but special terms for the current period. In each period the parties renegotiate to this same external contract, effectively adjusting the terms only for the current period. For example, in a simple principal-agent model with a choice of costly monitoring technology, the optimal contract specifies mild monitoring for the current period but intense monitoring for future periods. Because the parties renegotiate in each new period, intense monitoring arises only off the equilibrium path after a failed renegotiation.
D20|Anti-Migration as a Threat to Internationalization? A Review of the Migration-Internationalization Literature|Does anti-migration sentiment threaten internationalization? One major pro-Brexit argument was that it would enable more control over immigration. The most recent US presidential election also focused on immigration. Anti-migration sentiment could be a threat to internationalization, given that migrants can help lower the costs of internationalization. Since trade contributes to economic growth, this could, in turn, impede economic development. Despite extensive literature on the migration-trade nexus, there are few examples of policymakers highlighting the role of migration for internationalization. One possible explanation is the absence of an accessible survey of the available theory and evidence on this relationship, and this article intends to bridge the gap. We review and discuss over 100 papers published on the subject, from pioneering country-level studies to nascent firm-level studies that utilize employer-employee data. To our knowledge, this is the first paper offering a wide-ranging review of the different strands of theory on the relationship between migration and internationalization, as well as new empirical findings. Although the evidence suggests that migration can facilitate internationalization we also note substantial gaps and inconsistencies in the extant literature. The aim of this article is to encourage future research and assist policymakers in their efforts to promote internationalization.
D20|"Fast, ""Robust"", and Approximately Correct: Estimating Mixed Demand Systems"|"Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifications in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D20|The Optimal Design of Round-Robin Tournaments with Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.
D20|Bank business models: popularity and performance|We allocate banks to distinct business models by experimenting with various combinations of balance sheet characteristics as inputs in cluster analysis. Using a panel of 178 banks for the period 2005-15, we identify a retail-funded and a wholesale-funded commercial banking model that are robust to the choice of inputs. In comparison, a model emphasising trading activities and a universal banking model are less robustly identified. Both commercial banking models exhibit lower cost-to-income ratios and more stable return-on-equity than the trading model. In a reversal of a pre-crisis trend, the crisis aftermath witnessed mainly switches away from wholesale-funded and into retail-funded banking. Over the entire sample period, banks that switched into the retail-funded model saw their return-on-equity improve by 2.5 percentage points on average relative to non-switchers. By contrast, the relative performance of banks switching into the wholesale-funded model deteriorated by 5 percentage points on average.
D20|Monopoly Without a Monopolist: An Economic Analysis of the Bitcoin Payment System|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
D20|Risk-Averse Managers, Labour Market Structures, Public Policies and Discrimination|This article presents a model to analyze the effects of first and second-moment statistical discrimination on the labour market. Second-moment statistical discrimination occurs when risk-averse managers make decisions regarding wage and hiring based on productivity variances. We provide a framework exploring managers’ discrimination based on differences in average productivity and in variance of productivity. Furthermore, since discrimination is composed of two types (wage and hiring discrimination), our model allows for the interdependence between hiring practices and wages. Using our model, we examine the effects of various anti-discrimination policies along with changes to the labour market structure. We show that managers’ behaviour may be driven by anti-discrimination policies and labour market structures. A firm reduces hiring when required to implement anti-discrimination policies to address wage inequality. A firm applying policies to promote employment equity must stimulate minority participation. A change in labour market structure does not alter the efficiency of policies promoting employment equity, but it does alter the efficiency of policies aimed at reducing wage differences.
D20|Slow to Hire, Quick to Fire: Employment Dynamics with Asymmetric Responses to News|Concave hiring rules imply that firms respond more to bad shocks than to good shocks. They provide a unified explanation for several seemingly unrelated facts about employment growth in macro- and microdata. In particular, they generate countercyclical movement in both aggregate conditional “macro” volatility and cross-sectional “micro” volatility, as well as negative skewness in the cross section and in the time series at different levels of aggregation. Concave establishment-level responses of employment growth to total factor productivity shocks estimated from census data induce significant skewness, movements in volatility, and amplification of bad aggregate shocks.
D20|Monopoly without a monopolist : An economic analysis of the bitcoin payment system|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
D20|A note on the envelope theorem|The purpose of this note is to discuss the envelope relationship between long run and short run cost functions. It compares the usually presented relationship with one of different form and implications, resulting from a simple production function and constant prices. It points out in particular that the tangency condition between the short and long run total cost functions does not necessarily hold always. The note also shows that a given value of the fixed factor might support in the long run a whole range of levels of output.
D20|New business formation and the productivity of manufacturing incumbents: Effects and mechanisms|We analyze the effect of new business formation on the productivity of incumbent manufacturing establishments. We obtain robust empirical evidence that the emergence of new businesses in the same industry causes productivity improvements by intensifying competition in the output market. We also find enhanced productivity caused by increased competition from newcomers in the regional markets for inputs. We do not find any evidence for productivity enhancing effects of new business formation on upstream markets, or for more pronounced knowledge spillovers in innovative industries.
D20|Age-productivity profiles of entrants and exits: evidence from Canadian manufacturing|Using the Longitudinal Annual Survey of Manufacturers for Canada, this paper aims to better understand the productivity dynamics of entrants and exits as well as the factors associated with their productivity performance. It shows that entrants and exits are lower in labour productivity relative to continuing plants partly because they are smaller in size, less capital intensive, and less associated with exporting, being foreign-controlled and belonging to multi-plant firm structure. It also finds that after controlling for those factors, surviving entrants are less productive when they enter and that they improve their productivity over time to become as productive as continuing plants by around year five after entry. Exits, on the other hand, are found to be less productive than continuing plants after controlling for those factors, and the gap becomes larger as they get closer to exit.
D20|Effective demand and Say’s law in Marxist theory: an evolutionary perspective|In this paper I theorize the roles of effective demand and Say’s Law in the Marxist theory of exploitation and accumulation. I claim that an exogenous rate of exploitation implies deploying the strongest version of Say’s Law, which leads profit rates not to equalize across sectors. Marx’s own procedure in Capital III was therefore logically mistaken. Once Keynes’ principle of effective demand is introduced, the rate of exploitation, and hence the distribution of income between wages and profits, becomes endogenous to aggregate demand. Profit rates can then equalize across sectors and prices of production can function as gravitational centers for market prices in a competitive economy. I develop an innovative evolutionary approach to demonstrate how effective demand, within the Marxist framework, determines the rate of exploitation and the rate of profit. At the intersection of Marx, Keynes, and Kalecki, my evolutionary framework integrates effective demand, functional income distribution, profit rate equalization, technological diffusion, and the gravitation towards prices of production.
D20|La régulation du secteur des jeux entre Charybde et Scylla|La libéralisation du secteur des jeux de hasard et d'argent initiée en France par la loi du 12 mai 2010 a essentiellement répondu à des contraintes extérieures émanant du développement d'offres illégales en lignes et des règles de concurrence de l'Union européenne. Dans un contexte marqué par des critiques du cadre régulatoire actuel, émanant de la Cour des comptes et de l'Assemblée Nationale, il s'agit de développer une analyse du cadre régulatoire applicable au secteur.
D20|Anti-Migration as a Threat to Internationalization?|Do anti-migration sentiments threaten internationalization? One major argument of the pro-Brexit campaign in the UK was that Brexit would allow greater control over immigration. The most recent US presidential election also focused on the issue of immigration. Anti-migration sentiments could constitute a threat to internationalization considering that migrants can help lower costs associated with internationalization. Despite the vast literature on the migration-trade nexus and its important implications for policy, however, there are very few examples where governments and policymakers have highlighted the role of migration for trade and other aspects of internationalization. One explanation could be the lack of an accessible and comprehensive survey of the available theory and evidence on the nexus between migration and internationalization. This article intends to bridge this gap. We review and discuss over 100 published papers on the subject, from the pioneering country-level studies to the nascent firm-level studies that exploit employeremployee data. To our knowledge, this is the first paper to provide a wide-ranging review of both the different strands of theory related to the relationship between migration and internationalization, as well as early and new empirical results on this nexus. We find substantial support in the literature of an internationalization facilitating influence of migration. The evidence can be found in various settings, from individual small countries to groups of large countries, in both developed and less developed economies, and for regions and firms. Although the evidence suggests that migration can help to increase confidence and facilitate the flow of information between countries, which reduces the costs of—and improves the prospects for—internationalization, we also find substantial gaps and inconsistencies in the previous literature. More research is therefore needed. The theory is still incomplete and does not provide a coherent framework for explaining the interlinkages between migration and internationalization. Furthermore, a large part of the empirical literature has been based on aggregate data, which has stood in the way of robust evidence on the direction of causation and the main mechanisms at play. The nascent firm-level approach has the potential to bridge several of the existing knowledge gaps, but the research is still in its initial stages. Our aim is that this article will encourage future research, which will fill in the missing pieces. In addition, we hope the article can help policymakers formulate better policies for the promotion of internationalization.
D20|Take a Chance on ABBA|The order of actions in contests may generate different psychological effects which, in turn, may influence contestants' probabilities to win. The Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence in which the first 'n' moves is the exact mirror image of the next 'n' moves should theoretically terminate any advantage to any of the contestants in a sequential pair-wise contest. The tennis tiebreak sequence of serves is the closest to the Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence that one can find in real tournament settings. In a tiebreak between two players, A and B, the order of the first two serves (AB) is a mirror image of the next two serves (BA), such that the sequence of the first four serves is ABBA. Then, this sequence is repeated until one player wins the tiebreak. This sequence has been used not only in tennis, but also recently in the US TV presidential debates. In this study we analyse 1,701 men's and 920 women's tiebreak games from top-tier tournaments between the years 2012 to 2015. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of serving first from the effect of selection, we find that, for both genders, serving first does not have any significant effect on the winning probabilities of the two players, implying that the ABBA sequence is fair. We thus argue that it might be useful for other sports and contests in general to consider adopting the ABBA sequence in order to improve fairness.
D20|Environmental regulations and allocative efficiency: application to coal-to-gas substitution in the U.S. electricity sector|Abstract The environmental economics literature has for a long time been occupied with the relationships between environmental regulations, technical efficiency, and productivity growth. This paper extends this discussion by taking up environmental regulations’ implications for allocative efficiency. It establishes a model framework that allows disentangling managerial and regulatory induced allocative efficiencies, and utilizes Data Envelopment Analysis to a sample of 67 coal-to-gas substituting power plants observed from 2002 to 2008 to calculate Nerlovian profit efficiencies and their technical and allocative efficiency components. The empirical results illustrate that failing to control for environmental regulations leads to overestimation of managerial allocative efficiencies by ignoring compliance costs. Marginal abatement cost estimates that are in line with allowance prices for NOx and SO2 are further obtained.
D20|Fragmented division of labor and healthcare costs: Evidence from moves across regions|Policies aiming to improve healthcare productivity often focus on reducing care fragmentation. Care fragmentation occurs when services are spread across many providers, potentially making coordination difficult. Using Medicare claims data, we analyze the effect of moving to a region with more fragmented care delivery. We find that 60% of regional variation in care fragmentation is independent of patients' individual demand for care and moving to a region with 1 SD higher fragmentation increases care utilization by 10%. When patients move to more fragmented regions, they increase their use of specialists and have fewer encounters with primary care physicians. More fragmented regions have more intensive care provision on many margins, including services sometimes associated with overutilization (hospitalizations, emergency department visits, repeat imaging studies) as well as services associated with high value care (vaccines, guideline concordant for diabetics).
D20|The Arrival of Fast Internet and Employment in Africa|To show how fast Internet affects employment in Africa, we exploit the gradual arrival of submarine Internet cables on the coast and maps of the terrestrial cable network. Robust difference-in-differences estimates from three datasets covering 12 countries show large positive effects on employment rates—also for less educated worker groups—with little or no job displacement across space. The sample-wide impact is driven by increased employment in higher-skill occupations, but less educated workers’ employment gain less so. Firm level data available for some countries indicate that increased firm entry, productivity, and exporting contribute to higher net job-creation. Average incomes rise.
D20|The impact of research collaboration on academic performance: An empirical analysis for Russian Universities|The aim of this paper is to investigate the impact of external research collaborations on the scientific performance of academic institutions. Data are derived from the international SCOPUS database. We consider the number of citations of publications to evaluate university performance in Russia. To this end, we develop a non-overlapping generations model to evidence the theoretical idea of research externalities between academic institutions. Moreover, we implement different empirical models to test for the effect of external scientific collaborations on the institutional research quality. The results confirm an important positive impact of co-authoring process
D20|Gravitation of market prices towards normal prices: some new results|The gravitation process of market prices towards production prices is here presented by means of an analytical framework where the classical capital mobility principle is coupled with a determination of the deviation of market from normal (natural) prices which closely follows the description provided by Adam Smith: each period the level of the market price of a commodity will be higher (lower) than its production price if the quantity brought to the market falls short (exceeds) the level of effectual demand. This approach also simplifies the results with respect to those obtained in cross-dual literature. At the same time, anchoring market prices to effectual demands and quantities brought to the markets requires a careful study of the dynamics of the ‘dimensions’ along with that of the 'proportions' of the system. Three different versions of the model are thus proposed, to study the gravitation process: i) assuming a given level of aggregate employment; ii) assuming a sort of Say's law; iii) and on the basis of an explicit adjustment of actual outputs to effectual demands. All these cases describe dynamics in which market prices can converge asymptotically towards production prices.
D20|The Effect of Firm Ownership Structure on Performance: A case study of Eastern Europe and Central Asian Countries|This paper uses World Bank Enterprise Survey 2009 and 2013 panel data for Central Asia and Eastern Europe to estimate the casual effects of firm ownership structure on firm performance measured by the growth rates of sales, labor productivity and employment. The study uses treatment effect models to compute the average treatment effects. Estimation results using propensity score matching show that on average private firms have sales and employment growth rates that are 6 percentage points higher compared to public firms. The effect is statistically significant at conventional significance levels. Labor productivity growth is similar across public and private firms. The key conditional independence assumption necessary for the validity of the matching models is found to be valid and the computed casual effects are consistent across the different treatment effect models.
D20|Explaining the Impact of Formal Institutions on Social Trust: A Psychological Approach|By drawing on psychological models of action choice, this study distinguishes between four key factors that determine trust building: (1) knowledge to trust, (2) others-regarding, (3) cognition, and (4) contexts. These four factors are combined into a single analytical framework that is used for establishing channels through which the institutional context impacts social trust formation. Our theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that context is the strongest determinant of trust, with its overall effect being, however, modified by the degree to which the individual’s knowledge of trusting, cognition, and others-regarding are developed. The Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) data from the year 2012 are utilised for testing our propositions.
D20|Compás Empresarial y de Competitividad No. 1 Regiones para vivir Índice Sintético de Calidad de Vida Departamental<BR>[Business and Competitiveness Compass No. 1 Regions to live Synthetic index of departmental quality of life]|The Cámara de Comercio de Cali publishes this paper that presents the design and calculation of the Synthetic Quality of Life Index (ISCV) for the Colombian departments in 2016. The results allow identifying aggregately the way in which the different selected environmental conditions, grouped in the dimensions of Basic Conditions, Economic Opportunities and Human Capital, affect the probability that people can enjoy a better quality of life. The results show the great heterogeneity of environmental conditions among Colombian departments and allow orienting and prioritizing programs and public policies that could contribute more effectively to improving the quality of life in each region. In terms of the Index, Cundinamarca (including Bogotá), Valle del Cauca and Atlántico occupy the first positions among the group evaluated, indicating that the inhabitants of these departments can enjoy better living conditions. The design and measurement of this indicator represents a contribution in the field of study of the quality of life in Colombia, proposing a powerful set of variables, selected from the Principal Component Analysis method, which overcomes the statistical tests that validate the exercise.
D20|Firms and the Decline in Earnings Inequality in Brazil|We document a large decrease in earnings inequality in Brazil between 1996 and 2012. Using administrative linked employer-employee data, we fit high-dimensional worker and firm fixed-effects models to understand the sources of this decrease. Firm effects account for 40 percent of the total decrease and worker effects for 29 percent. Changes in observable worker and firm characteristics contributed little to these trends. Instead, the decrease is primarily due to a compression of returns to these characteristics, particularly a declining firm productivity-pay premium. Our results shed light on potential drivers of earnings inequality dynamics.
D20|Gravitation of Market Prices towards Normal Prices: Some New Results|The gravitation process of market prices towards production prices is here presented by means of an analyti-cal framework where the classical capital mobility principle is coupled with a determination of the deviation of market from normal (natural) prices which closely follows the description provided by Adam Smith: each pe-riod the level of the market price of a commodity will be higher (lower) than its production price if the quanti-ty brought to the market falls short (exceeds) the level of effectual demand. This approach also simplifies the results with respect to those obtained in cross-dual literature. Three versions of the model are here proposed: i) assuming a given level of aggregate employment; ii) assuming a sort of Say’s law; iii) and on the basis of an explicit adjustment of actual outputs to effectual demands. All these cases describe dynamics in which market prices can converge asymptotically towards production prices.
D20|Polish Sugar Sector After Abolishing Sugar Production Quotas|The sugar market was one of the most regulated markets in the agri-food sector in the EU, The basis of said regulation was an administrative restriction of supply (production quotas), protectionist foreign trade policies, a minimum procurement price for sugar beet and the reference price of sugar. The sugar sector in Poland has a long tradition and is of great economic social and environmental significance, as well as an important element of the food security policy. Sugar beets are characterized by the greatest productivity per area unit, and by-products are used as fodder or for energy production purposes. The sugar industry is a strategic part of the food economy. Sugar remains the main sweetener, despite the development of the starch syrup and low-calorific sweetener markets. The social importance of the sector results from the fact that sugar beet production remains the source of income for planters, and the sugar industry and numerous service providers create both national income and jobs. Sugar beet cultivations are a crucial element of the sustainable development of agriculture as they increase biodiversity and maintain agricultural land in good condition.Abolishing production quotas will result in big changes in the sugar sector, which in turn will have multiple economic, social and environmental effects. Accounting for international conditions, including competition from cane sugar and obligations resulting from trade contracts, it is assessed that the sugar balance may undergo significant changes. Under the changing external conditions, the foreign trade policies and international economic relations will have a very significant impact on the situation of the domestic sugar sector. Situational development in the sugar sector should include two basic elements: changes in the EU market after the market regulations reform and changes in the economic situation on the international market, and foreign trade conditions. The significant economic social and environmental importance indicates that future policy with regards to the sector should include solutions which will allow to maintain sugar beet cultivation and sugar production at least in the most effective and competitive regions of the country.
D20|Corruption and Contests: Cross-Country Evidence from Sensitive Soccer Matches|In this paper, we study the relationship between corruption, as measured by the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), and the probability of determining the outcome of a contest in a real competitive setting, in which agents in different countries are faced with exactly the same task under fixed and known rules. To that end, we utilize data from sensitive soccer matches in 75 countries during the period 2001 and 2013. In these matches, one team was in immediate danger of being relegated to a lower division (Team A) and another team was not affected by the result (Team B). Using within-country variation, we find that the more corrupt the country, the higher the probability is for Team A to achieve the desired result to avoid relegation in the sensitive matches relative to achieving this result in other, non-sensitive matches against the same team. We also find that in the later stages of the following year, the probability of Team A to lose against Team B compared to losing against a similar team (usually better than Team B) is significantly higher in more corrupt countries than in less corrupt countries. This result serves as a suggestive evidence of a quid pro quo behavior. Our findings indicate that the virus of corruption, as measured by the CPI, may infect social activities that are not necessarily directly linked to governmental activities.
D20|The Optimal Design Of Round-Robin Tournaments With Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D20|Discouragement Effect and Intermediate Prizes in Multi-Stage Contests: Evidence from Tennis’s Davis Cup|Discouragement effect of the lagging player in multi-stage contests is a well-documented phenomenon. In this study, we utilize data from 2,247 Davis Cup matches in teams’ tennis tournaments to test the effect of ahead-behind asymmetry on individuals’ performance with and without intermediate prizes. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of being ahead in the interim score from the effect of selection, we find that a higher-ranked player has higher probability of winning if his team is leading before the respective match. However, this effect disappears in matches in which a winner receives ranking points. This result is driven by an increased winning probability of the lagging favorite. Our findings suggest that, as predicted by previous theoretical studies, intermediate prizes may mitigate or even terminate the ahead-behind effects that arise in multi-stage contests.
D20|A Non-Parametric Approach to Testing the Axioms of the Shapely Value with Limited Data|The unique properties of the Shapley value–efficiency, equal treatment of identical input factors, and marginality–have made it an appealing solution concept in various classes of problems. It is however recognized that the pay schemes utilized in many real-life situations generally depart from this value. We propose a nonparametric approach to testing the empirical content of this concept with limited datasets. We introduce the Shapley distance, which, for a fixed monotone transferable-utility game, measures the distance of an arbitrary pay profile to the Shapley pay profile, and show that it is additively decomposable into the violations of the classical Shapley axioms. The analysis has several applications. In particular, it can be used to assess the extent to which an income distribution or a cost allocation can be considered fair or unfair, and whether any particular case of unfairness is due to the violation of one or a combination of the Shapley axioms.
D20|Intangible Capital: Complement or Substitute in the Creation of Public Goods?|This paper tests whether intangible capital is a substitute or, to some degree, a complement to standard inputs in the production process. The analysis is conducted for public sectors in which governmental institutions are directly responsible both for efficiently producing public goods and for investing in new production factors. The results reveal that intangible capital is a relevant input factor in the production of public goods and only weakly substitutable with other inputs.
D20|Repeated Games with Recursive Utility:Cournot Duopoly under Gain/Loss Asymmetry|We study the repeated Cournot duopoly with recursive utility where the players discount gains more than losses. First, as in the standard model of discounted utility, we confirm that the optimal punishment equilibrium has a stick-and-carrot structure. Next, we explore its exact form in relation to the role of the asymmetry in discounting. We find that the discount factor used to evaluate losses controls the deterrence of a given punishment, while the discount factor used to evaluate gains influences the enforceability of the penalty. An increase in one of the two discount factors increases the most collusive equilibrium profit unless full collusion is already sustainable. However, the key to collusion is the loss discount factor: regardless of the level of the gain discount factor, full cooperation can be achieved if the loss discount factor is sufficiently high.
D20|Informational Frictions and Practice Variation: Evidence from Physicians in Training|Substantial practice variation across physicians for seemingly similar patients remains an unresolved puzzle. This paper studies physicians in training to explore the behavioral foundations of practice variation. A discontinuity in the formation of teams reveals a large contribution of relative experience in the size of practice variation. Among the same physician trainees, convergence towards a common practice differs by practice environment, with more convergence in specialist-driven services. Rich trainee characteristics and training histories, including the practice styles of prior supervising physicians, explain little if any variation. These findings suggest a major role for informational frictions in the origins of practice variation.
D20|Depreciation of Business R&D Capital|We develop a forward‐looking profit model to estimate the depreciation rates of business R&D capital. By using data from BEA and NSF between 1987 and 2007, and the newly developed model, we estimate both constant and time‐varying industry‐specific R&D depreciation rates. The results comprise a set of R&D depreciation rates for major U.S. high-tech industries. They align with the main conclusions from recent studies that the rates are in general higher than the traditionally assumed 15 percent and vary across industries. The relative ranking of the constant R&D depreciation rates among industries is consistent with industry observations and the industry‐specific time‐varying rates are informative about the dynamics of technological change and the levels of competition across industries. Lastly, we also present a cross‐country comparison of the R&D depreciation rates between the U.S. and Japan, and find that the results reflect the relative technological competitiveness in key industries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D20|A Ricardian-Demand Explanation for Changing Pharmaceutical R&D Productivity|This paper examines trends in the aggregate productivity of the pharmaceutical sector over the past three decades. We incorporate Ricardo’s insight about demand-driven productivity in settings of variable scarce resources, and estimate the industry’s responsiveness to changes in demand over this timeframe using therapeutic class-specific data. In contrast to many analyses, our empirical estimates indicate that the industry has “met demand” with remarkable consistency since the late-1980s. The growth in total R&D spending, and therefore R&D costs per new drug, appear to have been profitable and productive investments. While we identify a significant increase in the industry’s fixed costs - the intercept of the production function - we find no decline in the marginal productivity of industry investments that might suggest significant supply-side frictions. While we cannot diagnose in detail why average, but not marginal, productivity declined, the data suggests that firms have finally begun to compete down returns from the supranormal levels of decades past.
D20|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of state-owned companies and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 of the largest Russian companies, we estimated direct and indirect state participation as a percentage of shareholdings for direct and indirect federal property during the time period of 2006–2014. We used two methods to estimate the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with OECD and Rosstat statistics for a broader sample of Russian companies owned by the public sector. This study revealed a decline in SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market and a slight increase in their share of total revenues and employment. The results indicated that public SOEs demonstrated significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies had a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over a 9-year period, we observed that this gap narrowed. This may be due to conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy that result in certain advantages for SOEs in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control experienced a rapid growth in revenue and productivity compared to other firms. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
D20|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of companies with state participation and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 largest companies we have estimated direct and indirect state participation as percentage of shareholdings which are in direct and indirect federal property in 2006—2014. We have used two methods for estimating the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with those of OECD and Rosstat statistics for the broader sample of Russian companies in the public sector. This article reveals the decline of SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market as well as a slight increase of their share in total revenue and employment. The results show that public SOEs, demonstrate significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies have a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over 9-year period we observed a reduction of this gap. This may be due to the fact that in conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy SOEs had certain advantages in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control had a rapid growth in revenue and productivity in comparison with the rest of them. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
D20|Measuring and decomposing the distance to the Shapley wage function with limited data|We study the Shapley wage function, a wage scheme in which a worker's pay depends both on the number of hours worked and on the output of the firm. We then provide a way to measure the distance of an arbitrary wage scheme to this function in limited datasets. In particular, for a fixed technology and a given supply of labor, this distance is additively decomposable into violations of the classical axioms of efficiency, equal treatment of identical workers, and marginality. The findings have testable implications for the different ways in which popular wage schemes violate basic properties of distributive justice in market organizations. Applications to the linear contract and to other well-known compensation schemes are shown.
D20|Valuing inputs under supply uncertainty: The Bayesian Shapley value|We consider the problem of valuing inputs in a production environment in which input supply is uncertain. Inputs can be workers in a firm, risk factors for a disease, securities in a financial market, or nodes in a networked economy. Each input takes its values from a finite set and uncertainty is modeled as a probability distribution over this set. First, we provide an axiomatic solution to this problem, uniquely characterizing a valuation scheme called the a priori Shapley value. Second, we solve the problem of valuing inputs a posteriori – that is, after observing output –, obtaining the Bayesian Shapley value. Third, we address the question of rationalizing uncertainty in labor supply in a non-cooperative production game where payoffs are given by the Shapley wage function. We also provide an intuitive condition for the existence of a pure strategy Nash equilibrium. Illustrations of the theory include an application to fidelity networks.
D20|Movers and Shakers|Most projects, in most walks of life, require the participation of multipleparties. While it is difficult to unite individuals in a common endeavor, somepeople, who we call “movers and shakers,” seem able to do it. The articlespecifically examines moving and shaking of an investment project, whose returndepends on its quality and the total capital invested in it. We analyze a modelwith two types of agents: managers and investors. Managers and investorsinitially form social connections. Managers then bid to buy control of theproject, and the winning bidder puts effort into making investors aware of it.Finally, a subset of aware investors are given the chance to invest and theydecide whether to do so after receiving private signals of the project’squality. We first show that connections are valuable since they make it easierfor a manager to “move and shake” the project (i.e., obtain capital frominvestors). When we endogenize the network, we find that while managers areidentical ex ante, a single manager emerges as most connected; he consequentlyearns a rent. In extensions, we move away from the assumption of ex anteidentical managers to highlight forces that lead one manager or another tobecome a mover and shaker. Our theory sheds light on a range of topics, including entrepreneurship, venture capital, and anchor investments.
D20|Measuring and Decomposing the Distance to the Shapley Wage Function with Limited Data|We study the Shapley wage function, a wage scheme in which a worker's pay depends both on the number of hours worked and on the output of the firm. We then provide a way to measure the distance of an arbitrary wage scheme to this function in limited datasets. In particular, for a fixed technology and a given supply of labor, this distance is additively decomposable into violations of the classical axioms of efficiency, equal treatment of identical workers, and marginality. The findings have testable implications for the different ways in which popular wage schemes violate basic properties of distributive justice in market organizations. Applications to the linear contract and to other well-known compensation schemes are shown.
D20|Increasing Returns In A Model With Creative And Physical Capital: Does A Balanced Growth Path Exist?|In this note we study aspects of economic growth in a region that produces a final consumption good with creative and physical capital. This consumption good is manufactured with a production function that exhibits increasing returns to scale. Our analysis leads to three results. First, we compute the growth rate of creative capital in our regional economy. Second, we show that despite the presence of increasing returns, the regional economy under study converges to a balanced growth path (BGP). Finally, we compute the growth rates of physical capital and output on the BGP.
D20|A note on the impact of multiple input aggregators in technical efficiency estimation|The results of an experiment with simulated data show that using multiple positive lineal aggregators of the same inputs instead of the original variables increases the accuracy of the Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) technical efficiency estimator in data sets beset by dimensionality problems. Aggregation of the inputs achieves more than the mere reduction of the number of variables, since replacement of the original inputs with an equal number of aggregates improves DEA performance in a wide range of cases
D20|Places and spaces in the weightless economy|Proposition of the 'end of geography' based on globalization and digitalization has been havily criticized by different geographers in the last decades. This paper mainly focus on the digitalization side of debate because of the more obvious and contradictory relationships between geography and digital production/consumption. Based on a systemic reflection on the literature in new media industry in general, and video game industry in particular, this paper bridges two different strings of research in the weightless economy. By referring to previous respondents' opinions as well as extracting new ideas from other empirical studies, this paper organizes its arguments in a comprehensive way and supports these arguments with abundant empirical evidence found in different case studies. It contributes to economic geographers' side of debate on the role of geography in today's weihgtless economy
D20|Entgrenzung von Organisation und Arbeit? Interorganisationale Fragmentierung als Herausforderung für Arbeitsrecht, Management und Mitbestimmung. Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Die Artikel des Schwerpunktheftes setzen an verschiedenen inhaltlichen Dimensionen und Ebenen dieser Fragmentierung an: Auf der Arbeitsebene ist der Beitrag von Gabriele Fassauer und Silke Geithner angesiedelt, der die inner-organisatorische Bewaeltigung von Co-Konfiguration durch Auftragsmanager behandelt. Auf Basis der Taetigkeitstheorie beleuchten die Autorinnen die Co-Konfiguration zwischen Kunden und Produzenten, indem sie die Grenzarbeit von Auftragsmanagern im Zentrum interorganisationaler Leistungserstellung sichtbar machen, um den Anforderungen von Kunden, Zulieferern und den unternehmensinternen Arbeitsgruppen gerecht zu werden. Die Mitbestimmungspraxis von Betriebsraeten im Umgang mit quasi-externalisierter Arbeit ist Gegenstand von gleich zwei Aufsaetzen mit je unterschiedlicher Blickrichtung. Der Artikel von Markus Hertwig, Johannes Kirsch und Carsten Wirth zielt auf die Erkundung des Umgangs des Betriebsrats mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen in strukturationstheoretischer Perspektive. Fuer die Ernaehrungs- und Getraenkeindustrie zeigen sie verschiedene Praktiken auf, die in verschiedenen Typen des Umgangs von Betriebsraeten mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen verdichtet werden, die zwischen Kooperation und Konfrontation, zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz angesiedelt sind. Karina Becker thematisiert aus einer sozialkritischen Perspektive den Gesundheits- und Arbeitsschutz fuer Werkvertragsbeschaeftigte in der Pflege. Dabei interessiert sie sich insbesondere fuer die rechtlichen Sekundaermachtpotenziale der Betriebsraete sowie deren etwaige Verschiebungen innerhalb des Feldes des Arbeits- und Gesundheitsschutzes. Auf diese Weise wird die Reichweite staatlicher Mindestschutzvorschriften im Betrieb bzw. im Haushalt als Verhandlungsgegenstand der Mitbestimmung thematisiert. Auf der Mesoebene zwischen Organisationen und (arbeits-)rechtlichem Rahmen setzen Isabell Hensel, Jochen Koch, Eva Kocher und Anna Schwarz mit einer interdisziplinaeren Einordnung online vermittelter Arbeitsauftraege und Werke an. Sie deuten neue Formen der Arbeitserbringung („Crowdworking“) in ihrer Vielgestaltigkeit, d.h. auch und gerade hinsichtlich von Potenzialen, die jenseits einer allfaelligen Prekarisierung angesiedelt sein koennen. Hierbei greifen sie zum einen auf die Organisations- und Managementtheorie zurueck, zum anderen benutzen sie das Arbeitsrecht, um das Spektrum von Crowdworking in einem Regelkreis aus Autonomie und Kontrolle, Flexibilitaet und Stabilitaet zu ordnen. Auf der Makroebene diskutiert Andreas Buecker die Regulierung der multipolaren Arbeitsbeziehungen und insbesondere des sog. drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes, indem er bestehende Quellen des Arbeitsrechts (AEntG, MiloG, ArbSchG, BetrVG) auf Anwendbarkeit prueft, um regulative Luecken zu praezisieren. Zugleich thematisiert er die Rolle von Leitbildern im Diskurs der Rechtsfortbildung. Im Ergebnis argumentiert er fuer eine Fortentwicklung des Arbeitsrechts, um ueber den klassischen bipolaren Arbeitnehmerbegriff hinaus auch mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen erfassen zu koennen und die Betroffenen nicht schutzlos zu stellen. Hieran knuepfen zwei Debattenbeitraege an, um die derzeitige Konstruktion des Arbeitsrechts auf den Pruefstand zu stellen. Ebenso wie Buecker setzen sowohl Christiane Brors als auch Wolfgang Daeubler am grundsaetzlich bestehenden sozialen Schutzbedarf in mehrpoligen Arbeitsbeziehungen an, blicken aber gleichsam etwas optimistischer in die Zukunft. Brors haelt das zweipolige Arbeitsverhaeltnis nach wie vor fuer den richtigen Anker, um den Schutz abhaengig Beschaeftigter zu gewaehrleisten und zeigt auf, dass bestehende Ansaetze, insbesondere im Rahmen des Rechts der Leiharbeit, ausbaufaehig sind. AEhnlich sieht es Daeubler, der gleichermassen im Arbeitsrecht wie im Recht der Selbststaendigen ausbaufaehige Konstruktionen sieht. Deutlich wird dabei aber, dass gerade im letzteren Bereich der Gesetzgeber gefragt sein koennte, ueber den Typus der arbeitnehmeraehnlichen Person den Schutz von Selbststaendigen zu verbessern. Darueber hinaus macht Daeubler deutlich, dass gerade beim Crowdsourcing ein Problem in der Internationalitaet der Rechtsbeziehung liegen koennte.
D20|Crowdworking als Phaenomen der Koordination digitaler Erwerbsarbeit – Eine interdisziplinaere Perspektive (Crowdworking as the coordination of digital employment – An interdisciplinary perspective)|Die Koordinationsformen von Erwerbsarbeit erfahren durch neue digitale Technologien grundlegende Veraenderungen, die allerdings erst ansatzweise und zumeist nur in einzeldisziplinaerer Perspektive betrachtet, analysiert und verstanden werden. So wird das Phaenomen des Crowdworking oft reduziert auf ein Sourcing- und Steuerungsproblem bzw. auf Prekarisierungsrisiken arbeitender Subjekte oder aber auf neue rechtliche Regulierungsbedarfe vor dem Hintergrund des Ideals eines Normalarbeitsvertrages. In dieser Weise laesst sich – so unsere UEberlegung – das potenziell Neue des Crowdworking kaum adaequat erfassen. In diesem Beitrag entwickeln wir einen komplexeren Begriff des Crowdworking, der organisations-, subjekt- und rechtstheoretische Perspektiven zusammenfuehrt und einen alternativen Analyse- und Deutungsrahmen fuer dieses neue Phaenomen anbietet. Dabei fragen wir nach den Moeglichkeiten und Grenzen wechselseitiger Steigerungsverhaeltnisse von Autonomie, Kontrolle, Flexibilitaet und Stabilitaet in Bezug auf das Verhaeltnis von Organisation, Subjekt und Recht und eroeffnen damit sowohl einen neuen analytischen Zugriff als auch eine normative Sicht auf Crowdworking, indem die Koordinationspraxis von digitalen Crowds als emergente Ordnungsformen in den Mittelpunkt gerueckt wird. (New digital technologies have brought about major changes in the forms of employment coordination. Yet, to date, this shift has been only partially studied and mostly from a single disciplinary perspective. That is why in analyses, the phenomenon of crowd working is often reduced to a sourcing problem for management, a precarity risk for workers or a judicial field in need of new legal regulation (on the basis of the ideal of the conventional labour contract). We argue that this does not enable the innovative character of crowd working to be fully captured. Consequently, in this paper we develop a more complex perspective on crowd working which combines organizational, subject-focused and legal-theoretical analyses. Thereby we focus on the potential reciprocal reinforcement of autonomy, control, flexibility and stability. Furthermore, we introduce both a new analytical and a new normative perspective by putting centre stage the coordination practices of digital crowds as emergent forms of order.)
D20|Foreign Direct Investment, Productivity And Crowding-Out: Dynamic Panel Evidence On Vietnamese Firms|This paper investigates whether firms with foreign capital participation are more productive than domestically-owned firms in Vietnam; and whether the presence of firms with foreign capital has a crowding-out effect on domestically-owned firms. We utilize a rich dataset compiled by the Vietnamese General Statistical Office (GSO) from 2001?2010 and a dynamic panel data approach proposed by Arellano and Bond (1991) and Blundell and Bond (1998) to address the issue of endogeneity. We report that the share of foreign capital in firm equity has a positive and significant effect on productivity of foreign-owned firms in Vietnam. With respect to crowding-out effects, we identify opposing dynamics at work. On the one hand, we observe a firm-level crowding-out effect due to higher shares in turnover as the level of foreign capital increases. On the other hand, we observe an industry-level crowding-in effect as the share of both domestic and foreign-owned firms in turnover is higher when the industry-level of foreign capital intensity increases. Finally, we report that the crowding-in and crowding-out effects do not differ as the level of foreign capital share differs between firms and industries. The findings indicate that domestically-owned Vietnamese firms tend to lose market share to their foreign-owned competitors when they compete head to head; but they also tend to benefit from higher levels of foreign capital invested in their industry.
D20|The first cut is the deepest: repeated interactions of coauthorship and academic productivity in Nobel laureate teams|Abstract Despite much in-depth investigation of factors influencing the coauthorship evolution in various scientific fields, our knowledge about how efficiency or creativity is linked to the longevity of collaborative relationships remains very limited. We explore what Nobel laureates’ coauthorship patterns reveal about the nature of scientific collaborations looking at the intensity and success of scientific collaborations across fields and across laureates’ collaborative lifecycles in physics, chemistry, and physiology/medicine. We find that more collaboration with the same researcher is actually no better for advancing creativity: publications produced early in a sequence of repeated collaborations with a given coauthor tend to be published better and cited more than papers that come later in the collaboration with the same coauthor. Our results indicate that scientific collaboration involves conceptual complementarities that may erode over a sequence of repeated interactions.
D20|A Data Envelopment Analysis Toolbox for MATLAB|Data Envelopment Analysis Toolbox is a new package for MATLAB that includes functions to calculate the main DEA models. The package includes code for the standard additive and radial input and output measures, allowing for constant and variable returns to scale, as well as recent developments related to the directional distance function, and including both desirable and undesirable outputs when measuring efficiency and productivity; i.e., Malmquist and Malmquist-Luenberger indices. Bootstrapping to perform statistical analysis is also included. This paper describes the methodology and implementation of the functions and reports numerical results with well-known examples to illustrate their use.
D20|Midweek Effect on Performance: Evidence from the German Soccer Bundesliga|The home advantage phenomenon is a well-established feature in sports competitions. In this paper, we examine data from 1,908 soccer matches played in the German Bundesliga during the seasons from 2007-08 to 2015-16. Using a very rich data set, our econometric analysis that is based on matching methods reveals that the usual home advantage disappears when the game is in the middle of the week instead of being on the weekend. Our results indicate that, since the midweek matches are unevenly allocated among teams, the actual schedules of the Bundesliga favour teams with fewer home games in midweek. The paper also shows that these soccer-specific findings have some implications for the design of contests in general.
D20|First In First Win: Evidence on Unfairness of Round-Robin Tournaments in Mega-Events|The order of actions in contests may have a significant effect on performance. In this study we examine the role of schedule in round-robin tournaments with sequential games between three and four contestants. Our propensity-score matching estimation, based on soccer FIFA World Cups, UEFA European Championships and Olympic wrestling events, reveals that there is a substantial advantage to the contestant who competes in the first and third matches, which is in line with game-theoretical predictions. Our finding implies that the round-robin structure with sequential games is endogenously unfair, since it systematically favours one of the contestants.
D20|Striving for balance in economics: Towards a theory of the social determination of behavior|This paper is an attempt to broaden economic discourse by importing insights into human behavior not just from psychology, but also from sociology and anthropology. Whereas in standard economics the concept of the decision-maker is the rational actor, and in early work in behavioral economics it is the quasi-rational actor influenced by the context of the moment of decision, in some recent work in behavioral economics, the decision-maker could be called the enculturated actor. This actor's preferences, perception, and cognition are subject to two deep social influences: (a) the social contexts to which he has become exposed and, especially, accustomed; and (b) the cultural mental models—including categories, identities, narratives, and worldviews—that he uses to process information. The paper traces how these factors shape behavior through the endogenous determination of preferences and the lenses through which individuals see the world—their perception and interpretation of situations. The paper offers a tentative taxonomy of the social determinants of behavior and describes the results of controlled and natural experiments that only a broader view of these determinants can plausibly explain. The perspective suggests more realistic models of human behavior for explaining outcomes and designing policies.
D20|Creative capital in production, inefficiency, and inequality: A theoretical analysis|We analyze inefficiency and inequality associated with the use of creative capital to produce a final good. We first study a case in which the creative capital units are perfect substitutes in the production of the final good. We show that the equilibrium outcome is inefficient and that there is too little application of effort. Second, we define an indicator of inequality and show that an increase in inequality enhances efficiency and that it is possible to achieve complete efficiency. Third, we focus on the case where the individual creative capital units are perfect complements and show that the equilibrium outcome is inefficient with too little effort application. Finally, we contend that our theoretical results provide a possible rationale for the observed income inequality in cities and regions in which the activities of the creative class constitute a large part of all economic activities.
D20|A comment on the adoption of energy-efficiency-measures within firms - Energy costs and firm heterogeneity|The literature has identified a number of determinants of energy efficiency measures (EEMs) in firms, such as investment costs, expected profitability, the level of information and firm size. Instead of contributing a comprehensive analysis of this sort this paper theoretically and empirically addresses two questions with important policy implications. First, it has been suggested that energy cost shares positively affect the adoption of EEMs. This is plausible from a management perspective but ignores economic reasoning. Inefficient firms will be less likely to survive as long as they face competition. The association most likely reflects sectoral differences rather than differences in individual firm efficiency. Second, I stress the starkly heterogeneous nature of EEM adoption by presenting the differential impact of firm size and energy audits by sector.
D20|Bread and bullets|Standard economics omits the role of narratives (the stories that people tell themselves and others) when they make all kinds of decisions. Narratives play a role in understanding the environment; focusing attention; predicting events; motivating action; assigning social roles and identities; defining power relations; and establishing and conveying social norms. This paper describes the role narratives play in decision making, as it also juxtaposes this description against the backdrop of the Bolshevik-spawned narrative that played a critical role in the history of Russia and the Soviet Union in the 20th Century.
D20|"The diffusion of ""green'' buildings in the housing market: empirics on the long run effects of energy efficiency regulation"|"The impact of environmental regulation on market diffusion and market entry of ""green'', innovative buildings in the housing market is studied using a unique data set of German residential buildings. Particularly, we analyze how energy efficiency regulation, in terms of minimum standards, affects energy-requirements in newly constructed buildings over time in both, the high and low quality housing segment. The data we use consists of a large sample of German apartment houses built between 1950 and 2005. We develop a new measure for regulation intensity and apply a panel-error-correction regression model to energy requirements of low and high quality housing. Our findings suggest that regulation is effective and significantly impacts technology adoption in low quality housing. Moreover, we find that regulation indirectly also positively affects energy efficiency in the high quality housing markets. This suggests that tighter building codes have a substantial impact on both, the entry and the diffusion of ``green'' buildings in the housing market."
D20|Innovation Led Alliances: Theory and application to the GM Plant Industry| The objective of the present paper is to identify the determinants of the form of collaboration initiated between an upstream innovator and a downstream producer in order to incorporate a new input and commercialize an innovation consisting of a quality enhanced final product, with an empirical application to the GM plant industry. The choice of upstream firm between license, joint venture, merger or a subsidiary is modeled as a function of three parameters: degree of quality improvement engendered by the new input, the market share of the downstream producer and the capability of the downstream producer to incorporate the new input and commercialize it successfully. We also discuss the case where the downstream firm is a cooperative.
D20|Innovation Led Alliances: Theory and application to the GM Plant Industry| The objective of the present paper is to identify the determinants of the form of collaboration initiated between an upstream innovator and a downstream producer in order to incorporate a new input and commercialize an innovation consisting of a quality enhanced final product, with an empirical application to the GM plant industry. The choice of upstream firm between license, joint venture, merger or a subsidiary is modeled as a function of three parameters: degree of quality improvement engendered by the new input, the market share of the downstream producer and the capability of the downstream producer to incorporate the new input and commercialize it successfully. We also discuss the case where the downstream firm is a cooperative.
D20|Financial Implications of Seasonal Variability in Demand for Tourism Services (A Draft)| Using Jensen’s inequality (and its mathematical generalization), this contribution shows how increased seasonal (periodic) variability of demand for tourism services can increase the annual profit of a tourism enterprise and the producers’ surplus of a corresponding competitive segment of the tourism industry experiencing this increased variability. It identifies conditions which result in these effects being magnified and takes account of the fact that a tourism business’ supply of services is often subject to capacity utilization constraints. A novel feature is that allowance is made for the possibility that variations in the market demand for tourism services may alter the prices of factors of production.
D20|Financial Implications of Seasonal Variability in Demand for Tourism Services (Final Draft)| Using Jensen’s inequality (and its mathematical generalization), this contribution shows how increased seasonal (periodic) variability of demand for tourism services can increase the annual profit of a tourism enterprise and the producers’ surplus of a corresponding competitive segment of the tourism industry experiencing this increased variability. It identifies conditions which result in these effects being magnified and takes account of the fact that a tourism business’ supply of services is often subject to capacity utilization constraints. A novel feature is that allowance is made for the possibility that variations in the market demand for tourism services may alter the prices of factors of production. Examples of seasonal variability in the prices for tourism services are provided. Furthermore, the importance of this contribution is related to the available scholarly literature about the financial consequences of seasonal variability in the demand for tourism services.
D20|Depreciation of Business R&D Capital|We develop a forward‐looking profit model to estimate the depreciation rates of business R&D capital. By using data from BEA and NSF between 1987 and 2007, and the newly developed model, we estimate both constant and time‐varying industry‐specific R&D depreciation rates. The results comprise a set of R&D depreciation rates for major U.S. high-tech industries. They align with the main conclusions from recent studies that the rates are in general higher than the traditionally assumed 15 percent and vary across industries. The relative ranking of the constant R&D depreciation rates among industries is consistent with industry observations and the industry‐specific time‐varying rates are informative about the dynamics of technological change and the levels of competition across industries. Lastly, we also present a cross‐country comparison of the R&D depreciation rates between the U.S. and Japan, and find that the results reflect the relative technological competitiveness in key industries.
D20|Study On The Psychological Implications In Decision-Making|We can’t just talk about decisions at management level, they appear in every step in the life of everyday individual. In an organization decision making is reserved to the management (top managers, middle managers and lower level managers), but also to their subordinates, resources with which they come into contact with the purpose of good collaboration. With the theme of psychological implications of the decision, this article is structured in two parts. In the first part it is presented the concept of decision, and during the part number two a research based on a survey among human resources of the Centre for Resources and Educational Assistance Maramures is carried out. The working hypothesis of this article assumes that the decisions inside an organization have implications not only on economic-organizational level, but also reflects at the psychological level. The most important lessons learned as a result of the research carried out show that the decision maker must possess handling and management skills in order to reach consensus, and finally to make the best decisions.
D20|Una comparación del gasto por tres niveles de ingreso para Colombia bajo una estimación del sistema de ecuaciones de demanda Working y Leser y del Sistema Lineal de Gasto Extendido 2008|Una de las preguntas principales de la ciencia económica es la forma de abordar la cuestión sobre la medición de desigualdad y brecha entre la población pobre confrontada a la población de mayores ingresos, diferentes estudios orientan a que siendo una pregunta compleja, existe toda una teoría específica alrededor del tema, una de las formas de la medición es el cálculo de la pobreza monetaria y la forma como la población de una economía se distribuye alrededor de una línea de pobreza o de un salario mínimo. El artículo presenta unas consideraciones teóricas de la teoría clásica de elección racional, que fundamentan dos sistemas de ecuaciones de demanda tradicionales y que se usarán como herramienta para modelar el comportamiento de los hogares colombianos, utilizando información de la encuesta de calidad de vida 2008, para luego relacionar el nivel de vida y condiciones socio-económicas con el gasto en grupos de bienes homogéneos agrupados y el ingreso de la población. En particular para el caso colombiano se encontró que el 40% de los hogares son pobres mientras que otro 40% de los hogares apenas tiene un ingreso per-cápita superior a la línea de pobreza pero inferior a un salario mínimo mensual; de esta manera surgen los cuestionamientos sobre el nivel de vida de la población colombiana, el acceso a bienes básicos, el consumo de subsistencia, la brecha socio-económica y la exclusión social.
D20|Technology modelling and technology innovetion. How a technology model may be useful in studying the innovation process|This work concerns an extension of a mathematical model of technology developed at the Santa Fe Institute in the late nineties. It is based on analogies existing between technological and biological evolution and not on economic principles. This extension has the purpose to make the model useful in the studies of the innovation process. The model considers technology activity, independently of possible economic purposes, and having its own properties, structure, processes as well as an evolution independently by economic factors but more similar to biologic evolution. Considered purpose of technology is reaching of a technical result and not necessarily an economic result. The model considers technology as a structured set of technological operations that may be represented by a graph or matrix. That opens a description of a technology in term of technological spaces and landscapes, as well as in term of spaces of technologies, in which it is possible to represent search of optimal and evolutive paths of technologies, changes in their efficiency and measure of their radical degree linked to their technological competitiveness. The model is presented in a descriptive way and its mathematical development is presented in annex. The main applications of the model concern the use of the defined radical degree of a technology linked to its technological competitiveness. In this way it is explained the existence of Red Queen Regimes, characterized by continuous technical but not economical developments, among firms producing the same product. Such regimes are disrupted only by the entering of a technology with a high radical degree. Changes in operational structure of technologies may suggest the existence of three types of technology innovations, the first concerning learning by doing and consisting in minor changes giving incremental innovations, the second and the third, both able to obtain radical innovations through R&D activity, but the second exploiting scientific results and the third based only on a combinatory process of pre-existing technologies. This last way of innovation may explain the innovative potential, existing for example in Italian industrial districts, without resorting to any scientific research.Length: 38 pages
D20|Task ordering in incentives under externalities|In a two-task team project with observable task outcomes, optimal incentives prioritize tasks differently depending on task externalities. When the tasks are independent, Principal follows a decreasing order by placing more essential task first. A task is more essential if its failure compromises the overall project's chance of success from a task-specific cutoff level by a greater percentage. This definition has no systematic relations to the variance of task outcomes. In particular, a more risky task can be less essential or more essential. Under externalities, essentiality and impact jointly determine the optimal ordering. A task with much higher impact can be performed early even if it is less essential. Optimal task ordering thus raises subtle new issues and forms an integral part in team incentives. Our analysis provides some contrast with recent team incentives results.
D20|The contribution of firm-level shocks to aggregate fluctuations: The case of Sweden|We use annual observations on sales at the firm-destination level of all Swedish firms for 1997–2008 to examine the contribution of firm-level shocks to aggregate fluctuations. The firm-specific and sector-destination components each contribute about equally to aggregate sales volatility. For export volatility, the firm-specific component is more important. The analysis is conducted so as to ease a comparison to earlier results using French data. Compared to the French case the Swedish data show greater granularity and greater overall volatility, but also a lower firm-level contribution to aggregate volatility.
D20|Hierarchies and entrepreneurship|We establish a correlation between the hierarchical structure of a firm and the likelihood of business creation among its former employees, using a sample of 16 million observations of Swedish workers and a novel proxy for hierarchies based on occupation data. Conditional on firm size and many other variables, employees in firms with more layers are less likely to enter entrepreneurship, to become self-employed, and to switch to another employer. The effects of layers are much stronger for business creation than for job-switching and they are stronger for entrepreneurship than for self-employment. We discuss two potential explanations for the distinctive hierarchy effect we find. Part of the effect could be to be due to preference sorting by employees, and part due to employees in firms with fewer layers having a broader range of skills. One test showing that the probability of entrepreneurship increases with their prior rank in an organization is consistent with ability sorting and inconsistent with preference sorting.
D20|Optimal sequential delegation|The paper extends the optimal delegation framework to a dynamic environment where the agent initially has private information merely about the distribution of the state and learns the true state only as the relation proceeds. The principal may want to elicit the agent's initial information and offers a menu of delegation sets where the agent first chooses a delegation set and subsequently an action within this set. We characterize environments under which it is optimal and under which it is not optimal to elicit the agent's initial information and characterize optimal delegation menus. In the former case, delegation sets may be disconnected and may feature gaps.
D20|Modeling emission-generating technologies: Reconciliation of axiomatic and by-production approaches|We study the link between the by-production approach of Murty, Russell, and Levkoff [2012 J. Environ. Econ.] (MRL) and the axiomatic approach of Murty [2015 Econ. Theory] to modelling emission-generating technologies. We show that the by-production technology of MRL, obtained as an intersection of two independent sub-technologies, satisfies all the Murty axioms. Conversely, a technology satisfying all these axioms decomposes into two independent sub- technologies having the MRL features. These two sub-technologies, reflect, respectively, the relations between goods in intended-output production designed by human engineers, on the one hand, and the emission-generating mechanism of nature governed by material-balance considerations, on the other. In either approach, the technology can be functionally represented by two radial distance functions with well-defined properties. These distance functions can also serve as measures of technological and environmental efficiency. We exploit the link between the by-production and axiomatic approaches to offer preliminary suggestions about suitable functional forms for the empirical estimation of the two distance functions.
D20|Comparative analysis of private and public provision of the water and waste services by the Italian municipalities|This paper investigates the behavior of private and publicly-owned corporations providing services in local industries that have undergone restructuring interventions since the Nineties in order to promote market contestability. Based on the approaches arising from the transaction costs theory, the paper proposes a comparative analysis of the economic and financial efficiency of a sample of local utilities supplying services in the water and waste industries, observed from 2008 to 2010. The efficiency analysis is achieved by measuring the distance from the stochastic frontier of the production costs of each firm, and the financial efficiency analysis through statement ratios. The findings of the study generally confirm the implications of the transaction costs approach and they show a wide convergence trend between privately and publicly owned organizations for the degree of utilization of input as well as for the financial efficiency analysis. There are sometimes slight differentials on the part of public companies, especially for the larger ones, which can be largely explained by the existence of more stringent welfare-oriented objectives.
D20|Innovation, Competition and Technical Efficiency| Contradictory empirical and theoretical evidence on the relationship between innovation and competition has been reconciled in a model that yields an inverted U-shaped curve. I test whether the predictions of the model are supported by the data with an unbalanced panel of firms for 1990-2003 in a high productivity growth, high-tech industry, Finnish ICT manufacturing. In particular, I investigate how well alternative, yet rigorous measures of innovation and the technology gap, such as R&D intensity, R&D elasticity, technical change, technical efficiency and total factor productivity fare with respect to competition measured by the Lerner index. The results prove sensitive to the choice of variable. Overall, the model is not supported by the empirical evidence of the industry.
D20|A Confusion of Capital in the United States|Thomas Piketty’s book, Capital in the Twenty-First Century, reopens fundamental questions about the role and rewards of capital that economists have never resolved. It does so by exploring the history of capital and derives much of its credibility from the evidence it marshals in defence of its claims. In this paper, I evaluate the basis for Piketty’s arguments by considering them in light of the history of US capitalism. I argue that it is extremely difficult to make economic sense of Piketty’s historical analysis of capital in the US in the 19th and 20th centuries. That is true, only in part, due to the distinctive choices he makes, compared to mainstream economists, in defining and measuring capital. Much more problematic, in fact, are theoretical commitments he shares with them that preclude an understanding of capital’s historical role and rewards in the US economy. Based on a discussion of several important features of US economic history, I have argued that such an understanding demands an historical analysis of capital, both productive and financial capital, in relation to the evolving social organisation of capitalism in the US.
D20|Vers une prévisibilité des sanctions concurrentielles ? La procédure de transaction à la Macron|L’efficacité économique des règles du droit de la concurrence concernant les modalités de détermination des sanctions dépend de la valeur attribuée par les entreprises à la certitude de la sanction encourue, elle-même liée à sa négociabilité. Nous analysons d’abord la prévisibilité des sanctions et la stratégie des firmes au travers de deux affaires emblématiques de décembre 2015 concernant le groupe Orange. Selon cette même logique de plus de prévisibilité sur le montant des sanctions, nous discutons de l’évolution récente instituée par la loi Macron du 6 août 2015 qui transforme la procédure de non-contestation des griefs en une procédure de transaction. Nous détaillons, enfin, les raisons pour lesquelles les entreprises cherchent en tant que telle la prévisibilité des sanctions qu’elles encourent via une négociabilité favorisée par les nouveaux dispositifs juridiques.
D20|The French Productivity Puzzle|Since 2008, France experiences a sharp productivity slowdown. Both output per hour and total factor productivity are particularly deceptive in the market economy. This recent trend contrasts with the acceleration of productivity during the previous crisis in the 1990's and the continuous increase during the following decade. This text provides the first comprehensive exploration of this puzzling break. The direct impacts of the Great Recession on industry composition or reallocation of capital are not significant suspects for a slowdown occurring across business activities. Labour market mechanisms are better candidates. On the one hand, the French labour market policy has massively boosted the creation of low-productive jobs including very-short term employees and self-employed workers. On the other hand, firms, which benefit from massive tax cuts, have hoarded their high-skilled workforce. In addition, the spread of innovative HRM incentives, e.g. employee shareholding, seems to have turned productivity more sensitive to the business cycle (and especially to the fall of stock markets).
D20|Industrial Seigniorage, the Other Face of Competition|This paper tries to develop an original view on industrial practices in competitive capitalist economies. In particular, we question the link between prices, competition and the quality of goods and services. We try to show that it is rational for firms to try to reduce the quality and/or the identity of goods and services while still presenting theses goods and services as the same as before, in order to reduce their prices and so to improve their relative position in the competitive struggle and in order to increase their profits. By reducing quality, we mean the practice that consists of mixing inputs at the margin with cheaper ones or with alternative products that give weight. This practice reminds us of the old Seigneurs who used to mix gold with other metals to produce more coins. That’s why we propose to label this practice 'industrial seigniorage'. The article first tries to delineate the widespread existence of this practice among French firms, and then explains the fundamental elements of (Post Keynesian) consumers' behaviour which allow for this practice to exist. We especially insist on the inability of the consumer to evaluate the quality of goods and services, and his inability to distinguish a good which have been modified at the margin. In a third part, we analyze the phenomenon of industrial seigniorage in a kaleckian model. We show the impact on sectoral profit rates and on prices, as well as the global and macroeconomic consequences on growth, distribution and employment.
D20|Task ordering in incentives under externalities|In a two-task team project with observable task outcomes, optimal incentives prioritize tasks differently depending on task externalities. When the tasks are independent, Principal follows a decreasing order by placing more essential task first. A task is more essential if its failure compromises the overall project's chance of success from a task-specific cutoff level by a greater percentage. This definition has no systematic relations to the variance of task outcomes. In particular, a more risky task can be less essential or more essential. Under externalities, essentiality and impact jointly determine the optimal ordering. A task with much higher impact can be performed early even if it is less essential. Optimal task ordering thus raises subtle new issues and forms an integral part in team incentives. Our analysis provides some contrast with recent team incentives results.
D20|Industrial Dynamics: A Review of the Literature 1990-2009|This paper reviews the literature in the field of Industrial Dynamics as it has emerged since I first introduced the term in 1985. Nearly 8,000 articles in 12 major journals have been reviewed and classified under five broad themes that constitute the basic questions in industrial dynamics: 1. The causes of industrial development and economic growth, including the dynamics and evolution of industries and the role of entrepreneurship 2. The nature of economic activity in the firm and the dynamics of supply, particularly the role of knowledge. 3. How the boundaries and interdependence of firms change over time and contribute to economic transformation. 4. Technological change and its institutional framework, especially systems of innovation. 5. The role of public policy in facilitating adjustment of the economy to changing circumstances at both micro and macro levels. Under each theme, the main findings and their implications for theory and policy are summarized.
D20|Does Risk-Adjusted Payment Influence Primary Care Providers' Decision on Where to Set Up Practices?|Providing equal access to health care is an important objective in most health care systems. It is especially pertinent in systems like the Swedish primary care market, where providers are free to establish themselves in any part of the country. To improve equity in access to care, 15 out 21 county councils in Sweden have implemented risk-adjusted capitation based on the Care Need Index, which increases capitation to primary care centers with a large share of patients with unfavorable socioeconomic and demographic characteristics. Our aim is to estimate the effects of using care-need adjusted capitation on the supply of private primary care centers. We use a dataset that combines information on all primary care centers in Sweden during 2005-2013, the payment system and other conditions for establishing new primary care centers used in the county councils, and demographic, geographic, and socioeconomic variables for low level geographic areas. To estimate the effects of care-need adjusted capitation, we use difference-in-differences models, contrasting the development over time between areas with and without risk-adjusted capitation, and with high and low Care Need Index values. Risk-adjusted capitation significantly increase the number of private primary care centers in areas with relatively high Care Need Index values. The adjustment results in a changed distribution of private centers within county councils; the total number of private centers does not increase in county councils using care-need adjusted capitation. The effects are furthermore increasing over the first three years after the implementation of such capitation, and concentrated to the lower and middle range of the group of areas with high index values. Risk-adjusted capitation based on the Care Need Index increases the supply of private primary care centers in areas with unfavorable socioeconomic and demographic characteristics. More generally, this result indicates that risk-adjusted capitation can significantly affect private providers’ establishment decisions.
D20|Teams in Relational Contracts|We analyze relational contracting between a principal and a team of agents where only aggregate output is observable. We deduce optimal team incentive contracts under di¤erent set of assumptions, and show that the principal can use team size and team composition as instruments in order to improve incentives. In particular, the principal can strengthen the agents' incentives by composing teams that utilize stochastic dependencies between the agents' outputs. We also show that more agents in the team may under certain conditions increase each team member's effort incentives, in particular if outputs are negatively correlated.
D20|Impact of Supply Chain Network Structure on FDI: Theory and evidence|This study investigates how the structure of a supply chain network in the domestic market influences the foreign direct investment (FDI) decisions of firms embedded in the network. We first describe the binary choice of firms on whether to invest through a coordination game of a fixed network with incomplete information of the firms' profits, and we show that the unique equilibrium of the game is represented by the Katz-Bonacich centrality measure, which captures both direct and indirect effects of the network. Then, we also conduct empirical tests to verify our theoretical hypothesis with large disaggregated data of Japanese firms and confirm that the Katz-Bonacich centrality of each firm has a significantly positive effect on its FDI even when sector-specific fixed effects and other attributes are controlled for, as our theory predicted.
D20|Teoría de la empresa. Primera parte. ¿Por qué existen las empresas?|Los dos primeros capítulos tratan sobre la teoría de la empresa.
D20|Teoría de la empresa. Segunda parte. ¿Maximizan ganancias las empresas?|Los dos primeros capítulos tratan sobre la teoría de la empresa.
D20|El monopolio|Se analiza el comportamiento de ñas empresas monopólicas y sus estrategias para bloquear el ingreso de potenciales competidores.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D20|Monopolio|Se analiza el comportamiento de ñas empresas monopólicas y sus estrategias para bloquear el ingreso de potenciales competidores.
D20|Discriminación de precios|Se estudian las políticas de discriminación de precios con aplicaciones a las ventas en paquete y las subastas.
D20|Integración y control vertical|Se analizan las cadenas productivas, tando desde la perspectiva de una empresa verticalmente integrada como desde las relaciones verticales entre empresas distintas dentro de una misma cadena.
D20|La competencia oligopólica en el largo plazo: la solución colusiva|Se comienza a hacer el análisis desde una perspectiva de largo plazo, considerando la posibilidad de un acuerdo colusivo.
D20|Competencia con productos diferenciados|Se comienza a hacer el análisis desde una perspectiva de largo plazo, considerando la posibilidad de aplicar estrategias de discriminación de precios.
D20|Barreras al ingreso de nuevos competidores|Se comienza a hacer el análisis desde una perspectiva de largo plazo, considerando la posibilidad de aplicar barreras al ingreso.
D20|Publicidad, información y persuasión|Se estudian otras estrategias, como la publicidad y la utilización de la propiedad intelectual (marcas, derechos de autor y patentes).
D20|La economía de la propiedad intelectual|Se estudian otras estrategias, como la publicidad y la utilización de la propiedad intelectual (marcas, derechos de autor y patentes).
D20|Modeling Pork Supply Response and Price Volatility: The Case of Greece| This paper examines the supply response of the Greek pork market. A GARCH process is used to estimate expected price and price volatility, while price and supply equations are estimated jointly. In addition to the standard GARCH model, several different symmetric, asymmetric, and nonlinear GARCH models are estimated. The empirical results indicate that among the estimated GARCH models, the quadratic NAGARCH model seems to better describe producers’ price volatility, which was found to be an important risk factor of the supply response function of the Greek pork market. Furthermore, the empirical findings show that feed price is an important cost factor of the supply response function and that high uncertainty restricts the expansion of the Greek pork sector. Finally, the model provides forecasts for quantity supplied, producers’ price, and price volatility.
D20|A Cognitive Theory of the Firm|"This paper reviews and criticizes existing theories of the firm, which take a technical or a governance perspective. One point of criticism is that they do not offer an adequate treatment of learning and innovation, while such treatment is of high priority. With some exceptions, existing governance theories, in economics, neglect the importance of trust. This paper offers a cognitive theory to deal with learning, innovation, and trust. It also incorporates technical and governance perspectives, but emphasizes a competence perspective, in ""dynamic capabilities"" of innovation and learning. On the basis of a constructivist theory of knowledge, it offers the notion of ""cognitive distance"", and proposes that the boundaries of the firm result from the determination of ""optimal cognitive distance"". This is achieved by a ""cognitive focus"", yielding the notion of a firm as a ""focusing device""."
D20|Economies of Scale in the Floriculture Industry| This study investigated the cost structure of the floriculture industry in the United States. Economies of scale and input elasticities were estimated with a normalized quadratic cost function. Results suggest that economies of scale exist in the floriculture industry. As producers become large and more automated, they have a cost advantage relative to smaller producers who are producing the same output product mix. The existence of economies of scale suggests that average grower size can increase in the future as growers increase in size to take advantage of cost efficiencies.
D20|Economies of Scale in the Floriculture Industry| This study investigated the cost structure of the floriculture industry in the United States. Economies of scale and input elasticities were estimated with a normalized quadratic cost function. Results suggest that economies of scale exist in the floriculture industry. As producers become large and more automated, they have a cost advantage relative to smaller producers who are producing the same output product mix. The existence of economies of scale suggests that average grower size can increase in the future as growers increase in size to take advantage of cost efficiencies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D20|The Institutional Structure of Production|Prize Lecture to the memory of Alfred Nobel, December 9, 1991.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
