D21|The Likelihood of Divorce and the Riskiness of Financial Decisions|We link causally the riskiness of men's management of their finances with the probability of their experiencing a divorce. Our point of departure is that when comparing single men to married men, the former manage their finances in a more aggressive (that is, riskier) manner. Assuming that single men believe that low relative wealth has a negative effect on their standing in the marriage market and that they care about their standing in that market more than married men do, we find that a stronger distaste for low relative wealth translates into reduced relative risk aversion and, consequently, into riskier financial behavior. With this relationship in place we show how this difference varies depending on the “background” likelihood of divorce and, hence, on the likelihood of re-entry into the marriage market: married men in environments that are more prone to divorce exhibit risk-taking behavior that is more similar to that of single men than married men in environments that are little prone to divorce. We offer a theoretical contribution that helps inform and interpret empirical observations and regularities and can serve as a guide for follow-up empirical work, having established and identified the direction of causality.
D21|“Technological cooperation and R&D outsourcing at the rm level: The role of the regional context”|Much has been said about the role that technological networking activities play on the innovative performance of rms, but little is known about the relevance of the context where the rm is locate shaping the eciency of such networking activities. In this article we hypothesize that the transformation of rms' networking activities into innovation may vary depending on the regional environment in which the rm is located. For Spanish manufactures in the period 2000-12 and through the use of a multilevel framework, we obtain that after controlling for the rm's characteristics, the regional context has not only a direct eect on rms' innovation performance, but it also conditions the returns to rms' networking activities, although dierently in the case of cooperation and outsourcing. Cooperating in innovation activities is more benecial for those rms located in a knowledge intensive region, whereas R&D outsourcing seems to be more protable for rms in regions with a low knowledge pool.
D21|Shocks and labour cost adjustment: evidence from a survey of European firms|We use firm-level survey data from 25 EU countries to analyse how firms adjust their labour costs (employment, wages and hours) in response to shocks. We develop a theoretical model to understand how firms choose between different ways to adjust their labour costs. The basic intuition is that firms choose the cheapest way to adjust labour costs. Our empirical findings are in line with the theoretical model and show that the pattern of adjustment is not much affected by the type of the shock (demand shock, access-to-finance shock, ‘availability of supplies’ shock), but differs according to the direction of the shock (positive or negative), its size and persistence. In 2010-13, firms responding to negative shocks were most likely to reduce employment, then hourly wages and then hours worked, regardless of the source of the shock. Results for the 2008-09 period indicate that the ranking might change during deep recession as the likelihood of wage cuts increases. In response to positive shocks in 2010-13, firms were more likely to increase wages, followed by increases in employment and then hours worked suggesting an asymmetric reaction to positive and negative shocks. Finally, we show that strict employment protection legislation and high centralisation or coordination of wage bargaining make it less likely that firms reduce wages when facing negative shocks. JEL Classification: D21, D22, D24
D21|The Micro-economics of Export Supply: Firm-Level Evidence from Mexico|This paper uses firm-level data for Mexican exporters to understand how firm-level export decisions shape a country's aggregate exports. The data allows for a characterization of both the crosssectional distribution of Mexican exports, across destinations and across exporting firms, and of the time-series variation in aggregate exports and its relation to time-series variation in the export supply decisions of firms. It is found that the cross-sectional variation of exports is mostly accounted for the extensive margins of trade, particularly the extensive margin of number of products exported, while the time-series variation in aggregate exports is mostly accounted for by the intensive margin of trade, and in particular by the growth of exporting firms that retain their export status from year to year.
D21|Shocks and labour cost adjustment: Evidence from a survey of European firms|We use firm-level survey data from 25 EU countries to analyse how firms adjust their labour costs (employment, wages and hours) in response to shocks. We develop a theoretical model to understand how firms choose between different ways to adjust their labour costs. The basic intuition is that firms choose the cheapest way to adjust labour costs. Our empirical findings are in line with the theoretical model and show that the pattern of adjustment is not much affected by the type of the shock (demand shock, access-to-finance shock, ‘availability of supplies’ shock), but differs according to the direction of the shock (positive or negative), its size and persistence. In 2010-13, firms responding to negative shocks were most likely to reduce employment, then hourly wages and then hours worked, regardless of the source of the shock. Results for the 2008-09 period indicate that the ranking might change during deep recession as the likelihood of wage cuts increases. In response to positive shocks in 2010-13, firms were more likely to increase wages, followed by increases in employment and then hours worked suggesting an asymmetric reaction to positive and negative shocks. Finally, we show that strict employment protection legislation and high centralisation or coordination of wage bargaining make it less likely that firms reduce wages when facing negative shocks.
D21|Value-Capture in the Face of Known and Unknown Unknowns|A large theoretical literature on value capture following Brandenburger and Stuart (1996) uses cooperative games under complete information to study how and why firms earn supernormal profits. However, firms often have different information, beliefs, or creative foresight. We extend value capture theory to incomplete information (``known unknowns'') or unawareness (``unknown unknowns''), and illustrate some conceptual issues with that extension. Using the case study of Cirque du Soleil, we show how an entrepreneurial firm can profit even when it does not contribute materially to value creation.
D21|Inconsistent time preferences and on-the-job search - when it pays to be naive|We study optimal employment contracts for present-biased employees who can conduct on-the-job search. Presuming that firms cannot offer long-term contracts, we find that individuals who are naive about their present bias will actually be better off than sophisticated or time-consistent individuals. Moreover, they search more, which partially counteracts the inefficiencies caused by their present bias.
D21|Reciprocity in dynamic employment relationships|This paper explores how a relational contract establishes a norm of reciprocity and how such a norm shapes the provision of informal incentives. Developing a model of a long-term employment relationship, I show that generous upfront wages that activate the norm of reciprocity are more important when an employee is close to retirement. In earlier stages, direct incentives promising a bonus in exchange for effort are more effective. Then, a longer remaining time horizon increases the employer’s commitment. Generally, direct and reciprocity-based incentives reinforce each other and should thus optimally be used in combination. I also show that more competition can magnify the use of reciprocity-based incentives. Moreover, with asymmetric information on the employee’s responsiveness to the norm of reciprocity, an early separation of types is generally optimal. Then, the principal might benefit from asymmetric information because a firing threat is only credible if the employee potentially is not reciprocal.
D21|Risk Aversion And Entrepreneurship: Financing Innovation For Smes Across Europe. Evidence From Multilevel Models|This paper aims to evaluate the role played by different sources of finance when analysing firms’ attitudes to innovate. The empirical investigation is based on the firm-level data for a large sample of European SMEs across the 2012–2017 period. Different measures of finance and several robustness checks are used to select a well-behaved probit multilevel model. Importantly, results show that the probability to innovate increases when firms use internal finance and grants. The same applies when funds come from family and friend channels, while no conclusive evidence is found for bank loans.
D21|New Evidence On The Firm-University Linkages In Europe. The Role Of Meritocratic Management Practices|This paper investigates the determinants of university-industry links in five European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK), using internationally comparable firm-level data for the period 2007-2009. Besides the usual firm-specific variables, it examines the role of meritocratic management practices in firms’ decisions to collaborate in R&D. Firm innovative efforts, the export status and the R&D government support are positively related to business-university links in almost all countries, human capital and firms’ size in two out of five countries under scrutiny, while belonging to science-based sectors does not seem to play a significant role. Importantly, we find that meritocratic managerial practices positively affect the firm-university nexus in Germany, France and UK, while meritocracy does not appear to enhance businesses’ R&D collaboration in Italy and in Spain.
D21|Impacto de la implementación del canal de atención a clientes mineros de la ANM sobre la inversión minera en Colombia|El presente estudio busca medir el impacto de la implementación del Canal de Atención a Clientes Mineros del Grupo de Promoción de la Agencia Nacional de Minería (ANM) sobre la inversión en el sector minero colombiano. Teniendo en cuenta que el uso del canal es voluntario y libre, se optó por aplicar la metodología de emparejamiento PSM, con el fin de corregir el posible sesgo de autoselección causado por la diferencia de las empresas participantes y no participantes. Se encuentra que el canal de atención tiene impacto sobre las inversiones en el sector minero colombiano, toda vez que las empresas con presencia en el país que lo usan invierten en promedio $1.3 millones de pesos más que aquellas empresas que no se benefician de estos canales de atención. Como parte de las recomendaciones derivadas de este ejercicio, se considera que, si la ANM está interesada en determinar la eficacia de otras estrategias de promoción, se debe contar con el listado de las empresas beneficiadas por otro tipo de intervenciones.
D21|Firm Size, Quality Bias and Import Demand|No abstract is available for this item.
D21|Firm Organization with Multiple Establishments|How do geographic frictions affect firm organization? We show theoretically and empirically that geographic frictions increase the use of middle managers in multi-establishment firms. In our model, we assume that a CEO’s time is a resource in limited supply, shared across headquarters and establishments. Geographic frictions increase the costs of accessing the CEO. Hiring middle managers at one establishment substitutes for CEO time, which is reallocated across all establishments. Consequently, geographic frictions between the headquarters and one establishment affect the organization of all establishments of a firm. Our model is consistent with novel facts about multi-establishment firm organization that we document using administrative data from Germany. We exploit the opening of high-speed train routes to show that not only the establishments directly affected by faster travel times but also the other establishments of the firm adjust their organization. Our findings imply that local conditions propagate across space through firm organization.
D21|Coordination and Organization Design: Theory and Micro-evidence|We explore the relationship between the volatility of a firm's local environment, the need for coordination among sub-units, and a firm's organizational structure. Using micro-level data on a large retailer, we empirically test and provide support for our hypothesis that a more volatile local environment results in more decentralization only when coordination needs are small or moderate. In contrast, more local volatility is associated with more centralization when coordination needs are high. Our evidence supports theories that argue that centralized organizations are better at coping with local shocks when coordinated adaptation is important.
D21|Capital Stock and Depreciation: Theory and an Empirical Application|There are many puzzles and unresolved problems in empirical economics that depend on the reliability of the productive capital series. Some macroeconomic topics and questions cannot be addressed correctly or answered with the available standard statistical measures of capital stock. We make an innovative contribution to the theory of capital together with an exercise that quantifies the depreciation rate and the capital stock for the U.S. economy. An intertemporal optimization model with adjustment and maintenance costs, gives us the algorithm and the corresponding economic estimation of capital deterioration and obsolescence. Our measures are based on profitability and the Tobin’s q ratio.
D21|Subsidy Bidding Wars and the Structure of Multi-Plant Firms| Governments spend large amounts of money to attract firms to their territory, often resulting from bidding wars against other regions. Previous papers show that such bidding wars can improve social welfare by allocating the investment to the regions that value it the most. In this paper, we depart from the usual assumption of exogenous, single-plant investment. We show that in this context, bidding wars incite the firm to allocate its investment strategically, by investing more and differentiating the plants. In turn, the firm receives larger subsidies. Despite these distortions, bidding wars may remain socially optimal, as in simpler models.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D21|Firms, Skills, and Wage Inequality|We present a model with search frictions and heterogeneous agents that allows us to decompose the overall increase in US wage inequality in the last 30 years into its within- and between-firm and skill components. We calibrate the model to evaluate how much of the overall rise in wage inequality and its components is explained by different channels. Output distribution per firm-skill pair more than accounts for the observed increase over this period. Parametric identification implies that the worker-specific component is responsible for 85 percent of this, compared to 15 percent that is attributable to firm-level productivity shifts.
D21|What is the value of being a superhost?|We construct a search model where sellers post prices and produce goods of unknown quality. A match between a buyer and a seller reveals the quality of the seller. We look at the pricing decisions of the sellers in this environment. We then introduce a rating system whereby buyers reveal the seller's type by giving them a `star' if they are a high quality seller. We show that new sellers charge a low price to attract buyers and if they receive a star they post a high price. Furthermore, high quality sellers sell with a higher probability than new sellers. We show that welfare is higher with a ratings system. Using data on Airbnb rentals to compare the pricing decisions of Superhosts (elite rentals) to non-Superhosts we show that Superhosts: 1) charge higher prices, 2) have more bookings and 3) higher revenue than non-Super hosts.
D21|A simple model of corporate bailouts in a globalized economy|This paper explores how globalization influences the decision of governments to rescue inefficient domestic firms when bailouts affect firms'markups. We develop a model of international trade where immobile domestic enterprises (DOEs) compete with foreign enterprises (FOEs) in an oligopolistic market. The decision to bail out DOEs leads to lower corporate tax revenues if FOEs are immobile whereas tax revenues might increase if FOEs are mobile. Interestingly, the mobility of FOEs makes governments more prone to rescue inefficient domestic firms because tax competition reduces the opportunity cost of a bailout policy in terms of public good provision.
D21|Firm Decisions under Jump-Diffusive Dynamics|We present a model of firm investment under uncertainty and partial irreversibility in which uncertainty is represented by a jump diffusion. This allows to represent both the continuous Gaussian volatility and the discontinuous uncertainty related to information arrival, sudden changes and large shocks. The model shows how both sources of uncertainty negatively impact the optimal investment and disinvestment policies, and how the presence oflarge negative jumps can drastically affect the firm’s ability to recover. Our results show that the standard Gaussian framework consistently underestimates the negative effect of uncertainty on firm investment decisions. We test these predictions on a panel dataset of UK firms: we first structurally estimate the uncertainty parameters using multinomial maximum likelihood and differential evolution techniques and subsequently study their impact on firm investment rates, validating our model predictions.
D21|Prior knowledge and monotone decision problems|This paper identifies cognitive conditions under which a rational individual or group decision-maker will want to commit ex ante to some choice restrictions, in order to get extra information about an uncertain state of nature. We show that the implemented limitations will then bring her to solve a monotone decision problem. This provides a behavioral/microeconomic foundation for the recurrence of this type of problem in many contexts. From another angle, the analysis explains why and when individuals and organizations resort to automatic responses or routines in some circumstances, and how this can shape their environment.
D21|Subsidy Bidding Wars and the Structure of Multi-Plant Firms| Governments spend large amounts of money to attract firms to their territory, often resulting from bidding wars against other regions. Previous papers show that such bidding wars can improve social welfare by allocating the investment to the regions that value it the most. In this paper, we depart from the usual assumption of exogenous, single-plant investment. We show that in this context, bidding wars incite the firm to allocate its investment strategically, by investing more and differentiating the plants. In turn, the firm receives larger subsidies. Despite these distortions, bidding wars may remain socially optimal, as in simpler models.
D21|An analytical approach to crowdinvesting: The impact of marketing and idea stealing on the entrepreneur's decision making|In a game theoretical setting, this paper studies the entrepreneur's decision making by using a new financing opportunity referred to as crowdinvesting. In this model, the entrepreneur can collect money and advertise his innovative idea. However, crowdinvesting carries the risk of being copied by a potential competitor. Faced with this trade-off, the entrepreneur strategically diminishes his marketing activity under certain circumstances to remain the monopolist in the market. In the second part, we compare crowdinvesting with two alternative financing opportunities, banks and venture capital. We show that crowdinvesting, often mentioned as a financing instrument for drastic innovations, is generally not appropriate for these ideas because the danger of being copied is too high for the entrepreneur.
D21|Bid Costs and the (In)efficiency of Public Procurement Auctions|The paper analyzes the excess entry hypothesis for sealed-bid first price public procurement auctions.The hypothesis is proved analytically for any feasible combination of bid preparation cost and bid evaluation cost when the bidders face a rectangular cost density function and confirmed in numerical simulations based on a family of flexible cost density functions. The excess entry hypothesis implies that the procurer may reduce both his own cost and the social cost by imposing a positive fee on the bids. Sequential search is a superior strategy to a public procurement auction whether or not the procurer imposes an optimal fee on the bids.
D21|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the firms' abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A firm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the first best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet effect since the low-cost firms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when firms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We find evidence that the firms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
D21|Financial Contracts as Coordination Device|"We study the use of fi nancial contracts as bid-coordinating device in multi-unit uniform price auctions. Coordination is required whenever firms face a volunteer's dilemma in pricing strategies: one firm (the ""volunteer"") is needed to increase the market clearing price. Volunteering, however, is costly, as inframarginal suppliers sell their entire capacity whereas the volunteer only sells residual demand. We identify conditions under which signing financial contracts solves this dilemma. We test our framework exploiting data on contract positions by large producers in the New York power market. Using a Monte Carlo simulation, we show that the contracting strategy is payoff dominant and provide estimates of the benefits of such strategy."
D21|Prevention or cure? Abatement efficiency in a network technology|We develop a network technology model for pollution abatement that distinguishes between the two primary forms that abatement can take: Prevention of emissions from occurring in the first place, and treatment of any emissions that are generated by the production process. Our network model separates the production process into two stages, an initial production and prevention stage and a final treatment (or cure) stage. We allow for reallocation of abatement resources across the production stages, in order to improve overall abatement and production efficiency and better understand the tradeoffs between the two forms of abatement. This framework is relevant in practice for a number of industrial production processes, including manufacturing and energy, which employ multiple abatement measures at different stages of production. To illustrate, we apply the prevention-treatment network model to estimate the production and abatement technology for firms in Sweden’s pulp and paper manufacturing sector. We find that with reallocation of prevention and treatment resources, the industry could achieve further gains to both production and emissions reductions, relative to those estimated using the more common single-stage approach to technology estimation for pollution-generating processes. In practice, these results could be used by producers for improving managerial efficiency, and by policy makers to better target abatement incentives to the most effective aspects of production.
D21|Efficient and sustainable bioenergy production in Swedish forests – a network DEA approach|Forest fuel defined as branches and tops (GROT) of harvested trees represents a large share of forest biomass and is increasingly viewed as a potential energy source. This study assesses the economic potentials of forest bioenergy production in Swedish forests, using a network data envelopment analysis (DEA) model to estimate the technology for biofuel and other forest products. We consider that forests are managed to use multiple inputs to produce multiple outputs. Outputs include sawtimber, pulpwood, fuelwood, and bioenergy in terms of GROT. Our model also considers environmental concerns over biodiversity and CO2 emissions from burning biomass. We apply the network DEA model to measure the revenue efficiency of forest production of Swedish forests using a panel consisting of 20 counties and covering the years from 2008 to 2014. Our results show that there exist persistent economic inefficiencies of forest production in some counties, reducing the overall efficiency of Sweden’s forest and wood products industry. In addition, we also estimate the potential increase in bioenergy, deadwood and CO2 emissions reduction from combustion of bioenergy and by-products from sawtimber and pulpwood.
D21|非伝統的急成長企業「ガゼル」と制限されたアクセス権|本論文の研究対象は，非伝統的な企業「ガゼル」である。それは，急成長する企業であり，行政資源，または大企業に付属することによって成長が支えられている。このような企業の商業的な成功に目覚しい役割を果たしているのはレントである。けれども，ダグラス・ノース教授とその共著者が提唱する「制限されたアクセス権」の理論が予測しているように，そして伝統的な解釈論とは異なり，一定の条件の下でのレントは，移行経済では積極的な役割を果たし得る。ロシアにおける非伝統的な企業「ガゼル」の主要な成長パターンの中でも，実証研究によって肯定的なシナリオが示された。本論文では，このような企業が開発国家の手段になるための諸条件が議論されている。
D21|Supermodular correspondences and comparison of multi-prior beliefs|Economic decisions often involve maximising an objective whose value is itself the outcome of another optimisation problem. This decision structure arises in multi-output production and choice under uncertainty with multi-prior beliefs. To analyse comparative statics in these models, we introduce a theory of Supermodular correspondences. In particular, we employ this theory to generalise the notion of first order stochastic dominance to multi-prior beliefs, allowing us to characterise conditions under which greater optimism leads to higher action.
D21|Access to Banking and the Role of Inequality and the Financial Crisis|No abstract is available for this item.
D21|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the ﬁrms’ abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A ﬁrm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the ﬁrst best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet eﬀect since the low-cost ﬁrms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when ﬁrms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We ﬁnd evidence that the ﬁrms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
D21|Can Microfinance Unlock a Poverty Trap for Some Entrepreneurs?|Can microcredit help unlock a poverty trap for some people by putting their businesses on a different trajectory? Could the small microcredit treatment effects often found for the average household mask important heterogeneity? In Hyderabad, India, we find that “gung ho entrepreneurs” (GEs), households who were already running a business before microfinance entered, show persistent benefits that increase over time. Six years later, the treated GEs own businesses that have 35% more assets and generate double the revenues as those in control neighborhoods. We find almost no effects on non-GE households. A model of technology choice in which talented entrepreneurs can access either a diminishing-returns technology, or a more productive technology with a fixed cost, generates dynamics matching the data. These results show that heterogeneity in entrepreneurial ability is important and persistent. For talented but low-wealth entrepreneurs, short-term access to credit can indeed facilitate escape from a poverty trap.
D21|Discretionary Exemptions from Environmental Regulation: Flexibility for Good or for Ill|"We develop a model of firm and regulator behavior to examine theoretically the use and consequences of discretionary exemptions (also known as variances, waivers, or exceptions) in environmental regulation. Many environmental protection laws, such as the Clean Water Act, impose limits on harmful activities yet include ""safety valve"" provisions giving the regulator discretion to grant full or partial exemptions that provide permanent or temporary relief from these limits. This discretion begets flexibility over the stringency of environmental protection laws. Our model places a profit-maximizing discharger of pollution under the purview of a fully informed regulator who may seek to maximize social welfare by imposing limits. We show that when a regulation does not otherwise allow flexibility, an exemption that relaxes the limit for firms with high abatement costs can improve social welfare by reducing the costs of achieving the given level of environmental quality. We further demonstrate that if the effectiveness of abatement technology improves over time, a temporary exemption can increase social welfare by adjusting allowable pollution in response to these dynamic conditions. We also show that if the labor market is sticky, exemptions can benefit workers. Driven by an unequally weighted social welfare function, the regulator may use exemptions to meet redistributive ends. However, these beneficial impacts of exemptions rely on a fully informed and benevolent regulator; otherwise, the discretionary nature of exemptions leaves them open to abuse. A regulator who is captured by industry, focused only on her own jurisdiction or answerable only to a set of elites, can abuse exemptions in ways that reduce social welfare, such as allowing inefficiently high pollution or inducing a cost-ineffective pattern of abatement."
D21|The strange case of appropriate C-sections:DRG-tariff regulation, hospital ownership, and market concentration|The aim of this paper is to discuss how different types of hospitals respond to large financial incentives for vaginal deliveries and to financial disincentives for C-sections. We focus on a public health care system based on the quasiâ€“market model. We theoretically and empirically evaluate a government policy equalizing the tariff for C-section and vaginal deliveries at a level such that hospitals face monetary disincentives for C-section and monetary incentives for vaginal deliveries. We first theoretically show that hospital ownership matters insofar different types of hospitals are characterized by different ethical preferences; but ownership interacts with market concentration. We then consider the case-study of Lombardy in Italy. We exploit spatial variation in the presence of for-profit, not-for-profit and public hospitals and in the market concentration at the local level to evaluate the relationship between ownership and the probability of C-section. Our empirical results strongly suggest that competitive pressures from alternative providers tend to homogenize behaviors. However, in local monopolies, we do observe less C-section from private for-profit hospitals than from public and private non-profit hospitals especially when they are medically appropriate.
D21|Efficient Sequential Assignments with Randomly Arriving Multi-Item Demand Agents|A seller has several heterogeneous indivisible items like tickets to sell over time before a deadline. These items become worthless after the deadline. Buyers arrive sequentially and randomly and have their own private valuations over items. Each buyer may acquire more than one item. We formulate this as an incentive compatible revenue maximization problem and characterize optimal allocation policies and derive various properties.
D21|Asymmetric competition, risk, and return distribution|We propose a parsimonious statistical model of firm competition where structural differences in the strength of competitive pressure and the magnitude of return fluctuations above and below the system-wide benchmark translate into a skewed Subbotin or asymmetric exponential power (AEP) distribution of returns to capital. Empirical evidence from US data illustrates that the AEP distribution compares favorably to popular alternative models such as the symmetric or asymmetric Laplace density in terms of goodness of fit when entry and exit dynamics of markets are taken into account.
D21|Micro Enterprises Performances Potential Index (MEPPI): A Study with the Reference to Rural Areas of the Cuddalore District, Tamilnadu|Micro enterprises are recognized as the prime source of livelihood for the poor population in the rural areas around the globe. The impact of micro enterprises on the rural economy is determined by the performance of these micro enterprises, their success rate and the potential for the sustainability in the market which depends upon the various factors like financial capability, profitability, resource availability, demand in the market, skill up gradation of the micro entrepreneurs and the competitiveness. In addition to this the factors such as labour, the performance potential of the micro enterprises, capital availability with low cost technology, raw materials availability, better infrastructure, political stability and the supportive economics policies like subsidies and export import guidance and many others join together to determine the performance and sustainability of the micro enterprises. A successful entrepreneur needs to be known and ready to adopt the necessary changes and differentiations in the product suitable to the market change which warrants the entrepreneurs knowledge about the dynamics of the market conditions regarding the trend in the demand, demand forecasting, performance evaluation of the enterprises at the particular period and its production and market potential for the future. The available literature about the performance of micro enterprises reveals that lake of timely assessment about the concurrent performance of the micro enterprise and their performance potential for the future leads to the failure of the products and the microenterprises (Olawale (2014), Wan Nurulasiah binti Wan Mustapa, Abdullah Al Mamun , Mohamed Dahlan Ibrahim, Mbugua Stephen Kamunge , Agnes Njeru , Ondabu Ibrahim Tirimba, (2018) and Bushu 2019) which calls for an in-depth attempt to discover the resource and market potential for the best performance of the micro enterprises at the gross root level. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research.
D21|"Digitization and knowledge spillover effectiveness: Evidence from the ""German Mittelstand"""|The Knowledge Spillover Theory of Entrepreneurship (KSTE) considers determinants of knowledge diffusion as well as their impact on entrepreneurial activities and growth. Extending the KSTE, the role of incumbent firms for the broad diffusion of new knowledge has been emphasized. For those firms, the barriers to an effective flow of information are considered using the concepts of knowledge filters and absorptive capacities. Both concepts enable the derivation of institutional measures to penetrate knowledge filters and systematically increase absorptive capacities. We interpret the process of digitization as a central process of knowledge spillover in recent years and determine digitization-related knowledge filters for particular domains of firm decision-making. Using a consultant-based in-depth evaluation of 200 SMEs conducted in the context of a federal innovation program, structural drivers, firm clusters and domain-specific knowledge filters for digitization are determined. We find little evidence for structural drivers of knowledge spillover effectiveness. However, as firms are clustered according to their digitization pattern, we show that firms realize high degrees of digitization in most domains or in none, leading us to argue that domain-specific knowledge filters are weak. Rather, knowledge spillover in digitization can be considered a process with initially strong general knowledge filter and - once this filter has been penetrated - weaker subsequent domain-specific knowledge filters. Policy and managerial implications for increasing digitization-related knowledge spillovers in SMEs are discussed.
D21|“Technological cooperation and R&D outsourcing at the firm level: The role of the regional context ”|Much has been said about the role that technological networking activities play on the innovative performance of firms, but little is known about the relevance of the context where the firm is locate shaping the efficiency of such networking activities. In this article we hypothesize that the transformation of firms' networking activities into innovation may vary depending on the regional environment in which the firm is located. For Spanish manufactures in the period 2000-12 and through the use of a multilevel framework, we obtain that after controlling for the firm's characteristics, the regional context has not only a direct effect on firms' innovation performance, but it also conditions the returns to firms' networking activities, although differently in the case of cooperation and outsourcing. Cooperating in innovation activities is more beneficial for those firms located in a knowledge intensive region, whereas R&D outsourcing seems to be more profitable for firms in regions with a low knowledge pool.
D21|Inconsistent Time Preferences and On-the-job Search - When it Pays to be Naive|We study optimal employment contracts for present-biased employees who can conduct on-the-job search. Presuming that firms cannot offer long-term contracts, we find that individuals who are naive about their present bias will actually be better off than sophisticated or time-consistent individuals. Moreover, they search more, which partially counteracts the inefficiencies caused by their present bias.
D21|Trade Intermediaries, the Choice of Export Mode, and the “Learning-By-Exporting” Hypothesis|Focusing on the role of an intermediary, we consider the choice of export mode (i.e., direct vs. indirect exports) by a manufacturer. We also examine the effect of “learning-by-exporting,” which implies that a manufacturer using an intermediary in a previous period is likely to export directly in a subsequent period.
D21|Note on the Excess Entry Theorem in the Presence of Network Externalities|We reconsider the excess entry theorem in the presence of network externalities under Cournot oligopoly. We demonstrate that if the strength of a network externality is larger (smaller) than a half, the number of firms under free entry is socially too small (too large), based on the second-best criteria.
D21|Production Substitution of Goods Within and Between Firms in a Multiproduct Duopoly|We consider the product line strategies of duopolistic firms, each of which can supply two vertically-differentiated products under nonnegative output constraints and expectations of their rival's product line reaction. Considering a game of firms with heterogeneous (homogeneous) unit costs for high- (low-) quality products, we derive the equilibria for the game and conduct comparative statics of the equilibria outcomes on the relative superiority of the high-quality product and relative cost efficiency. In two of the equilibria, we find that where the cost-inefficient firm supplies a high-quality good, social welfare can worsen as its unit cost decreases. We also characterize the result using the production substitution of differentiated goods within a firm and the high-quality good between firms. Further, by comparing social welfare in the first-best equilibria with those in the Cournot duopoly equilibria, we find that the social welfare of the market worsens in the multiproduct Cournot duopoly equilibria as the relative superiority of the high-quality good increases.
D21|Physician’s altruism in incentive contracts: Medicare’s quality race|The paper analyzes the impact of physicians' altruism and motivation on the outcomes of pay-for-performance schemes in healthcare, where a fixed price contract on quantity is supplemented with a relative performance contract on quality. Our theoretical model forecasts crowding out of most altruistic types. In an empirical application to the Medicare's nationwide natural experiment with a relative performance contract on quality for acute inpatient care since 2013, we observe the proof of this prediction. Namely, the quality dimensions, which are linked to patient's benefit, demonstrate higher deterioration among top-performing hospitals than other incentivized dimensions.
D21|Big Data and Firm Dynamics|We study a model where firms accumulate data as a valuable intangible asset. Data accumulation affects firms' dynamics. It increases the skewness of the firm size distribution as large firms generate more data and invest more in active experimentation. On the other hand, small data-savvy firms can overtake more traditional incumbents, provided they can finance their initial money-losing growth. Our model can be used to estimate the market and social value of data.
D21|Aiming for the Goal: Contribution Dynamics of Crowdfunding|We study reward-based crowdfunding campaigns, a new class of dynamic contribution games where consumption is exclusive. Two types of backers participate: buyers want to consume the product while donors just want the campaign to succeed. The key tension is one of coordination between buyers, instead of free-riding. Donors can alleviate this coordination risk. We analyze a dynamic model of crowdfunding and demonstrate that its predictions are consistent with high-frequency data collected from Kickstarter. We compare the Kickstarter mechanism to alternative platform designs and evaluate the value of dynamically arriving information. We extend the model to incorporate social learning about quality.
D21|Decomposing Firm Value|What are the economic determinants of a firm's market value? We answer this question through the lens of a generalized neoclassical model of investment with physical capital, quasi-fixed labor, and two types of intangible capital, knowledge and brand capital as inputs. We estimate the structural model using firm-level data on U.S. publicly traded firms and use the estimated parameter values to infer the contribution of each input for explaining firm's market value in the last four decades. The model performs well in explaining both cross-sectional and time-series variation in firms' market values across industries, with a time-series R 2 of up to 61%, and a cross-sectional R 2 of up to 95%. The relative importance of each input for firm value varies across industries and over time. On average, physical capital accounts for 30% to 40% of firm's market value, installed labor force accounts for 14% to 22%, knowledge capital accounts for 20% to 43%, and brand capital accounts for 6% to 25%. The importance of physical capital for firm value decreased in the last decades, while the importance of knowledge capital increased, especially in high-tech industries. Overall, our analysis provides direct empirical evidence supporting models with multiple capital inputs as main sources of firm value, and shows the importance of the non-physical capital inputs for firm value.
D21|Optimal Ratings and Market Outcomes|This paper considers the design of an optimal rating system, in a market with adverse selection. We address two critical questions about rating design: First, given a number of categories, what are the criteria for setting the boundaries between them? Second, what are the gains from increasing the number of categories? A rating system helps reallocate sales from lower- to higher-quality producers, thus mitigating the problem of adverse selection. We focus on two main sources of market heterogeneity that determine the extent and effect of this reallocation: the distribution of firm qualities and the responsiveness of sellers' supply to prices. We provide a simple characterization for the optimal rating system as the solution to a standard k-means clustering problem, and discuss its connection to supply elasticity and the skewness of firm qualities. Our results show that a simple two-tier rating can achieve a large share of full information surplus. Additionally, we characterize the conflicting interests of consumers and producers in the design of a rating system.
D21|Shedding Light on the Dark: The Impact of Legal Enforcement on Darknet Transactions| Darknet markets have been increasingly used for the transaction of illegal products and services in the last decade. In particular, it is estimated that drugs make up two-thirds of darknet market transactions. The growth of illicit transactions on darknet markets have led enforcement agencies to invest greater proportion of time and efforts to monitor and crack down on criminal activities on the darknet websites. Despite the successes in convicting perpetrators, it is unknown whether these policing efforts are truly effective in deterring future darknet transactions, given that the identities of the transacting parties are very well protected by the markets’ features. To this end, this study attempts to empirically evaluate the susceptibility of darknet markets breaking down upon police arrests of dealers and buyers. Using drug review data from a few major darknet markets, we discovered a deterrence impact – the transactions in the targeted country would decrease on the market where arrests occurred. More interestingly, we find that disclosure of the arrests will influence the transactions of vendors not only from the same country but also those from other countries that did not experience any arrest incidents. As the darkweb techniques have led to a considerable proliferation of online drug trading, we believe that study findings that reveal the nature of these illicit markets will have key policy and theoretical implications to law makers, enforcement agencies, and academicians.
D21|Homophily in Social Media and News Polarization| We study how media bias is affected by the structure of social networks on social media. We consider an ad-financed media firm which chooses the ideological location of its news and targets consumers who can share the news with their followers on an online social media. After studying how a targeted consumerâ€™s incentive to share the news is shaped by the network structure of her followers, we study the firmâ€™s strategy to maximize the breadth of news sharing and find that when the mean (respectively, the variance) of followersâ€™ ideological locations is a convex (respectively, concave) function of a direct consumerâ€™s location, the media firm is likely to produce polarized news. The analysis of the case in which consumers are uniformly distributed reveals that news polarization is more likely to occur as the degree of homophily increases. We also find that media competition makes polarization more likely.
D21|The Impact of Product Qualities on Downstream Bundling in a Distribution Channel|Republished as CIE Working Papier 2019-10
D21|The Impact of Product Qualities on Downstream Bundling in a Distribution Channel|We study the impact of exogenous product qualities on a downstream firm’s decision to bundle and the welfare effects of downstream bundling. We consider a distribution channel with two downstream firms and two price-setting monopolistic upstream producers. One upstream firm sells its good 1 exclusively to one downstream firm and the other upstream firm sells its good 2 to both downstream firms. The downstream firms compete in prices and the two-product downstream firm has the option to bundle its goods. We find that downstream bundling aggravates the problem of double marginalization in the channel, but reduces the intensity of downstream competition. Finally, bundling is profitable for the two-product downstream firm only when the quality of good 2 exceeds the quality of good 1. However, bundling is always profitable when the production process is controlled by the downstream industry. The impact on total welfare is ambiguous and depends on the distribution of market power in the channel and the quality levels of the goods.
D21|Effective Leadership Selection in Complementary Teams|This paper considers effective leadership selection in a simple two-person team production model with heterogeneous agents. We demonstrate leadership success through synergy by showing that the existence of synergy makes effort complementary, implying that the leader devote more effort than the follower and that a team with a leader yields greater production than a team without a leader. We also show that, to elicit greater team production, a principal should appoint the agent with higher (lower) opportunity cost as the leader (follower). Even if the agents' opportunity costs are unobservable to the principal, the principal can select a better leader by proposing a larger position allowance for the leader. The results may explain why many organizations indeed favor leadership styles and why real-world leaders receive higher compensation than followers.
D21|Capacity choice in an international mixed triopoly|This paper considers a mixed triopoly model where a state-owned firm, a domestic labor-managed firm and a foreign capitalist firm are allowed to pre-install capacity as a strategic commitment device. First, each firm simultaneously and independently chooses its capacity level. None of the firms can reduce or dispose of capacity. Second, each firm simultaneously and independently chooses its output level. The paper shows that there is an equilibrium solution where only the domestic labor-managed firm pre-installs excess capacity as a strategic commitment device.
D21|When the regulator goes home: The effectiveness of environmental oversight|The U.S. EPA designates areas as in non-attainment with National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) if ambient air concentrations of certain pollutants exceed standard levels. Stationary sources located in these areas are required to significantly reduce emissions through technological and other requirements; these sources are also subjected to greater regulatory oversight. However, non-attainment is not a permanent designation and regulatory oversight subsides once an area moves out of non-attainment. In this paper we examine whether the additional regulatory oversight of non-attainment designation is successful (and necessary) at reducing emissions from stationary sources. We estimate the effects of an area moving out of non-attainment on emissions at coal-fired power plants located in these areas. We first model the actions of utility managers subjected to emission reduction requirements. The model suggests that firms under additional scrutiny via non-attainment designation intentionally lower emissions. However, when areas exit non-attainment, i.e., direct regulatory oversight subsides, firms under-utilize clean strategies-including technology-which results in emission increases. Empirical analysis results show that boilers with abatement technology installed as a result of non-attainment increase NO x emissions and emission rate by 16% and 9%, respectively, when exiting non-attainment. Extended model results present evidence that regulated firms are less likely to use fully emission control methods in the absence of direct regulatory oversight. Specifically, the emission increases of exiting non-attainment are driven by the under-utilization of abatement technology inputs and the switch to lower quality fuel.
D21|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
D21|Incentive scheme and productivity in microfinance institutions in Benin|This article aims to analyze the productive effects of financial and non-financial incentive in microfinance institutions in Benin. We estimate a Cobb-Douglas production function augmented by the Incentive Scheme on an unbalanced panel of 14 registered MFIs over the period 2007-2017. The findings of this study show that non-financial incentives positively impact the outreach whereas the financial incentives have a negative effect on outreach. They further suggest that a well-designed incentive scheme is a powerful tool to overcome free riding and other asymmetric information problems in a costly monitoring environment.
D21|Misleading Advertising in Mixed Markets: Consumer-orientation and welfare outcomes|In this paper, we analyse misleading advertising competition between private firms (profit oriented) and consumer-oriented firms (concerned about consumer welfare) in the context of mixed markets. The nature of advertising in this paper is assumed to be non-rival in nature and is beneficial to all the firms in the market. We find that, both private and consumer-oriented firms incur positive expenditure on misleading advertising. Further, the profit of consumer-oriented firms is higher than that of private firms. Moreover, irrespective of whether firms are concerned about consumer welfare or not, the level of misleading advertising is socially excessive.
D21|Measured Productivity with Endogenous Markups and Economic Profits|I develop a model of dynamic firm entry, oligopolistic competition and returns to scale in order to decompose TFP fluctuations into technical change, economic profit and markup fluctuations. I show that economic profits cause short-run upward bias in measured TFP, but this subsides to upward bias from endogenous markups as firm entry adjusts. I analyze dynamics analytically through a nonparametric DGE model that allows for a perfect competition equilibrium such that there are no biases in measured TFP. Given market power, simulations show that measured TFP is 40% higher than technology in the short-run, due solely to profits, and 20% higher in the long-run due solely to markups. During transition both effects contribute upward bias: initially the profit effect dominates, but by 5 quarters the two effects contribute equally, and by 10 quarters only the markup effect persists. The speed of firm adjustment ('business dynamism') will determine these timings and therefore the importance of each bias.
D21|What is the Value of Being a Superhost?|We construct a search model where sellers post prices and produce goods of unknown quality. A match reveals the quality of the seller. Buyers rate sellers based on quality. We show that unrated sellers charge a low price to attract buyers and that highly rated sellers post a high price and sell with a higher probability than unrated sellers. We fi nd that welfare is higher with a ratings system. Using data on Airbnb rentals, we show that Superhosts and hosts with high ratings: 1) charge higher prices, 2) have a higher occupancy rate and 3) higher revenue than average hosts.
D21|Incentives of Low-Quality Sellers to Disclose Negative Information|The paper studies incentives of low-quality sellers to disclose negative information about their product. We develop a model where one¡¯s quality can be communicated via cheap-talk messages only. This setting limits ability of high-quality sellers to separate as any communication strategy they pursue can be costlessly imitated by low-quality sellers. Two factors that can incentivize low-quality sellers to communicate their quality are buyers¡¯ risk-attitude and competition. Quality disclosure reduces buyers¡¯ risk thereby increasing their willingness to pay. It also introduces product differentiation softening the competition. We show that equilibria where low-quality sellers separate exist under monopoly and duopoly. Even though low-quality sellers can costlessly imitate high-quality sellers, equilibria where high-quality sellers separate can also exist but under duopoly only.
D21|Theoretical Analysis of Heterogeneous Hospital Response to a Per Diem Prospective Payment System|Motivated by the Japanese PPS reform, aimed at curbing high length of stay in Japanese hospitals, we develop a theoretical model to study how hospitals¡¯ ?nancial incentives differ between the two reimbursement systems: a pre-reform fee-for-service (F F S); and a post reform length-of-stay-dependent stepwise decreasing per diem rate (SDR). First, we show that hospitals with shorter (longer) average length of stay under F F S have longer (shorter) average length of stay under SDR. Second, we show that hospitals with longer stay under the F F S reimbursement system are more likely to use planned readmission in order to decrease the length of stay associated with a single admission. Finally, we show that profit-wise, it is hospitals with the shortest pre-reform length of stay who gain from a change to the SDR reimbursement rule. The theoretical predictions of our model closely match empirical evidence from the literature.
D21|Climate and Weather Impacts on Agriculture: The Case of Brazil|The worldâ€™s population will rise exponentially in the coming decades, increasing the demand for food and challenging the agricultural sector to ensure food security. Due to the importance of climate conditions for agriculture, this article analyzed two different hypotheses regarding climate impacts on agricultural markets in Brazil. First, farmers only observe the average climate conditions of their region when deciding the type and amount of crop or animal to grow or raise. Second, weather diversions from normal climate conditions cause farmers to deviate from optimal profits. Neither hypothesis was rejected by the data. The 2006 estimated loss from rainfall anomalies was 12.8 billion dollars (in 2014 values).
D21|Управление На Аграрната Устойчивост В България<BR>[Governance of agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria]|This paper incorporates interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics and assesses the system of governance of agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria. The system of governance of agrarian sustainability is comprehensively analyzed, and the efficiency of institutional environment and diverse market, private, collective, public and hybrid modes assessed. Factors for increasing agrarian sustainability in the country are identified, and directions for improving the governing system suggested.
D21|Strategic inventories under limited commitment|In a dynamic storable good market where demand changes over time, we investigate the producer's strategic incentives to hold inventories in response to the possibility of buyer stockpiling. The literature on storable goods has demonstrated that buyer stockpiling in anticipation of higher future prices harms the producer's profitability, particularly when the producer cannot commit to future prices. We show that the producer's inventories act as a strategic device to mitigate the loss from the lack of commitment. Our results provide a rationale for the producer's inventory behavior that sheds new light on the well‐documented empirical evidence about inventories.
D21|Institutions and sustainability – insights from Bulgarian agriculture|The specific system of governance is a critical factor, which to a great extent (pre)determines the type and speed of development in different countries, industries, regions, communities, etc. This article tries to fill the gap and assesses the impact of institutional environment on agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria. The interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics framework is applied and assessment made on specific effects of major components of the “external” institutional environment on agrarian sustainability level in different administrative, geographical and ecological regions, subsectors of agriculture, and farms of various juridical type and size. Our study has found out that individual elements of external institutional, market and natural environment affect quite unequally farms of different types, individual subsectors of agriculture, and specific ecological and geographical regions. This type of studies is to be expended and their precision and representation increased. The latter however, requires a close cooperation between all interested parties, and participation of the farmers, agrarian organisations, local and central authorities, interest groups, research institutes and experts, etc.
D21|Pricing and Diffusion of Durables with Network Externalities|This paper considers the optimal pricing and diffusion of a durable good that exhibits positive network externalities, when consumers are heterogeneous with respect to their expectations about future network sizes. We consider the existence of naive consumers, as well as of sophisticated consumers who have fulfilled expectations about future network sizes. At the time of purchase, naive consumers presume that the current network size will continue over future periods. We find that the firm charges the sequential-diffusion pricing that makes sophisticated consumers function as early adopters, unless consumers quickly become bored with using the goods and/or unless the firm heavily discounts its future profits. In addition, we show that naive consumers may enjoy a greater surplus than do sophisticated consumers, implying that the firm benefits when more consumers are sophisticated. We also compare the profitability of three possible pricing strategies with different commitment powers: fixed, responsive, and pre-announced pricing.
D21|Pricing of Complements in the U.S. Freight Railroads: Cournot Versus Coase|Monopolists selling complementary products charge a higher price in a static equilibrium than a single multiproduct monopolist would, reducing both the industry profits and consumer surplus. However, firms could instead reach a Pareto improvement by lowering prices to the single monopolist level. We analyze administrative nationally-representative pricing data of railroad coal shipping in the U.S. We compare a coal producer that needs to ship from A to C, with the route passing through B, in two cases: (1) the same railroad owning AB and BC and (2) different railroads owning AB and BC. We do not find that price in case (2) is higher than price in case (1), suggesting that the complementary monopolist pricing ineficiency is absent in this market. For our main analysis, we use a specification consistent with the previous literature; however, our findings are robust to propensity score blocking and machine learning algorithms. Finally, we perform a difference-in-differences analysis to gauge the impact of a merger that made two routes wholly-owned (switched from case 2 to case 1), and these results are also consistent with our main findings. Our results have implications for vertical mergers, tragedy of the anticommons, mergers of firms selling complements, and royalty stacking and patent thickets.
D21|Social responsibility in a bilateral monopoly with R&D|This note examines social responsibility in a linear bilateral monopoly by incorporating a cost-reducing R&D investment and investigates an endogenous timing game. We find that in the presence of R&D, the retailer always adopts social responsibility irrespective of the timing of the game, but the manufacturer adopts only with its leadership in a sequential game where it can take the first-mover advantage. We also show that two sequential choices will be subgame perfect equilibria, but the commitment to the social responsibility by manufacturer is a payoff dominance outcome.
D21|A note on the social responsibility in a bilateral monopoly|In a linear bilateral monopoly with the up-stream manufacturer and the down-stream retailer “consumers’ friendly” socially concerned (i.e. caring about a share of consumer surplus), Brand and Grothe (2015, in this Journal) shows that, although (as expected) both firms’ owners do not have an incentive to deviate from pure profit maximization when they choose their level of corporate social responsibility (CSR) simultaneously (or the retailer commits itself on social concern before the manufacturerer does), if the manufacturer commits itself on social concern before the retailer does, then both profits are enhanced. This paper shows that Brand and Grothe’s result may be strongly modified if there are decreasing returns to the input: only the retailer firm’s owners are incentived to adopt CSR and, at the equilibrium, this leads to a Pareto-superior outcome. This offers straightforward policy and empirical implications, arguing that the presence of CSR-type firms – which leads to higher profits and Pareto-superior outcomes, confirming the neoclassical economics point of view with respect to the adoption of CSR behaviors by firms’ owners – depends crucially on the technology.
D21|Stackelberg Mixed Triopoly Games with State-Owned, Labour-Managed and Capitalist Firms|This paper investigates three sequential-move games with a capitalist firm, a labour-managed firm and a state-owned firm. The first game is as follows. In stage one, the capitalist firm chooses its output level. In stage two, the other firms choose their output levels simultaneously and independently. In stage three, the market opens and all firms sell their outputs. The structures of the second and third games are nearly identical and differ only in order in which the firms choose output levels in the first two stages. The paper discusses the equilibrium outcomes of the three sequential-move games.
D21|Wage-Rise Contract and Labour-Managed Cournot Oligopoly with Complementary Goods|This paper considers a quantity-setting oligopoly model with complementary goods where labour-managed firms are allowed to offer wage-rise contracts as a strategic commitment. The following two stages are considered. In the first stage, each firm independently decides whether or not to adopt a wage-rise contract as a strategic commitment device. In the second stage, each firm independently chooses and sells its actual output. The paper analyses the equilibrium of the labour-managed oligopoly model.
D21|Heterogeneous Consumer Expectations and Monopoly Pricing for Durables with Network Externalities|This paper studies the optimal pricing and diffusion of durable goods that exhibit positive network externalities, when consumers are heterogeneous in their expectations about future network sizes. We consider the existence of naive consumers, as well as of sophisticated consumers having fulfilled expectations. We find that the firm charges the sequential-diffusion pricing that makes sophisticated consumers function as early adopters, unless consumers quickly become bored with using the goods and/or unless the firm heavily discounts its future profits. We also compare the profitability of three possible pricing strategies with different commitment powers: fixed, responsive, and pre-announced pricing.
D21|Optimal Partial Privatization in the Presence of Foreign Competition: The Role of Efficiency Differentials and Unemployment|This paper studies the privatization policy on a domestic state-owned enterprise (SOE), by incorporating the features of unemployment and efficiency differentials-both exogenous and endogenous-between the SOE and a foreign-owned firm, in a partial-equilibrium mixed oligopoly setting. We characterize and compare the optimal privatization policies under different scenarios, and find that the presence/absence of labor efficiency differentials and unemployment interact in an interesting way. In addition, when there is unemployment, the trading of between labor inefficiency and unemployment in privatization decision depends on the magnitude of damage on the labor efficiency due to an increase in state ownership of the SOE, but not so under full employment.
D21|The effect of organizational commitment to the performance of y generation employees in PT bank Sumut with transformational leadership as moderation variables|PT Bank Sumut is one of the North Sumatra regional government-owned enterprises that have a lot of employes from different generations. More than 50% of PT Bank Sumut employees come from generation Y who should have better and higher performance than employees from other generations. However, the performance produced both in terms of asset and relative profit growth is still lagging behind other regional banks. The purpose of this research is to determine the influence of organizational commitment which consists of affective commitment, continuance commitment, and normative commitment to the performance of Y generation employees in PT Bank Sumut. The research type is correlational research. This research uses transformational leadership as a moderating variable that can strengthen or weaken the relationship of organizational commitment to the performance of generation Y employees. The number of samples from the employee population is 40 respondents. The population was generation Y employees aged 22-32 years at the headquarters of PT Bank Sumut. Data analysis uses multiple linear regression and variable moderation tests. The research results showed that there was a significant influence that affective commitment had a positive and significant effect; continuance commitment has a positive and significant effect; and normative commitment has a positive and significant effect on the performance Y-generation employee. Transformational leadership as a moderating variable to the performance of generation Y employees in PT Bank Sumut. From these results, the factors that most influence the performance of generation Y employees are affective commitment, continuance, and normative commitment.
D21|Study on the effect of leadership style, reward systems, and working conditions on employee work performance (case study of the state plantation of Merbau Pagar, Indonesia)|The purpose of this study was to observe the influence of leadership style, reward system, working conditions on the work performance of employees of The State Plantation of Merbau Pagar, Indonesia. The samples obtained were 105 respondents, according to the above objectives, this study was formulated using respondent testing, hypothesis testing and questionnaire testing. Data collection techniques used in this study consisted of observations, interviews (interviews), questionnaires and documentation studies in the form of primary and secondary data. To facilitate problem solving, this research was carried out using a linear regression analysis method with the help of SPSS 23. The results of the study showed that, 1) Simultaneously leadership style, reward system and working conditions significantly influence work performance, 2) partially each each factor of the leadership style variable, reward system and working conditions have a significant effect on Work performance, 3) the results of the partial regression analysis indicate that the value of the working conditions factor is the most dominant factor in Work Performance.
D21|A stochastic frontier analysis approach for estimating market power in the major U.S. meat export markets|The present study estimates the degree of market power in the major U.S. beef and pork export destinations. The recently developed stochastic frontier (SF) estimator is used. Estimations of market and time specific Lerner indices are provided. Balanced panel data between 1980-2011 were employed. The average Lerner index is 39% for the U.S. beef exports and is the highest in the markets of ASEAN, Hong Kong/China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. For the U.S. pork exports, the average Lerner index is 16% and is the highest in the markets of Mexico and Taiwan.
D21|Does domestic demand matter for firms’ exports?|The existence of a link between exports and domestic demand challenges the standard theoretical assumption in international trade models and carries out important policy implications. Being a small open economy and one of the hardest hit economies during the latest economic and financial crisis, Portugal is a natural case study for assessing the role of this channel, in particular given the large export market share gains that mitigated the negative effects on economic activity. A key difference of our empirical approach vis-`a-vis previous literature is that the estimated relationship between exports and domestic sales results directly from a monopolistic model of a firm selling to both domestic and external markets. Drawing on an appropriate estimation strategy, it is found a noteworthy negative relationship between domestic demand and firms’ exports covering the manufacturing sector over the period 2009–2016. This result holds for almost all industries although with a heterogeneous magnitude. Aditionally, there is also evidence that this effect is stronger for larger firms.
D21|The GFC Investment Tax Break|The Australian Government established a temporary tax break for investment as part of its stimulus response to the global financial crisis. The policy gave all businesses undertaking equipment investment extra tax deductions and gave larger deductions to small businesses. We exploit this differential treatment to identify the effect of the tax credit using business-level datasets from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The key conclusions that emerge are: 1. The tax break had a strong effect on business-level investment. We find this result using both difference-in-differences and regression discontinuity methods. 2. The tax break increased the investment of companies , despite Australia's imputation system for corporate dividends implying that their costs of capital were unaffected. This suggests that a non-standard mechanism, such as a relaxation in financial constraints, underlies part of the response to tax incentives. To the extent that this is the case, it may suggest that such policies are more effective during downturns, when financial constraints are more binding. Relatedly, there is no evidence that businesses responded by bringing forward investment from future years (i.e. intertemporal substitution). 3. The tax break was important on a macroeconomic level. General equilibrium estimates suggest that both GDP growth and the cash rate would have been significantly lower in 2009 without the tax break. While our work suggests that tax rates and breaks can affect real decisions for Australian corporates, despite the existence of the dividend imputation system, it provides only limited guidance on the potential effects of policies other than the one we study. Other policies will differ in terms of their timing, permanence and targeting, all of which could influence their effectiveness.
D21|Consumer exploitation and notice periods|Firms often set long notice periods when consumers cancel a contract, and sometimes do so even when the costs of changing or canceling the contract are small. We investigate a model in which a firm offers a contract to consumers who may procrastinate canceling it due to naive present-bias. We show that the firm may set a long notice period to exploit naive consumers.
D21|"Size Matters - ""Over""investments in a Relational Contracting Setting"|The corporate finance literature documents that managers tend to overinvest into physical assets. A number of theoretical contributions have aimed to explain this stylized fact, most of them focussing on a fundamental agency problem between shareholders and managers. The present paper shows that overinvestments are not necessarily the (negative) consequence of agency problems between shareholders and managers, but instead might be a second-best optimal response if the scope of court-enforceable contracts is limited. In such an environment a firm has to rely on relational contracts in order to manage the agency relationship with its workforce. The paper shows that investments into physical productive assets enhance the enforceability of relational contracts and hence investments optimally are “too high”.
D21|Signals Sell: Product Lines when Consumers Differ Both in Taste for Quality and Image Concern|"This paper analyzes optimal product lines when consumers differ both in their taste for quality and in their desire for social image. The market outcome features partial pooling and product differentiation that is not driven by heterogeneous valuations for quality but by image concerns. A typical monopoly outcome is a two-tier product line resembling a \""masstige\"" strategy as observed in luxury goods markets. Products can have identical quality and differ only in price and image, thereby rationalizing quality-equivalent line extensions. Under competition, both average quality and market coverage are (weakly) higher but monopoly can yield higher welfare than competition."
D21|Price–quality competition in a mixed duopoly|We examine competition between a private and a public provider in markets for merit goods, such as education, healthcare, housing, recreation, or culture. The private firm provides a high‐price/high‐quality variety of the good and serves richer individuals, whereas the public firm provides a low‐price/low‐quality variety and serves poorer individuals. We first characterize the private competitor’s best response to changes in the public firm’s price and quality. This enables us to examine the distributional effects of policies that affect the price or quality of the public firm’s product. We then numerically characterize the public firm’s optimal provision policy, taking the private response into consideration. Our results have implications for the financing of publicly provided goods, and for whether additional resources, if available, should be spent on reducing the price or enhancing the quality of these goods.
D21|Informal Institutions and Comparative Advantage of South-Based MNEs: Theory and Evidence|This paper builds a theory to characterize the comparative advantage of South-based MNEs rooted in `informal institutions'. MNEs hea dquartered in countries of poorer state institutions are theorized to invest more in firm-specific institutional capital to compensate for the lack of state institutions, and as an optimal response, undertake FDI in countries of weaker institutions, relative to another MNE of the same characteristics except their country of origin. At the aggregate, MNEs generate more net profits in countries of weaker institutions, the poorer the institutional environment at home. This assortative matching in the institutional qualities of FDI origins and destinations are tested extensively using bilateral FDI stocks (and flows) for 219 economies in years 2001-2010. The results indicate a statistically significant (and robust) institutional complementary effect in bilateral FDI activities.
D21|The Performance of Financial Institutions: Modeling, Evidence, and Some Policy Implications|The unique capital structure of commercial banking – funding production with demandable debt that participates in the economy’s payments system – affects various aspects of banking. It shapes commercial banks’ comparative advantage in providing financial products and services to informationally opaque customers, their ability to diversify credit and liquidity risk, and how they are regulated, including the need to obtain a charter to operate and explicit and implicit federal guarantees of bank liabilities to reduce the probability of bank runs. These aspects of banking affect a bank’s choice of risk versus expected return, which, in turn, affects bank performance. Banks have an incentive to reduce risk to protect their valuable charters from episodes of financial distress, and they also have an incentive to increase risk to exploit the cost-of-funds subsidy of mispriced deposit insurance. These are contrasting incentives tied to bank size. Measuring bank performance and its relationship to size requires untangling cost and profit from decisions about risk versus expected return because both cost and profit are functions of endogenous risk-taking. This chapter gives an overview of two general empirical approaches to measuring bank performance and discusses some of the applications of these approaches found in the literature. One application explains how better diversification available at a larger scale of operations generates scale economies that are obscured by higher levels of risk-taking. Studies of commercial banking cost that ignore endogenous risk-taking find little evidence of scale economies at the largest banks, while those that control for this risk-taking find large scale economies at the largest banks – evidence with important implications for regulation.
D21|Endogenous Firm Location with a Decreasing Density of Consumers|This note will use the Hotelling?s line model with a non-uniform distribution of consumers. Instead, a linear, decreasing density is employed to represent a decreasing population density as distance from a metropolitan area is increased along some transportation artery. Entry is sequential, and the number of firms is assumed endogenous after an initial firm is located, making the entrants consider the possibility of later firms. Entrants into this market have neither maximum nor minimum differentiation. Earlier entrants generally locate closer to the population center with the possible exception of the equilibrium location closest to the densest point on the line. The differentiation increases as the firms are farther from the population center.
D21|What Explains the Variety of Reform Outcomes Across Countries?|Suppose an identical regulatory reform is adopted simultaneously across a number of countries. We argue that the reformers will grow differently after the reform. To understand the reasons behind the eventual outcome divergence, we set up a tractable general equilibrium (GE) model to study how firms of different size grow after a regulatory reform. The reform reduces the costs to start, operate and close a business. The regulatory cost is modeled as lost labor hours. The model predicts that larger firms will grow faster than smaller firms after the reform. We then take the model predictions to the largest global publicly available firm-level data set, the Enterprise Surveys (ES), which encompasses 121,991 firm-level observations from 2006 to 2015 in 136 countries and territories and 211 country-years. We merge the ES data with the Doing Business indicators. We then test the theoretical predictions, which are broadly confirmed in the data. Thus, based on the notable differences of firm-size distributions across countries which are fairly stable over time, identical reforms may produce a variety of growth outcomes across countries.
D21|A Progressive Optimal Time to Attain a Targeted Profit Function Under Unitary Transformation|The problem of fastest descent is solved by the calculus of variations. Calculus of variations is a branch of mathematics dealing with the optimization problem of physical quantities. In this paper, profit maximization problems are judged by using this idea. Profit velocity and time are key factors to optimize policy. That is why we have investigated the path of the profit function and the minimum time to reach the final destination of a profit function by utilizing a unitary operator. Given two states, the starting profit function and the targeted profit function, there exist different paths belonging to the set. This investigation uses the unitary transformation, which transforms the starting profit function to the targeted profit function in the least possible time.
D21|Marking to Market versus Taking to Market|Building on the idea that accounting matters for corporate governance, this paper studies the equilibrium interaction between the measurement rules that firms find privately optimal, firms' governance, and the liquidity in the secondary market for their assets. This equilibrium approach reveals an excessive use of market-value accounting: corporate performance measures rely excessively on the information generated by other firms' asset sales and insufficiently on the realization of a firm's own capital gains. This dries up market liquidity and reduces the informativeness of price signals, thereby making it more costly for firms to overcome their agency problems.
D21|High-speed rail and inventory reduction: Firm-level evidence from China|Using a balanced panel of manufacturing firms from China between 2007 and 2013, we estimate that being connected to a high-speed rail system leads to 9.5% reduction in local firms' input inventory spending. The e ect is stronger for downstream industries and private enterprises. A back-of-envelope calculation suggests that each dollar of HSR investment reduces input inventory stock by 12 cents, which is significantly larger than the e ects found in previous studies based on highway or road investment. Declines in transportation and communication cost, as well as agglomeration e ect are identified as plausible mechanisms. Our findings reveal a micro channel through which improved transport infrastructure brings about economic gains, and contribute to the cost-benefit assessment of high-speed rail investment.
D21|A cautionary note on using hotelling models in platform markets|We study a Hotelling framework in which customers first pay a monopoly platform to enter the market before deciding between two competing services on opposite ends of a Hotelling line. This setup is common when modeling competition in Internet content provision. We find that standard taken-for-granted solution methods under full market coverage break down, and that in the unique full-coverage equilibrium, the competing service providers set substantially lower prices. Standard methods and prices are restored by giving service providers the first move.
D21|Digitalisierungskompetenzen in der Führungsebene im Mittelstand|Die vorliegende Studie befasst sich mit Führungskompetenzen für eine erfolgreiche Digitali-sierung. Auf der Basis von Interviews mit der Führungsebene von Unternehmen unterschied-licher Eigentümerstruktur, Branche, Größe und Digitalisierung konnten drei verschiedene Kompetenztypen identifiziert werden. Diese verdeutlichen, dass der Unternehmenskontext und personenbezogene Merkmale der Führungskraft über die Zusammensetzung des Kom-petenzportfolios entscheiden. So haben Führungspersonen in größeren managementgeführ-ten Unternehmen mit einem hohen Digitalisierungsgrad eine breite Kompetenzabdeckung. Unternehmer, die kleinen und mittelgroßen Unternehmen aus dem Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und dem Dienstleistungsbereich vorstehen, erachten fachübergreifende kooperative Kompe-tenzen als bedeutsam, während die Unternehmensführung aus dem Handwerk Selbst- und Fachkompetenzen als entscheidend erachtet. Die Wirtschaftspolitik sollte diese Aspekte für eine zielgruppenorientierte Unterstützung des Mittelstandes berücksichtigen.
D21|Impact of Technical Progress on the relationship between Competition and Investment|This paper investigates the impact of technical progress on the relationship between competition an investment. Using a model of oligopoly competition with di¤erentiated products where firms invest to reduce their marginal cost of production, I find that technical progress, which increases the impact of investment on cost reduction, decreases the level of competition that maximizes investment of the industry. This feature holds also for consumer surplus and Welfare. In the model, competition is measured either by the number of competitors or by the degree of substitutability between o¤ers. Result holds for both measures.Two parametric examples illustrate these features.
D21|Salience and Online Sales: The Role of Brand Image Concerns|We provide a novel intuition for the observation that many brand manufacturers have restricted their retailers’ ability to resell brand products online. Our approach builds on models of salience according to which price disparities across distribution channels guide a consumer’s attention toward prices and lower her appreciation for quality. Thus, absent vertical restraints, one out of two distortions - a quality or a participation distortion - can arise in equilibrium. The quality distortion occurs if the manufacturer provides either an inefficiently low quality under price salience or an inefficiently high quality in order to prevent price salience. The participation distortion arises as offline sales might be entirely abandoned in order to prevent prices from becoming salient. Both distortions are ruled out if vertical restraints are imposed. As opposed to the current EU legislation that considers a range of vertical restraints as being hardcore restrictions of competition per se, we show that these constraints can be socially desirable if salience effects are taken into account.
D21|Can the Private Sector Ensure the Public Interest? Evidence from Federal Procurement|We empirically investigate the effect of oversight on contract outcomes in public procurement. In particular, we stress a distinction between public and private oversight: the former is a set of bureaucratic checks enacted by contracting offices, while the latter is carried out by private insurance companies whose money is at stake through so-called surety bonding. We analyze the universe of U.S. federal contracts in the period 2005-2015 and exploit an exogenous variation in the threshold for both sources of oversight, estimating their causal effects on costs and execution time. We find that: (i) public oversight negatively affects outcomes, in particular for less competent buyers; (ii) private oversight has a positive effect on outcomes by affecting both the ex-ante screening of bidders - altering the pool of winning firms - and the ex-post behavior of contractors.
D21|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|No abstract is available for this item.
D21|The supply of non-renewable resources|There exists no formal treatment of non-renewable resource (NRR) supply, systematically deriving quantity as function of price. We establish instantaneous restricted (fixed reserves) and unrestricted NRR supply functions. The supply of a NRR at any date and location depends not only on the local contemporary price of the resource but also on prices at all other dates and locations. Besides the usual law of supply, which characterizes the own-price effect, cross-price effects have their own law. They can be decomposed into a substitution effect and a stock compensation effect. We show that the substitution effect always dominates: a price increase at some point in space and time causes NRR supply to decrease at all other points. Our newalthough orthodoxsetting takes into account not only NRR supply limitations but also the heterogeneity of NRR deposits, and the endogeneity of their development and opening. Our analysis extends to NRRs the partial-equilibrium analysis of demand and supply policies. Thereby, it provides a generalization of results about policy-induced changes on NRR markets.
D21|Electives Shopping, Grading Competition, and Grading Norms|This paper analyzes grading competition between instructors of elective courses when students shop for high course scores, the instructors maximize class size, and the school imposes a ceiling on mean course scores to limit grade inflation. Under this grading norm, we demonstrate that curriculum flexibility (more listed courses or less required courses) intensifies the competition: in particular, both top and mean realized scores increase. To tame incentives to provide excessively large scores, we suppose that the school additionally introduces a top-score grading norm. We consider three scenarios. First, the school caps top scores directly. Then, grading competition divides students into a concentrated group of achievers and a dispersed group of laggards. Second, the school normalizes the range of scores by changing the mean-score ceiling. Upon normalization, scores of a less flexible curriculum first-order stochastically dominate scores of a more flexible curriculum. Hence, all students will prefer rigid curricula. Third, the school requires that the mean-score ceiling is evaluated for enrolled students instead of all students. Then, the instructors stop competing for students which introduces sorting inefficiencies. Overall, we show that addressing grade inflation through grading norms may generate inequalities, rigidities, and inefficiencies.
D21|Reported Corruption vs. Experience of Corruption in Public Procurement Contracts|This paper examines the accuracy of estimates of corruption reported in business surveys by comparing reported experience of corruption in public procurement from Malagasy firms having won public contracts with a more objective measure of corruption in the sector using a red flag indicator of corruption risk. This red flag indicator of corruption identifies contracts that failed to comply (or circumvented) public procurement regulations. We find that about 68 percent of public contracts in Madagascar in 2013 and 2014 were awarded with a method not complying with the Public Procurement Code and classified according to our methodology at risk of corruption, with 85% of contracting firms having won at least one corruption-prone contract. Matching public procurement data in Madagascar with a firm-level survey in 2015 among firms awarded public contracts in 2013-2014, we find that experience of corruption has no influence on firms’ survey participation or propensity to answer questions about corruption.
D21|Reported Corruption vs. Experience of Corruption in Public Procurement Contracts|This paper examines the accuracy of estimates of corruption reported in business surveys by comparing reported experience of corruption in public procurement from Malagasy firms having won public contracts with a more objective measure of corruption in the sector using a red flag indicator of corruption risk. This red flag indicator of corruption identifies contracts that failed to comply (or circumvented) public procurement regulations. We find that about 68 percent of public contracts in Madagascar in 2013 and 2014 were awarded with a method not complying with the Public Procurement Code and classified according to our methodology at risk of corruption, with 85% of contracting firms having won at least one corruption-prone contract. Matching public procurement data in Madagascar with a firm-level survey in 2015 among firms awarded public contracts in 2013-2014, we find that experience of corruption has no influence on firms’ survey participation or propensity to answer questions about corruption.
D21|Superlative approximation of the Luenberger-Hicks-Moorsteen productivity indicator: Theory and application|Consisting of the difference between an output indicator and an input indicator, the Luenberger-Hicks-Moorsteen (LHM) productivity indicator allows straightforward interpretation. However, it requires estimation of distance functions that are inherently unknown. This paper shows that a simple Bennet profit indicator is a superlative approximation of the LHM indicator when one can assume profit-maximizing behavior and the input and output directional distance functions can be represented up to the second order by a quadratic functional form. We also show that the Luenberger and LHM-approximating Bennet indicators coincide for an appropriate choice of the directional vectors. Focusing on a large sample of Italian food and beverages companies for the years 1995-2007, we empirically investigate the extent to which this theoretical equivalence translates into similar estimates.
D21|New Stuff or Better Ways: What Matters to Access International Markets?|Innovation and export decisions are closely interlinked. Both activities contribute to firm performance in various ways: exporting provides a wider market to sell products, while innovation provides new and better products to supply those markets and/or more efficient ways to reduce costs. The connection of innovation and exporting is of major interest to developing countries aiming to achieve higher growth and wellbeing given that foreign markets are both a new challenge and a source of knowledge for firms. This study analyzes whether different types of innovation affect export behavior at the firm level for an unbalanced panel of Uruguayan manufacturing firms. Logistic regression and matching with difference-in-differences (MDID) techniques are applied to data from 2003 to 2012. Using logit models we find that previous innovation increases the probability of exporting. Unlike other studies, productivity-enhancing (or cost-reducing) innovation shows a stronger correlation than product innovation pointing out that price competition is more important than quality competition for Uruguayan products in foreign markets. Furthermore, using MDID we establish a direct causal link from innovation to exporting. Finally, we analyze export intensity by means of Tobit models. We find that innovation fosters export intensity. Overall, the findings indicate that active innovation policies along with other export promotion policies help to promote firms’ participation in foreign markets.
D21|Financialisation, financial development, and investment: evidence from European non-financial corporations|This article provides estimations of the effects of different financial channels on physical investment in Europe using the balance sheets of publicly listed non-financial corporations (NFCs) for the period 1995–2015. The evidence suggests that both financial payments and financial income have an adverse effect on investment in fixed assets. The negative impacts of increasing financial income are non-linear with respect to company size: they crowd out investment in large companies, and have a positive effect on the investment of relatively smaller companies. Similar to the recent literature on finance-growth nexus, we find an inverted U-shaped relationship between financial development and companies’ investment. However, in contrast to the existing literature, we also find that a higher degree of financial development in the country is associated with a stronger negative effect of financial income on investment.
D21|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies
D21|Revisiting the returns of public infrastructure in Mexico: A limited information local likelihood estimation|This paper revisits the issue of accurately decomposing productivity growth to the impact of public infrastructure at firm level for Mexican industry whether the underlying functional form is a profit or a cost function. Our framework decomposes productivity growth into different components, and in particular the contribution of public infrastructure. We also propose a novel limited information local likelihood (LILL) estimation method that adequately deals with the issue of the endogeneity and model misspecification. The reported evidence shows that public infrastructure enhances productivity growth through profit gains and cost savings in all ten two-digit Mexican industries, though some variability across time exists, notably in the nineties and the 2000s when a shortage of infrastructure is observed.
D21|Platform Competition: Betfair and the U.K. Market for Sports Betting|We examine two episodes of strategic interaction in the U.K. betting industry: (i) Betfair (an entrant multi-sided platform, or MSP) vs. Flutter (also an MSP), and (ii) Betfair vs. traditional bookmakers. We find that although Betfair was an underfunded second mover in the betting exchange space, it was able to attract punters at a much faster rate than the better-funded first mover, Flutter. Moreover, while Betfair and traditional bookmakers competed aggressively for market share, they also developed a highly complementary relationship that favored all parties. We discuss implications for research in the economics and management of MSPs. Specifically, we argue that the literature would benefit from work that endogenizes platform design and that considers the possible competitive and cooperative interactions between the business models of traditional incumbents and those of potential innovative MSP entrants.
D21|Relational Incentive Contracts and Performance Measurement|This paper analyzes relational contracts under moral hazard. We first show that if the available information (signal) about effort satisfies a generalized monotone likelihood ratio property, then irrespective of whether the first-order approach (FOA) is valid or not, the optimal bonus scheme takes a simple form. The scheme rewards the agent a fixed bonus if his performance index exceeds a threshold, like the FOA contract of Levin (2003), but the threshold can be set differently. We next derive a sufficient and necessary condition for non-verifiable information to improve a relational contract. Our new informativeness criterion sheds light on the nature of an ideal performance measure in relational contracting.
D21|Relational Contracting, Negotiation, and External Enforcement|We study relational contracting and renegotiation in environments with external enforcement of long-term contractual arrangements. An external, long-term contract governs the stage games the contracting parties will play in the future (depending on verifiable stage-game outcomes) until they renegotiate. In a contractual equilibrium, the parties choose their individual actions rationally, they jointly optimize when selecting a contract, and they take advantage of their relative bargaining power. Our main result is that in a wide variety of settings, in each period of a contractual equilibrium the parties agree to a semi-stationary external contract, with stationary terms for all future periods but special terms for the current period. In each period the parties renegotiate to this same external contract, effectively adjusting the terms only for the current period. For example, in a simple principal-agent model with a choice of costly monitoring technology, the optimal contract specifies mild monitoring for the current period but intense monitoring for future periods. Because the parties renegotiate in each new period, intense monitoring arises only off the equilibrium path after a failed renegotiation.
D21|Media, fake news, and debunking|We construct a modified Hotelling‐type model of two media providers, each of whom can issue fake and/or real news and each of whom can invest in the debunking of their rival’s fake news. The model assumes that consumers have an innate preference for one provider or the other and value real news. However, that valuation varies according to their bias favouring one provider or the other. We demonstrate a unique subgame perfect Nash equilibrium in which only one firm issues fake news and we show, in this setting, that increased polarisation of consumers (represented by a wider distribution) increases the prevalence of both fake news and debunking expenditures and is welfare‐reducing. We also show, inter alia, that a stronger preference by consumers for their preferred provider lowers both fake news and debunking. Finally, we compare monopoly and duopoly market structures in terms of ‘fake news’ provision and show that a public news provider can be welfare‐improving.
D21|Firm dynamics and pricing under customer capital accumulation|This paper analyzes the macroeconomic implications of customer capital accumulation at the firm level. We build an analytically tractable search model of firm dynamics in which firms compete for customers by posting pricing contracts in the product market. Cross-sectional price dispersion emerges in equilibrium because firms of different sizes and productivities use different pricing strategies to strike a balance between attracting new customers and exploiting incumbent ones. Using micro-pricing data from the U.S. retail sector, we calibrate the model to match moments from the cross-sectional distribution of sales and prices, and use our estimated model to explain sluggish aggregate dynamics and cross-sectional heterogeneity in the response of markups to aggregate shocks. We find that there is incomplete price pass-through leading to procyclicality in the average markup, with smaller firms being more responsive to shocks than larger firms.
D21|The Impact of Exports on Innovation: Theory and Evidence|This paper investigates the effect of export shocks on innovation. On the one hand a positive shock increases market size and therefore innovation incentives for all firms. On the other hand it increases competition as more firms enter the export market. This in turn reduces profits and therefore innovation incentives particularly for firms with low productivity. Overall the positive impact of the export shock on innovation is magnified for high productivity firms, whereas it may negatively affect innovation in low productivity firms. We test this prediction with patent, customs and production data covering all French manufacturing firms. To address potential endogeneity issues, we construct firm-level export proxies which respond to aggregate conditions in a firm's export destinations but are exogenous to firm-level decisions. We show that patenting robustly increases more with export demand for initially more productive firms. This effect is reversed for the least productive firms as the negative competition effect dominates.
D21|Deception and Competition in Search Markets|We study the interplay between deception and consumer search in a search market where firms may deceive some naive consumers with inferior products that display hidden (bad) attributes. We derive an equilibrium in which both superior and inferior quality is offered and show that as search frictions vanish, superior goods are entirely driven out of the market. Deception harms sophisticated consumers, as it forces them to search longer to find a superior product. We argue that policy interventions that reduce search frictions such as the standardization of price and package formats may harm welfare. In contrast, reducing the number of naive consumers through transparency policies and education campaigns as well as a minimum quality standard can improve welfare.
D21|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|External information (e.g., monetary and opportunity costs, retailer messaging), internal information (e.g., consumer knowledge, information processing), and the interaction between different forms of information can affect consumer engagement in markets. We employ an analytical framework which embraces both economic and psychological motives behind consumer behavior to investigate the motives and obstacles associated with household behavior in energy markets, using data from over 18,000 randomly selected responses drawn from three annual surveys of British households commissioned by the UK energy regulator. Three forms of household engagement – switching to a new electricity and/or gas supplier, changing electricity or/and gas tariffs, and changing payment methods of energy bills – are explored using a multiple-discrete choice framework. We find that internal information pathways have robust and strong effects on switching suppliers and tariffs. Concretely, a lack of belief in tariff differences discourages participation in energy markets. By contrast, professed knowledge of household energy spending and familiarity with energy tariffs drives consumer engagement. External information – supplier messages and Internet information may enhance each other in promoting market participation, conditional on message source and participation form. We also find that engagement by incumbent retailers (such as through consumer messages) can be effective in discouraging households from switching suppliers.
D21|Profit shifting and investment effects: The implications of zero-taxable profits|Recent empirical research documents a tendency of multinational enterprise affiliates to bunch around zero reported profit. We set up a theoretical model of multinational firm behavior in which we allow for corner solutions in the choice of the optimal transfer price due to insufficient profits or losses of affiliates. Such constraints in the choice of the transfer price induce bunching and generate investment effects in the low-tax as well as the high-tax country. In equilibrium, affiliates might overinvest and the investment effects generate a tendency for too high profit taxes. The analysis provides a micro-foundation for the investment effects that result from transfer pricing. The finding stands in contrast to the existing literature where transfer pricing choices are unconstrained.
D21|Common Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, consolidation and increasing concentration in the asset-management industry has led to more pronounced common ownership concentration (CoOCo). Moreover, recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature's key predictions. The resulting antitrust concerns have received much attention from policy makers worldwide. However, the implications are more general: CoOCo affects the objective function of the firm, and therefore has implications for all subfields of economics studying corporate conduct -- including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and all of financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
D21|The International Organization of Production in the Regulatory Void|In recent decades, NGOs and consumers have heavily criticized a large number of leading firms and their suppliers in a diverse set of industries for exploiting cross-country differences in regulation to cut costs at the expense of workers and the environment. In line with a wide range of examples, our explorative empirical analysis links these features of globalization to the international organization of production: a high cost advantage of ‘unethical’ production in an industry favors international outsourcing (as opposed to vertical integration) and most strongly so for sourcing from low-regulation countries. We rationalize this pattern by introducing a cost-saving ‘unethical’ technology, consumer boycotts, and advocacy NGOs into a standard property-rights model of the international organization of production. Contracts are incomplete, limiting a firm’s control over both investment and (un)ethical technology choices of integrated as well as independent suppliers. We identify and analyze a novel unethical outsourcing incentive, which - in line with the empirical findings - links outsourcing to unethical production. We also contribute to the modeling of NGO-firm interactions by providing a microfounded model of investment and pricing under incomplete contracts and monopolistic competition when the production technology is a credence attribute of the final good.
D21|Prioritization vs zero rating: Discrimination on the internet|This paper analyzes two business practices on the mobile internet market, paid prioritization and zero-rating. Both violate the principle of net neutrality by allowing the internet service provider to discriminate different content types. In recent years these practices have attracted considerable media attention and regulatory interest. The EU, and until recently the US have banned paid prioritization but tolerated zero-rating under conditions. With prioritization, the ISP delivers content at different speeds and it is equivalent to a discrimination in terms of quality. With zero-rating, the ISP charges different prices for content and it is equivalent to a discrimination in terms of prices. We first show that neither of these practices lead to the exclusion of a content provider, a serious concern of net neutrality advocates. The ISP chooses prioritization when traffic is highly valuable for content providers and congestion is severe, and zero-rating in all other cases. Furthermore, investment in network capacity is suboptimal in the case of prioritization and socially optimal under zero-rating.
D21|A Corporate Financing-Based Asset Pricing Model|I show that an asset pricing model for the equity claims of a value-maximizing firm can be constructed from its optimal financial contracting behavior. I study a dynamic contracting model in which firms trade off the costs and benefits of a given promise to pay external lenders in a specific economic state. Deals between firms and financiers reveal the importance of that state for firm's equity value, namely the stochastic discount factor the firm responds to. I empirically evaluate the model in the cross section of expected equity returns. I find that the financial contracting approach goes a long way in rationalizing observed cross-sectional differences in average returns, also in comparison to leading asset pricing models. In addition, the model discloses that two easily measured variables, the growth rates on net worth and profitability, generate sizeable cross-sectional spreads in returns. Finally, a calibrated version of the model is broadly consistent with observed corporate policies of US listed firms.
D21|Corporate Strategy, Conformism, and the Stock Market|We show that when corporate managers rely on the stock market as a source information, they are more likely to follow common strategies because this behavior enhances the informativeness of stock prices about their growth opportunities. Thus, the stock market induces conformity in strategic choices. Our theory predicts that this effect should be weaker for public firms. Consistent with this prediction, we observe empirically that firms differentiate their products more after going public. In line with our model, this pattern is stronger when managers are better informed or when the stock prices of a firm's peers are less informative.
D21|El mercado laboral de los desmovilizados: evidencia de la discriminación invisible y de género mediante el Item Count Technique|A septiembre de 2017 Colombia contaba con 50.278 personas que ingresaron al proceso de reintegración: 6.799 mujeres y 43.479 hombres. Si bien uno de los elementos fundamentales para asegurar que los desmovilizados no reincidan es que consigan un sustento económico lícito, la tasa de desempleo en los desmovilizados es del 19,6%, casi diez puntos porcentuales superior a la nacional. Además, la tasa de desempleo para las mujeres desmovilizadas en proceso de reintegración es del 39,1% mientras que para hombres del 15,6%. A través del Item Count Technique (también conocido como list experiment) se identifica el sesgo de deseabilidad social para calcular la discriminación laboral hacia los desmovilizados y la brecha de género presente en la misma. Los resultados señalan que existe un sesgo de deseabilidad social frente a emplear a una persona desmovilizada. Además, existe una mayor intención de emplear a hombres desmovilizados (62,38%) que a mujeres desmovilizadas (46,11%). Finalmente, existe un sesgo de deseabilidad social de 17,45 puntos porcentuales para emplear a mujeres desmovilizadas, mientras que éste es de 4,29 puntos porcentuales para los hombres.
D21|Payroll Taxes, Social Security and Informality. The 2012 Tax Reform in Colombia|I evaluate how the drastic reduction in payroll taxes in 2012 reduced informality in Colombia. By the end of 2012 the Colombian government implemented a tax reform that, among other things, substantially reduced payroll taxes. I evaluate the effect of this reform on informality both theoretically and empirically. Theoretically, I develop a labor market model incorporating the changes introduced by the reform. As the reduction in payroll taxes was accompanied by a change in social trans-fers' funding, which led to uncertain changes in profits and social benefits, straightforward predictions on informality are not possible. Empirically, I obtain difference-in-difference (DID) estimates from two household surveys- one composed by many repeated cross sections across many years and the other a much shorter panel dataset. Estimates from the repeated cross sections data indicate small, short-term effects and large long-term effects. Industry was the first sector to enjoy a reduction in informality, followed by services and agriculture. For workers earning around one minimum wage, I find large point estimates. Estimates from the household survey panel data are in line with these results.
D21|Prioritization vs Zero-Rating: Discrimination on the Internet|This paper analyzes two business practices on the mobile internet market, paid prioritization and zero-rating. Both violate the principle of net neutrality by allowing the internet service provider to discriminate different content types. In recent years these practices have attracted considerable media attention and regulatory interest. The EU, and until recently the US have banned paid prioritization but tolerated zero-rating under conditions. With prioritization, the ISP delivers content at different speeds and it is equivalent to a discrimination in terms of quality. With zero-rating, the ISP charges different prices for content and it is equivalent to a discrimination in terms of prices. We first show that neither of these practices lead to the exclusion of a content provider, a serious concern of net neutrality advocates. The ISP chooses prioritization when traffic is highly valuable for content providers and congestion is severe, and zero-rating in all other cases. Furthermore, investment in network capacity is suboptimal in the case of prioritization and socially optimal under zero-rating.
D21|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
D21|Bait and Ditch: Consumer Naiveté and Salesforce Incentives|We analyze a model of price competition between a transparent retailer and a deceptive one in a market where a fraction of consumers is naive. The transparent retailer is an independent shop managed by its owner. The deceptive retailer belongs to a chain and is operated by a manager. The retailers sell an identical base product, but the deceptive one also offers an add-on. Rational consumers never consider buying the add-on, yet naive ones can be talked into buying it. By offering its store manager a contract that pushes him to never sell the base good without the add-on, the chain can induce an equilibrium in which both retailers obtain more-than-competitive profits. The equilibrium features market segmentation with the deceptive retailer targeting only naive consumers whereas the transparent retailer serves only rational ones. Welfare is not monotone in the fraction of naive consumers in the market. Hence, policy interventions designed to de-bias naive consumers might backfire.
D21|Common Ownership, Competition, and Top Management Incentives|We show theoretically and empirically that managers have steeper financial incentives to expend effort and reduce costs when an industry’s firms tend to be controlled by shareholders with concentrated stakes in the firm, and relatively few holdings in competitors. A side effect of steep incentives is more aggressive competition. These findings inform a debate about the objective function of the firm.
D21|Financing Durable Assets|This paper studies how the durability of assets affects financing. We show that more durable assets require larger down payments making them harder to finance, because durability affects the price of assets and hence the overall financing need more than their collateral value. Durability affects technology adoption, the choice between new and used capital, and the rent versus buy decision. Constrained firms invest in less durable assets and buy used assets. More durable assets are more likely to be rented. Economies with weak legal enforcement invest more in less durable, otherwise dominated assets and are net importers of used assets.
D21|Innovation and Distribution: A General Equilibrium Model of Manufacturing and Retailing|I propose a general equilibrium model of competition in manufacturing and retailing. Relative to the counterfactual of direct sales by manufacturers, the retail sector increases manufacturing entry and produced variety. Although double marginalization in the sales channel raises prices and hurts consumers in quantity, the retail sector increases variety and convenience, both valued positively. Pricing power in the vertical channel reflects surplus or scarcity of manufactured substitutes relative to retailer store size. Finally, the size of the retail sector is a constant fraction of the total economy across nations of differing size and wealth.
D21|Reviving American Entrepreneurship? Tax Reform and Business Dynamism|The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act slashed tax rates on business income and introduced immediate expensing of investments. Using a quantitative heterogeneous firms model, we investigate the long-run effects of such tax reforms on firm dynamics. We find that they can substantially increase business dynamism, potentially off-setting the large decline in the U.S. startup rate observed over recent decades. This result is driven by indirect equilibrium forces: the tax reform stimulates firm entry, leading to an increase in labor demand and wages, which in turn makes firm selection more stringent. Related to this is a large boost of the number of firms and of aggregate output, investment and employment.
D21|Long-Term Employment Relations when Agents are Present Biased|We analyze how agents’ present bias affects optimal contracting in an infinite-horizon employment setting. The principal maximizes profits by offering a menu of contracts to naive agents: a virtual contract - which agents plan to choose in the future - and a real contract which they end up choosing. This virtual contract motivates the agent and allows the principal to keep the agent below his outside option. Moreover, under limited liability, implemented effort can be inefficiently high. With a finite time horizon, the degree of exploitation of agents decreases over the life-cycle. While the baseline model abstracts from moral hazard, we show that the result persists also when allowing for non-contractible effort.
D21|Worst-Case Bounds on R&D and Pricing Distortions: Theory and Disturbing Conclusions if Consumer Values Follow the World Income Distribution|We prove that, for general demand and cost conditions and market structures, the fraction of first best surplus that a monopolist is unable to extract in a market provides a tight upper bound on the relative distortions arising from firms' equilibrium decisions at all margins (entry and pricing). Continuing with this worst-case perspective, we show that a symmetrically truncated Zipf (STRZ) distribution of consumer values generates the lowest producer surplus among those with a given mean and maximum value. This allows us to relate potential deadweight loss from all margins in a market to the Zipf-similarity of its demand curve. The STRZ distribution also bounds deadweight loss at just the pricing margin. We leverage existing results from industrial organization (e.g., on demand curvature) and statistics (e.g., on the relation between means and medians) to bound producer surplus in an array of important special cases. Calibrations based on the world distribution of income generate extremely Zipf-similar demand curves, with disturbing consequences for potential deadweight loss in global markets. We gauge the extent to which various policies-such as progressive taxation or price discrimination-can ameliorate potential deadweight loss.
D21|Problems, solutions and new problems with the third wave of technological unemployment|The aim of this paper is to discuss possible solutions to the “third wave” of technological unemployment and their main drawbacks. The process has just started and will only be fully realized in the future, but its main novelty is already well known and concerns robots (and artificial intelligence) entering the production process. Robots do not simply increase labor productivity, in cooperation with humans, but can totally substitute labor, making it possible to produce commodities without the use of human input. This in turn generates technological unemployment. Past “compensation” theories have argued that technological unemployment could be reabsorbed thanks to wage reduction and demand (and production) increase. But these theories have ignored robots. If robots are more productive and less expensive than humans, wage reduction may be insufficient due to the minimum wage subsistence boundary; and, in any case, an increase in demand would only determine an increase in the production of goods by robots alone, without any impact on human employment. Meanwhile, the resulting mass unemployment will require redistributive policies. The paper discusses the most relevant among these policies, emphasizing their drawbacks and their unwanted implications, and proposes an alternative rooted in Tietenberg’s tradable permits approach.
D21|How does the state destroy incentives in innovation financing?|We investigate the effect of state subsidy on the behavior of entrepreneur and venture capitalist in a double moral hazard and fixed investment model under positive externalities. We infer that investment subsidy and success fee improve the incentives, ease credit rationing, hence boost private financing, which explains the popularity of hybrid venture capital systems. The main disadvantage of these systems is, however, that the entrepreneur is encouraged to minimize his/her own capital investment and to ask for the maximal state subsidy available. It may happen that public sources go to entrepreneurs capable to finance their projects privately, so state subsidies increase state deficit (and private profits) without any effects on public welfare leaving other important areas underfinanced. We also prove that state guarantee definitely creates perverse incentives, hence it is not recommended in our model.
D21|Who Gets What, When, How? Power, Organization, Markets, Money and the Allocation of Resources|Money is a mystery and financial institutions are often regarded as guardians and promoters of the mystery. These sketches are designed to help an individual interested in, but not technically trained in economics, understand markets, money, credit and the evolution of a mass market system embedded in the rich context of its political environment and society. The efficient functioning of a dynamic economy requires the presence of money and financial institutions. The great variety of financial institutions in any advanced economy requires that a synthetic approach is used to understand what the whole looks like. Verbal description provides an overarching view of the mixture of history, law, philosophy, social mores, and political structure that supplies the context for the functioning of the economy. This has been vividly illustrated by Adam Smith, his teacher the Reverend Francis Hutcheson and his close friend David Hume. There are two different but highly allied themes in this single slim volume. Chapters 1, 2, and 3 supply the rich context of history, society, polity and law in which every economy is embedded. Chapters 12 and 13 sketch what might lie ahead given the current state of the world. These chapters require no symbols or technical depth. In contrast Chapters 4 to 11 offers a reasonably nontechnical exposition of some of the considerable development in formal economic theory pertaining to money and financial institutions as economics struggles towards emerging as a science, balancing quantitative measures with qualifications that help to explain what the numbers mean.
D21|The Paradox of Competition: Power, Markets, and Money - Who Gets What, When, How?|Money is a mystery and financial institutions are often regarded as guardians and promoters of the mystery. These sketches are designed to help any reader interested in, but not technically trained in economics, understand markets, money, credit and the evolution of a mass market system set in the rich context of its political environment and society. We all want a good society. What is a good society is given by our joint vision, mutual respect and social concern but the implementation of the vision calls for the use and understanding of money, markets and finance. The efficient functioning of a dynamic economy calls for the presence of money and financial institutions. The great variety of financial institutions in any advanced economy requires an understanding of what the whole looks like. Verbal description provides an overarching view of the mixture of history, law, philosophy, custom, habit, and political structure that supplies the background for the functioning of the economy. This has been vividly illustrated by Adam Smith, his teacher the Reverend Francis Hutcheson and his close friend David Hume. There are two different but highly allied themes covered here. The first explains the worth of economic theory and its importance while connecting it with the world of politics in which the economy dwells. The second is the application of economic thought to the operating problems of every society. The first theme is covered in the first nine chapters. Chapters 1, 2, and 3 supply the rich context of history, society, polity and law in which every economy is embedded. These chapters require no symbols or technical depth to be understood. In contrast Chapters 4 to 9 offer a reasonably nontechnical exposition of some of the considerable development in formal economic theory pertaining to money and financial institutions as economics becomes more scientific, balancing quantitative measures with qualifications that help to explain what the numbers mean. The second theme is developed in Chapters 10-13 where economic theory with all of its abstractions has to be connected with social and political reality before it can be of use. This calls for both and understanding of physical and social facts, and an appreciation of the role of moral sentiment. Chapters 13 and 14 consider some alternative scenarios that we face in the near future.
D21|Oligopoly Price Discrimination: The Role of Inventory Controls|Inventory controls, used most notably by airlines, are sales limits assigned to individual prices. While typically viewed as a tool to manage demand uncertainty, we argue that inventory controls also facilitate intertemporal price discrimination. In our model, competing firms first choose quantity and then choose prices in a series of advance-purchase markets. When demand becomes more inelastic over time, as in the airline and hotel markets, a monopolist can easily price discriminate; however, we show that oligopoly firms generally cannot. Inventory controls let firms set increasing prices regardless of whether or not demand is uncertain.
D21|Oligopoly Price Discrimination: The Role of Inventory Controls|Inventory controls, used most notably by airlines, are sales limits assigned to individual prices. While typically viewed as a tool to manage demand uncertainty, we argue that inventory controls can also facilitate intertemporal price discrimination in oligopoly. In our model, competing firms first choose quantity and then choose prices in a series of advance-purchase markets. When demand becomes less elastic over time, as is the case in airline markets, a monopolist can easily price discriminate; however, we show that oligopoly firms generally cannot. We also show that using inventory controls allows oligopoly firms to set increasing prices, regardless of whether or not demand is uncertain.
D21|Oligopoly Price Discrimination: The Role of Inventory Controls|When firms first choose capacity and then compete on prices in a series of advance-purchase markets, we show that strong competitive forces prevent firms from utilizing intertemporal price discrimination. We then enrich the model by allowing firms to use inventory controls, or sales limits assigned to individual prices. We show that firms will choose to set inventory controls in order to engage in intertemporal price discrimination, but only if demand becomes more inelastic over time. Thus, although typically viewed as a tool to manage demand uncertainty, we show that inventory controls can also facilitate price discrimination in oligopoly.
D21|Insuring product markets|We formally link insurance markets with product markets and identify a demand effect of insurance: if risk-averse consumers can buy insurance against possible product failure, there will be some additional consumers that buy the product because they can also purchase protection. The concomitant upward pressure on price is further fueled by those consumers that have a higher willingness to pay if they can also buy insurance. But a higher price causes those consumers to leave the market that would have bought the product absent insurance. Introducing insurance thus has an ambiguous effect on price, consumers' surplus, and total surplus.
D21|Need to Know? On Information Systems in Firms|In the context of firm decision-making, several motives for acquiring and conveying information exist. Information serves to make better decisions, to persuade, and to impress. In this paper, we study how these motives shape incentives to acquire and communicate information. We employ a cheap-talk model with information acquisition and communication by a firm's executive. The executive wants to accurately inform an internal decision-maker regarding the value of an opportunity, but has an incentive to overstate this value to persuade or impress external parties. We show that information acquisition and communication interact. The executive's impression and persuasion motives yield limited distortions in communication, if any. Instead, they reduce information acquisition. Furthermore, we find that for firms, transparent communication is a necessary evil. Transparency allows for influential communication to external parties, but constrains internal communication. Theoretically, we contribute by showing that the forward induction refinement excludes babbling as an equilibrium outcome if non-babbling equilibria exist.
D21|Non-profits and the Profit Non-distribution Constraint with Selfish Entrepreneurial Motivations|The profit non-distribution constraint (NDC) is the basic requirement for non-profit tax privileges all over the world. In donative non-profits it is justified by the need to prevent donors’ exploitation by firm owners. Donative non-profits, however, are not the only type of third-sector institution and in many of them the chief stakeholders are customers, not donors. In this paper we investigate the social value of the NDC in mutual non-profits where customers exert control over the firm. The main theme here is the exploitation of some customers by others, rather than the exploitation of donors by managers or owners. When customers are homogeneous, the NDC can never be beneficial. More complex is the case of customer heterogeneity. We show that in this case the NDC presents three issues. First, there are cases where intra-member exploitation occurs through the generation of accounting losses, and in such cases the NDC is ineffective from an allocative standpoint. Second, even when it prevents exploitation, the resulting allocations may be socially inferior to those that obtain in the presence of minority exploitation. We further show that non-members’ exploitation is of the same nature as minority members’ exploitation and it is just a variant of it, whereby the same results on the NDC’s effectiveness qualitatively hold in this case too. The upshot is that granting tax relief to all mutual non-profits adopting the NDC is unwarranted and a selective application of tax incentives based on the governance structure is instead needed.
D21|Imperfect Financial Markets and Shareholder Incentives in Partial and General Equilibrium|We analyze the firm-level and aggregate consequences of equity market imperfections in the form of noisy information aggregation for corporate risk-taking and investment. Market imperfections cause controlling shareholders to invest too much in upside risks and too little in downside risks in an attempt to capture market rents. In partial equilibrium, these inefficiencies are particularly severe if upside risks are coupled with near constant returns to scale. In general equilibrium, the shareholders’ collective attempts to boost shareholder value of individual firms leads to a novel pecuniary externality that amplifies investment distortions with downside risks but offsets distortions with upside risks, thereby overturning the results from the partial equilibrium analysis. We consider policy interventions to correct the distortions, and show that in general equilibrium such interventions disrupt the financial market’s allocational role. We analyze extensions of our model to excess leverage, agency conflicts between shareholders and managers, negative welfare effects of transparency, excess sensitivity of investment to stock prices, and dynamically inconsistent firm behavior.
D21|Asymmetric information allocation to avoid coordination failure|"In the context of team production, this paper studies the optimal (deterministic and stochastic) information allocation that implements desired effort levels as the unique Bayesian equilibrium. We show that, under certain conditions, it is optimal to asymmetrically inform agents even though they may be ex ante symmetric. The main intuition is that informing the agents asymmetrically can be effective in avoiding ""bad"" equilibria, that is, equilibria with coordination failure."
D21|The exact solution of spatial logit response games|This paper proposes a logit response game with a spatial social structure and solves it exactly. We derive closed-form solutions for the strategy choice probabilities, the spatial correlation function of strategies of distant players, and the expected utility. We study how the probability of adopting a cooperative strategy in a prisoner’s dilemma game and the probability of adopting Pareto efficient strategies in a cooperation game are affected by changes in the parameter that expresses payoff-responsiveness.
D21|Zero-rating, network effects, and capacity investments|We consider internet service providers? incentives to zero-rate, i.e. do not count towards data allowances, the consumption of certain services, in the absence of payments from content providers. In a general model with various types of network effects, service substitutes or complements, monopoly and duopoly, we show that ISPs adopt zero-rating and that it increases consumer surplus and total welfare if network effects are strong enough. Capacity investment increases (decreases) with network effects if services are complements (substitutes). Under competition, the decision to zero-rate depends the residual network effect, which includes the impacts of spillovers and brand differentiation. JEL codes: D21, L51, L96
D21|Mixed Duopoly in Education with Vouchers| In a mixed duopoly environment, I study under which conditions the introduction of a voucher system for private schools can increase competition and as a result, social welfare. My model considers a market in which schools compete in qualities to attract students. Speci cally, I consider two settings: one with two private pro t-maximizing schools and one with a mixed duopoly, in which one of the schools maximizes social welfare. In the two situations, the quality level offered by the schools plays a crucial role in the students' enrollment decision. I nd that in both private and mixed duopoly, the voucher reduces the tuition fee and the quality of the high quality school. It also increases own pro ts and decreases the ones of its competitor. Thus, the voucher reduces the incentives of the high-quality school to invest on its quality, and this weakens the competition in the market. In the mixed duopoly scenario, particularly for having an increasing consumer surplus and social welfare, the social planner needs to implement a low voucher. The contrary needs to be implemented in the private duopoly. Finally, the low voucher policy can be successful as a high voucher is costly. Keywords: Mixed Duopoly, Voucher Programs, Educational System, Vertical and Horizontal Differentiation. JEL classi fications: D21, H52, I2, L13.
D21|Informal sector heterogeneity and income inequality: Evidence from the Democratic Republic of Congo|This paper uses 1-2-3 survey data on the Democratic Republic of Congo to analyze heterogeneity in the informal sector. It empirically identifies three types of entrepreneurs in the sector. The first group of entrepreneurs—top performers—is growth oriented and enjoys greater access to capital. The second group—constrained gazelles—includes entrepreneurs who share many characteristics, especially management skills, with the top performers, but operate with less capital. The third group—survivalists—comprises firms struggling to grow. Based on logit and fixed effect ordinary least squares models, the results show that poverty and income inequality are more common among constrained gazelles and survivalists. The paper also shows that income inequality is explained mainly by educational disparities and lack of credit access among entrepreneurs. Additionally, the outcomes of a Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition show that the performance of firms is a key factor in explaining differences in income. Examining the drivers of performance, the paper finds that human capital and managerial skills are important engines of performance.
D21|The Firm Dynamics of Business Cycles|We use firm dynamics statistics on employment by age, entry, exit, and job flows to identify sources of business cycle fluctuations in the U.S. economy since 1980. We extend the Hopenhayn (1992) firm dynamics model by incorporating capital and debt accumulation to the firm’s problem and savings to the consumer’s problem. Analyzing the implications of unexpected productivity, credit, labor wedge, and investment wedge shocks for firm dynamics statistics, we show that (a) productivity shock accounts for the 1990-91 and 2001 recessions, and (b) productivity and credit shocks jointly account for the 1980-82 and 2007-09 recessions.
D21|Market failures and equilibria in Banach lattices|In this paper, we consider an economy with infinitely many commodities and market failures such as increasing returns to scale and external effects or other regarding preferences. The commodity space is a Banach lattice possibly without interior points in the positive cone in order to include most of the relevant spaces in economics. We propose a new definition of the marginal pricing rule through a new tangent cone to the production set at a point of its (non-smooth)-boundary. The major contribution is the unification of many previous works with convex or non-convex production sets, smooth or non-smooth, for the competitive equilibria or for the marginal pricing equilibria, with or without external effects, in finite dimensional spaces as well as in infinite dimensional spaces. In order to prove the existence of a marginal pricing equilibria, we also provide a new properness condition on technologies. .
D21|Nonparametric identification of unobserved technological heterogeneity in production|"We propose a novel nonparametric method for the structural identification of unobserved technological heterogeneity in production. We assume cost minimization as the firms' behavioral objective, and we model unobserved heterogeneity as an unobserved productivity factor on which firms condition the input demand of the observed inputs. Our model of unobserved technological differences can equivalently be represented in terms of unobserved\latent capital"" that guarantees data consistency with our behavioral assumption, and we argue that this avoids a simultaneity bias in a natural way. Our empirical application to Belgian manufacturing data shows that our method allows for drawing strong and robust conclusions, despite its nonparametric orientation. For example, our results pinpoint a clear link between international exposure and technological heterogeneity and show that primary inputs are in the considered sectors substituted for materials rather than for technology."
D21|Price Updating in Production Networks|This paper evaluates how firms change their prices in response to cost shocks and other price changes in their environment. We first document three new facts on the heterogeneity of firm-level producer prices and their relationship to buyers and suppliers in a production network. We then develop a non-parametric framework of how producers update their prices, taking into account this production network. The framework is very general, and accounts for the heterogeneity in price changes and the production network from the stylized facts. Moreover, the framework is consistent with various price setting mechanisms, and does not impose a particular market structure or demand functional form. Exploiting rich data on producer prices and the network structure of production in Belgium, we estimate the model to evaluate the importance of both channels in the data. We find that, on average, input price pass-through is incomplete and very much below one, while firms also strongly react to other prices in their environment. This implies that firms can adjust their markups in response to both cost shocks and prices of other firms. Furthermore, firms react differently to common shocks than to idiosyncratic shocks, on average completely passing through common shocks, but much less idiosyncratic shocks
D21|Sell Low and Buy High: Arbitrage and Local Price Effects in Kenyan Markets|"Large and regular seasonal price fluctuations in local grain markets appear to offer African farmers substantial inter-temporal arbitrage opportunities, but these opportunities remain largely unexploited: small-scale farmers are commonly observed to ""sell low and buy high"" rather than the reverse. In a field experiment in Kenya, we show that credit market imperfections limit farmers' abilities to move grain inter-temporally. Providing timely access to credit allows farmers to buy at lower prices and sell at higher prices, increasing farm revenues and generating a return on investment of 28%. To understand general equilibrium effects of these changes in behavior, we vary the density of loan offers across locations. We document significant effects of the credit intervention on seasonal price fluctuations in local grain markets, and show that these GE effects shape individual level profitability estimates. In contrast to existing experimental work, the results indicate a setting in which microcredit can improve firm profitability, and suggest that GE effects can substantially shape microcredit's effectiveness. In particular, failure to consider these GE effects could lead to underestimates of the social welfare benefits of microcredit interventions."
D21|Job Market Signaling through Occupational Licensing|A large literature demonstrates that occupational licensing is a labor market friction that distorts labor supply allocation and prices. We show that an occupational license serves as a job market signal, similar to education. In the presence of occupational licensing, we find evidence that firms rely less on observable characteristics such as race and gender in determining employee wages. As a result, licensed minorities and women experience smaller wage gaps than their unlicensed peers.
D21|Choosing between Growth and Glory|Prior work has established that the financing environment can impact firm strategy. We argue that this influence can shape the earliest strategic choices of a new venture by creating a potential tradeoff between two objectives: rapid growth and reaping the benefits of a positive reputation (glory). We leverage a simple reputation-building strategic choice, naming the firm after the founder (eponymy), that is associated with superior profitability. Next, we argue via a formal model that the availability of/dependence on external financing can explain why high-growth firms are rarely eponymous. We find empirical support for the model's predictions using a large dataset of 1 million European firms. Eponymous firms grow considerably more slowly than similarly profitable firms. Moreover, eponymy varies in accordance with the firm's financing environment in a pattern consistent with our model. We discuss implications for the literature on new venture strategy.
D21|Worst-Case Bounds on R&D and Pricing Distortions: Theory with an Application Assuming Consumer Values Follow the World Income Distribution|We prove that, for general demand and cost conditions and market structures, the fraction of first-best surplus that a monopolist is unable to extract in a market provides a tight upper bound on the relative distortions arising from firms' equilibrium decisions at all margins (entry and pricing). Continuing with this worst-case perspective, we show that a symmetrically truncated Zipf (STRZ) distribution of consumer values generates the lowest producer surplus among those with a given mean and maximum value. This allows us to relate potential deadweight loss from all margins in a market to the Zipf-similarity of its demand curve. The STRZ distribution also bounds deadweight loss at just the pricing margin. We leverage existing results from industrial organization (e.g., on demand curvature) and statistics (e.g., on the relation between means and medians) to bound producer surplus in an array of important special cases. Calibrations based on the world distribution of income generate extremely Zipf-similar demand curves, suggesting a large potential for deadweight loss in global markets. We gauge the extent to which various policies—such as progressive taxation or price discrimination—might ameliorate this potential deadweight loss.
D21|Does domestic demand matter for firms’ exports?|The existence of a link between exports and domestic demand challenges the standard theoretical assumption in international trade models and carries out important policy implications. Being a small open economy and one of the hardest hit economies during the latest economic and financial crisis, Portugal is a natural case study for assessing the role of this channel, in particular given the large export market share gains that mitigated the negative effects on economic activity. A key difference of our empirical approach vis-à-vis previous literature is that the estimated relationship between exports and domestic sales results directly from a monopolistic model of a firm selling to both domestic and external markets. Drawing on an appropriate estimation strategy, it is found a noteworthy negative relationship between domestic demand and firms’ exports covering the manufacturing sector over the period 2009–2016. This result holds for almost all industries although with a heterogeneous magnitude. Additionally, there is also evidence that this effect is stronger for larger firms.
D21|Financial constraints of innovative firms and sectoral growth|Innovation policies can consist in measures aimed at directly alleviating financial constraints of innovative firms, beyond more traditional fiscal incentives to foster private R&D spendings. To explore the interaction between innovation and financial constraints at the sector level, and evaluate stylized policy scenarios, this paper brings together two analytical frameworks from the endogenous growth and corporate finance literatures. Within this dynamic model, firms innovate and compete for products through destructive creation and accumulate internal funds in relation to financial hindrances occurring when they enter, develop or exit. Including notably asymmetric information between investors and managers of firms with respect to uncertain cash flows, this model is first consistent with the fact that firms tend to spend more on R&D when their internal funds are higher. It then allows for experi­ments addressing growth and overall liquidity holdings for various sectoral contexts. In this specific framework, easing access to initial funding, as fiscal incentives, can have substantial effects. More­over, while a stylized high-tech sector is asso­ciated with higher growth and overall liqui­dity holdings, both variables depend to a large extent on many sectoral characteristics, such as R&D efficiency, entry costs, and cash flow mean and volatility.
D21|On unification of solutions to the bargaining problem|We establish axioms under which a bargaining solution can be found by the maximization of the CES function and is unique up to specification of the distribution and elasticity parameters. This solution is referred to as the CES solution which includes the NASH and egalitarian solutions as special cases. Next, we consider a normalization of the CES function and establish axioms, under which a bargaining solution can be found by the maximization of the normalized CES and is unique up to the specifications of the distribution and its substitution parameters. We refer to this solution as the normalized CES solution, which includes the Nash and Kalai-Smorodinsky solutions as special cases. Our paper contributes to bargaining theory by establishing unified characterizations of existing as well as a great variety of new bargaining solutions.
D21|Intra Firm Bargaining and Shapley Values|The paper revisits the problem of wage bargaining between a firm and multiple workers. We show that the Subgame Perfect Equilibrium of the extensive-form game proposed by Stole and Zwiebel (1996a) does not imply a profile of wages and profits that coincides with the Shapley values as claimed in their classic paper. We propose an alternative extensive-form bargaining game, the Rolodex Game, that follows a simple and realistic protocol and that, under some mild restrictions, admits a unique Subgame Perfect Equilibrium generating a profile of wages and profits that are equal to the Shapley values. The vast applied literature that refers to the Stole and Zwiebel game to give a game-theoretic foundation to the use of the Shapley values as the outcome of the bargain between a firm and multiple workers should instead refer to the Rolodex game.
D21|Optimal taxation, environment quality, socially responsible firms and investors|We characterize the optimal pollution-, capital- and labour-tax structure in a continuous-time growth model in the presence of pollution (resulting from production), both in the first- and second-best, allowing investors to be driven by social responsibility objectives. The social responsibility objective takes the form of warm-glow, as in Andreoni (1990) and Dam (2011), inducing firms to reduce pollution through increased abatement activity. Among the results, the first best pollution tax is still positive under warm-glow, the second-best pollution tax displays the additivity property, and we show the circumstances under which the Chamley-Judd zero capital-income tax result does not hold.
D21|Firm dynamics with frictional product and labor markets|We examine empirically and theoretically the joint dynamics of prices, output, employment and wages across firms. We first analyze administrative firm data for the German manufacturing sector for which price and quantity information at the nine-digit product level, together with employment, working hours and wages are available. We then develop a dynamic model of heterogeneous firms who compete for workers and customers in frictional labor and product markets. Prices and wages are dispersed across firms, reflecting differences in firm productivity and demand. Productivity and demand shocks have distinct implications for the firms' employment, output and price adjustments. In a quantitative analysis, we evaluate the model predictions against the data.
D21|Pathways to Formalization: Going beyond the Formality Dichotomy|Too often, academics and policy makers interpret formality as a binary choice and formalization as an irreversible process. Yet, formalization has many facets and shades on the business and labor fronts, and firms may not be able or willing to formalize all at once. This paper explores the joint process of business and labor formalization, using a unique panel data set of Peruvian micro enterprises. The paper finds that business formality does not imply labor formality, and vice versa. Further, there is significant churning in and out of different dimensions of formality within a relatively short period. Using an instrumental variable approach, the paper infers that business formalization affects labor formalization but not the other way around, and that enforcement is a key driver of formalization. Overall, the analysis shows that formalization is a gradual and reversible process, with small entrepreneurs weighing their possibilities in each pathway to business (often) or labor (less often) formalization, but rarely both at the same time.
D21|Prosocial Managers, Employee Motivation, and the Creation of Shareholder Value|"Milton Friedman has famously claimed that the responsibility of a manager who is not the owner of a firm is ""to conduct the business in accordance with their [the shareholders'] desires, which generally will be to make as much money as possible."" In this paper we argue that when contracts are incomplete it is not necessarily in the interest even of money maximizing shareholders to pick a manager who pursues this goal. We show in a formal model and in a series of lab experiments that choosing a manager who has a preference to spend resources for social causes can increase employee motivation. In turn, ex-post losses in shareholder value may be offset by ex-ante gains in performance through higher employee motivation."
D21|Product innovation by supplying domestic and foreign markets|This paper uses European firm-level survey data to provide some robust empirical evidence that suppliers engaged in production to order (PTO) for foreign firms are more likely to introduce product innovations than those engaged in PTO for domestic firms, even when differences in size, R&D and productivity are controlled for. We propose a demand-driven theoretical explanation based on the interactions between an upstream producer of a specialized input and a downstream producer in a framework of incomplete contracts, agency frictions, and imperfect information. Some of the model’s implications, namely that higher internationalization costs entail a lower innovation premium for suppliers engaged in PTO for foreign customers and that the foreign PTO innovation premium is higher in sectors producing differentiated goods, are supported by the data.
D21|Product Line Strategy within a Vertically Differentiated Duopoly under Non-negativity Outputs Constraints|We consider product line strategies of duopolistic firms supplying two vertically differentiated products with non-negativity output constraint and its expectation on rival's product line reaction. We consider a game in which there exists a heterogeneous unit production costs in high quality goods but is homogeneous in low quality product between firms. We derive equilibria for the game and characterize graphically firms' product line strategies and the realized profits of both firms through quality superiority and relative cost efficiency ratios. We also show that the efficient cost firm earns more than the inefficient firm except for the special case where both firms specialize in low quality good. We also illustrate that firms can correctly conjecture the ex ante relationship between the quality superiority of both goods and the relative cost efficiency ratios of firms on high quality good ex post in equilibrium.
D21|Intellectual Property Regimes and Firm Structure|We use The Patents (Amendment) Act, 2002 in India as a quasi-natural experiment to identify the causal eÂ¤ect of higher incentives for innovation on firm organizational features. We find that stronger intellectual property (IP) protection has a sharper impact on technologically advanced firms, i.e., firms that were a-priori above the industry median in terms of technology adoption. While there is an overall increase in managers' share of compensation, this increase is about 1.6-1.7% more for high-tech firms. This difference can be attributed to a larger increase in performance pay for high-tech firms. The reform also leads to a significant increase in number of managerial layers and number of divisions for high-tech firms relative to low-tech firms, but only the latter effect is correlated with the differential change in managerial compensation. Broadly, we demonstrate that stronger IP protection leads to an increase in both within-firm and between-firm wage inequality, with more robust evidence for between-firm inequality.
D21|Changing prices ... changing times: evidence for Italy|This paper examines the process of adjustment of prices in Italy to determine whether nominal flexibility, measured by the frequency of price changes, has increased in the recent years of protracted stagnation and double-dip recession. The analysis is based on a large micro-level dataset of individual prices collected monthly by Istat from 2006 to 2013 for the Consumer Price Index. We find that both the percentage of prices adjusted monthly and the average size of the adjustment have risen significantly since the 1996-2001 period, in particular for downward changes. This greater flexibility is related in part to the spread of modern distribution structures. Our estimates further indicate that the recession has affected the price adjustment mechanism: for manufactures, price cuts have become larger and more frequent, while increases are more moderate; for services, both the frequency and the size of price increases have diminished.
D21|Aggregation, Capital Heterogeneity, and the Investment CAPM|This paper provides a careful treatment of aggregation, and to a lesser extent, capital heterogeneity in the investment CAPM. Firm-level investment returns are constructed from firm-level variables, and then aggregated to the portfolio level to match with portfolio-level stock returns. Current assets form a separate production input besides physical capital. The model fits well the value, momentum, investment, and profitability premiums simultaneously, and partially explains the positive stock-investment return correlations, the procyclical and short-term dynamics of the momentum and profitability premiums, as well as the countercyclical and long-term dynamics of the value and investment premiums. However, the model fails to explain momentum crashes.
D21|An efficiency-based concept to assess potential cost and greenhouse gas savings on German dairy farms|This article investigates potential savings of costs and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for a sample of 216 dairy farms in northern Germany using Data Envelopment Analysis. Tradeoffs between a cost-efficient and a GHG-efficient production are identified. For this purpose, an environmental-economic farm model is used, which allows ‘pricing’ the input with market prices and CO2 equivalents, respectively. Uncertainty of CO2 equivalents and volatility of input prices are taken into account and therefore efficiency scores are in the form of ranges. The results reveal that the sample farms are more GHG-efficient than cost-efficient. We estimate potential cost savings between 37.2% and 57.4% and potential savings in GHG emissions between 24.9% and 41.3%. Cost and GHG emission reductions are complementary across a wide range: by moving from the status quo to cost-efficient production, at least 87.5% of the GHG saving potential would be tapped. Unlocking the remaining reduction potential comes at a shadow price (abatement cost) of about €165/t CO2 equivalent. From an input allocative point of view, a change from cost-efficient production to GHG-efficient production requires reductions in nitrogen use and an extension of diesel use. Compared to the sample average and the cost-efficient farms, GHG efficient dairy farms are characterized by a higher share of legumes and a longer effective lifetime of cows.
D21|Salience, competition, and decoy goods|We consider a brand manufacturer who can offer, next to its high-quality product, also a decoy good and faces competition by a competitive fringe that produces low quality. We show that the brand manufacturer optimally provides a decoy good to boost the demand for its main product if consumers’ purchasing decisions are distorted by salient thinking. The optimal decoy good is designed such that the superior quality of the brand manufacturer’s main product and the unattractive feature of the fringe product are salient.
D21|Blending under uncertainty: Real options analysis of ethanol plants and biofuels mandates|The value of a representative ethanol producer, that benefits from both low and high gasoline prices in the short-run, is modeled. Ethanol producers make a modest competitive profit in the mandate-induced region of production. A low price of gasoline increases the demand for blend ethanol and consequently increases the profit of ethanol producers. On the other hand, when gasoline becomes costlier than ethanol, the capacity constraints of the biofuels sector bind and ethanol producers gain large quasi-monopoly margins. This is an interesting example of a market where two commodities are complement up to a point and then substitute after that. We postulate the value of an ethanol producer as a strangle option consisting of two real options: the option to substitute gasoline at times of expensive crude oil and the option to expand supply of blend at times of cheap gasoline. Using a dynamic model we show that the higher volatilities of crude oil and ethanol costs increase biofuels firms' value. We also find non-monotonic relationships between the value of an ethanol plant and several underlying variables, including gasoline price level. We estimate the value provided by a 10% blend mandate to be around $150,000,000 for a representative ethanol unit. Our results offer a novel view of oil and feedstock price risks in contrast to the common belief that considers those risks as a negative factor for the biofuels sector.
D21|The efficiency cost of protective measures in climate policy|Despite recent achievements towards a global climate agreement, climate action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions remains quite heterogeneous across countries. Energy-intensive and trade-exposed (EITE) industries in industrialized countries are concerned on stringent domestic emission pricing that puts them at a competitive disadvantage against producers of similar goods in other countries with more lenient emission regulation. This paper focuses on climate policy design in the United States of America (US) and compares the economic implications of four alternative protective measures for US EITE industries: (i) output-based rebates, (ii) exemptions from emission pricing, (iii) energy intensity standards, and (iv) carbon intensity standards. Using a large-scale computable general equilibrium model we quantify how these protective measures affect competitiveness of US EITE industries. We find that protective measures can improve common trade-related competitiveness indicators such as revealed comparative advantage or relative world trade shares but at the same time may lead to a decline in the output value for EITE industries because of negative income effects. The economy-wide cost of emission abatement under protective measures increase as compared to uniform emission pricing stand-alone such that the gains of protective measures for EITE exports may be more than compensated through losses in domestic EITE demand.
D21|Market structure and investment in the mobile industry|The impact of market structure, that is the number of firms and asymmetry, on investment is an important topic in the mobile industry. However, previous literature remains ambiguous about the direction of the relationship. This paper provides an empirical evidence of the impact of market structure on investment in the European mobile industry. The empirical assessment is based on a Salop model with vertical differentiation. Consistently with the prediction of this model, we find that both the number of operators and market share asymmetry have significant effects on investment. In symmetric markets, investment per operator falls with the number of operators, with larger effects for operators that lose market share more than the average. The industry investment rises with the number of operators in the short run, but eventually falls in the long run due to significant adjustment costs of investment in the mobile industry. These findings suggest that investment should be taken into account when analysing the welfare effects of market structure in the mobile industry.
D21|Conditionally conservative fair value measurements|Firms measure fair values using Level 2 or 3 inputs when items do not trade in liquid markets, limiting market discipline over the measurements. We provide evidence that firms holding higher proportions of financial instruments measured at Level 2 and 3 fair values report more conditionally conservative comprehensive income attributable to fair value measurements, consistent with firms trying to mitigate investors' discounting of the measurements. We further predict and find that this conditional conservatism (1) increases with governance mechanisms that increase the strength and persistence of firms' incentives to report conservatively and (2) decreases with firms’ earnings management incentives.
D21|Westward movement of new polluting firms in China: Pollution reduction mandates and location choice|This paper provides a systematic study of the location choice of new polluting firms driven by the 11th Five-Year Plan's water pollution reduction mandates in China. We explore a unique dataset of environmental statistics, which contains 31380 polluting manufacturing firms newly established in the period 2006–2010. Our conditional logit model provides strong evidence for the changes of new polluting firms’ location choice from the coastal provinces, which have strict environmental mandates, to the western provinces, which have lax environmental mandates, and demonstrates the distinct location patterns of heterogeneous polluting firms. While foreign polluting firms were generally driven by the mandates, domestic polluting firms were more resistant and were driven to the western provinces only after 2007. As a result, the potential pollution transfer would threaten the more fragile water environments and public health in western provinces. We thus posit a perverse incentive of current environmental policy and recommend integrated water management as well as close coordination of local governments to improve the efficacy of environmental regulation in China.
D21|A theory of price adjustment under loss aversion|We present a new partial equilibrium theory of price adjustment, based on consumer loss aversion. In line with prospect theory, the consumers’ perceived utility losses from price increases are weighted more heavily than the perceived utility gains from price decreases of equal magnitude. Price changes are evaluated relative to an endogenous reference price, which depends on the consumers’ rational price expectations from the recent past. By implication, demand responses are more elastic for price increases than for price decreases and thus firms face a downward-sloping demand curve that is kinked at the consumers’ reference price. Firms adjust their prices flexibly in response to variations in this demand curve, in the context of an otherwise standard dynamic neoclassical model of monopolistic competition. The resulting theory of price adjustment is starkly at variance with past theories. We find that – in line with the empirical evidence – prices are more sluggish upwards than downwards in response to temporary demand shocks, while they are more sluggish downwards than upwards in response to permanent demand shocks. The degree of these asymmetries, in turn, depends on the size of the shock.
D21|Multiproduct trading with a common agent under complete information: Existence and characterization of Nash equilibrium|This paper focuses on oligopolistic markets in which indivisible goods are sold by multiproduct firms to a continuum of homogeneous buyers, with measure normalized to one, who have preferences over bundles of products. By analyzing a kind of extended contract schedule (mixed bundling prices), the paper shows that pure strategy efficient equilibria always exist in such settings. While inefficient equilibria may exist, this can be ruled out by refining the equilibrium correspondence using the concept of subgame perfect Strong equilibrium. In addition, the paper shows that each principal's set of equilibrium contracts of minimum cardinality may contain at least three offers. When the social surplus function is monotone and unit costs are constant, only two offers are required at the equilibrium outcome.
D21|Effects of payment reform in more versus less competitive markets|Policymakers are increasingly interested in reducing healthcare costs and inefficiencies through innovative payment strategies. These strategies may have heterogeneous impacts across geographic areas, potentially reducing or exacerbating geographic variation in healthcare spending. In this paper, we exploit a major payment reform for home health care to examine whether reductions in reimbursement lead to differential changes in treatment intensity and provider costs depending on the level of competition in a market. Using Medicare claims, we find that while providers in more competitive markets had higher average costs in the pre-reform period, these markets experienced larger proportional reductions in treatment intensity and costs after the reform relative to less competitive markets. This led to a convergence in spending across geographic areas. We find that much of the reduction in provider costs is driven by greater exit of “high-cost” providers in more competitive markets.
D21|Contribution of R&D capital to differences in Tobin's q among Japanese manufacturing firms: Evidence from an investment-based asset pricing model|We explain the differences in Tobin's q among Japanese manufacturing firms after the bubble burst in the early 1990s based on their physical and R&D capital investment. We calculate (estimate) the contribution of each block of physical and R&D capital investment to explain differences in Tobin's q by estimating each capital's unit's shadow values and their contributions to the differences in the realized Tobin's q. The steady growth of R&D capital after the bubble burst increased the R&D capital relative to the physical capital. The combined effect of this relative stock ratio and R&D capital's shadow value explain the high Tobin's q in highly R&D intensive firms. Conversely, Tobin's q is an inappropriate measure of physical capital investment in such highly R&D intensive firms.
D21|Multinationals and the impact of corruption on financial derivatives use and firm value: Evidence from East Asia|This paper scrutinizes the value effect of financial derivatives on domestic firms, domestic Multinational Corporations (MNCs), and foreign affiliates of foreign MNCs from different aspects of an environment of corruption in both home and host countries by using a novel and hand-collected data set. Our sample includes 881 non-financial firms across eight countries in East Asia from 2003 to 2013. Using Tobin’s Q as a proxy for firm value, we find that low corruption levels induce the use of derivatives, and reward domestic firms and domestic MNCs with higher value; this finding holds after controlling for endogeneity and self-selection bias. The hedging behavior of domestic MNCs outperforms domestic firms and foreign MNC affiliates in terms of firm value. Derivative use is a value-enhancing activity for domestic firms and domestic MNCs, but it has an insignificant effect on foreign MNC affiliates. During the 2007- 2008 financial crisis, the effect of low levels of corruption on alleviating negative impacts on derivatives use is very modest. Yet low corruption levels in the home country are positively associated with the hedging premiums of domestic firms and domestic MNCs in the post-crisis period.
D21|A remark on the definition of the Färe–Lovell measure for infeasible production vectors: implication for the Luenberger productivity indicator|In a recent paper Mahlberg and Sahoo (2011) introduced a non-radial Luenberger indicator in order to avoid the problem of slacks. They suggest to evaluate the Luenberger indicator by using a directional slacks-based measure. This paper demonstrates, by numerical examples, that directional slacks-based measures do not allow to characterize the technology. Along this line, it follows that a Luenberger indicator based upon a directional slacks-based measure may have some drawback. Mahlberg and Sahoo (2011) mention these problems and suggest to replace non-negative signs of the input-specific inefficiency factors by non-positive signs. In this paper an alternative formulation is proposed. It characterizes both the input (output) sets and the input (output) efficient subset. Its application to the construction of a suitable Färe–Lovell type productivity indicator is suggested.
D21|Firm efficiency, advertising and profitability: Theory and evidence|This paper presents a linear-city model where firms compete on price and levels of advertising, which affects the perceived utility of products. More cost efficient firms extend their advantage with more advertising, which leads to higher profits, if advertising is sufficiently effective. We test this relationship using a unique S&P sample. Our empirical results indicate a positive relationship between profits and levels of advertising for all model specifications.
D21|Costly location in Hotelling duopoly|We introduce a cost of location into Hotelling׳s (1929) [9] spatial duopoly model. We derive the general conditions on the cost-of-location function under which a pure strategy price-location Nash equilibrium exists. With linear transportation cost and a suitably specified cost of location that rises toward the center of the Hotelling line, symmetric equilibrium locations are in the outer quartiles of the line, ensuring the existence of pure strategy equilibrium prices. With quadratic transportation cost and a suitably specified cost of location that falls toward the center of the line, symmetric equilibrium locations range from the center to the end of the line.
D21|The signal effect of Government R&D Subsidies in China: Does ownership matter?|R&D subsidies as a policy instrument are used to reduce market failure, apart from its input and output additionality, the notion of behavioural additionality has caused increasingly interest. We focus on the signal/certification effect of behavioural additionality, which means that government grants may serve as a signal for private investors. The signal effect is a certification enhancing a firm's access to external finance. The objective is to examine the impact of different ownership nature to the signal/certification effect. We use data on Chinese listed corporations from 2009 to 2013. The results show that receiving R&D subsidies increases the likelihood that firms will raise external finance, and the state-owned enterprises can receive more subsidies than private enterprises. However, the signal effect of R&D grants is stronger in private enterprises than that in state-owned enterprises of China, indicating that the ownership nature does matter in the R&D subsidies certification effect. This paper enriches current literature of government R&D subsidies by providing empirical evidences in Chinese mixed market.
D21|Partnership as Experimentation: Business Organization and Survival in Egypt, 1910-1949|The relationship between legal forms of firm organization and economic development remains poorly understood. Recent research disputes the view that the joint-stock corporation played a crucial role in historical economic development, but retains the view that the costless firm dissolution implicit in non-corporate forms is detrimental to investment. We demonstrate the benefits of costless dissolution in an environment where potential business partners are not fully-informed. Using a multi-armed bandit model, we show that an experimentation mechanism creates a spike in dissolution rates early in firms’ lives, as less productive matches break down and agents look for better matches. We test the model’s predictions using a novel firm-level dataset comprising more than 12,000 enterprises established in Egypt between 1910 and 1949. Most partnerships dissolved within two years; afterwards, the risk of dissolution dropped to a lower, steady level. Corporations had much more uniform and lower attrition rates. Companies made up of partners who had been in business before also had flatter dissolution rates, confirming the link between learning and the early break-up of partnerships. The partnership reflected a trade-off between committing to a partner and sorting into potentially better matches.
D21|Why do firms collaborate with local universities?| This paper examines why firms sometimes collaborate locally rather than with higher-quality universities at a distance. Existing research has mostly relied on the localized knowledge spillover (LKS) model to explain this. This model holds that knowledge transfer across distance is costly, and collaborating locally reduces the risk of information loss when the knowledge is transferred. However, there are various other reasons that could also explain the pattern. If the local university can make a useful contribution, firms might choose to look no further. Firms may also see collaboration as a long-term investment, helping to build research quality at the local university with the hope of benefiting in future. Finally, firms may want to contribute to the local community. We extend the LKS model with these additional motivations and explore their validity using data from 23 semi-structured interviews of firms that collaborate intensively with lower-tier local universities.
D21|Contractual Framework for the Devolution of System Balancing Responsibility from the Transmission System Operator to Distribution System Operators|The goal of this research is to trigger the devolution of the system balancing responsibility entirely belonging to the transmission system operator (TSO) to several local distribution system operators by fairly allocating system balancing cost based on a cost-causality principle. Within the devolved system balancing scheme, distribution system operators (DSOs) have appropriate motivation for reducing the variability and uncertainty caused by units in their own area. As the number of renewable electricity sources (RES) being connected to the local distribution system increases, it would be advantageous for the TSO to share the increasing burden of the system balancing responsibility with multiple DSOs. To achieve this, we suggest that, first DSOs be designated as the representatives of their own jurisdictions with primary economic responsibility for balancing payments that are originally charged to each energy market participant. Second, this research proves that a cost-causality based cost allocation scheme(CC-CAS) is superior to an energy-amount based cost allocation scheme (currently widely used) in terms of economic efficiency. Additionally, to avoid the side effect that a DSO with a large amount of RES may face a high and risky balancing payment under the CC-CAS, this research also proposes an optimal balancing payment insurance (BPI) contract which helps the DSO hedge the risks associated with uncertain balancing payments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D21|The Effect of Firm Entry on Capacity Utilization and Macroeconomic Productivity|This paper argues that firm entry causes endogenous fluctuations in macroeconomic productivity through its effect on incumbent firms’ capacity utilization. The analysis shows that imperfect competition causes long-run excess entry leading to many small firms each with excess capacity. Since entry occurs slowly, macroeconomic shocks are initially borne by these incumbents who respond by altering their capacity utilization. As they vary utilization efficiency changes because of non-constant returns to scale and this aggregates to affect the economy’s productivity. In the long run, entry occurs and new firms dissipate the shock, which alleviates incumbents’ alteration in capacity. Therefore the endogenous productivity effect is temporary.
D21|The Hospital as a Multi-Product Firm: The Effect of Hospital Competition on Value-Added Indicators of Clinical Quality|There is increasing international interest in using Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) to assess health care provider performance. PROMs are a fundamental advance on existing indicators of health care quality in two respects: they equate outcomes with value added (i.e. health gain) from treatment rather than post-treatment health status, and they allow clinical quality to be measured at the level of the individual medical intervention to a far greater extent than existing failure-based indicators of quality such as mortality or readmissions. Most existing econometric studies of hospital competition and quality equate outcomes with post-treatment health status, and use mortality rates of various kinds as indicators of overall hospital performance, in spite of the fact that mortality is a relatively uncommon outcome in the spheres of hospital activity - such as elective surgery - in which competition for patients does occur. This paper contributes to the development of a value-added, multi-product conception of hospital quality by studying the impact of a major competition-promoting reform to the English NHS in 2006, in which patients were allowed to choose which hospital they attended for elective surgery, on PROMs of health gain from hip and knee replacement, groin hernia repair, and varicose vein surgery. In contrast to the existing literature, I find that the competition brought about by the introduction of patient choice of hospital may have had a negative effect on clinical quality. I put forward a theoretical framework that explains these findings, and conclude by arguing that future research should model the hospital as a multi-product firm, and capture clinical quality using value-added outcome measures.
D21|Firm-level Human Capital and Innovation: Evidence from China|Understanding the factors that may produce a sustained rate of innovation is important for promoting economic development and growth. In this paper, we examine the role of human capital in firms’ innovation by using a large sample of manufacturing firms from China. We use two firm-level datasets from China: one from metropolitan cities, and one from provincial small and medium sized cities. Patent applications are used as the measure of innovation. Human capital indicators used include skilled human capital (number of highly educated workers), general manager’s education and tenure, and management team’s education and age. We find that skilled human capital has a significant positive effect on firms’ innovation, while the management team’s age has a significant negative effect on innovation. The General Manager’s tenure plays a significant positive role in firm innovation in metropolitan cities, while it is the General Manager’s education that has a positive and significant effect on firms’ innovation in small and middle cities. We also find that the effect of R&D on patents is insignificant for firms in large cities, but it is positive and significant in the smaller and medium sized cities. We conclude by noting some policy issues for promoting innovation in developing economies.
D21|What Drives Reciprocal Behavior? The Optimal Provision of Incentives over the Course of Careers|We explore how inherent preferences for reciprocity and repeated interaction interact in an optimal incentive system. Developing a theoretical model of a long-term employment relationship, we first show that reciprocal preferences are more important when an employee is close to retirement. At earlier stages, repeated interaction is more important because more future rents can be used to provide incentives. Preferences for reciprocity still affect the structure of an employment relationship early on, though, because of two reasons: first, preferences for reciprocity effectively reduce the employee’s effort costs. Second, they allow to relax the enforceability constraint that determines the principal’s commitment in the repeated interaction. Therefore, reciprocity-based and repeated-game incentives are dynamic substitutes, but complements at any given point in time. We test our main predictions using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) and find evidence for a stronger positive effect of positive reciprocity on effort for older workers.
D21|Apparent Competition in Two-Sided Platforms|We study a platform’s design of membership and transaction fees when sellers compete and buyers cannot observe the prices and features of goods without incurring search costs. The platform alleviates sellers’ competition by charging them transaction fees that increase with sales revenue, and extracts surplus via membership fees. It prices consumers’ membership below its cost to encourage their search. Examples include malls and online marketplaces. Most malls do not charge for parking while most lease contracts include percentage rents as well as fixed rents. Online marketplaces charge sellers for membership and per transaction while letting consumers access website for free.
D21|Der »Messe Index«: Ergebnisse 2016 und Ausblick 2017|Der »Messe Index« basiert auf den Daten des ifo Konjunkturtests und legt für Unternehmen, die ihre Produkte auf internationalen Konsum- und Investitionsgütermessen in Deutschland ausstellen können, die wirtschaftliche Verfassung offen. Die Berechnungen für die vergangenen Jahre zeigen, dass das Geschäftsklima ausstellender Unternehmen um durchschnittlich rund 9 Saldenpunkte über dem der Unternehmen ohne Messebeteiligungen lag.
D21|Duopolistic Competition and Optimal Switching Time from Export to FDI in Uncertainty|This paper aimed to extend previous real option models to features of multinational firmsÕactivities such as market competition and trade barriers. Few researchers have studied multinationalsÕ optimal switching time from export to FDI using real options, and those who have done so have ignored trade policies and strategic interactions between firms. Yet,the presence of local competitors and trade costs influences the option value of waiting. We find that FDI in host countries with uncertain demand, strong competition and few barriers to trade will likely to be delayed with respect to immediate investment. In terms of policy implications, we find that the trade and competition policies of host countries have lower deterrent effects on FDI when uncertainty is reduced.
D21|Product Compatibility as an Strategy to Hinder Entry Deterrence|In many markets, firms produce and sell complementary components that form a product system. This paper studies the effects of compatibility in product advertisement and entry decisions in a differentiated product market. While advertising enhances the ability of consumers to mix and match components closer to their preferences, more advertising does not always generate larger welfare. In my model, an incumbent uses advertising to increase the prospects of market competition with the objective to deter potential entry. However, under some parameters, entry deterrence does not occur when products are made compatible. With compatible products, the incumbent either obtains large benefits from accommodation or equilibria when all consumers are aware of the existence of the available products emerge. In this latter case, the amount of advertising cannot be further expanded to protect the incumbent’s monopolistic position. As a result, policies in favor of compatibility may encourage entry and generate larger levels of advertisement.
D21|Product Compatibility as an Strategy to Hinder Entry Deterrence|In many markets, firms produce and sell complementary components that form a product system. This paper studies the effects of compatibility in product advertisement and entry decisions in a differentiated product market. While advertising enhances the ability of consumers to mix and match components closer to their preferences, more advertising does not always generate larger welfare. In my model, an incumbent uses advertising to increase the prospects of market competition with the objective to deter potential entry. However, under some parameters, entry deterrence does not occur when products are made compatible. With compatible products, the incumbent either obtains large benefits from accommodation or equilibria when all consumers are aware of the existence of the available products emerge. In this latter case, the amount of advertising cannot be further expanded to protect the incumbent’s monopolistic position. As a result, policies in favor of compatibility may encourage entry and generate larger levels of advertisement.
