D23|The Institutional Economics of Collective Waste Recovery Systems: an Empirical Investigation|The main purpose of the study is to develop the model for transaction costs measurement in the Collective Waste Recovery Systems. The methodology of New Institutional Economics is used in the research. The impact of the study is related both to the enlargement of the limits of the theory about the interaction between transaction costs and social costs and to the identification of institutional failures of the EU concept for the circular economy. A new model for social costs measurement is developed.
D23|Sequential Formation of Alliances in Survival Contests|We consider a sequential formation of alliances à la Bloch (1996) and Okada (1996) followed by a two-stage contest in which alliances first compete with each other, and then the members in the winning alliance compete again for an indivisible prize. In contrast to Konishi and Pan (2019) which adopted an open-membership game as the alliance formation process, alliances are allowed to limit their memberships (excludable alliances). We show that if members' efforts are strongly complementary to each other, there will be exactly two asymmetric alliances the larger alliance is formed first and then the rest of the players form the smaller one. This result contrasts with the one under open membership, where moderate complementarity is necessary to support a two-alliance structure. It is also in stark contrast with Bloch et al. (2006), where they show that a grand coalition is formed in the same game if the prize is divisible and a binding contract is possible to avoid further conflicts after an alliance wins the prize.
D23|Endogenous Alliances in Survival Contests|Esteban and Sakovics (2003) showed in their three-person game that an alliance never appears in a possibly multi-stage contest game for an indivisible prize when allies’ eﬀorts are perfectly substitutable. In this paper, we introduce allies’ eﬀort complementarity by using a CES eﬀort aggregator function. We consider an open-membership alliance formation game followed by two contests: the one played by alliances, and the one within the winning alliance. We show that if allies’ eﬀorts are too substitutable or too complementary, no meaningful alliance appears in equilibrium. However, if allies’ eﬀorts are moderately complementary to each other, then competition between two alliances is a subgame perfect equilibrium, which Pareto-dominates the equilibrium in a noalliance single-stage contest. We also show that if forming more than two alliances is supported in equilibrium, then it Pareto-dominates two alliance equilibrium. Nevertheless, the parameter space for such an allocation to be supported as an equilibrium shrinks when the number of alliances increases.
D23|The Personnel Requirements and Costs of New Military Space Organizations|In this report, CBO considers five ways in which the Department of Defense (DoD) might be reorganized to increase its focus on space. The Administration has proposed three of themâ€”creating a new military service within the Air Force, a new combatant command, and a new development agencyâ€”but has provided few details.
D23|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers’ markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer’s size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
D23|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers' markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer's size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
D23|Moral Hazard and the Property Rights Approach to the Theory of the Firm|In the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights theory, there are no frictions ex post (i.e., after non-contractible investments have been sunk). In contrast, in transaction cost economics ex-post frictions play a central role. In this note, we bring the property rights theory closer to transaction cost economics by allowing for ex-post moral hazard. As a consequence, central conclusions of the Grossman-Hart-Moore theory may be overturned. In particular, even though only party A has to make an investment decision, B-ownership can yield higher investment incentives. Moreover, ownership matters even when investments are fully relationship-specific (i.e., when they have no impact on the parties' disagreement payoffs).
D23|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
D23|Rac(g)e Against the Machine? Social Incentives When Humans Meet Robots|Because work is most often performed in a social context, social incentives are key to understand incentive setting in firms. We assess the strength of social incentives, which critically depend on the extent of social preferences and social pressure at work, by assessing the difference in human performance when people complete a sequential task with either other humans or robots. We find evidence that, despite maintaining monetary incentives intact, humans who work with robots underperform those who work with other humans, especially under team pay. The lack of altruism toward robots and the lack of social pressure exerted by robots are key to explain this negative effect under team pay. Under piece rate, the lack of envy toward robots plays a crucial role. Regardless of the payment scheme, our findings show that social incentives are powerful. Accounting for the weakening of social incentives when assessing the cost-efficiency of replacing humans with robots is thus critical.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D23|Youth Business Groups and Leadership: - Group Leader and Member Survey Statistics|This working paper is an output from the research project “Youth Business Groups for Sustainable Development: Lessons from the Ethiopian Model” that is funded by Research Council of Norway under the NORGLOBAL2 research program for the period 2019-2022. This working paper provides a summary of baseline survey data collected in the period January-May 2019 primarily from 2427 sampled members of 246 active youth business groups in four districts in the Tigray Region of Ethiopia. The large majority of the active groups are functioning well and have overcome the potential collective action problem associated with self-organization. Most group members are satisfied with their group boards and group leaders and are able to change board members that do not function well. Their bylaws facilitate and enforce compulsory participation in group meetings and group work activities. Equal sharing of incomes and work responsibilities is the dominant principle. Punishment for violation of group bylaws is practiced with graduated sanctions that are socially accepted by the large majority of group members. Most group leaders were motivated to continue as group leaders, only 4% were unmotivated, although 67% of the group leaders found the job to be challenging or very challenging. The group leaders were inspired by the good social relations in their groups, and by that they learned a lot from being group leaders. 68% of the group leaders stated that the group performance had improved over the last three years and only 14% that it had deteriorated. Most groups have been able to protect the vegetation on the allocated land and according to the group leaders the vegetation has improved on the land of 81% of the groups and has been stable for another 14% of the groups. Most groups have been able to establish a system with border demarcation, fencing and/or guarding such that the problem with illegal harvesting by outsiders has been reduced. Most youth group members are environmentally conscious and willing to take their part of the compulsory annual 20 days of work for free for conservation of the natural resources in their community.
D23|Gender Assessment of Youth Business Groups: Female Participation and Characteristics|This working paper is an output from the research project “Youth Business Groups for Sustainable Development: Lessons from the Ethiopian Model” that is funded by Research Council of Norway under the NORGLOBAL2 research program for the period 2019-2022. This working paper provides updated and extended information on the gender differences among group members and how these are related to likelihood of becoming group board members and leaders. The study surveyed 274 groups in the period January-May 2019. 28 of the 274 groups have been dissolved by February 2019 for various reasons (internal conflicts, no land provided, low returns to their activity, migration, lack of motivation among members). Lack of support from the local authority was given as the main reason for groups being dissolved (23 of 28 groups). This means that close to 90% of the business groups are still active. Most of the statistics we present below are for the remaining 246 active groups that we intend to include in the training experiments (including control groups) and follow up surveys. Average group size in February 2019 for the 246 active groups was 17.6 members with group sizes varying from 7 to 175 members. The average number of male members was 10.9 against 6.7 female members. 41.4% of the male and 23.6% of female surveyed members are board members. 12.7% of the male and 1.1% of the female surveyed members were group leaders. Only 30.8% of the female members compared to 72.3% of the male members owned a mobile phone at the time of the survey. This puts females in a more disadvantaged position as the mobile phones are important for within-group communication and organization of group activities.
D23|Outsourcing Public Services: Contractibility, Cost, and Quality|We review the literature on public sector outsourcing to explore if the theoretical predictions from the incomplete contracts literature hold up to recent empirical evidence. Guided by theory, we arrange services according to the type and magnitude of their contractibility problems. The empirical studies point at rather favourable outsourcing outcomes, in terms of costs and quality, for services without severe contracting problems. The picture is more mixed for services with tougher contracting problems, with the weight of the evidence in favour of public provision. This difference between services is largely in line with the property-rights framework and theories of incomplete contracts.
D23|Outsourcing Public Services: Contractibility, Cost, and Quality|We review the literature on public sector outsourcing to explore if the theoretical predictions from the incomplete contracts literature hold up to recent empirical evidence. Guided by theory, we arrange services according to the type and magnitude of their contractibility problems. The empirical studies point at rather favourable outsourcing outcomes, in terms of costs and quality, for services without severe contracting problems. The picture is more mixed for services with tougher contracting problems, with the weight of the evidence in favour of public provision. This difference between services is largely in line with the property-rights framework and theories of incomplete contracts.
D23|Welfare Effect and Elite Capture in Agricultural Cooperatives Intervention: Evidence from Ethiopian Villages|This paper evaluates the impact of the Purchase 4 Progress (P4P) intervention implemented by World Food Program in Ethiopia on per capita income as well as across sub-social groups. The intervention is intended to improve the market power of smallholder farmers through cooperatives that has the potential to increase the relative farm gate price of agricultural produce, particularly staple crops. Using a semi-parametric difference-in-difference (DID) model, which relaxes the parallel trend assumption, we show that the P4P intervention has raised per capita consumption of smallholders. Estimates of the treatment effect from alternative specifications of our preferred models ranged between Ethiopian Birr (ETB) 188.3 and ETB 248.6 (15.10% and 19.93%). Moreover, our analysis suggests heterogeneous treatment effects related to elite capture within Farmer Organizations. Policy implications are discussed.
D23|Why Join a Team?|We present experiments exploring why high ability workers join teams with less able co-workers when there are no short-term financial benefits. We distinguish between two explanations: pro-social preferences and expected long-term financial gains from teaching future teammates. Participants perform a real-effort task and decide whether to work independently or join a two-person team. Treatments vary the payment scheme (piece rate or revenue sharing), whether teammates can communicate, and the role of teaching. High ability workers are more willing to join teams in the absence of revenue sharing and less willing to join teams when they cannot communicate. When communication is possible, the choice of high ability workers to join teams is driven by expected future financial gains from teaching rather than some variety of pro-social preferences. This result has important implications for the role of adverse selection in determining the productivity of teams.
D23|Inequality and Institutional Quality in a Growth Model|A macroeconomic growth model of an occupational choice between being a diligent worker and being a criminal is developed. Imperfect protection of property rights renders agents heterogeneous in their holding wealth over time even though they are homogeneous in the initial period. The model is so tractable that one can explicitly derive the distribution of individual wealth and compute the Gini coefficient analytically in the stationary state. Using the Gini coefficient, we investigate how institutional quality affects inequality across agents in the economy. Our ndings are as follows. In the case of a relatively higher capital share, as institutional quality improves, inequality widens in the early stage of development of institutional quality; in contrast, inequality shrinks once institutions have sufficiently matured. In the case of a lower capital share, inequality monotonically shrinks as institutional quality improves. Furthermore, we present government policies that reduce inequality and achieve the first-best outcome.
D23|Social Progress and Corporate Culture|Social progress through improved treatment of minority groups (the embrace of anti-racist and anti-sexist norms, for example) may or may not spread to corporate cultures through competition. Sometimes the market fails to adapt on its own and government must pass legislation to secure changes in the workplace. We show how corporate culture is determined, why a variety of corporate cultures exist, and whether progressive corporate cultures can oust regressive ones.
D23|Secure Survey Design in Organizations: Theory and Experiments|We study the impact of secure survey designs ensuring plausible deniability on information transmission in organizations. We are interested in settings in which fear of retaliation makes potential informants reluctant to reveal the truth. Theory predicts that: (i) popular randomized-response designs fail to induce informative reports, because they are strategically equivalent to non-secure direct-elicitation designs; (ii) hard-garbling designs that exogenously distort survey responses improve information transmission; and (iii) unbiased estimates of the impact of survey design on information transmission can be obtained in equilibrium. Laboratory experiments qualify these predictions. While hard-garbling does improve information transmission over direct-elicitation, other predictions fail: randomized response performs much better than expected; and false accusations lead to a small but persistent bias in treatment effect estimates. We show that these deviations from equilibrium can be accounted for in an off-the-shelf model of boundedly rational play, and that this model of play makes specific predictions over the bias of treatment effect estimators. Additional experiments reveal that play converges to equilibrium if players can (socially) learn from cross-sectional data. These results suggest that randomized response cannot be used systematically in organizational settings, whereas hard garbling improves survey quality even under long-run equilibrium conditions.
D23|Overcoming Contractual Incompleteness: The Role of Guiding Principles|We consider a buyer and seller who contract over a service. The contract encourages investment and provides a reference point for the transaction. In normal times the contract works well. But with some probability an abnormal state occurs and the service must be modified. The parties expect each other to behave “reasonably”, but given self-serving biases their views of reasonableness may not coincide, leading to aggrievement and deadweight losses. The adoption by the parties of guiding principles such as loyalty and equity in their contract can help. We provide supporting evidence in the form of case studies and interviews.
D23|Do Property Rights Alleviate the Problem of the Commons? Evidence from California Groundwater Rights|Property rights are widely prescribed for addressing the tragedy of the commons, yet causal evidence of their effectiveness remains elusive. This paper combines theory and empirics to produce a causal estimate of the net benefit of using property rights to manage groundwater. We develop a model of dynamic groundwater extraction to demonstrate how a spatial regression discontinuity design exploiting an incomplete property rights setting can recover a lower bound on the value of property rights. We apply this estimator to a major aquifer in water-stressed southern California, finding groundwater property rights led to substantial net benefits, as capitalized in land values. Heterogeneity analyses suggest that gains arise in part from the tradeability of property rights, enabling more efficient water use across sectors.
D23|The Impacts of Managerial Autonomy on Firm Outcomes|The allocation of decision rights within organizations influences resource allocation, expansion decisions, and ultimately outcomes. Using a newly constructed dataset, I estimate the effects of an earned autonomy program for State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in India. The program gave managers (the board of directors) of profitable SOEs more autonomy over strategic decisions such as capital expansion and the formation of joint ventures. I find that autonomy allows SOEs to increase their capital stock and form more strategic partnerships which leads to greater sales and profits. I also find that the likelihood that a manager subsequently joins a board of a private firm is greater for managers of those SOEs which were granted autonomy, indicating that career concerns is a consistent explanation for these managerial decisions. Taken together, these results indicate that large gains in SOE performance are possible without privatization (by policies like earned autonomy) and may occur partly through managers' career concerns.
D23|Housing cooperatives are a growing presence in Australiaâ€™s housing system, providing a diversity of housing forms to a variety of household types across the income spectrum, typically serving low- and moderate-income households. International evidence shows that housing cooperatives can provide a range of housing from very low price points through to market rate in both non-urban and urban contexts. The research presented in this report reviewed a selection of international cooperative housing sectors in addition to the Australian context, with the aims of compiling current evidence for the social and financial benefits of housing cooperatives, to develop a framework to assess this in Australia; and to identify preliminary issues regarding the growth and diversification of housing cooperatives in Australia. Australian and international evidence for the benefits of housing cooperatives focuses on seven primary areas; greater levels of social capital, greater housing security and quality, health and wellbeing, skills acquisition, reduced costs, broader economic and development outcomes. Based on the international review, five factors can be seen to help the growth of cooperative housing in addition to supportive policy and/or public funding. Core amongst these are a stable asset base if the State itself is not the developer, access to appropriate finance, and familiarity and acceptance in the market. The growth and diversification of Australiaâ€™s cooperative housing sector requires assessment of its legislative and funding environment. Factors for consideration are: 1. Individual project viability; 2. Access to property title; 3. Appropriate development finance and resident mortgage mechanisms; 4. Policy support; 5. Appropriate regulation|No abstract is available for this item.
D23|Division of Labor and Switch Cost|Specialized production tasks are often performed by laborers equipped with the same technical capabilities to accomplish other tasks equally well. I demonstrate how production among laborers given identical technology with no comparative advantage leads to a complete specialization of different tasks. The switch cost between production tasks is formalized to show how the divi- sion of labor maximizes the output with the same technology among laborers. The degree of specialization is limited by the cost of switching among tasks. The improvement in technology in production that reduces switch cost makes workers choose to be less specialized.
D23|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
D23|La governance delle universita' italiane dopo la Riforma Gelmini: un'indagine empirica sui processi decisionali| In the last decades, the political and academic discussion on university governance has been characterized by two different perspectives. On one hand, the New Public Management approach, in which universities are seen as institutions in a quasi-market in which political authority appoints external agents and imposes incentive to align to its goals the interests of the universities and of those who work there. On the other hand, a perspective in which universities are understood as publicly regulated institutions, whose main aim is the cooperation between the stakeholders that sustains the fundamental relationships between different university components and the investments in human capital . In this context, we study the reform introduced in Italy by the Law 30 December 2010, n 240 that redesigned the governance of Italian universities. We use an unique dataset on Italian universities to investigate, beyond the letter of the law (and statutes), the internal governance patterns that emerged after the reform. The results show that, even in the presence of a common regulatory framework, a variety of governance models have been implemented by the universities. Such models ranges in a continuum between a vertical and a shared governance model. Furthermore, the data confirm the hypothesis that in many (even if not all) of the universities the stakeholders who hold the essential cognitive resources and the specific investments in the university, respond so as to introduce functional balances that prevent opportunistic behaviors that would otherwise expropriate their investments. Negli ultimi decenni, la discussione sui meccanismi e i modelli di governo delle università è caratterizzata sul piano politico e su quello scientifico da due visioni di fondo profondamente diverse. Da un lato, la visione del New Public Management (NPM) , in cui le università sono viste come istituzioni che operano in un quasi-mercato in cui l’autorità politica svolge il suo ruolo attraverso la nomina di amministratori esterni e impone meccanismi di incentivo volti ad allineare gli interessi delle università e di chi vi opera (gli agenti) a obiettivi prefissati. Dall’altro, una visione che guarda alle università in una logica di autonomia e insieme di responsabilità sociale verso i suoi diversi stakeholder interni ed esterni. In questa prospettiva, le università sono intese come istituzioni pubbliche finanziate e regolate nei loro obiettivi generali dallo Stato ma autonome e auto-governate, il cui problema principale è la cooperazione tra gli stakeholder essenziali e la accountability verso gli stakeholder esterni. In questo quadro si inserisce la riforma introdotta in Italia con la legge 30 Dicembre 2010, n 240. Nonostante l’iniziale ispirazione all’approccio NPM, tuttavia, l’assetto di governo alla fine risultante dalla legge e dagli statuti approvati non introduce in modo effettivo il controllo esterno tipico del NPM, ma nemmeno si rifà al modello di governance condivisa di tipo multi-stakeholder. Risulta quindi importante per cogliere i mutamenti in corso, l’analisi delle prassi di governance in atto nelle Università e delle concrete dinamiche. Solo con questa analisi si può infatti verificare l’effettivo impatto che la normativa ha avuto, ed, eventualmente, i fattori che, pur in presenza di un quadro normativo prefissato, hanno comportato una diversa implementazione di tale nuovo modello di governance. In questo articolo, sulla base di ipotesi ricavate dalla ricostruzione a grandi linee del dibattito teorico, intendiamo indagare gli effettivi modelli decisionali in atto nelle Università italiane, utilizzando i principali risultati di un’indagine sulla governance delle università nel post-riforma. L’indagine, condotta nel 2015 è stata svolta attraverso questionari on-line somministrati a tutti i Rettori e Direttori di dipartimento delle università italiane, con un elevato tasso di risposta (quasi il 40%) che rende i risultati decisamente significativi e rilevanti, data l’estrema articolazione dei questionari e, quindi la ricchezza dei dati raccolti. Nell’articolo presentiamo i dati relativi ai modelli decisionali a livello di ateneo, il peso dei diversi stakeholder nel processo decisionale relativamente ad una pluralità di ambiti di intervento (dal bilancio, alla ripartizione dei fondi di ricerca, alla gestione del personale) e le valutazioni che i Direttori danno del mutamento in atto. I risultati mostrano, che di fronte allo shock esogeno della riforma, nelle università si forma una pluralità di modelli di governance che variano in un continuum tra un modello verticale e un modello bilanciato. Inoltre, i dati confermano l’ipotesi che in molti (anche se non tutti) atenei gli agenti che detengono le risorse cognitive essenziali e gli investimenti specifici nell’università, rispondono, in base alla loro forza strategica, mediante adattamenti degli effettivi meccanismi di governance, in modo da reintrodurre bilanciamenti funzionali a prevenire i comportamenti opportunistici (tra cui l’abuso di autorità) che li esproprierebbero.
D23|Academic Shared Governance And Performance: Theoretical Issues And Empirical Evidence|In the debate surrounding various reforms in higher education systems, performance, along with how universities should be governed, have been main issues. We argue that the demand for shared governance, i.e., faculty participation in decision‐making vs. concentrated or top‐down decision‐ making, is driven by the characteristics of academic transactions. Especially in universities, shared governance prevents that the unilateral allocation of authority paves the way to the abuse of authority, which would depress incentives to undertake optimal idiosyncratic investments in human cognitive resources, or prevent cooperation in a context characterized by contractual incompleteness and transactions involving multiple specific investments and coessential resources. To empirically analyze our hypothesis, we collect original survey data of Italian universities in 2015. We find that shared decision‐making processes are correlated with better performance.
D23|Why Join a Team?|We present experiments exploring why high ability workers join teams with less able co-workers when there are no short-term financial benefits. We distinguish between two explanations: pro-social preferences and expected long-term financial gains from teaching future teammates. Participants perform a real-effort task and decide whether to work independently or join a two-person team. Treatments vary the payment scheme (piece rate or revenue sharing), whether teammates can communicate, and the role of teaching. High ability workers are more willing to join teams in the absence of revenue sharing and less willing to join teams when they cannot communicate. When communication is possible, the choice of high ability workers to join teams is driven by expected future financial gains from teaching rather than some variety of pro-social preferences. This result has important implications for the role of adverse selection in determining the productivity of teams.
D23|Shared Ownership in the International Make or Buy Dilemma|The traditional Grossman-Hart-Moore Property Right Theory of the firm and subsequent works do not consider shared ownership as an optimal solution because of the incentives losses it would carry. This paper provides an extension of Antràs & Helpman (2008) international integration dilemma under partially incomplete contracts to joint-ventures (JVs), and identifies several cases where JVs are optimal for foreign investors.The model insists on the interaction between firm-level and country-level parameters, with higher productivity giving increasing access to higher control in countries with stronger contractual enforceability, consistent with empirical observations. Potential heterogeneous spillovers effects can be deduced from this framework.
D23|Public Sector Integrity Violations|Objective - Integrity violations can result in small or large financial losses for a community or organisation. These economic losses can be the result of small actions, such as laziness or no determination of work ethics, or large losses, such as corruption practices that can cause an organisation to lose large amounts of money and suffer damage to their reputation. The study will assess the levels of public sector integrity violations among Malaysian government employees. Methodology/Technique - Previous studies have shown that serious integrity violations, such as fraud, result in major economic loss to a country. This paper explores the perceptions of 616 Malaysian government civil servants who were surveyed regarding matters of integrity violations in their working environment. Surveys were distributed using mail and online distribution formats. The level of integrity violations within the respondent's organisations were evaluated as weak, mild or strong. Finding - The results indicate that employees in Malaysia are focused on their personal and family relationships despite the fact that this is considered as integrity violations within their organisation. Novelty - This research provides an overview of the current stage of Malaysian integrity violations and demonstrates the need for improvement in this area. The research also provides valuable insight to managers to improve their control over the organisation.
D23|The Global Value Chain under Imperfect Capital Markets|This paper develops a model to study how suppliersâ€™ financial constraints interact with suppliersâ€™ position in a global value chain. I embed financial frictions into the property-rights model of the global value chain, as in AntrÃ s and Chor (2013), to derive the optimal allocation of ownership rights along the global value chain. The model predicts that multinational firms are more likely to integrate downstream intermediate input suppliers in countries with weak financial institutions when the production process is sequential complements. Using U.S. intrafirm trade data for the years 2000â€“2010, together with a triple-interaction term between â€œdownstreamnessâ€ of an industry, demand elasticity of an industry, and financial development of a country, I provide empirical evidence that supports the key prediction of the model.
D23|Expertise in the Relationship between Biobanks and Research Units|We propose to model the relationship between a biobank and a research unit and we place the expertise of the biobank at the center of the relationship between the actors. We believe that the role of the biobank is fundamental in the process of project selection (and therefore in the decision to allocate biological samples), but also to improve the chances of success of the project. Our central hypothesis links the biobank's level of expertise to its ability to evaluate the project and to contribute to the success of the innovation. We show that a simple pricing rule allows socially optimal sample production: the sample tariff must be strictly lower than the marginal cost of production. This tariff depends only on the biobank's marginal cost of production. Price discrimination according to the public or private nature of the research unit is therefore irrelevant. A high level of expertise offers a greater margin of negotiation and is always valued by research units. Only a biobank that is sufficiently experienced and exerts effort can achieve a strictly positive minimum protability. Above a certain level of expertise, a costly strategy to increase expertise may not be relevant: a biobank cannot reap the benefits of its investment.
D23|Proprietà e controllo delle grandi imprese: un’interpretazione del resistibile declino italiano|Il capitalismo italiano si presenta nel dopoguerra con un ampio settore di grandi imprese pubbliche che garantiscono una separazione estrema fra proprietà e controllo e altrimenti con imprese, anche di grande dimensione, solo a conduzione familiare. Diversamente da altri paesi capitalistici, è assente nel settore privato del capitalismo italiano una modalità organizzativa che consenta di gestire le imprese a persone capaci ma prive della ricchezza necessaria per controllarle. Le privatizzazioni, fatte senza una adeguata riforma del governo societario delle grandi imprese private, hanno paradossalmente confermato l’importanza delle imprese pubbliche per il contesto italiano. Il capitalismo privato italiano non solo non riesce a generare un numero soddisfacente di grandi imprese , ma finisce con il gestire peggio dello Stato le imprese pubbliche che vengono privatizzate. Al contrario, le imprese trasformate in società per azioni, di cui lo Stato ha mantenuto direttamente o indirettamente il controllo, sono ora meno gravate da obiettivi politici impropri e riescono a tornare al loro iniziale obiettivo di separare proprietà e controllo, favorendo così l’affermarsi di organizzazioni di grande dimensione. Il declino italiano è dovuto a una struttura di imprese troppo piccole, a regole che non incentivano il passaggio a grandi imprese manageriali, alla convinzione che la piccola dimensione fosse il futuro della cosiddetta economia della conoscenza e alla incapacità di comprendere che le privatizzazioni avrebbero aggravato questi problemi dimensionali. In assenza di lavori qualificati offerti da grandi imprese, molti giovani italiani sono stati costretti a emigrare. Il resistibile declino italiano può solo essere fermato con politiche che tengano conto delle lezioni che ci ha fornito la nostra storia più recente.
D23|Distance, formal and informal institutions in international trade|This paper brings together three strands of literature on the determinants of international trade − distance, formal, and informal institutions − to explain differences in export performance across countries. Using an augmented gravity model, we find that the importance of formal institutions (rule of law) for bilateral trade increases with distance. Similarly, the pro-trade effect of informal institutions (migrant networks) is larger for distant countries. After confirming that informal institutions can substitute for weak formal institutions in promoting trade, we finally show that this substitution effect does not decrease with distance. Our findings contribute to explaining the persistent negative effect of distance on the export performance of many developing countries despite reductions in trade costs, and provide guidance to policy makers in terms of trade reform, regional trade liberalization and export promotions strategies.
D23|Blockchain: The birth of Decentralized Governance|By allowing networks to split, decentralized blockchain platforms protect members against hold up, but hinder coordination, given that adaptation decisions are ultimately decentralized. The current solutions to improve coordination, based on “premining” cryptocoins, taxing members and incentivizing developers, are insufficient. For blockchain to fulfill its promise and outcompete centralized firms, it needs to develop new forms of “soft” decentralized governance (anarchic, aristocratic, democratic, and autocratic) that allow networks to avoid bad equilibria.
D23|Social Welfare Losses Due to Occupational Segregation by Gender and Race/Ethnicity in the U.S.: Are There Differences across Regions?|Taking into account the well-being losses or gains that each gender-race/ethnicity group has associated with its occupational sorting, this paper explores the social welfare loss that each U.S. large region experiences due to the different circumstances faced by these groups in each regional labor market. To analyze the period 1980–2012 in those terms, we use novel measures that aggregate the well-being losses or gains of the groups consistently with the literature on deprivation. To take into account that disparities among regions may arise from differences in characteristics, this papers uses a propensity score procedure that allows controlling for gender and racial/ethnic composition, immigration profile, educational level, and industrial structure.
D23|A large-scale test of the effects of time discounting, risk aversion, loss aversion, and present bias on household adoption of energy-efficient technologies|This paper empirically and jointly analyses the relations between standard time discounting, risk aversion, loss aversion, and present bias and household stated adoption of low to high stake energy efficiency technologies (EETs): light emitting diodes (LEDs), energy-efficient appliances, and retrofit measures. The analysis relies on a large representative sample drawn from eight European Union countries. Preferences over time, risk, and losses were elicited and jointly estimated from participant choices in incentivized, context-free multiple price list experiments. The findings from econometrically estimating EET adoption equations provide some support for the hypothesis that individuals who are more loss-averse, or more risk-averse, or who exhibit a lower time discount factor are less likely to have adopted EETs. Yet, some of the results (significance levels and effect sizes) appeared sensitive to the addition of covariates, which may be an indication of bad controls. Finally, omitting one or several of the parameters capturing preferences over time, risk, and losses when estimating the EET adoption equations, did not appear to cause omitted variable bias.
D23|The productivity of family and hired labour in EU arable farming| This paper investigates the impact of labour force composition on productivity in EU arable farming. We test the heterogeneity of family and hired labour for a set of eight EU member states. To this end, we estimate augmented production functions using FADN data for the years 2001-2008. The results reject the notion that hired labour is generally less productive than family workers. In fact, hired labour is more productive than family members in countries traditionally characterised by family farms, namely France, West Germany and Poland. Here, an increase in reliance on hired labour or the shift of family labour to more productive tasks could raise productivity. This finding calls into question a main pillar of the received family farm theory. In about half the countries, there are no statistically different effects of both types of labour. For the United Kingdom, we find the classical case with family labour being more productive than hired labour. In this situation supervision by family members could increase productivity.
D23|On (intellectual) property and other legal frameworks in the digital economy: An economic analysis of the law|The significance of data as an economic good in the digital economy quickly raises the question of who owns the data. More specifically, within the context of a data marketplace in which data is being exchanged or traded and where different bundles of rights (property rights) are trans-ferred (contract law) - an answer regarding the genuine assignment of property rights for data seems important. From an economic standpoint, this paper investigates the need for an (new) intellectual prop-erty right for data. Firstly, an overview of the status quo of the literature on property rights for data will be provided. This will be followed by an analysis of the characteristics of data as a good, clarifying the circumstances under which a market failure can occur. Accordingly, only a market failure situation will authorise economic policy intervention. Lastly, we will derive specific policy implications, offering economic reasoning on a new intellectual property right for data and spe-cifically pointing to other forms of law that may be more applicable for reaching an efficient allocation of data resources.
D23|Germany's reluctance to regulate related party transactions: An industrial organization perspective|"Germany Inc. was an idiosyncratic form of industrial organization that put financial institutions at the center. This paper argues that the consumption of private benefits in related party transactions by these key agents can be understood as a compensation for their coordinating and monitoring function in Germany Inc. As a consequence, legal tools apt to curb tunneling remained weak in Germany from the perspective of outside shareholders. While banks were in a position to use their firm-level knowledge and influence to limit rent-seeking by other related parties, their own behavior was not subject to meaningful controls. With the dismantling of Germany Inc. banks seized their monitoring function and left an unprecedented void with regard to related party transactions. Hence, a ""traditionalist"" stance which opposes law reform for related party transactions in Germany negatively affects capital market development, growth opportunities and ultimately social welfare."
D23|The Role of Bounded Rationality and Imperfect Information in Subgame Perfect Implementation—An Empirical Investigation|In this paper we conduct a laboratory experiment to test the extent to which Moore and Repullo’s subgame perfect implementation mechanism induces truth-telling, both in a setting with perfect information and in a setting where buyers and sellers face a small amount of uncertainty regarding the good’s value. We find that Moore–Repullo mechanisms fail to implement truth-telling in a substantial number of cases even under perfect information about the valuation of the good. Our data further suggests that a substantial proportion of these lies are made by subjects who hold pessimistic beliefs about the rationality of their trading partners. Although the mechanism should—in theory—provide incentives for truth-telling, many buyers in fact believe that they can increase their expected monetary payoff by lying. The deviations from truth-telling become significantly more frequent and more persistent when agents face small amounts of uncertainty regarding the good’s value. Our results thus suggest that both beliefs about irrational play and small amounts of uncertainty about valuations may constitute important reasons for the absence of Moore–Repullo mechanisms in practice.
D23|Exclusion and reintegration in a social dilemna|Using a negatively framed public good game, we study the cooperative behavior of individuals who reintegrate their group after being excluded by their peers. We manipulate the length of exclusion and whether this length is imposed exogenously or results from a vote. We show that people are willing to exclude the least cooperators although it is not an equilibrium strategy. Exclusion has a positive impact on cooperation when it is followed by a quick rather than a slow reintegration and that the length of exclusion is chosen by the group. In this environment, a quicker reintegration also limits retaliation. Post-exclusion cooperation and forgiveness depend not only on the length of exclusion but also on the perceived intentions of others when they punish.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D23|Goal setting in the principal–agent model: Weak incentives for strong performance|We study a principal–agent framework in which principals can assign wage-irrelevant goals to agents. We find evidence that, when given the possibility to set wage-irrelevant goals, principals select incentive contracts for which pay is less responsive to agents' performance. Agents' performance is higher in the presence of goal setting despite weaker incentives. We develop a principal–agent model with reference-dependent utility that illustrates how labor contracts combining weak monetary incentives and wage-irrelevant goals can be optimal. The pervasive use of non-monetary incentives in the workplace may help account for previous empirical findings suggesting that firms rely on unexpectedly weak monetary incentives.
D23|Revisiting the Tradeoff between Risk and Incentives: The Shocking Effect of Random Shocks|Despite its central role in the theory of incentives, empirical evidence of a tradeoff between risk and incentives remains scarce. We reexamine this empirical puzzle in a controlled laboratory environment so as to isolate possible confounding factors encountered in the field. In line with the principal-agent model, we find that principals increase fixed pay while lowering performance pay when the relationship between effort and output is noisier. Unexpectedly, agents produce substantially more in the noisy environment than in the baseline despite lesser pay for performance. We show that this result can be accounted for by introducing agents’ loss aversion in the principal-agent model. Our findings call for an extension of standard agency models and for a reassessment of apparently inefficient management practices.
D23|On the Roots of the Intrinsic Value of Decision Rights: Evidence from France and Japan|Bartling, Fehr and Herz (2014) found that Swiss individuals attach an economically meaningful intrinsic value to make a decision by themselves rather than delegating it to another person. We refine their analysis in order to disentangle how much of such value stems from (i) a preference for independence from others, (ii) a desire for power, or (iii) a preference for self-reliance, and conduct a cross-cultural comparison between France and Japan. Our findings suggest that (i) Japanese and French individuals intrinsically value decision rights beyond their instrumental benefit, that (ii) this positive value is greater for French than Japanese individuals, and that (iii) self-reliance is the only rationale behind the intrinsic value of decision rights in both France and Japan. These results bring new insights into the roots of the preference for being in control, which can be relevant for institutional design.
D23|Effects of Pay-For-Performance on Prescription of Hypertension Drugs among Public and Private Primary Care Providers in Sweden|This study exploits policy reforms in Swedish primary care to examine the effect of pay-for-performance (P4P) on compliance with hypertension drug guidelines among public and private health care providers. Providers in regions with P4P are compared to providers in other regions in a difference-in-differences analysis using data from the Swedish Prescription Register for the period 2005-2013. The results indicate that P4P improved guideline compliance regarding prescription of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB). The effect is mainly driven by private providers, suggesting that policy makers should take ownership into account when designing incentives for health care providers.
D23|Collective Incentives and Cooperation in Teams with Imperfect Monitoring|We experimentally explore the role of collective incentives in sustaining cooperation in finitely repeated public goods games with imperfect monitoring. In our experiment players only observe noisy signals about individual contributions, while total output is perfectly observed. We consider sanctioning mechanisms that allow agents to commit to collective punishment in case total output fall short of a target. We find that cooperation is higher in the case of collective punishment compared to both the case of no punishment and the case of standard peer-to-peer punishment which conditions on the noisy signals. Further experiments indicate that both the commitment possibility and the collective nature of punishment matter for the positive effect of collective incentives on cooperation.
D23|Gender Digital Divide and Youth Business Group Leadership|We assess the gender difference in mobile phone ownership among youth business group members, and how it affects election into leadership and group board positions in recently established rural youth business groups in northern Ethiopia. Based on data on 1125 youths from 119 youth business groups where 32% of the members were female, 37% of the females and 70% of the males owned mobile phones. Male members were twice as likely to become board members and five times as likely to become group leaders. While there was a strong gender effect, having a mobile phone had an even stronger effect enhancing the likelihood of members becoming board members by 17.4 percentage points. Male gender and mobile phone ownership had equally strong effects on members becoming group leaders. Male group members were on average older than female group members, and with there being a significant age effect, this also contributed to the male dominance in group boards and leadership positions. Education also increased the likelihood of members becoming leaders and board members but this did not increase the gender gap in selection into such positions, as females were equally well educated as males.
D23|Public Procurement Transaction Costs: A Country-Level Assessment Based On Microdata|Public procurement cost evaluation is important both for procurement optimization at the company level and for evaluating the public procurement regulatory system. This paper presents a survey-based methodological approach to public procurement cost evaluation at the macro level. Our approach is based on a methodology for assessing the efficiency of public procurement developed by PwC for the European Union. The PwC methodology was adapted to developing and transitional economies and piloted on Russian data. Average costs of each type of procurement procedure implemented in 2016 were evaluated. A regression analysis of factors impacting public procurement cost evaluation revealed considerable differences between respondents who have and do not have experience with complex procurement procedures. Although the average overall costs of public procurements in Russia amounted to about 1% of the total value of concluded contracts, the figure stands at 6.6–8.1% for small purchases. This exceeds the economy from price decreases and calls for a need to simplify regulation of such procurements.
D23|Effects of Contract Governance on Public Private Partnership (PPP) Performance|This paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns.
D23|Heterogeneity of technology-specific R&D investments. Evidence from top R&D investors worldwide|In this work, we develop and apply a methodology to estimate technology-specific R&D investments at firm level and then use these to test some arguments that have become central in the innovation literature. In particular, we first combine R&D investments with patent data of the world top R&D investors worldwide and show that investment per patent varies greatly both across technologies and across firms developing the same technology. We then use the estimated firm-technology R&D investments to assess how these are related to the international and technological strategies of firms. The estimation strategy makes use of a multilevel framework that allows us to model heterogeneity both at the firm and industry level. In particular, we show that specific firms strategies requires different level of investments and that sector specificities matter in determining R&D per patent investments, economies of scale in knowledge production, and the cost of (further) specialization. Accounting for (un)observed heterogeneity may lead to better policy design and management decisions.
D23|Time Is on My Side: Relational Contracts and Aggregate Welfare|This paper develops a simple general equilibrium model which establishes a link between the patience of economic agents and the well-being of nations. We show that firms in long-term oriented countries can mitigate hold-up inefficiencies by engaging with their suppliers in relational contracting – informal agreements sustained by the value of future relationships. Our model predicts that countries with a higher level of patience will exhibit greater economic well-being and higher total factor productivity. We provide empirical evidence in line with the predictions of our theory.
D23|Multitasking and Subjective Performance Evaluations: Theory and Evidence from a Field Experiment in a Bank|We study the incentive effects of grating supervisors access to objective performance information when agents work on multiple tasks. We first analyze a formal model showing that incentives are lower powered when supervisors have no access to objective measures but assess performance subjectively by gathering information. This incentive loss is more pronounced when the span of control is larger and incentives are distorted towards more profitable tasks. We then investigate a field experiment conducted in a bank. In the treatment group managers obtained access to objective performance measures which raised efforts and profits. We find that the effects are driven by larger branches and lower margin products.
D23|Value chain governance in the age of platforms|Global value chain (GVC) theory focuses globalisation in the late 20th century. While the theory claims to apply generally to interfirm relationships, much of GVC analysis has focused on the incorporation of developing country manufacturers into the supply chains of global lead firms. This literature has frequently expressed doubts about whether integration into such chains offers opportunities for innovation and upgrading. More recently, globalised production has seen the emergence of market and technology platforms and platform leaders. The distinctive feature of platforms is that they require innovation by other companies to turn platforms into products. Analysis of platform governance can contribute to the further development of GVC governance theory. Using secondary material on platform leaders such as Intel and Apple and primary research on Chinese-owned mobile phone companies, the paper shows how examination of governance in the context of platforms allows a recuperation of understudied and undertheorised elements of GVC governance theory.
D23|Starting Small to Communicate|We analyze a repeated cheap-talk game in which the receiver is privately informed about the conflict of interest between herself and the sender and either the sender or the receiver controls the stakes involved in their relationship. We focus on payoff-dominant equilibria that satisfy a Markovian property and show that if the potential conflict of interest is large, then the stakes increase over time, i.e., “starting small” is the unique equilibrium arrangement. In each period, the receiver plays the sender’s ideal action with positive probability and the sender provides full information as long as he has always observed his ideal actions in the past. We also show that as the potential conflict of interest increases, the extent to which the stakes are back-loaded increases, i.e., stakes are initially smaller but grow faster.
D23|Learning While Setting Precedents|A decision maker (DM) must address a series of problems over time. Each period, a random case arises and the DM must make a yes-or-no decision, which we call a ruling. She is uncertain about the correct ruling until she conducts a costly investigation. A ruling establishes a precedent, which may be costly to violate in the future. We compare the DM's incentive to acquire information, the evolution of standards and the social welfare under two institutions: nonbinding precedent and binding precedent. Under nonbinding precedent, the DM is not required to follow previous rulings, but under binding precedent, she must follow previous rulings where applicable. We find that, compared to nonbinding precedent, the incentive for information acquisition is stronger under binding precedent in earlier periods when few precedents exist, but as more precedents are established over time, the incentive for information acquisition becomes weaker under binding precedent. Even though erroneous rulings may be perpetuated under binding precedent, social welfare can be higher because of the more intensive investigation conducted early on.
D23|Intellectual Property Regimes and Firm Structure|We use The Patents (Amendment) Act, 2002 in India as a quasi-natural experiment to identify the causal eÂ¤ect of higher incentives for innovation on firm organizational features. We find that stronger intellectual property (IP) protection has a sharper impact on technologically advanced firms, i.e., firms that were a-priori above the industry median in terms of technology adoption. While there is an overall increase in managers' share of compensation, this increase is about 1.6-1.7% more for high-tech firms. This difference can be attributed to a larger increase in performance pay for high-tech firms. The reform also leads to a significant increase in number of managerial layers and number of divisions for high-tech firms relative to low-tech firms, but only the latter effect is correlated with the differential change in managerial compensation. Broadly, we demonstrate that stronger IP protection leads to an increase in both within-firm and between-firm wage inequality, with more robust evidence for between-firm inequality.
D23|Trade in tasks and the organization of firms|In this paper, we incorporate trade in tasks into Marin and Verdier (2012) to examine how offshoring affects the way firms organize. We show that offshoring of production tasks and of managerial tasks can lead to more decentralized management and to larger executive wages in open economies. We study the predictions of the model with original firm level data and find that offshoring firms are 18% more decentralized than non-offshoring firms. We also find that offshoring of managers increases the level of decentralized management in open industries, but reduces the level of decentralized management in sufficiently closed industries.
D23|Credit misallocation during the European financial crisis|Do banks with low capital extend excessive credit to weak firms, and does this matter for aggregate efficiency? Using a unique dataset that covers almost all bank-firm relationships in Italy in the period 2004-2013, we find that during the Eurozone financial crisis (i) under-capitalized banks were less likely to cut credit to non-viable firms; (ii) credit misallocation increased the failure rate of healthy firms and reduced the failure rate of non-viable firms; and (iii) nevertheless, the adverse effects of credit misallocation on the growth rate of healthier firms were negligible, as were the effects on TFP dispersion. This goes against previous influential findings, which, we argue, face serious identification problems. Thus, while banks with low capital can be an important source of aggregate inefficiency in the long run, their contribution to the severity of the great recession via capital misallocation was modest.
D23|Transaction Costs and Institutional Change of Trade Litigations in Bulgaria|The methods of new institutional economics for identifying transaction costs of trade litigations in Bulgaria are used in the current paper. The main purpose of the model is to be forecasted the rational behaviour of trade litigation parties in accordance with the transaction costs in the process of enforced execution of the signed commercial contract. The implementation of the model is related to the more accurate measurement of transaction costs on microeconomic level.
D23|How Long Does It Take You to Pay? A Duration Study of Canadian Retail Transaction Payment Times|Using an exclusive data set of payment times for retail transactions made in Canada, I show that cash is the most time-efficient method of payment (MOP) when compared with payments by debit and credit cards. I model payment efficiency using Cox proportional hazard models, accounting for consumer choice of MOP. I propose two instruments to identify and estimate the causal relationship between MOP and payment time: (1) the value of the transaction, and (2) the duration of the payment preceding the one under observation. Discounting consumer selection underestimates the efficiency of cash relative to cards. Overall, the efficiency of MOPs is an important component of the private and social costs of making and accepting payments. The efficiency of cash helps explain its continued use in Canada, which is motivated by its low cost in terms of payment time for consumers and merchants.
D23|Policy and Regulation for Energy Storage Systems|We analyze the changes in the regulation of electricity systems required to adapt to the presence of energy storage. To that end, we begin by identifying different types of services provided by storage. As services have different economic properties, the economic mechanisms required to organize them will be different as well. There are two relevant “arenas” for storage services: i) buy and sell energy in different periods (including energy related to ancillary services); and ii) avoid the need to transport energy from one point to another, i.e. the need to use transmission and/or distribution networks. Consequently, this involves two kinds of regulatory challenges, because storage compete with different types of services. The first regulatory challenge is related to wholesale market design, because flexibility services can be sold in “competitive” wholesale markets (energy, ancillary services, etc.). The second regulatory challenge has to do with the regulation of energy networks, because storage services may avoid the use of “regulated” networks. Consequently, network rules should allow them to compete in a technologically neutral manner.
D23|Managing Social Comparison Costs in Organizations|"This paper studies how organizations manage the social comparisons that arise when their employees' pay and tasks, and hence their status vis-à-vis peers, differ. We show that under a ""pay transparency policy"", the organization may compress pay and distort the employees' tasks to minimize social comparison costs. We subsequently show that if the organization can credibly commit to informal agreements, it may remove social comparisons by implementing a ""pay secrecy"" policy. Under such a policy, the organization makes employees ""officially equal"" by granting them similar formal terms, while optimally differentiating their pay through self-enforcing informal adjustments."
D23|A ‘threat’ is a ‘Threat’: Incentive Effects of Firing Threats with Varying Degrees of Performance Information|We study the incentive effect of firing threats when bosses have limited information about workers. We show that a minimal amount of individual information about workers’ effort such as the time spent at their work station is sufficient to ensure strong incentive effects. This supports the use of firing threats based on rudimentary yet uncontroversial measures of work performance such as absenteeism, in organizational settings in which only limited information about workers is available. Our results help understand the limited link between pay and performance observed in compensation contracts calling for an extension of the principal-agent model to take into account how workers (mis-)perceive the intensity of incentives.
D23|Blockchain: The birth of decentralized governance|By allowing networks to split, decentralized blockchain platforms protect members against hold up, but hinder coordination, given that adaptation decisions are ultimately decentralized. The current solutions to improve coordination, based on “premining” cryptocoins, taxing members and incentivizing developers, are insufficient. For blockchain to fulfill its promise and outcompete centralized firms, it needs to develop new forms of “soft” decentralized governance (anarchic, aristocratic, democratic, and autocratic) that allow networks to avoid bad equilibria.
D23|Truth Be Told An Experimental Study of Communication and Centralization|We study the tradeoffs between centralized and decentralized management using a new experimental game, the decentralization game. Product types for two divisions are either chosen independently by the divisions (decentralization) or imposed by a central manager (centralization). Centralization makes it easier to coordinate the divisions’ product types but more difficult to take advantage of the divisions’ private information. We find that total surplus is highest when centralization is combined with free-form chat between the three players. This high performance occurs because divisions almost never lie about their private information, yielding unambiguous transmission of information from divisions to the central manager.
D23|Common Ownership of Public Goods|We analyze optimal ownership of public goods in a repeated game focusing on common ownership. Under common ownership an owner’s access to the public good cannot be restricted by other owners. We find that under common ownership both the value of the relationship and the gain from deviation are high. Common ownership is optimal when the marginal return to maintenance investments is low consistent with the stylized facts.
D23|In-House and Arm's Length: Productivity Heterogeneity and Variation in Organizational Form|This paper analyzes how firms are organized in the U.S. hotel management industry. For most hotel brands, properties with intermediate room occupancy rates are relatively more likely to be managed by company employees rather than by independent franchisees. Properties with the lowest and the highest occupancy rates tend to be managed by franchisees, at arm's length from the hotel chain. This variation in organizational form is consistent with a model in which the incentives embodied in management contracts vary with property-level productivity. We infer that most hotel chains franchise low productivity relationships to keep property-level fixed costs low and franchise the most productive relationships to create high-powered incentives for franchisees. Franchisees of high-productivity properties work harder than the managers of both chain-managed properties and low-productivity franchises because the performance incentives in franchise contracts are proportional to hotel revenues and complement the incentives arising from having control over the property.
D23|Preferential Trade Agreements and Global Sourcing|We study how a preferential trade agreement (PTA) affects international sourcing decisions, aggregate productivity and welfare under incomplete contracting and endogenous matching. Contract incompleteness implies underinvestment. That inefficiency is mitigated by a PTA, because the agreement allows the parties in a vertical chain to internalize a larger return from the investment. This raises aggregate productivity. On the other hand, the agreement yields sourcing diversion. More efficient suppliers tilt the tradeoff toward the (potentially) beneficial relationship-strengthening effect; a high external tariff tips it toward harmful sourcing diversion. A PTA also affects the structure of vertical chains in the economy. As tariff preferences attract too many matches to the bloc, the average productivity of the industry tends to fall. When the agreement incorporates “deep integration” provisions, it boosts trade flows, but not necessarily welfare. Rather, “deep integration” improves upon “shallow integration” if and only if the original investment inefficiencies are serious enough. On the whole, we offer a new framework to study the benefits and costs from preferential liberalization in the context of global sourcing.
D23|International Buyers' Sourcing and Suppliers' Markups in Bangladeshi Garments|Large international buyers play a key role in global value chains. We exploit detailed transaction-level data on the usage of material inputs to study how Bangladeshi garment suppliers' markups vary across international buyers. We find substantial dispersion in markups across export orders of a given seller for the same product. Buyer effects explain a significant share of this variation, while destination effects do not. Buyers adopting relational sourcing strategies pay higher markups than non-relational buyers. This pattern holds within seller-product-year combinations, is robust to controlling for the buyer's size, traded volumes, and quality, and, together with larger volumes, implies higher profits for suppliers dealing with relational buyers.
D23|The International Organization of Production in the Regulatory Void|In recent decades, NGOs and consumers have heavily criticized a large number of leading firms and their suppliers in a diverse set of industries for exploiting cross-country differences in regulation to cut costs at the expense of workers and the environment. In line with a wide range of examples, our explorative empirical analysis links these features of globalization to the international organization of production: a high cost advantage of ‘unethical’ production in an industry favors international outsourcing (as opposed to vertical integration) and most strongly so for sourcing from low-regulation countries. We rationalize this pattern by introducing a cost-saving ‘unethical’ technology, consumer boycotts, and advocacy NGOs into a standard property-rights model of the international organization of production. Contracts are incomplete, limiting a firm’s control over both investment and (un)ethical technology choices of integrated as well as independent suppliers. We identify and analyze a novel unethical outsourcing incentive, which - in line with the empirical findings - links outsourcing to unethical production. We also contribute to the modeling of NGO-firm interactions by providing a microfounded model of investment and pricing under incomplete contracts and monopolistic competition when the production technology is a credence attribute of the final good.
D23|Preferential Trade Agreements and Global Sourcing|"We study how a preferential trade agreement (PTA) affects international sourcing decisions, aggregate productivity and welfare under incomplete contracting and endogenous matching. Contract incompleteness implies underinvestment. That inefficiency is mitigated by a PTA, because the agreement allows the parties in a vertical chain to internalize a larger return from the investment. This raises aggregate productivity. On the other hand, the agreement yields sourcing diversion. More efficient suppliers tilt the tradeoff toward the (potentially) beneficial relationship-strengthening effect; a high external tariff tips it toward harmful sourcing diversion. A PTA also affects the structure of vertical chains in the economy. As tariff preferences attract too many matches to the bloc, the average productivity of the industry tends to fall. When the agreement incorporates ""deep integration"" provisions, it boosts trade flows, but not necessarily welfare. Rather, ""deep integration"" improves upon ""shallow integration"" if and only if the original investment inefficiencies are serious enough. On the whole, we offer a new framework to study the benefits and costs from preferential liberalization in the context of global sourcing."
D23|Courts' Decisions, Cooperative Investments, and Incomplete Contracts|Buyers may try to motivate their sellers to make relationship-specific investments to reduce the probability that the design of the goods they procure is defective. In some countries, courts examine how much real authority the seller had in performing the work to assign liability for a design failure. I show that this courts’ approach induces the sellers to under-invest and the buyers to under-specify the design of the goods. I find that this approach can also make it harder to sustain optimal relational contracting, leading to the conclusion that it cannot be justified on efficiency grounds.
D23|The Competitive Market Value of Copyright in Music: A Digital Gordian Knot (The Working Paper Version – v2)|Pricing copyrighted works or assets so that creators are competitively compensated has always been a difficult task given the information good character of such works. Doing it in the digital era is even more challenging. I consider Hertzian radio, satellite radio, and interactive music streaming services and I argue that annual competitive royalties in Hertzian radio should be increased from $100 million to $450 million. I further argue that this gap should not be filled by primary users alone but by a broader set of beneficiaries, including the general public and their government. La tarification des œuvres protégées par le droit d'auteur assurant aux créateurs une rémunération concurrentielle a toujours été une tâche difficile étant donné le caractère biens d’information de ces œuvres. Le faire à l'ère du numérique est encore plus difficile. Je considère la radio hertzienne, la radio par satellite, et les services de musique interactive et je prétends que les royautés dans la radio hertzienne devraient être augmentées de $100 à $450 million. Je prétends en outre que cet écart devrait être comblé non pas uniquement par les utilisateurs primaires, mais par un ensemble plus large de bénéficiaires, y compris le grand public et leur gouvernement.
D23|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the prereform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
D23|Costly Pretrial Agreements|Legal disputes are either settled or end up in Court. Settling a dispute involves some costs (time and money invested in preparations) that the parties have to incur ex-ante, in order for the pretrial negotiation and possible agreement to become feasible. Even in a full information world, if the distribution of these costs is sufficiently mismatched with the distribution of the parties' bargaining powers, a pretrial agreement may never be reached even though actual Court litigation is overall wasteful. As parameters vary, the equilibrium of our full information model with costly pretrial agreements sheds light on two key features of how disputes are initiated and subsequently handled. First, in some cases a Plaintiff may initiate a law suit even though the parties fully anticipate that it will be settled out of Court. Second, the “likelihood” that a given law suit ends up in Court is unaffected by the way trial costs are distributed among the litigants (e.g. English Rule or American Rule). The choice of fee-shifting rule can only affect whether the Plaintiff files a law suit in the first place. It does not affect whether a given suit is settled before trial or litigated in Court.
D23|In-House and Arm's Length: Productivity Heterogeneity and Variation in Organizational Form|This paper analyzes how firms are organized in the U.S. hotel management industry. For most hotel brands, properties with intermediate room occupancy rates are relatively more likely to be managed by company employees rather than by independent franchisees. Properties with the lowest and the highest occupancy rates tend to be managed by franchisees, at arm's length from the hotel chain. This variation in organizational form is consistent with a model in which the incentives embodied in management contracts vary with property-level productivity. We infer that most hotel chains franchise low productivity relationships to keep property-level fixed costs low and franchise the most productive relationships to create high powered incentives for franchisees. Franchisees of high-productivity properties work harder than the managers of both chain-managed properties and low-productivity franchises because the performance incentives in franchise contracts are proportional to hotel revenues and complement the incentives arising from having control over the property.
D23|Government versus Private Ownership of Public Goods: Experimental Evidence|Who should own public projects? We report data from a laboratory experiment with 480 participants that was designed to test Besley and Ghatak's (2001) public-good version of the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights theory. Consider two parties, one of whom can invest in the provision of a public good. The parties value the public good differently. Besley and Ghatak (2001) argue that more investments will be made if the high-valuation party is the owner, regardless of whether or not this party is the investor. While our experimental results provide support for the Grossman-Hart-Moore theory, they cast some doubts on the robustness of Besley and Ghatak's (2001) conclusion.
D23|Cooperative organizations and members’ role: A new perspective|The theoretical structure and management of a cooperative organization have not changed much during the last decades. Most importantly, the role of the members’ council in corporate governance remains neglected in the contemporary cooperative literature. In this paper, we offer a new perspective on how cooperative organizations can cope with future challenges by re-establishing the role of the members’ council and the members in cooperative organizations
D23|Loyalty Shares with Tenure Voting - a Coasian bargain? Evidence from the Loi Florange Experiment|French listed companies can issue shares that confer two votes per share after a holding period of at least two years (loyalty shares with tenure voting rights). In 2014 the default rule changed from one-share-one-vote to loyalty shares. The Coase theorem predicts that ceteris paribus shareholders rewrite the corporate charter to preserve the pre-reform structure. The theorem also predicts that the proportion of loyalty shares in initial public offerings is unchanged. The paper shows that most one-share-one-vote companies reverted to the pre-reform contract. The exception were firms with a stake held by the French state. In initial public offerings, the new default rule had an impact; the proportion of loyalty share statutes increased from about forty to fifty percent after the passage of the law. Companies that kept the same statutes have a significantly higher market to book ratio than companies forced into a different regime. The evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of the Coase theorem, but only in the absence of conflicted parties with veto power.
D23|Learning While Setting Precedents|A decision maker (DM) must address a series of problems over time. Each period, a random case arises and the DM must make a yes-or-no decision, which we call a ruling. She is uncertain about the correct ruling until she conducts a costly investigation. A ruling establishes a precedent, which may be costly to violate in the future. We compare the DM's incentive to acquire information, the evolution of standards and the social welfare under two institutions: nonbinding precedent and binding precedent. Under nonbinding precedent, the DM is not required to follow previous rulings, but under binding precedent, she must follow previous rulings where applicable. We find that, compared to nonbinding precedent, the incentive for information acquisition is stronger under binding precedent in earlier periods when few precedents exist, but as more precedents are established over time, the incentive for information acquisition becomes weaker under binding precedent. Even though erroneous rulings may be perpetuated under binding precedent, social welfare can be higher because of the more intensive investigation conducted early on.
D23|Convexity, Disposability and Returns to Scale in Production Analysis|Adequate modelling of undesirable outputs is a key aspect for any performance analysis of economic systems. A nonparametric approach assuming jointly weak disposability of desirable and undesirable outputs inspired by Shephard (1974) has gained substantial popularity in addressing this issue. Recently, researchers were offered an alternative that is to use multiple scaling factors (rather than a single one as in the Shephardâ€™s (1974) approach) when imposing weak disposability in practice. In this paper we discover new properties and relationships between the two approaches, which in turn sheds some new light on the problem and offers reconciling solutions.
D23|Aggregation of Individual Efficiency Measures and Productivity Indices|Here we consider the problem of aggregation of efficiency and productivity indices. We will summarize some of the existing results and will derive new results for aggregation of Hicks-Moorsteen productivity indices.
D23|Vertical integration and health control measures in the French young beef bull sector|The French young beef bull sector presents a complex organisation. The more animals are mixed and subjected to long transports, the more likely they will be to develop bovine respiratory disease (BRD). We aimed to understand the vertical integration patterns in the young beef bull sector and how they influence public health issues (BRD and antibiotic use). Transaction costs analyses revealed a diversity of vertical integration patterns, from spot market to vertical integration. The “health issues” parameter is involved in different categories of transaction costs (risk, uncertainty, quality). When vertical integration is strong (weak), the risk of BRD is low (high), which thus have an indirect effect on antibiotic use.
D23|Subjective performance of patent examiners, implicit contracts, and self‐funded patent offices|Self‐funded patent offices should be concerned with patent quality (patents should be granted to only deserving innovations) and quantity (as revenues come from fees paid by applicants). In this context, we investigate what is the impact of the self‐funded constraint on different bonus contracts and how these contracts affect the examiners' incentive to prosecute patent applications. We consider contracts in which a patent office offers bonuses on quantity quotas (explicit contract) and on quality outcome (either an implicit contract or an explicit contract based on a quality proxy). We find that a self‐funded constrained agency should make different organization choices of incentives. For a low quality proxy precision, an agency facing a tight budget operates well with implicit contracts. However, by only relaxing moderately the budget constraint, the agency might be worse off simply because this will preclude implicit contracts. Only very large patenting fees might allow the agency to compensate for the loss of implicit contracts.
D23|Driven by Change: Commercial Drivers’ Acceptance and Perceived Efficiency of Using Light-Duty Electric Vehicles in Germany|In this paper, we examine to what extent commercial drivers accept the substitution of conventional cars with light-duty e-vehicles (LDEVs) by conducting a cross-sectional survey at Deutsche Post, a major German postal delivery service provider. Specifically, we explore drivers’ acceptance from two perspectives. First, we investigate whether drivers are more satisfied with the LDEVs than with the conventional vehicles. Second, we question whether the EVs increase drivers’ perceived efficiency. Combining these two perspectives, we show that the greater the drivers’ overall satisfaction with LDEVs, the higher is the drivers’ perceived efficiency. We prove this by means of latent measures, such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, using adaptations of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model and Rogers’ Diffusion of Innovation Theory to form our Unified Technology Acceptance Model. Findings suggest that, on average, drivers are slightly more satisfied with their assigned LDEVs than with the available conventional cars. If drivers were able to choose their preferred vehicles, the majority of them would favor LDEVs. We detect statistically significant patterns of latent measures affecting perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of LDEVs. While this paper focuses on German delivery service employees, the methodology presented here could easily be applied to any enterprise in the growing logistics sector electrifying its car fleet. Hence, our contributions are valuable for transportation research, and more specifically, to all potential commercial EV drivers, e.g., our insights might be relevant for approximately 500,400 drivers employed in the German logistics sector alone.
D23|Intellectual Property Enforcement, Exports and Productivity: Evidence from China|We study how provincial-level enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPRs) affects Chinese firms’ decisions regarding exit, export, and the channels through which to receive technology transfer. Our findings provide insights into how variations in IPRs enforcement alter productivity. Our model combines the standard theory of heterogeneous firms with the endogenous choices of those firms concerning how they absorb international technologies through imitation or licensing. We show that, in this setting, the exit and export cutoff productivities differ from those in the standard environment, leading to a different sorting mechanism. We also predict that stronger IPRs change the decisions firms make concerning their mode of technology transfer, further altering their productivity and export possibilities. Empirical tests based on a comprehensive dataset of Chinese firms from 2000 to 2006 support the model predictions.
D23|Investor Sophistication: Intrusion Of Behavioral Biases In Investment Decisions|Economics and conventional investment theory assumes that people are rational while markets are efficient, but people often think and act irrationally, and financial markets rarely follow textbook models of efficiency. Whereas behavioral finance uses knowledge from psychological studies in context of decision making in comparison to the so called predictable models popular in standard finance. Most oftenly investor behavior diverges from logics and rationality as investors are victim of numerous behavioral errors that intervene while they form up investment decision. Decison making is complicated due to the intervention of emotional attachments & avoidances, cognitive errors, and personality traits of decision makers. In developing country like Pakistan where the environment is unstable due to factors like security threats, terrorism, inflation, energy crises and are affecting the thinking pattern of people and the ratio of educated entrepreneur is very less, decisions are based on gut feelings, there is a need to study the impact of self-control, self-attribution along with cognitive dissonance and confirmation bias on investment decision and the current aimed to do so. The present study collected primary data through questionnaire from stock and bond investors. Significant positive relationship is found between the study biases and their impact on investment decisions of investors. Almost all the subjects were found to be the victims of confirmation bias, self-control bias, self-attribution & cognitive dissonance bias. Financial advisors are recommended to be first trained and then consulted for the detection & moderation of these biases before making investment decisions.
D23|Workplace Ostracism as a Predictor of Employee Performance and Employee Turnover- Evidence from the Banking Sector|Workplace ostracism has been identified as a separate entity from workplace harassment. Practised through banishing the target from a social group and social interaction, workplace ostracism is probable to have negative impact on the employees. Though different from harassment, it is equally destructive when it comes to the workplace environment. It manifests itself in a number of forms not only at individual level but also at the organizational level. This paper aims to explore the effects of ostracism on employee behaviour in terms of their performance and turnover. Testing the study in the banking sector, the results suggest that ostracism adversely affects employee performance. Similarly, the former leads to high turnover trend. Statistical significance has been found in the inverse relationship between workplace ostracism and employee performance; and workplace ostracism and employee turnover. The study makes a significant contribution towards the literature on Workplace Ostracism, as it examines the effect of workplace ostracism on two of the key performance indicators i.e. Performance and Turnover. The study will also provide managers with insight on the construct of ostracism will enlighten them about the costs associated with the presence of ostracism in the workplace in terms of employee performance & employee turnover.
D23|Management of organization and managing people ? examples of best practice in the Czech Republic|Based on the authors? scientific cooperation and research results the goal of the paper is to analyse approaches of organizational management and compare some examples of best practice in managing people in the Czech Republic. Modern approaches to managing people and developing organizations defines the concept of management, characterizes the role, functions, competencies and motivation of managers and presents the current generation of managers and are based on management competency, motivation and flexible adaptability. Paper summarizes the results of the authors' research on management and organization in terms of managing and leading people in organizations and managing and developing of organizations. The paper provides results of authors´ surveys on the problematic of management organization and managing people in SME Czech organizations in profit and non-profit sector. The paper aims to answer the following question: What are the similarities and differences in managing people processes in profit and non-profit organization? The results show some interesting tendencies mainly in approaches to the management, competence, development and training and evaluation processes.
D23|The Effect on the Safety Culture of Occupational Accidents and Safety Behavior: The Case of Turkey|Work accidents are one of the most important problems encountered in working life. The purpose of this study is to measure the impact of safety culture on safety behaviour of employees and occupational accidents In literature, various measurement tools have been used for the evaluation of safety culture. In this study, a questionnaire was created which made use of the measurement scales in these previous studies, whilst also taking into consideration particular Turkish cultural characteristics. The dimensions of safety culture scales are as follows: Managers' commitment, priority of safety, safety training, safety communication, safety awareness and competency, employees' involvement, reporting culture. The sample of the study consisted of total 1371 working manufacturing sector in Turkey. The questionnaire was applied to all the employees during a 1-week period. The mean age of the participants was 30.36±7.69, mean working years 6.31±5.61. The data are analysed using frequency distribution, reliability analysis, correlation, t test and regression analysis.According to the results obtained with the safety culture dimensions it is a significant relationship between occupational accidents. It has also been found that safety cultures have a positive effect on the safe behavior of employees. According to results, safety culture has an important key role to create a safe and healthy working environment in workplace.
D23|The impact of Fear of Negative Evaluation of Employees on Organizational Silence|Fear of negative evaluation, individual performance, capabilities and behavior of others in mind the negative reviews about the possession, distress due to them, and to live in anxiety and fear of such environmentsis defined as the avoidance. The silence of the employees organizational conscious, active and for one purpose can be specified as a form of behavior carried out. The study was applied to 80 employees in the textile sector in Konya. Positive and significant correlation was found between the variables. SPSS statistical analysis of data within the scope of the study program; correlation, regression, independent samples t-test and were analyzed by One Way ANOVA.
D23|Supervisory trust to be earned ? the role of Ethical leadership mediated by Person-organisational fit|Background: The trust relationship between employees and their supervisors (called Supervisory trust) has a definite impact on employee behaviour and attitudes. Furthermore, various studies found that Ethical leadership impacts on Supervisory trust, but in different contexts, and often with homogeneous or limited samples. The interactionist construct of Person-organisational fit (P-O fit), consisting of a combination of Supplementary fit (indirect fit or value congruence) and Complementary fit (direct or person-job fit, as well as needs-supply fit) may, however, impact on the relationship between ethical leadership and supervisory trust. The unique permutations of these relationships are important not only for conceptualisation purposes, but also for intervention design to enhance the employees? trust in their supervisors; this would contribute to positive employee behaviour and attitudes.Aim: The purpose of this study was to determine whether a relationship exists between Ethical leadership and Supervisory trust, with possible mediation by P-O fit.Setting: The research was conducted with ±60 employees from each of 17 private sector and four public sector organisations in South Africa.Method: This study utilised a positivist methodology based on an empirical approach, while using a cross-sectional design and quantitative analysis. The sample is relatively representative (in terms of race, gender and the South African work force), as it consisted of 60 employees from each of the 21 South African organisations that participated in the study, with 1 260 respondents in total.Results: Significant, positive relationships were found between Ethical leadership, P-O fit and Supervisory trust. Additionally, it was found that P-O fit partially mediates the relationship between Ethical leadership and Supervisory trust, confirming the proposed model.Conclusion: A strong, positive relationship exists between Ethical leadership (consisting of Morality and fairness, Role clarification leadership and Power sharing leadership) and Supervisory trust, which is partially mediated by P-O fit (consisting of Supplementary fit and Complementary fit).
D23|Democratization or Vulgarization - The Impact of Facebook on Cultural Capital|This paper investigates the impact of Facebook on cultural audience, putting the emphasis on the transmission of cultural capital in elitist circles. Our purpose is to provide important evidence concerning the digital opportunities and challenges for the use of social networks in cultural management. Based on an exploratory study, we look closely at the attitudes and reactions of cultural audience to the use of Facebook by theaters. We focus hereby on the democratization (acceptance) or the vulgarization (rejection) effects of the use of Facebook. We conclude that demographics and psychographics such as the generational effect and the personalities of the influence “the acceptance”, while environmental factors such as peer and media influence “the rejection” of the use of Facebook. The present findings help cultural institutions to have a better understanding of the profile of the actual theater audience, their needs, desires and fears.
D23|Support, Supported, and Supporting: Meta-Perception as the Missing Link in Organizational Behavior|Why do employees help more or less their colleagues? Why do they feel misunderstood and not supported by their superiors or peers? Why is employees’ professional development not necessarily improved after multisource feedback? Could all of these organizational outcomes be influenced by people’s metaperception, a phenomenon largely ignored in the field of organizational behavior? The literature about Organizational Citizenship Behavior (OCB), Workplace Relationship (WR), Perceived Organizational Support (POS) and Multisource Feedback (MSF) seems to carry a black box. It may concern the motivational aspects of OCB, the conceptualization of POS or even the mechanisms behind MSF’s shortfalls. This paper highlights several gaps in the field of Organizational Behavior and then, addresses this gap through the lens of metaperception. This paper aims to provide convincing evidence that metaperception is the missing link to improve our understanding of OCB, WR, POS and MSF. We conclude on clear directions for future research investigating how metaperception could intervene in these three outcomes.
D23|No Expectation, No Disappointment: How Does Meta-Accuracy Affect Hireability?|People may or not know the impression they convey to others (meta-accuracy). However, little research has addressed to what extent meta-accuracy affects social outcomes such as hireability (recruiter’s intention to hire). Three studies were conducted to test whether people who knew the impression they conveyed are the ones who are more likely to get hired. Results of polynomial regression and responses surface analyses showed that meta-accuracy was related to hireability, whether meta-accuracy concerns skills during an interview (Study 1, N = 49, and Study 2, N = 127) or traits and skills on a résumé (Study 3, N = 135). The pattern of results takes three forms. First, the lack of meta-accuracy, as the simple gap between metaperception and other’s perception, reduces hireability. Second, hireability is higher when meta- and other’s perception are favorable rather than unfavorable, while staying in agreement. Third, hireability is higher for applicants underestimating the extent to which a recruiter would perceive favorably their traits and/or skills than for overestimators. These results suggest that the best chance to get hired does not rely only on good impressions but also on knowing, or at least on underestimating, the impressions made upon others.
D23|Interaction coding systems: a literature review|Many interaction coding systems have been developed in the last 70 years to highlight individual behaviours and get a better understanding of small group dynamics. Despite the juxtaposition of an increasing number of interaction coding systems responding to different aims and demands, literature on this subject does not provide a complete overview of all available coding systems. This article, therefore, offers a comprehensive literature review of the interaction coding systems dedicated to small groups and details their structure, purposes and specifications. Such an analysis may help shed light on the most appropriate existing coding system according to the requirements of a research study in group dynamics. It also points out a number of major limitations of such models. Implications for necessary prerequisites for the development of future coding systems are consequently included.
D23|INSIDE TEAMS3D (IT3D) – Development of a multi-dimensional interaction coding system|The analysis of group dynamics has become a major challenge to capture parameters of collective work such as conflict, performance or team member satisfaction. To date, many interaction coding systems have been developed to help identify types of interactions among group members, but some shortcomings involving their structure, complexity and reliability remain. In this paper, we present the INSIDE TEAMS3D (IT3D), a new coding system dedicated to the study of verbal interactions in small groups and developed iteratively from varied group experiences. Its creation focuses on some significant requirements such as the user-friendliness of the system, the exhaustiveness of its categories, and the multidimensional essence of interactions. Thus, the IT3D takes account of three dimensions of individual behaviours which are the functional meaning of interactions, the convergence among interactions and the interpersonal emotional meaning of interactions. It hence provides a bigger picture on different aspects of group dynamics. Intercoder reliability and validity are also ascertained. Such a tool contributes to opening up new research and practical opportunities to a greater understanding of intragroup phenomena.
D23|Highlighting the Relations between Interaction Types in Meetings and Group Performance|Are some types of interactions beneficial or harmful to team performance? Should conflict among members be promoted or avoided in teams to achieve better results? Many questions arise when trying to understand how group dynamics impact its performance. The present study intends to highlight the kinds of verbal interactions which influence the performance of a team during a meeting. A two-phase (design and building) videotaped decision-making experiment was organised with 41 teams. All interactions were then coded with the INSIDE TEAMS3D (IT3D) coding system. Three dimensions of interactions were considered: their functional meaning, the convergence among interactions (including content or process conflict) and their interpersonal emotional meaning (including indications of relational conflict). Performance was measured for each group as an assignment result. It was positively associated with the total number of interactions shared. The results support that some functional meaning categories are positively associated with performance: thus, groups which shared more interactions aiming at offering an opinion or a suggestion on the content, get on average better outcomes. Socialization categories (making jokes, fostering the conversation) were also positively correlated with performance. The study of interactions convergence within groups also provides significant results, showing that disagreements on the content have positive relations with team performance. Negative interpersonal emotional meaning is also showing positive relations with performance, which are discussed in the paper. On top of these considerations on interaction types, the research reveals that the groups with balanced contributions between members during the exercise got higher performance than those facing great heterogeneity. More generally, this paper provides methodological insights about a way to study group dynamics and gather data on interactions and performance.
D23|Satisfaction and Perception of Conflict in Teams: Understanding their Relationship and the Importance of Interaction Types|This paper aims at understanding how interactions are connected with instrumental and social satisfaction, and perceived task and relationship conflict. Participants were 264 students divided into 41 teams and involved in a design and building group experiment which was videotaped and integrally coded with the IT3D coding system. We highlight the significant positive relationship between socialization interactions and satisfaction. We notice that when interactions carrying task conflict (content) are increasing, instrumental and social satisfactions are lower. In contrast, process conflict and relationship conflict show no relationship with team member satisfaction. We also investigate the relationship between observed conflictual interactions in groups and the perception of conflict by their members. Only the perception of task conflict is related to the proportion of observed interactions opposing ideas in the group, whereas interactions showing signs of weak relationship conflict are not globally perceived as such. Finally, the study of team member satisfaction and perception of conflict confirms that perceived task conflict is harmful to instrumental and social satisfaction, whereas perceived relationship conflict also impacts negatively social satisfaction.
D23|The Impact of Contract Enforcement Costs on Outsourcing and Aggregate Productivity|Legal institutions affect economic outcomes, but how much? This paper documents how costly supplier contract enforcement shapes firm boundaries, and quantifies the impact of this transaction cost on aggregate productivity and welfare. I embed a contracting game between a buyer and a supplier in a general-equilibrium macro-model. Contract enforcement costs lead suppliers to underproduce. Thus, firms will perform more of the production process in-house instead of outsourcing it. On a macroeconomic scale, in countries with slow and costly courts, firms should buy relatively less inputs from sectors whose products are more specific to the buyer-seller relationship. I first present reduced-form evidence for this hypothesis using cross-country regressions. I use microdata on case law from the United States to construct a new measure of relationship-specificity by sector-pairs. This allows me to control for productivity differences across countries and sectors and to causally identify the effect of contracting frictions on industry structure. I then proceed to structurally estimate the key parameters of my macro-model. Using a set of counterfactual experiments, I investigate the role of contracting frictions in shaping productivity and income per capita across countries. Setting enforcement costs to US levels (alternative: zero) would increase real income by an average of 3.6 percent (7 percent) across all countries, and by an average of 10 percent (13.3 percent) across low-income countries. Hence, transaction costs and firm boundaries are important on a macroeconomic scale.
D23|Voting and Contributing While the Group is Watching|Members of groups and organizations often have to decide on rules that regulate their contributions to common tasks. They typically differ in their propensity to contribute and often care about the image they project: in particular, they want to be perceived by other group members as being high contributors. In such environments we study, from both a positive and normative perspective, the interaction between the way members vote on rules and their subsequent contribution decisions. We show how endogenous norms can emerge. We study in particular the role played by the visibility of individual actions, votes or contributions. While making votes visible always increases welfare in our setting, making contributions public can be welfare decreasing as it makes some rules more likely to be rejected.
D23|Voting and Contributing While the Group is Watching|Members of groups and organizations often have to decide on rules that regulate their contributions to common tasks. They typically differ in their propensity to contribute and often care about the image they project: in particular, they want to be perceived by other group members as being high contributors. In such environments we study, from both a positive and normative perspective, the interaction between the way members vote on rules and their subsequent contribution decisions. We show how endogenous norms can emerge. We study in particular the role played by the visibility of individual actions, votes or contributions. While making votes visible always increases welfare in our setting, making contributions public can be welfare decreasing as it makes some rules more likely to be rejected.
D23|Showing Off or Laying Low? The Economics of Psych-outs|"We study situations where a new entrant with privately known talent competes with an incumbent whose talent is common knowledge. Competition takes the form of a rank-order tournament. Prior to the competition, the newbie can ""show off,"" i.e., send a talent revealing costly signal. We find that incentives to show off can go in either direction---more talented types may wish to mimic less talented ones or the reverse, depending on the newbie's talent distribution compared to the one of the incumbent. In equilibrium though, showing off occurs only when the newbie is exceptionally talented compared to the incumbent. Surprisingly, showing off occurs to the benefit of both parties; the newbie benefits for obvious reasons, the incumbent by economizing on wasted effort when overmatched. We use our findings to study the broader consequences of showing off, which is discouraged in many cultures through implicit social norms. We show that norms against showing off raise total effort but worsen talent selection, and are thus appropriate only when effort is society's main concern."
D23|Simple Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley (1935) to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the riskfree rate.
D23|Asymmetric information allocation to avoid coordination failure|"In the context of team production, this paper studies the optimal (deterministic and stochastic) information allocation that implements desired effort levels as the unique Bayesian equilibrium. We show that, under certain conditions, it is optimal to asymmetrically inform agents even though they may be ex ante symmetric. The main intuition is that informing the agents asymmetrically can be effective in avoiding ""bad"" equilibria, that is, equilibria with coordination failure."
D23|Asymmetric Risk Impacts of Chinese Tourists to Taiwan|Since 2008, when Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-Jeou relaxed the Cross-Strait policy, China has become Taiwan’s largest source of international tourism. In order to understand the risk persistence of Chinese tourists, the paper investigates the short-run and long-run persistence of shocks to the change rate of Chinese tourists to Taiwan. The daily data used for the empirical analysis is from 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2018. McAleer’s (2015) fundamental equation in tourism finance is used to link the change rate of tourist arrivals and the change in tourist revenues. Three widely-used univariate conditional volatility models, namely GARCH(1,1), GJR(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1), are used to measure the short-run and long-run persistence of shocks, as well as symmetric, asymmetric and leverage effects. Three different Heterogeneous AutoRegressive (HAR) models, HAR(1), HAR(1,7) HAR(1,7,28), are considered as alternative mean equations for capturing a variety of long memory effects. The mean equations associated with GARCH(1,1), GJR(1,1) and EGARCH(1,1) are used to analyse the risk persistence of the change in Chinese tourists. The exponential smoothing process is used to adjust the seasonality around the trend in Chinese tourists. The empirical results show asymmetric impacts of positive and negative shocks on the volatility of the change in the number of Group-type and Medical-type tourists, while Individual-type tourists display a symmetric volatility pattern. Somewhat unusually, leverage effects are observed in EGARCH for Medical-type tourists, which shows a negative correlation between shocks in tourist numbers and the subsequent shocks to volatility. For both Group-type and Medical-type tourists, the asymmetric impacts on volatility show that negative shocks have larger effects than do positive shocks. The leverage effect in EGARCH for Medical-type tourists implies that larger shocks would decrease volatility in the change in the numbers of Medical-type tourists. These results suggest that Taiwan tourism authorities should act to prevent the negative shocks for the Group-type and Medicaltype Chinese tourists to dampen the shocks that arise from having fewer Chinese tourists to Taiwan.
D23|The Fisher Body Case and Organizational Economics|In 1919, General Motors acquired a non-controlling equity interest in the Fisher Body Company and signed a ten-year contract stipulating the terms under which Fisher would be the exclusive supplier of car bodies to GM. In 1926, GM acquired the remaining equity in Fisher Body. In 1978, Benjamin Klein, Robert Crawford, and Armen Alchian used the GM acquisition of Fisher Body as an illustration of the asset-specificity or “holdup” theory of vertical integration. Their paper became widely influential, and the Fisher case quickly developed into an omnipresent meme in the economics of organization. In the year 2000, however, the meme suddenly exploded into a cause célèbre. No fewer than five papers appeared attacking both the theory and the history in the Klein et al. account – including a paper by Nobel Laureate Ronald Coase, who entered into an often-contentious debate with Klein. This paper tells the story of the Fisher Body acquisition and of the academic controversy it spawned. The controversy has lessons – including some surprising and ironic lessons – for the economic history of the American automobile industry, for the economics of organization, and for the conduct of inquiry in economics.
D23|Internalizing Global Value Chains: A Firm-Level Analysis|A key decision facing firms is the extent of control to exert over the different stages in their production processes. We develop and test a property rights model of firm boundary choices along the value chain. We construct firm-level measures of the upstreamness of integrated and nonintegrated inputs by combining information on firms’ production activities in more than 100 countries with input-output tables. Whether a firm integrates upstream or downstream suppliers depends crucially on the elasticity of demand it faces. Moreover, integration is shaped by the relative contractibility of stages along the value chain, as well as by the firm’s productivity.
D23|Domestic quality certification and growth of Vietnamese MSMEs|Using two waves of the Mirco, Small and Medium sized Enterprises (MSMEs) survey of Vietnamese manufacturing firms, this paper first explores what drives firms' decision to have a domestically recognized certificate, taking into account a rich number of factors related to the cost and expected benefits of certification as well as institutional factors. It further explores the presence of a positive and significant effect of domestic certificates on firm growth, these serving as signaling devices for desirable attributes under information asymmetry and thus leading to an increase in legitimacy and reputation. Evidence is indeed found for a signaling effect of certification, this being stronger for more recently adopted certificates, for advertising firms and for women entrepreneurs.
D23|Innovation in Global Value Chains|Developing countries are faced with significant challenges related to building and deepening their innovation capabilities. In this chapter, we focus on innovation in global value chains and on the role that such chains play in building and deepening capability. We also focus on the trajectories along which firms, once inserted into global value chains and located in developing countries, acquire or lose innovation capability. To do so, we bring together the global value chains and innovation systems approaches. Our key arguments are that global value chains interact with innovation systems in multiple ways and that these interactions have important implications for the speed, depth, and overall quality of capability building in developing-country firms. We outline five innovation capability trajectories and show how capability building at the firm level interrelates with the various ways in which global value chains and innovation systems co-evolve.
D23|La demande de travail de la théorie générale de la firme : évidences empiriques|"Ce papier s’est fixé pour objectif d’effectuer les tests empiriques de la fonction de demande de travail issue de la théorie générale de la firme. En effet, en réfutant l’hypothèse de maximisation du profit et en adoptant l’idée que l’entreprise fonctionne, en général, sur la base de compromis entre les parties prenantes (actionnaires, managers et employés), la théorie générale de la firme aboutit, entre autres, au résultat théorique selon lequel « dans le court terme, la demande de travail ne dépend pas que du salaire réel ; elle dépend également du profit brut réel et est croissante avec ce dernier ». Les tests économétriques réalisés dans le cadre de ce travail à partir de données d’un échantillon de 370 entreprises formelles du Burkina Faso confirment ce résultat théorique. Ces tests économétriques montrent, d’une part, que la composante quantitative de la demande de travail est croissante avec le profit brut réel et décroissante avec le salaire réel et, d’autre part, que la demande composée de travail (quantitative et qualitative) est croissante avec le profit brut réel et décroissante avec la prime de qualification. De ce fait, ce papier soulève des questionnements par rapport à la représentation du marché du travail dans l’analyse macroéconomique. This paper aims to verify the labor demand function from General Theory of Firm. Indeed, rejecting the hypothesis of profit maximization and holding the idea that firm operates, in general, on the basis of compromise between stakeholders (shareholders, managers and employees), General Theory of Firm leads, among others, to the theoretical outcome according to which ""in short term, the labor demand does not depend only on real wage; it also depends on real gross profit and increases along with it"". The econometric tests carried out in the framework of this research confirm this theoretical outcome. They show, on one hand, that quantitative component of labor demand increases along with real gross profit and decreases along with the real wage and, on other hand, that compound demand of labor (quantitative and qualitative) increases along with real gross profit and decreases along with the qualification premium. Therefore, this paper points out questions regarding the representation of labor market in macroeconomic analysis.(Full text in french)"
D23|Notice failure revisited: Evidence on the use of virtual patent marking|One source of uncertainty in the patent system relates to the difficulty in identifying products that are protected with a patent. This paper studies the adoption by U.S. patentees of “virtual patent marking,” namely the online provision of constructive notice to the public that an article is patented. It proposes a simple model of the decision to adopt patent marking and empirically examines factors that affect adoption. Data suggest that about 12 percent of patent holders overall provide virtual marking information (and perhaps about 25 percent of commercially active assignees). Econometric analysis suggests that the most discriminant factor of the adoption of virtual marking is the size of the patent portfolio. The likelihood of adoption increases with portfolio size, consistent with evidence that firms with a larger patent portfolio are more likely to be infringed.
D23|People Management Skills, Employee Attrition, and Manager Rewards: An Empirical Analysis|How much do a manager's interpersonal skills with subordinates, which we call people management skills, affect employee outcomes? Are managers rewarded for having such skills? Using personnel data from a large, high-tech firm, we show that survey-measured people management skills have a strong negative relation to employee turnover. A causal interpretation is reinforced by research designs exploiting new workers joining the firm and managers moving jobs. However, people management skills do not consistently improve non-attrition outcomes. Better people managers are themselves more likely to receive higher subjective performance ratings and to be promoted.
D23|Government Decentralization Under Changing State Capacity: Experimental Evidence From Paraguay|Standard models of hierarchy assume that agents and middle managers are better informed than principals about how to implement a particular task. We estimate the value of the informational advantage held by supervisors – middle managers – when ministerial leadership – the principal – introduced a new monitoring technology aimed at improving the performance of agricultural extension agents (AEAs) in rural Paraguay. Our approach employs a novel experimental design that elicited treatment-priority rankings from supervisors before randomization of treatment. We find that supervisors did have valuable information—they prioritized AEAs who would be more responsive to the monitoring treatment. We develop a model of monitoring under different allocation rules and roll-out scales (i.e., the share of AEAs to receive treatment). We semi-parametrically estimate marginal treatment effects (MTEs) to demonstrate that the value of information and the benefits to decentralizing treatment decisions depend crucially on the sophistication of the principal and on the scale of roll-out.
D23|Choosing between Growth and Glory|Prior work has established that the financing environment can impact firm strategy. We argue that this influence can shape the earliest strategic choices of a new venture by creating a potential tradeoff between two objectives: rapid growth and reaping the benefits of a positive reputation (glory). We leverage a simple reputation-building strategic choice, naming the firm after the founder (eponymy), that is associated with superior profitability. Next, we argue via a formal model that the availability of/dependence on external financing can explain why high-growth firms are rarely eponymous. We find empirical support for the model's predictions using a large dataset of 1 million European firms. Eponymous firms grow considerably more slowly than similarly profitable firms. Moreover, eponymy varies in accordance with the firm's financing environment in a pattern consistent with our model. We discuss implications for the literature on new venture strategy.
D23|Social networks and tax avoidance. Evidence from a well-defined Norwegian tax shelter|In 2005, over 8% of Norwegian shareholders transferred their shares to new (legal) tax shelters intended to defer taxation of capital gains and dividends that would otherwise be taxable in the aftermath of 2006 reform. Using detailed administrative data we identify family networks and describe how take up of tax avoidance progresses within a network. A feature of the reform was that the ability to set up a tax shelter changed discontinuously with individual shareholding of a firm and we use this fact to estimate the causal effect of availability of tax avoidance for a taxpayer on tax avoidance by others in the network. We find that take up in a social network increases the likelihood that others will take up. This suggests that taxpayers affect each other's decisions about tax avoidance, highlighting the importance of accounting for social interactions in understanding enforcement and tax avoidance behavior, and providing a concrete example of “optimization frictions” in the context of behavioral responses to taxation.
D23|Is Football a Matter of Life and Death – Or is it more Important than that?|Football is the national sport of most of the planet. This paper examines how happy the outcomes of football matches make us. We calibrate these results relative to other activities and estimate the dynamic effects these exogenous events have on our utility over time. We find that football – on average – makes us unhappier – so why would we go through the pain of following a football team. This behavioural choice paradox occupies much of the paper so we investigate why we go on following our teams, even though matches make us more unhappy on average. We examine how much our story changes if we examine the dynamic effects of football matches over time in different hours before and after the game and the extent to which our happiness is influenced by what we would rationally expect the result to be beforehand – as based on the betting odds.
D23|Decentralization of Firms in a Country with Weak Institutions: Evidence from Russia|Can decentralization of firms be successful in an environment with weak institutions? Decentralization can do a great job for improving firms’ efficiency and competitiveness by creating opportunities for quicker and more competent decision-making and enhancing motivation of employees. However, decentralization is associated with a substantial increase in agency risk, which is particularly important for firms that operate under weak institutions. Hence, the popular belief is that in countries with weak institutions, firms are unable to successfully decentralize. In this paper, we study evidence from Russian firms to challenge this belief. Following anecdotal evidence and trends observed in the data, we introduce the notions of real decentralization for firms that decentralize decision-making to competitively hired professionals and cautious decentralization for firms that decentralize to people hired through connections. We demonstrate that really decentralized firms are, on average, significantly more likely to invest even in Russian weak institutional conditions. We also show that the gap in investment between really decentralized and other firms declines as corruption grows. Empirical research presented in the paper implies that there still can be significant room for decentralization even in an environment with weak institutions, such as that of Russia. However, as the role of non-market factors (such as corruption) in firms’ prosperity increases, the potential value of decentralization for the firms declines.
D23|Smart contracts and transaction costs|Because of the enforcement based on the blockchain technology, smart contracts are supposed to allow contracting parties to conduct transactions more efficiently than traditional contracts. This paper challenges that claim. Because of the need for an efficiency-enhancing adaptation of institutions—a chief problem of transaction cost economics-traditional contracts may incur lower transaction costs than smart contracts.
D23|Управление На Аграрната Устойчивост В България<BR>[Governance of agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria]|This paper incorporates interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics and assesses the system of governance of agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria. The system of governance of agrarian sustainability is comprehensively analyzed, and the efficiency of institutional environment and diverse market, private, collective, public and hybrid modes assessed. Factors for increasing agrarian sustainability in the country are identified, and directions for improving the governing system suggested.
D23|Sustainable development, environmental policy and renewable energy use: A dynamic panel data approach|The aim of this paper is to cast light on the relationship between sustainable development environmental policy and renewable energy use. We utilize a dynamic GMM approach over a panel of 34 European Union (EU) countries spanning the period 2005–2013. Our findings reveal a positive monotonic relationship between development and pollution. Energy saving positively affects environmental degradation, while energy intensity increases air pollution. Our findings have important policy implications for policy makers towards sustainability. Despite the fact that the Europe ‘20–20–20’ climate and energy package strategy seems to be achieved, the recently adopted Energy Roadmap 2050 must be updated on a regular basis in order to be effectively implemented and monitored by government officials and firms' stakeholders. Therefore, we argue that EU countries must increase the use of new technology and renewable energy capacity in order to align environmental policies towards more efficient energy use and sustainable development among the EU periphery.
D23|Managing Strategic Change and ERP Implementation under Distinctive Learning Styles: Quantitative case of Burberry PLC|This paper examines the effective strategic change management and Enterprise Resource Planning implementation under distinctive learning styles namely; diverging, converging, assembling, and accommodating learning styles through case of Burberry brand at Bicester Village, Cheshire Oaks, and Chatham Place. Additionally, paper investigates the strategic changes and organizational factors in relation with the ability to adopt change and successful ERP implementation. Total 87 respondents were approached through snowball, purposive, and convenience sampling. Findings revealed that accommodating learning style is the most influential learning style that significant positively affects the ERP implementation process. Interestingly, all learning styles (diverging, converging, assimilating, and accommodating) have statistically significant correlation with organizational change process. Additionally, complexity is the most critical organizational component affecting employees' ability to accept changes.
D23|Impact of governing modeson agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria|Specific system of governance in different countries, regions, subsectors, etc., eventually determines the speed and type of socio-economic development. Despite its big academic and practical importance, in Bulgaria and other countries in East Europe, there are very few empirical studies on dominating governing structures in agriculture, and their impact(s) on agrarian sustainability. In this paper the interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics framework is incorporated, and the impact of diverse market, private, collective, public and hybrid modes of governance on agrarian sustainability at the current stage of development in Bulgaria assessed. First, the methodological framework of the study is outlined. After that dominating governing modes in Bulgarian farms of different juridical type, size, specialization, ecological and geographical location are identified, and their impacts on agrarian sustainability and its economic, social, and environmental pillars evaluated. In conclusion implications for further research, public policy improvement, and private managerial strategy formation are presented. Agricultural producers of different use quite unlike mixture of effective market, private, collective and hybrid modes for governance of their activities and relations. Individual factors and modes most contributing to improvement of agrarian sustainability at the current stage of development are: manager’s personal convictions and initiatives, farms resources and innovation potential, near future profit and benefits strategies, market prices levels and dynamics, area-based EU subsidies, and informal agreements. Research on relations between the governing structure and agrarian sustainability is to continue though increasing representation, and the spectrum of specific governing modes used by farms of different type as well as assessments of the impact of institutions on agrarian sustainability and the impact of the governance at different hierarchical levels. The latter however, requires a new kind of micro and macro data, and a close cooperation between all interested parties.
D23|Efficiency of agrarian governance in Bulgaria|Empirical studies on efficiency of the governance system in agriculture are very rare. That is a consequence of both theoretical and practical challenges. The criteria and approach for assessing social efficiency are still debated while appropriate statistical, accountancy, etc. data for evaluation diverse mechanisms and modes of governance are not readily available. This is a first attempt for a comprehensive empirical study on the efficiency of the system of agrarian governance in Bulgaria. Since there is a social “contract” about sustainable agrarian development in EU and Bulgaria, the impact to sustainability is taken as a criterion for assessing the social efficiency of the governance system. The interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics framework is incorporated, and the impact of institutional environment and diverse market, private, collective, public and hybrid modes of governance on agrarian sustainability at the current stage of development in Bulgaria assessed. First, the methodological framework of the study is outlined. After that impact of major components of institutional environment of agrarian sustainability evaluated. Following, dominating governing modes in Bulgarian farms of different juridical type, size, specialisation, ecological and geographical location are identified, and their impacts on agrarian sustainability assessed. In conclusion implications for further research, public policy improvement, and private managerial strategy formation are presented.
D23|Institutions and sustainability – insights from Bulgarian agriculture|The specific system of governance is a critical factor, which to a great extent (pre)determines the type and speed of development in different countries, industries, regions, communities, etc. This article tries to fill the gap and assesses the impact of institutional environment on agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria. The interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics framework is applied and assessment made on specific effects of major components of the “external” institutional environment on agrarian sustainability level in different administrative, geographical and ecological regions, subsectors of agriculture, and farms of various juridical type and size. Our study has found out that individual elements of external institutional, market and natural environment affect quite unequally farms of different types, individual subsectors of agriculture, and specific ecological and geographical regions. This type of studies is to be expended and their precision and representation increased. The latter however, requires a close cooperation between all interested parties, and participation of the farmers, agrarian organisations, local and central authorities, interest groups, research institutes and experts, etc.
D23|Property Rights and Intellectual Property Protection, GDP growth and Well-Being in Latin America|A central argument for increased protections of property rights (PR) is the role they play in encouraging economic transactions, investment and economic growth. Likewise, the utilitarian justification of intellectual property laws is that such rights promote creative inventions and innovation, and thus can make a nation better off. A further argument is psychological: it has also been argued (though rarely tested) that enhanced rights contribute to increases in well-being enjoyed by a county’s citizens. Many Latin American countries have made efforts to improve property rights (and their enforcement) in the recent past, with varying success. Using three data sources (the Latinobarometer, the World Bank, and the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitive Index), this investigation considers the relationship between property rights and intellectual property protection, economic growth, and well-being. The results, which are heterogeneous with respect to labour force status, suggest that policy makers in Latin America should pursue improvements in property rights if they wish to improve citizen well-being while also promoting economic growth.
D23|Pollution claim settlements reconsidered: Hidden information and bounded payments|A principal’s production decision imposes a negative externality on an agent. The principal may be a pollution-generating firm, the agent may be a nearby town. The principal offers a contract to the agent, who has the right to be free of pollution. Then the agent privately learns the disutility of pollution. Finally, a production level and a transfer payment are implemented. Suppose there is an upper bound (possibly zero) on payments that the agent can make to the principal. In the second-best solution, there is underproduction for low cost types, while there is overproduction for high cost types. In contrast to standard adverse selection models of pollution claim settlements, there may thus be too much pollution compared to the first-best solution.
D23|Peers and productivity: Evidence from an experimental factory|Workplace peer effects are well documented, but why they arise remains a puzzle. This paper investigates the issue experimentally. Subjects are brought together to perform a real-effort task in a simulated factory environment. Varying the returns to effort by altering free-riding incentives or piece rates does not affect productivity but psychological factors do matter. Even though there are no technological complementarities, co-workers’ productivity levels are highly correlated. Three psychological mechanisms which can generate these correlations are examined: (a) workers’ desire to conform to a work norm, (b) inequity aversion and (c) concern about relative performance. Subjects’ enjoyment of the task depends on their relative performance and not on how close their productivity is to the norm or on the inequity of outcomes. This finding suggests that peer effects arise because of intrinsic competitiveness. Subjects hate to do worse than their co-workers and love to do better.
D23|Knowledge-intensive sectors and the role of collective performance-related pay|The main contribution of this study is showing that the efficiency effects of collective performance-related pay (CPRP) are more pronounced in knowledge-intensive service sectors (KISs) than in other sectors. The hypothesis is that human resource practices such as CPRP are particularly useful for enhancing firm performance when innovation-supporting knowledge is distributed among multiple skill sets and employee creativity, knowledge creation and knowledge sharing are key success factors for the firm. Cross-sectional estimates obtained for a national sample of approximately 3,800 Italian firms confirm this prediction. These results are validated by adopting a treatment effect approach to solve the self-selection problem.
D23|The effect of organizational commitment to the performance of y generation employees in PT bank Sumut with transformational leadership as moderation variables|PT Bank Sumut is one of the North Sumatra regional government-owned enterprises that have a lot of employes from different generations. More than 50% of PT Bank Sumut employees come from generation Y who should have better and higher performance than employees from other generations. However, the performance produced both in terms of asset and relative profit growth is still lagging behind other regional banks. The purpose of this research is to determine the influence of organizational commitment which consists of affective commitment, continuance commitment, and normative commitment to the performance of Y generation employees in PT Bank Sumut. The research type is correlational research. This research uses transformational leadership as a moderating variable that can strengthen or weaken the relationship of organizational commitment to the performance of generation Y employees. The number of samples from the employee population is 40 respondents. The population was generation Y employees aged 22-32 years at the headquarters of PT Bank Sumut. Data analysis uses multiple linear regression and variable moderation tests. The research results showed that there was a significant influence that affective commitment had a positive and significant effect; continuance commitment has a positive and significant effect; and normative commitment has a positive and significant effect on the performance Y-generation employee. Transformational leadership as a moderating variable to the performance of generation Y employees in PT Bank Sumut. From these results, the factors that most influence the performance of generation Y employees are affective commitment, continuance, and normative commitment.
D23|In-house and arm’s length: productivity heterogeneity and variation in organizational form|This paper analyzes how firms are organized in the U.S. hotel management industry. For most hotel brands, properties with intermediate room occupancy rates are relatively more likely to be managed by company employees rather than by independent franchisees. Properties with the lowest and the highest occupancy rates tend to be managed by franchisees, at arm's length from the hotel chain. This variation in organizational form is consistent with a model in which the incentives embodied in management contracts vary with property-level productivity. We infer that most hotel chains franchise low productivity relationships to keep property-level fixed costs low and franchise the most productive relationships to create high-powered incentives for franchisees. Franchisees of high-productivity properties work harder than the managers of both chain-managed properties and low-productivity franchises because the performance incentives in franchise contracts are proportional to hotel revenues and complement the incentives arising from having control over the property.
D23|Simple Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley (1935) to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the risk-free rate.
D23|Market Timing with Moving Averages|Consider using the simple moving average (MA) rule of Gartley to determine when to buy stocks, and when to sell them and switch to the risk-free rate. In comparison, how might the performance be affected if the frequency is changed to the use of MA calculations? The empirical results show that, on average, the lower is the frequency, the higher are average daily returns, even though the volatility is virtually unchanged when the frequency is lower. The volatility from the highest to the lowest frequency is about 30% lower as compared with the buy-and-hold strategy volatility, but the average returns approach the buy-and-hold returns when frequency is lower. The 30% reduction in volatility appears if we invest randomly half the time in stock markets and half in the risk-free rate.
D23|Effects of contract governance on public private partnership (PPP) performance|Using the basic instruments of governance as highlighted in the transaction cost economics literature, this paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns. Moreover, the results demonstrate that changes in administrative controls also influence outcomes. Stricter the control, better is the efficiency in the desired outcomes. The empirical findings could be useful to the policymakers for designing better contracts for the road as well as other infrastructure related sectors.
D23|The Fed's Asymmetric Forecast Errors|"I show that the probability that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System staff's forecasts (the ""Greenbooks'"") overpredicted quarterly real gross domestic product (GDP) growth depends on both the forecast horizon and also whether the forecasted quarter was above or below trend real GDP growth. For forecasted quarters that grew below trend, Greenbooks were much more likely to overpredict real GDP growth, with one-quarter ahead forecasts overpredicting real GDP growth more than 75% of the time, and this rate of overprediction was higher for further ahead forecasts. For forecasted quarters that grew above trend, Greenbooks were slightly more likely to underpredict real GDP growth, with one-quarter ahead forecasts underpredicting growth about 60% of the time. Unconditionally, on average, Greenbooks overpredicted real GDP growth."
D23|Legal Efficiency and Consistency|We consider a stylized model of judicial decision making under common and civil law to study whether and why legal institutions affect economic outcomes. Judges are of two types: some judges are conservative and mechanically follow the precedent or the statute, while others maximize social welfare. The civil law and common law traditions have different centers of authority (legislatures vs. judges), but they also differ with respect to the timing of legal decisions (ex-ante vs. ex-post). As a motivating example, we study the enforcement of property rights in courts. We analyze the efficiency and consistency of courts' decisions in both legal systems. We find that legal certainty is higher under common law than under civil law. We show that common law achieves higher expected welfare than civil law regime when the proportion of conservative judges is neither too low nor too high, and judges are sufficiently forward looking. In changing economic environments, civil law courts do not respond to economic shocks. Conversely, common law courts change the law only if shocks are persistent. Shock persistence is what makes common law more likely to dominate civil law because of its greater adaptability.
D23|Plant Breeders’ Rights, Patents, and Incentives to Innovate| Both patents and Plant Breeders’ Rights (PBRs) can protect plant innovations. Unlike patents, PBRs allow farmers to save part of their harvest to replant. We analyze the impact of this exemption on prices and innovation in a monopoly setting. In a PBR regime, a monopolist might let farmers self-produce, and he over- or under-invests compared to socially optimal investments. Under a PBR and patent regime, large (small) innovations are more likely to be patented (protected with PBRs), but self-production is not completely prevented, private investments are often socially optimal, and incentives to innovate are boosted. However, overall effects on welfare are ambiguous.
D23|Human Resource Professionals’ Effectiveness, Organizational Culture and High Performance Work System Link: Evidence from Pakistan|Human resource professionals’ effectiveness (HRPE) is widely discussed as the most significant factor within the organization to gain sustainable competitive advantage at the present time. Nonetheless, the study investigates the impact of organizational culture (OC) on HRPE in telecom sector of Pakistan. Moreover, it also examines the moderating role of high performance work system (HPWS) in above mentioned correlation. A total of 75 survey questionnaires were distributed to HR managers of telecom firms, out of which 40 HR manager responded which makes 53.3% response rate. The study has used SmartPLS 3 for the assessment of the hypothesized model. The statistical results have established the strong positive effect of OC on HRPE, however, findings reveal HPWS doesn’t moderate this relationship. The study concludes organizations with strong OC can achieve sustainable competitive advantage by augmenting HRPE, moreover, organizations have to align their HR strategies with robust HR system which can enhance HRPE. The findings of the study are of a great value to both theory and practice and have vital implications for academicians, practitioners and policy makers.
D23|The Effect of Work Motivation and Entrepreneurship Orientation on Business Performance through Entrepreneurial Commitments of Coffee Shops in Makassar|This study aimed to explore the effect of work motivation and entrepreneurship orientation on businesses performance of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), particularly for the coffee shop in Makassar. This study was included in the category of explanatory research that aimed to explore the facts through the collection of secondary and primary data with questionnaires and interview techniques related to entrepreneurial orientation, achievement motivation and its impact on business performance in the SMEs in Makassar. This study also used path analysis approach as an engineering approach in statistics to examine direct and indirect relationships between exogenous and endogenous variables. Some important aspects need to be explored explicitly related to the method used. The important issues included the nature of the study, the type of investigation, the level of intervention research, the situation of the study, the unit of analysis, and the time horizon. The results of this study showed that the entrepreneurial orientation and motivation either partially or simultaneously to the coffee shop business in Makassar had a positive effect. In this case, entrepreneurial orientation had a positive and signifi cant effect on business performance. Meanwhile, the orientation of work motivation, directly and indirectly, had a positive and signifi cant effect on the business performance of coffee shop business in Makassar. In other cases, the commitments had important roles in giving positive effect to business performance related to the coffee shop business in Makassar.
D23|A contractual analysis of state versus private ownership|We uniquely analyze the advantages and disadvantages of private ownership versus state ownership under various circumstances by focusing on three aspects: external risk, internal governance, and relative importance of owners versus managers. Our theoretical analysis indicates that private ownership is better than state ownership if the business environment is risky, corruption is limited, or the manager plays a more important role than the owner. Our empirical analysis supports our theoretical findings and reveals that better internal governance, more external risk and greater importance of the manager will magnify the benefits of privatization.
D23|Determinants of control structure choice between entrepreneurs and investors in venture capital-backed startups|This study examines two kinds of control structures in venture capital-backed startups. Based on incomplete contracting theory, we analyze the influence of various factors on these control structures in venture capital models, from the perspectives of investors, entrepreneurs, and startups. In particular, we show how factors such as bargaining power, monitoring costs, private benefits, and risk aversion impact the allocation of control rights. Using the survey data on a heterogeneous group of venture capital-backed startups in China, we empirically examine the impacts of various factors on the control structures of these enterprises. Based on the full sample of enterprises, we find that the stronger the venture capitalist’s bargaining power and the higher the monitoring costs, the more likely investors and entrepreneurs are to prefer joint control. Further, the greater the entrepreneur’s financing need and private benefits, the more likely investors and entrepreneurs are to choose joint control. High-tech startups are more likely to choose a joint control model than those in traditional industries. This is especially true for high-tech startups at an early stage of development. In addition, for high-tech startups, the probability of choosing joint control shows a negative relationship with investors’ strategic benefits and a positive relationship with investors’ risk aversion. Regarding startups in traditional industries, investors’ strategic benefits and risk aversion have an insignificant impact on their control structures.
D23|Does Craigslist Reduce Waste? Evidence from California and Florida|There is much discussion but little research on the environmental impacts of online platforms associated with the sharing economy. Economic theory suggests that falling transaction costs in secondhand markets increase incentives for people to exchange rather than discard used goods. This paper uses difference-in-difference methods to estimate Craigslist's effect on solid waste by exploiting a natural experiment in how the platform expanded across California and Florida. The econometric results suggest that Craigslist reduced daily per capita solid waste generation by about one third of a pound, though the estimates are not very precise. A plausibility analysis of the weight of items posted on Craigslist concludes that the 200 million annual for-sale posts created by Californians and Floridians can reasonably account for waste reductions of roughly this magnitude.
D23|Optimal ownership of public goods in the presence of transaction costs|A non-governmental organization (NGO) can make a non-contractible investment to provide a public good. Only ownership can be specified ex ante, so ex post efficiency requires reaching an agreement with the government. Besley and Ghatak (2001) argue that the party with the larger valuation should be the owner. We show that when transaction costs have to be incurred before the bargaining stage can be reached, ownership by the government can be optimal even when the NGO has a larger valuation. Our finding also contrasts with the standard private-good setup where the investing party (i.e., the NGO) should always be the owner.
D23|Costly communication and learning from failure in organizational coordination|This paper investigates the coordination failure that arises from combining two small pre-existing groups and focuses on the reaction of group members to this change in environment. In an experiment, small groups were first able to establish a coordination history in a repeated minimum-effort game; in the second phase, two groups with different histories were combined into a larger group. Unlike most of the previous literature, subjects could endogenously choose to communicate in the newly formed group for a small fee. While communication proved to be necessary for preventing coordination failure in the newly formed group, only every second subject was willing to implement communication. Particularly, subjects from groups with a less efficient coordination experience in the first phase were more likely to realize the potential of coordination failure in the new group and were thus more likely to decide for communication. The results may be useful for understanding how groups coordinate in changing environments as they are common in economic contexts.
D23|Multi-period competitive cheap talk with highly biased experts|Each of n experts communicates with a principal about the privately observed quality of the expert's own project via cheap talk, with new independently drawn projects available each period until the principal adopts one. Even when experts are highly biased in that they only receive a positive payoff if their own project is selected, we show that informative equilibria may exist, characterize a large class of stationary equilibria, and find the Pareto dominant symmetric equilibrium. Experts face a tradeoff between inducing acceptance now versus waiting for a better project should the game continue. When the future is more highly valued experts send more informative messages, increasing the average quality of an adopted project and resulting in a Pareto improvement, while communication is harmed and payoffs can decline when there is more competition between experts.
D23|What deters labor-owned firm creation? Evidence from Italian manufacturing sectors|We analyze the determinants of labor-owned versus capital-owned firm creation. We match firm-level information on a large sample of new manufacturing firms with available industry-level proxies of the main determinants of ownership structures according to existing economic theories. We estimate a logit model and quantify the empirical contribution of each argument to explain labor-owned versus capital-owned firm entry. Our results show that human capital specificity and workers heterogeneity largely explain labor-owned firm entry, while other dimensions, such as limited worker wealth, have a weaker statistical relevance. These findings are robust to different estimation methods and are unlikely to be affected by endogeneity concerns. Our results contribute to the general understanding of the endogenous dynamics of ownership rights distribution in manufacturing firms and to the elaboration of policy initiatives aimed at supporting cooperative modes of firm organization.
D23|Distinctively Different: A New Approach to Valuing Architectural Amenities|We propose a method to estimate the capitalised value of the architectural design quality of an area. Our economic design premium is identified by spatially differentiating property prices and design quality within neighbourhoods and comparing the differences across neighbourhoods. We apply our method to 48 conservation area neighbourhoods in England in which we analyse around 7,900 property transactions and interview more than 500 residents. We find a capitalisation effect of about 6.6% (Â£16k) associated with a one standard deviation increase in our index of distinctive design. Our results suggest that this effect is at least partially driven by architectural externalities.
D23|Public–private partnerships for the provision of public goods: Theory and an application to NGOs|When will a public good or service be provided by the government, when will it be provided by a NGO, and when will we see a private–public partnership? This paper provides a model where a typical public good requires different inputs which raises the possibility of partnerships to exploit comparative advantages of different parties. But hold-up problems due to contractual incompleteness in specifying tasks discourage separation of ownership and management. The fact that public goods have the property of non-rivalry and non-excludability and that NGOs tend to be non-profits drives our key results. We apply the framework to NGOs in developing countries which, in the last few decades, have been increasingly involved in various capacities in the provision of a wide range of public goods and services.
D23|Supplier search and re-matching in global sourcing: Theory and evidence from China|In this paper, we consider a dynamic search-and-matching problem of a firm with its intermediate input supplier. In our model, a headquarter currently matched with a supplier, has an interest to find and collaborate with a more efficient partner. However, supplier switching through search and re-matching is costly. Given this trade-off between the fixed costs and the expected gains from continued search, the process will stop whenever the headquarter has found a sufficiently efficient supplier. Using firm-product-level data of fresh Chinese exporters to the United States, we obtain empirical evidence in line with the predictions of our theory. In particular, we find that the share of short-term collaborations is higher in industries with more supplier-cost dispersion, an indication of higher expected search opportunities.
D23|Thou shalt not steal. Taking aversion with legal property claims|Abstract Some recent experimental literature on the taking game (a variation of the dictator game) suggests that human subjects may generally be taking averse, implying that the moral cost of taking exceeds the moral cost of not giving. In our experiment, our subjects could decide to take tangible objects (lottery scratchcards) brought from outside the lab and thus legally owned by other subjects. This legal treatment was compared with a more standard one where subjects earned their scratchcards inside the lab. Evidence is provided of a (weak) taking aversion that is greater when property is established inside the lab via an effort task than when it is pre-existing and legally enforceable outside the lab
D23|Response of Consumer Debt to Income Shocks: The Case of Energy Booms and Busts|This paper investigates how consumers respond to local income shocks as a result of booms and busts in oil and gas development. Oil and gas development generates potentially large streams of income via wages and salaries to workers and royalty income to mineral rights owners. Changes in development may lead consumers to increase their spending depending on their exposure to income shocks. Using quarterly information on consumer debt and oil and gas activity, I ﬁnd that consumer debt increased at a peak of $840 per capita in counties with shale endowment and increased drilling. Each well drilled was associated with $6,750 in consumer debt for an implied total of $2.7 billion or 0.5 percent of consumer debt in areas where drilling occurred from 2007 to 2015. {{p}} Consumers in previously developed areas tend to view new increases in activity as transitory relative to areas with little previous development that experience a shock.
D23|Unproductive Entrepreneurship - The Case Of The Polish Economy|Unproductive entrepreneurship is not a common theme undertaken by researchers. The author defines the basic concepts of unproductive entrepreneurship and explains the role of cultural and economic differences in transition countries, in terms of institutional environment. However the main aim is to identify the nature of unproductive entrepreneurship in Poland. The theory for the research was based on the Baumol work. The research model on the Ajzen TPB. 270 Polish entrepreneurs were surveyed in order to define and describe unproductive entrepreneurship in Poland. The surveyed entrepreneurs present a permissive subjective standard regarding tax evasion when the existence of their enterprise is endangered, however they are also quite indulgent in the case of desire to maximize profits. The entrepreneurs represent more negative behavioural beliefs regarding the effectiveness of tax avoidance than regarding the effectiveness of making arrangements with tender participants or paying bribes.
D23|Assessing the Determinants of Customs-Related Transaction Costs in Turkey|Growing world trade puts forward the importance of trade liberalization and facilitation issues. As trade liberalization efforts of both governments and international organizations have mostly been successful, the importance of bureaucratic and informal impediments to international trade has been increased. An important part of these impediments is generally composed of complicated customs procedures and documentation requirements that generate the principal part of customs-related transaction costs. In this study, we examine the role of several factors in the determination of customs-related transaction costs, especially the waiting time to clear the cargo already in some Turkish ports. We find that customs-clearance line, customs personnel, institutions other than customs offices and information technology structure of the country are the principal factors having important roles in determination of these costs. However, there are several important factors affecting these costs through the customs clearance lines such as simplified procedures, frequency of operations, firm size, country of origin, type of the goods and some other risk factors.
D23|Incentives in the Public Sector: Evidence from a Government Agency|We study the impact of team‐based performance pay in a major UK government agency, the public employment service. The scheme covered quantity and quality targets, measured with varying degrees of precision. We use unique data from the agency's performance management system and personnel records, linked to local labour market data. We show that on average the scheme had no significant effect but had a substantial positive effect in small teams, fitting an explanation combining free riding and peer monitoring. The impact was greater on better‐measured quantity outcomes than quality outcomes. The scheme was very cost effective in small offices.
D23|Incentives for Research Agents and Performance-vested Equity-based Compensation|This study examines an agency problem between a firm and its research employees in a continuous-time dynamic setting. As a solution to the problem, the study presents an optimal contract and discusses its implementation. In the implementation, a primary component of the agent's compensation is a risky security, and the principal lets the agent choose the consumption and effort levels subject to a sequence of minimum holding requirements. This implementation theoretically justifies the widespread use of performance-vested equity-based compensation by firms that rely on R&D.
D23|Power Dynamics in Organizations|We examine an infinitely repeated game between a principal, who has the formal authority to decide on a project, and a biased agent, who is privately informed about what projects are available. The optimal relational contract speaks to how power is earned, lost, and retained. It shows that entrenched power structures are consistent with optimal administration of power. And it provides new perspectives on why similar firms organize differently, even when those organizational differences lead to persistent differences in performance, and why established firms fail to exploit new opportunities, even when they are publicly observable.
D23|The Costs of Point-of-Sale Payments in Canada|This study provides insight into the costs of cash, debit card and credit card payments made at the point of sale in Canada in 2014. For each payment method, it examines the total resource costs, which capture the overall use of resources by society as a whole. Using extensive survey data from retailers, financial institutions and cash transportation companies as well as internal and external data sources, the results show that the resource costs of payments in Canada are non-negligible (0.78 per cent of GDP). Credit cards are most costly in terms of resource costs per transaction, while cash carries the highest resource costs per dollar transacted. Debit cards are the least costly, both in terms of costs per transaction and costs per dollar in sales. The study also demonstrates how the costs vary with transaction sizes. Considering the variable resource costs only, cash is found to be cheapest for transactions up to $6, while debit cards are the least costly for transactions larger than $6. The study also looks into the total private costs, which are the costs incurred by each stakeholder, thereby providing insight into how costs are affecting the use and acceptance of payment methods.
D23|Expropriation risk and FDI in developing countries: Does return of capital dominate return on capital?|Previously reported effects of institutional quality and political risks on foreign direct investment (FDI) are mixed and, therefore, difficult to interpret. We present empirical evidence suggesting a relatively clear, statistically robust, and intuitive characterization. Institutional factors that affect the likelihood of an abrupt and total loss of foreigners’ capital (i.e., return of capital) dominate factors that affect rates of return conditional on a strictly positive terminal investment value (i.e., return on capital). The evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that expropriation risk is most important among the available measures of different dimensions of institutional quality. A one-standard-deviation reduction in expropriation risk is associated with a 72% increase in FDI, which is substantially larger than the effects of any other dimensions of institutional quality as simultaneously estimated in our empirical models of expected FDI inflows. We show that this evidence is consistent with the predictions of a standard theory of FDI under imperfect contract enforcement and multiple dimensions of political risk.
D23|Efficiency versus transaction costs in multidimensional auctions: the case of Brazilian oil and gas lease auctions|In Brazil, a scoring auction decides which firm has the right to explore oil and gas in a region. One of its dimensions is the amount of local content that firms are willing to implement. However, local content programs are subject to significant uncertainty and complexity so mal-adaptation costs are relevant. We characterize players’ bidding behavior when they have information on local content implementation and when they do not. We test those predictions using historical bids. Our tests suggest that the mechanism would be more efficient if the definition of local content programs was left out of the auction.
D23|Credit misallocation during the European financial crisis|Do banks with low capital extend excessive credit to weak firms, and does this matter for aggregate efficiency? Using a unique dataset that covers almost all bank-firm relationships in Italy in the period 2004-2013, we find that during the Eurozone financial crisis (i) undercapitalized banks were less likely to cut credit to non-viable firms; (ii) credit misallocation increased the failure rate of healthy firms and reduced the failure rate of non-viable firms and (iii) nevertheless, the adverse effects of credit misallocation on the growth rate of healthier firms were negligible, as were the effects on TFP dispersion. This goes against previous influential findings, which, we argue, face serious identification problems. Thus, while banks with low capital can be an important source of aggregate inefficiency in the long run, their contribution to the severity of the great recession via capital misallocation was modest.
D23|Property Rights in Sequential Exchange|We analyze the “sequential exchange” problem in which traders have imperfect information on earlier contracts. We show that under sequential exchange, it is in general not possible to simultaneously implement two key features of markets—specialization between asset ownership and control, and impersonal trade. In particular, we show that in contrast with the conventional wisdom in economics, strong property rights—enforceable against subsequent buyers—may be detrimental to impersonal trade because they expose asset buyers to the risk of collusive relationships between owners and sellers. Finally, we provide conditions under which a mechanism that overcomes the trade-off between specialization and impersonal trade exists. We characterize and discuss such mechanism. Our results provide an efficiency rationale for how property rights are enforced in business, company and real estate transactions, and for the ubiquitousness of “formalization” institutions that the literature has narrowly seen as entry barriers. (JEL D23, D83, K11, K22)
D23|Property as sequential exchange: the forgotten limits of private contract|The contractual, single-exchange framework in Coase (1960) contains the implicit assumption that exchange in property rights does not affect future transaction (i.e., trading) costs. This is pertinent for analyzing use externalities but limits our understanding of property institutions: a central problem of property markets lies in the interaction among multiple transactions, which causes exchange-related and non-contractible externalities. By retaining a single-exchange simplification, the economic analysis of property has encouraged views that: (1) overemphasize the initial allocation of property rights, while some form of recurrent allocation is often needed; (2) pay scant attention to legal rights, although these determine enforceability and, therefore, economic value; and (3) overestimate the power of unregulated private ordering, despite its inability to protect third parties. These three biases have been misleading policy in many areas, including land titling and business firm formalization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D23|How should we model property? Thinking with my critics|Inspired by comments made by Allen (2017), Lueck (2017), Ménard (2017) and Smith (2017), this response clarifies and deepens the analysis in Arruñada (2017a). Its main argument is that to deal with the complexity of property we must abstract secondary elements, such as the physical dimensions of some types of assets, and focus on the interaction between transactions. This sequential-exchange framework captures the main problem of property in the current environment of impersonal markets. It also provides criteria to compare private and public ordering, as well as to organize public solutions that enable new forms of private ordering. The analysis applies the lessons in Coase (1960) to property by not only comparing realities but also maintaining his separate treatment of the definition of property rights and transaction costs. However, it replaces his contractual, single-exchange, framework for one in which contracts interact, causing exchange externalities.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D23|How to make land titling more rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
D23|Intangible Assets and the Organization of Global Supply Chains|This paper introduces the concept of intangible assets in sequential supply chains and the importance of their appropriability in the organizational decision of firms. We focus on the quality of intellectual property rights (IPR) institutions, which on top of the hold-up problem between a supplier and the final producer entails an additional risk of imitation as technology may leak to competing producers in the market. The level of IPR enforcement in the location of a supplier can therefore play a crucial role in determining the decision of a final good producer whether to outsource or integrate a particular stage of production. The analysis is performed with Antràs and Chor (2013) in the background, where the position of the input along the supply chain, i.e. its upstreamness, and the degree of sequential complementarity of stage-specific inputs influence the organizational strategy of firms through the incentive structure of supplier investments. Our findings show that introducing intangible assets in sequential supply chain may have the opposite effect of contractibility on outsourcing decision, where only tangible property rights are considered. We argue therefore that the risk of imitation is a relevant feature that needs to be accounted for in the incomplete contract literature. Our theoretical predictions are validated on Slovenian firm-level data.
D23|Property Rights, Transaction Costs, and the Limits of the Market|Although the relevance of property rights and transaction costs for trade and innovation are well-known, we still lack a formal framework to think about their origins and interplay. Within trade interactions, fully protecting the original owners' property implies that some high-valuation potential buyers inefficiently refuse to buy it because of transaction costs. When instead property rights are weak, low-valuation potential buyers inefficiently expropriate the original owners' property. The trade-off between these two misallocations entails that property rights will be weaker the larger transaction costs are regardless of whether they are driven by frictions outside the control of traders or determined by the mix of the dispersion in their valuation and either the original owners' market power or their privileged information. A similar conclusion holds true for an upstream firm's property rights on an input necessary to a downstream firm to introduce a new technology and whose cost is random and ex ante non contractible. This time, transaction costs rise with the likelihood of a more productive technology. All these implications survive when a group of traders/innovators has a larger political influence on institutional design and when the disincentive to effort effect of weak property rights is taken into account. Crucially, the model predictions are consistent with the negative effects of proxies for market frictions and failures on measures of the protection of personal, intellectual, and financial property for a panel of 135 countries spanning the 2006-2015 period. Evidence from several identification strategies suggests that these relationships are indeed causal.
D23|Information Transmission through Influence Activities|This paper studies the information transmission aspect of influence activities within an organization where privately informed division managers strategically communicate divisional information to headquarters to influence its capital allocation decisions. Although costly, influence activities can play a role in transmitting valuable information to headquarters. We define influence activities to be informative if they improve headquarters's inference and detrimental if they hamper it. We find that influence activities are more likely to be informative in organizations that are less averse to risk taking, that rely more on higher-power incentives, and that encourage competition in the form of contest. We also find that competition over scarce resources increases the overall level of influence activities.
D23|Is Distance Dead? Face-to-Face Communication and Productivity in Teams|Has technology made face-to-face communication redundant? We investigate using a natural experiment in an organisation where a worker must communicate complex electronic information to a colleague. Productivity is higher when the teammates are (exogenously) in the same room and, inside the room, when their desks are closer together. We establish face-to-face communication as the main mechanism, and rule out alternative channels such as higher effort by co-located workers. The effect is stronger for urgent and complex tasks, for homogeneous workers, and for high pressure conditions. We highlight the opportunity costs of face-to-face communication and their dependence on organisational slack.
D23|Supplier search and re-matching in global sourcing: theory and evidence from China|In this paper, we consider a dynamic search-and-matching problem of a firm with its intermediate input supplier. In our model, a headquarter currently matched with a supplier, has an interest to find and collaborate with a more efficient partner. However, supplier switching through search and rematching is costly. Given this trade-off between the fixed costs and the expected gains from continued search, the process will stop whenever the headquarter has found a sufficiently efficient supplier. Using firm-product-level data of fresh Chinese exporters to the United States, we obtain empirical evidence in line with the predictions of our theory. In particular, we find that the share of short-term collaborations is higher in industries with more supplier-cost dispersion, an indication of higher expected search opportunities
D23|Transfer taxes and household mobility: Distortion on the housing or labor market?|We estimate the effect of the UK Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) – a transfer tax on the purchase price of property or land – on different types of household mobility using micro data. Exploiting a discontinuity in the tax schedule, we isolate the impact of the tax from other determinants of mobility. We compare homeowners with self-assessed house values on either sides of a cut-off value where the tax rate jumps from 1 to 3 percent. We find that a higher SDLT has a strong negative impact on housing-related and short distance moves but does not adversely affect job-induced or long distance mobility. Overall, our results suggest that transfer taxes may mainly distort housing rather than labor markets.
D23|Blockchain's struggle to deliver impersonal exchange|The paper identifies what value blockchain adds to the contractual and property processes, exploring its potential and analyzing the main difficulties it is facing. It argues that, contrary to naive conceptions that proclaim the end of intermediaries and state involvement, blockchain applications will rely on a variety of interface, completion and enforcement specialists, including standard public interventions, especially for property transactions. Without these interventions, blockchain applications will at most enable trade in in personam claims—instead of in rem rights—, therefore facilitating personal instead of truly impersonal—that is, asset-based—transactions.
D23|How to Make Land Titling more Rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
D23|Finite Horizon Holdup and How to Cross the River|When should one pay for delivery of a good if there are no institutions? We suggest to break up the transaction into many small rounds of investment and payment. We show that the efficient investment can be implemented in an epsilon-subgame perfect equilibrium for any given epsilon if the invest technology is concave and there are sufficiently many rounds of investment. This shows that the holdup problem that emerges from backwards induction in a finite horizon is not robust.
D23|What situation is this? Coarse cognition and behavior over a space of games|We study strategic interaction between agents who distill the complex world around them into simpler situations. Assuming agents share the same cognitive frame, we show how the frame affects equilibrium outcomes. In one-shot and repeated interactions, the frame causes agents to be either better or worse off than if they could perceive the environment in full detail: it creates a fog of cooperation or a fog of conflict. In repeated interaction, the frame is as important as agentsÕ patience in determining the set of equilibria: for a fixed discount factor, when all agents coordinate on what they perceive as the best equilibrium, there remain significant performance differences across dyads with different frames. Finally, we analyze some tensions between incremental versus radical changes in the cognitive frame.
D23|Trains, Trade, and Transaction Costs: How Does Domestic Trade by Rail Affect Market Prices of Malawi Agricultural Commodities?|We measure the impact of low-cost transport by rail in Malawi on the dispersion of agricultural commodity prices across markets by exploiting the quasi-experimental design of the nearly total collapse of domestic transport by rail in January 2003 due to the destruction of a railway bridge at Rivirivi, Balaka. Estimations are based on monthly market prices of four agricultural commodities (maize, groundnuts, rice, and beans) in 27 local markets for the period 1998–2006. Market pairs connected by rail when the railway line was operational are intervention observations. Railway transport services explain a 14 to 17 percent reduction in price dispersion across markets. Geographical reach of trade varies by crop, most likely related to storability and geographical spread of production. Perishability appears to increase impact, reflecting limited scope for arbitrage. Overall, impacts are remarkably similar in size across commodities.
D23|What drives academic patentees to bypass TTOs? Evidence from a large public research organisation|Abstract This paper provides insights into the behavior of academic patentees who choose to bypass in-house Technology Transfer Offices (TTOs). TTOs have gained favor in recent years as academic institutions have tried to increase commercialization of their inventions. Using a large sample of researchers at a leading German public research organisation (PRO), results show that patentees in physical and life sciences, those with doctoral degrees, and those with greater job experience are more likely to bypass TTOs. Different forms of industry interactions, including working in industry, industry cooperation and industry consulting, all make TTO-bypassing more likely, with some interesting differences across gender. Further, as expected, academics favoring free public access to their research are less likely to bypass TTOs. On the other hand, internal leadership position as a research group leader, German citizenship and risk attitudes do no exert significant influences. Implications for technology transfer policies are discussed.
D23|Diffusion of Being Pivotal and Immoral Outcomes|We study how diffusing being pivotal affects the willingness to support immoral outcomes. Subjects decide about agreeing to kill mice and receiving money versus objecting to kill mice and foregoing the monetary amount. We investigate an exogenous diffusion of being pivotal imposed by organizational design as well as self-imposed, endogenous diffusion of being pivotal. Regarding exogenous diffusion, we compare two treatments. We keep overall financial incentives and overall payoff consequences identical, yet vary the decision rule: In Baseline subjects decide individually about the life of one mouse. In the Exogenous Diffusion treatment, subjects are organized into groups of eight. Eight mice are killed if at least one subject supports the killing. The fraction of subjects agreeing to kill is significantly higher in Exogenous Diffusion than in Baseline. Moreover, in Exogenous Diffusion, the likelihood to agree to the killing decreases in subjective perceptions of being pivotal. We then show that many subjects actually have a preference to actively create a situation where being pivotal is diffused. In the Endogenous Diffusion treatment, each subject chooses the probability of killing a mouse. The monetary amount a subject receives is proportional to the killing probability. More than 30 percent of subjects opt for intermediate killing probabilities, thereby actively diffusing being pivotal at a proportional reduction of money. Response times and feelings of remorse and bad conscience suggest that it is in particular subjects experiencing moral conflict who prefer diffusing being pivotal. Presumably, this serves as a means to keep a positive self-image while behaving selfishly.
D23|The ordonomic approach to business ethics|'Ordonomics' is a research program that has been developed at the Chair of Economic Ethics at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg. It holds that business actors (persons and organizations) can employ morality as a 'factor of production', and that business ethics can be based on a specific rational-choice analysis that is fully in line with the established tradition of economic thinking. With regard to practice, the main point is that ordonomics offers a guiding concept for creating win-win solutions that help business firms to do well by doing good. With regard to theory, ordonomics offers a conceptual framework for business ethics that makes ethics and economics coherent and mutually compatible with each other.
D23|Contracting institutions and firm boundaries|Contractual frictions are widely known to shape firm boundaries. But do better contracting institutions, which reduce these frictions, induce firms to be more or less deeply integrated? This paper provides a large-scale investigation of this question using a unique micro dataset of ownership shares across half a million firm pairs worldwide. We uncover strong evidence that better contracting institutions in subsidiaries' countries favor deeper integration, particularly in relationship-specific industries. We formally show that these findings can be explained by a generalized Property-Rights Theory of the firm featuring partial ownership, while they are at odds with the canonical Transaction-Cost Theory.
D23|Theoretische Erklärungsansätze für die Entsprechenserklärungen zu Abfindungen für Vorstandsmitglieder<BR>[Theoretical explanation approaches for the declarations of conformity regarding severance payments for members of the management board]|In diesem Beitrag werden theoretische Erklärungen gesucht für die dauerhaft hohe Abweichungsquote der Entsprechenserklärungen hinsichtlich Vorstandsabfindungen von über 20 % von Empfehlung Ziffer 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex und für die Unabhängigkeit der Abweichungsquote von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zum Prime Standard und von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zu einem der Auswahlindices DAX, MDAX, TecDAX oder SDAX. Auch die mehrheitliche Überschreitung der Obergrenze trotz Entsprechenserklärungen und das Unterlassen der Erwähnung der Überschreitung im vergangenheitsorientierten Teil der folgenden Erklärung sollen erklärt werden. Aus verschiedenen theoretischen Modellen werden jeweils Veränderungsempfehlungen für die Regelung der Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder abgeleitet.
D23|Finite Horizon Holdup and How to Cross the River|When should one pay the ferryman? When should one pay for delivery of a good if there are no institutions or these are too costly to enforce contracts? We suggest to break up the transaction into many small rounds of investment and payment. We show that the e?cient investment can be implemented in an e-subgame perfect equilibrium for any given e if there are su?ciently many rounds of investment. This shows that when the horizon is ?nite, the holdup problem that emerges from backwards induction is not robust. Equilibria with stable and robust strategies require more periods.
D23|Paying Gig Workers|We study the compensation of gig workers in a natural field experiment. To derive testable predictions, this paper presents a formal model capturing a central feature of online freelance work: gig work- ers' ability to choose both how much to work and how big an e¤ort to make. We analyse the set-up in a principal-agent model, showing that the optimal contract includes a sales-based commission and uses a gig-based piece rate to insure a risk-averse agent. This piece rate is in- creasing in her risk aversion, intrinsic motivation and ability. We then predict the e¤ects of introducing a gig piece rate while reducing the commission rate. The effects on the agents' choices of quantity and quality are heterogeneous in their risk aversion, intrinsic motivation and ability.
D23|The Importance of Mittelstand Firms for Regional Apprenticeship Activity|German politicians frequently emphasize the importance of Mittelstand firms for the economy, thereby particularly referring to their enormous engagement in training apprentices. However, there is yet almost no empirical evidence on the question whether Mittelstand firms are in fact excessively active in training apprentices. We study whether the relative importance of owner-managed small and medium sized enterprises has an effect on firms' apprenticeship activity on the county level.
D23|Surveillance informatique versus surveillance classique : une expérience d’effort réel|Agency theory states that constant monitoring is necessary to increase agents’ effort. While the existing experimental evidence focuses on probabilistic output monitoring, this article studies the impact of constant and continuous monitoring allowed by information technologies (IT) and compares it with the classic imperfect and probabilistic form. We analyze thus the differences in the effects of IT vs. classic monitoring on agents’ behaviors. We also analyze the impacts on principal’s behaviors that are largely ignored in the existing literature. For this purpose, we conducted a controlled laboratory experiment using a virtual organization setting which enables us to introduce a real-effort work task as well as IT monitoring and shirking activities (leisure and cheating). We find that IT monitoring implies a disciplining effect which appears when the agents are in an endogenous share pay scheme and perceive the sanction of being caught shirking. IT monitoring, even if it implies a time cost (that the principal cannot dedicate to work), is yet useful for the principal to sanction counterproductive activities, especially cheating, and is not detrimental to his/her performance. Classification JEL : C91, D23, M5.
D23|Exclusion and Reintegration in a Social Dilemma|Using a negatively framed public good game, we study the cooperative behavior of individuals who reintegrate their group after being excluded by their peers. We manipulate the length of exclusion and whether this length is imposed exogenously or results from a vote. We show that people are willing to exclude the least cooperators although it is not an equilibrium strategy. Exclusion has a positive impact on cooperation when it is followed by a quick rather than a slow reintegration and that the length of exclusion is chosen by the group. In this environment, a quicker reintegration also limits retaliation. Post-exclusion cooperation and forgiveness depend not only on the length of exclusion but also on the perceived intentions of others when they punish.
D23|Inside And Outside The Black Box - Organization Of Interdependencies|Production theory has remained substantially unchanged since the publication of the Theory of Production by Ragnar Frisch, (1928, 1965). The theory is based on the idea of a firm deciding on the possible input and output combinations of a single unit of production. His theory was substantially copied in contributions by Sune Carlsson (1939) and Erich Schneider (1947), and later by practically all textbooks in microeconomics. The idea is to model the firm as a “black box” in which a finite number of externally purchased inputs are transformed into a finite number of outputs to be sold in the market(s). Most of the time, the prices are externally determined. Often, the production process is summarized by some simplified production function as for example in the form of a CES function. Another and conceptually richer approach is the formulation of an activity analysis model. In the latter case, simple internal interdependencies can be included. In this paper, we indicate how internal interdependencies can also be modeled within a special CES framework. In recent decades, there has been a remarkable growth in the number of production units of firms like IKEA, Walmart and Apple to name a few such global networking firms. Most of the analysis of these network firms has been modeled by logistics and other operations-research analysts and to a limited extent by researchers in business administration schools. Very little has been done in economics. We propose a modelling approach consistent with microeconomic theory.
D23|Integrating community driven care service in European welfare states – nonprofit institutional entrepreneurship as driver for expanding access|We review historic and contemporary cases of a surprisingly wide-ranging class of health care delivery, which we term Open Care. Examples includes historic friendly societies that provided insurance and medical services to members, co-ops, unpaid community clinics, patient groups, self-help support networks, crowdsourcing and the IT-based aggregation of medical data. The definition of Open Care is based on the production of health by communities rather than profit motives, and therefore also includes for-profit firms that rely on voluntary input. We attempt to analyze Open Care using the related literature on institutional economics in order to identify areas where community driven care projects are most likely to thrive, provide policy recommendations on how they could be integrated in the existing European health care system. The unorthodox features of open care also make it a valuable case that provides new theoretical insights in institutional economics. The concept of evasive entrepreneurship has previously been restricted to for profit firms that evade formal institutions. Reviewing Open Care however shows that the concept also fits for community based projects, though in sometimes different ways. For profit firms that evade institutions maximize profits, and often have incentives to corner evasion. By contrast non-profit evasive entrepreneurship that circumvent institutions to maximizes quantity have incentive to expand the evasion to others or remove the barriers entirely. We find that Open care tends to emerge when existing health system fails, when there are therapeutic advantages in co-producing health such as support and addiction care, or when knowledge is dispersed, such as patient knowledge about symptoms and side-effects.
D23|Unemployment risk among newly hired immigrants|Unemployment among immigrants is one of the most pressing issues facing European policy makers. Most of the research on unemployment among immigrants has been directed towards those who are low-educated or long-term unemployed, while those who are closer to establishing themselves on the labor market have received surprisingly little attention. Our aim is to address this shortcoming by investigating differences in unemployment risk between newly hired immigrants and natives using register data from Statistics Sweden. We find that unemployed immigrants are more likely to re-enter unemployment than natives in the same position, even after controlling for a wide range of individual- and firm-level factors. The difference in unemployment risk between immigrants and natives is significantly reduced if immigrants are hired by a firm in the hospitality sector, a young or small firm, or a firm with at least one manager born in a nonwestern country. Therefore, it appears that systematic differences exist in the risk of reentering unemployment between immigrants and native workers and that these differences are related to the workplace and industry in which they are hired.
D23|What matters in Design of Corporate Law|For the corporate business model to be successful, it is important to align the interests of those who control and finance the firm. Corporate law has here an important task to fulfill. It offers a legal framework that can facilitate for parties to conclude mutually preferable agreements at low transaction costs. The purpose of the paper is to show how to design corporate law to fulfill this task. A two-dimension model that simultaneously considers both regulation intensity and the level of default of the corporate law is presented. Earlier literature treats these dimensions separately. By adding a transaction cost perspective to our model, we assess different regulatory techniques and examine how legislation can help corporations by offering a standard contract that lowers transaction costs of contracting. This can be achieved through a legislation that covers most contingencies and take the heterogeneity of firms into consideration. Furthermore, default rules or standards of opt-out character should be combined with other regulatory techniques with lower transaction costs such as opt-in alternatives and menus.
D23|Organizational Concealment: An Incentive of Reducing the Responsibility|We studyworkers’ incentives of reporting problems within an OLG organization consisting of a subordinate and a manager. The subordinate is responsible for reporting a problem, and the manager is responsible for solving the reported problem. The subordinate has an incentive to conceal a detected problem since if he reports it but the manager is too lazy to solve the problem, the responsibility is transferred to the subordinate since he becomes a manager in the next period. We show that concealment is more likely either if subordinates are farsighted or the problem’s growth rate increases over time.
D23|Person–Organization Fit and Incentives: A Causal Test|We investigate the effects of organizational culture and personal values on performance under individual and team contest incentives. We develop a model of regard for others and in-group favoritism that predicts interaction effects between organizational values and personal values in contest games. These predictions are tested in a computerized lab experiment with exogenous control of both organizational values and incentives. In line with our theoretical model, we find that prosocial (proself)-orientated subjects exert more (less) effort in team contests in the primed prosocial organizational values condition, relative to the neutrally primed baseline condition. Further, when the prosocial organizational values are combined with individual contest incentives, prosocial subjects no longer outperform their proself counterparts. These findings provide, to our knowledge, a first, affirmative, causal test of person–organization fit theory. They also suggest the importance of a “triple-fit” between personal preferences, organizational values, and incentive mechanisms for prosocially orientated individuals. This paper was accepted by John List, behavioral economics .
D23|The economics of ownership, access and trade in digital data|Despite the rapidly growing volume and economic importance of data in the digital economy, the legal framework for data ownership, access and trade remains incompletely defined in the EU and elsewhere. De facto data ownership dominates and often leads to fragmentation or anti-commons problems in data. Combined with limited access and trade, this inhibits the realisation of the full economic benefits of non-rival data. It may slow down innovation and affect the efficiency of data markets. We examine three potential sources of data market failures: externalities related to economies of scope in data, strategic behaviour of data owners and transaction costs in data exchanges. We link the legal debate on data ownership with relevant branches of the economics literature, including intellectual property rights economics, the commons and anti-commons literature, models of trade under the Arrow Information Paradox and multi-sided markets. Economists are inclined to think that well-defined private property rights are a necessary condition for an efficient resource allocation. The question in this paper is to what extent this view holds for non-rival data. We show that the allocation of data ownership or residual control rights matters, not only for private benefits but also for social welfare. The outcomes of bargaining over data ownership and access rights do not necessarily maximize social welfare. Can regulators intervene to improve these outcomes? Would a better specification of legal ownership rights or introducing access provisions to improve efficiency and reduce data market failures? There are no easy answers to these largely empirical questions. We offer no policy solutions yet and more research is required to bring economics up to speed with these questions.
D23|Geo-blocking of Non Audio-visual Digital Media Content in the EU Digital Single Market|This study measures the extent of cross-border geo-blocking and the impact on product availability and pricing for three non-audio-visual digital media products (music, e-books and games) in the EU Digital Single Market. We find that cross-border access to online media stores is generally blocked for the products and distributors surveyed in this study, though it can usually be circumvented. By contrast, cross-border availability is high, reaching around 98.6% for e-books on Amazon, 90% for downloadable music on iTunes, and 81.1% and 90.5% respectively for PS3 and PS4 PlayStation games. We could not directly verify cross-border availability of music in streaming services but a small sample test suggests that it could reach around 96% on Spotify. We find that the frequency of cross-country price differentiation is limited for games in the Sony PlayStation stores (less than 4%) but higher for downloadable music in the Apple iTunes stores (11.5%) and Amazon e-book stores (26%). Much of this price differentiation is driven by exchange rates and rounding off prices in country stores not denominated in Euro. In music, price discrimination is used mostly to extract higher prices from high-income consumers and for more popular songs with a lower price elasticity of demand. Subscription prices for main music streaming services are strongly correlated with country per capita income levels. Geographical market differentiation and geo-blocking in digital media is often attributed to the territoriality of the copyright management regime. In most cases rights holders are in a position to issue multi-territorial licenses. For commercial reasons however they may prefer to exercise their rights on a territorial basis. The welfare effect of geo-blocking on sellers can be safely assumed to be positive otherwise sellers would not apply this commercial strategy. The impact on consumer welfare is a-priori ambiguous. Geo-blocking reduces the extent of product variety available to consumers. Whether it increases or reduces consumer welfare is an empirical question. The data required to empirically estimate the impact of (lifting) geo-blocking restrictions on welfare are held by the private platform operators. A future assessment can only be made if the required data on product prices and sales are made available to independent researchers. Lifting geo-blocking restrictions will induce price arbitrage between country markets. That may put pressure on sellers to reduce price differentiation and push some prices up, others down. The price response of sellers is hard to predict and may have repercussions not only on downstream consumers but also on upstream parts of the supply chain. Price convergence is unlikely to be perfect and some differentiation may continue to exist because trade costs between country stores may not fall to zero (exchange rates, means of payment, linguistic trade barriers, etc.).
D23|Barriers to European cross-border E-commerce|We analyse survey data to investigate the main barriers to European cross-border e-commerce. We investigate the determinants of selling online, as well as the frequency and determinants of cross-border e-commerce, and the role of barriers. Large firms, which are part of a group, are more likely to sell online. Firms generally make most of their online sales to their home country, although EU firms are more likely to engage in cross-border online trade with EU countries than non-EU countries. Firms report that they are facing a variety of barriers to e-commerce. Regulatory barriers are negatively associated with online sales. There is weak evidence that firms which use their own websites are more vulnerable to financial, market and information barriers. Firms that use a large platform experience fewer financial and market barriers. On the positive side, we find that small and young firms do not seem to be more vulnerable to barriers than large or more experienced firms.
D23|The competitive landscape of online platforms|This paper describes the different forces that shape the market structure of four different 'online platform ecosystems' and the competition between them. The paper focuses on the following categories of platforms, which represent a wide scope of online activities: (i) e-commerce marketplaces; (ii) app stores; (iii) social media; and (iv) online advertising platforms. A central concern is to provide descriptive, empirical evidence on the relative strength of the forces operating in each case. In the past decade or so, many theoretical and conceptual contributions have been very helpful in developing a clear understanding of many of the issues around multi-sided markets, and have analysed these activities from many different perspectives. Unfortunately, they have provided hardly any empirical evidence. This paper attempts to reduce the lack of empirical evidence available on online platforms.
D23|"Trade, competition and welfare in global online labour markets: A ""gig economy"" case study"|This study focuses on collaborative economy platforms that specialize in purely digital tasks that require no physical delivery or proximity between workers and their clients, which we call Online Labour Markets (OLMs). They have a global reach. There is a debate on job fragmentation and deteriorating working conditions in OLMs. This study emphasizes the economic opportunities and explores (a) the drivers of global trade in digital tasks, (b) the determinants of online wages and (c) the welfare impact of OLMs on workers and employers. This is a case study based on data obtained from a single UK-based OLM. Our findings cannot necessarily be generalised to other OLMs with different characteristics. Using panel data we find that the vast majority of employers are located in high-income countries while many workers are located in low-income countries. Workers in low-income countries are motivated to participate mostly by labour productivity gains and the corresponding higher wages. Workers in high income countries combine opportunities for additional work and income with the benefits of flexible time use and other non-wage benefits. Employers are motivated by wage savings and task unbundling. Despite the global nature of digital OLMs, there is an impression of home bias in hiring. OLMs are heterogeneous markets where about half of all transactions are settled above the lowest price bid. Workers' skills and experience as well as their countries of residence have an impact on the agreed wage and the probability of being hired. Worker quality signaling induces superstar effects and a very uneven distribution of work. Taking into account only the difference between online and offline wages in the countries of residence of workers and employers we estimate that this particular OLM has positive monetized welfare effects, both for workers (+17%) and even more so for employers (+70%). Unobservable non-monetized benefits such as increased flexibility and savings in transport or migration costs for workers and task unbundling for employers give a further boost to welfare. The extent of unbundling is demonstrated by the very short duration of the average task in this OLM: slightly less than 8 hours. Workers in this case study platform are self-employed and responsible for compliance with regulations in their country of residence.
D23|Quality discrimination in online multi-sided markets|"The aim of this paper is to explain evidence of unfair practices by online platforms towards business users, particularly SME's. First, using survey data, we show that sellers operating with four different categories of platforms multi-home (marketplaces, app stores, social networks and online advertising). Hence, the appropriate competitive framework is the ""competitive bottleneck"" model. Second, we develop an empirical model of platform competition adding an additional dimension: service quality. The results indicate that the costs of providing quality to sellers are higher than the costs of providing quality to buyers. These differences may reflect different needs or preferences across groups. While buyers would require simple functionalities sellers would need more sophisticated services. When sellers' multi-home, platforms care more about buyers than sellers and while buyers will get an efficient level of quality, quality to sellers will be ""degraded"". We argue that this service quality degradation explain unfair trading practices simply because platforms are not willing to invest to take care of sellers."
D23|Platforms to business relations in online platform ecosystems|This report presents evidence on the relationship between online platforms and businesses using these platforms to reach consumers or conduct their operations. First, we review the literature on vertical relationships both from a classic approach and from a multi-sided market perspective. Second, we use survey data to explain the factors behind firms’ choice of online channel. Third, we explore the results of a survey passed to firms using platforms to understand their concerns about the behaviour of some of these online gatekeepers. Finally, we offer some conclusions.
D23|Racing against Time in Research: A Study of the 1995 U.S. Patent Law Amendment|"Teamwork in research has been on the rise and so has the size of R&D teams. This paper offers an explanation for increasing team size that we call the ""racing against time"" hypothesis: With innovation races more competitive globally, R&D firms need to finish research projects as quickly as possible and therefore have an incentive to put together a team with more R&D personnel. We test this hypothesis against a natural experiment that took place in 1995 when the U.S. patent law was amended."
D23|Offshoring and Wage Inequality: Theory and Evidence from China|We present a global production sharing model that integrates the organizational choices of offshoring into the determination of relative wages in developing countries. The model shows that offshoring through foreign direct investment contributes more prominently than arm's length outsourcing to the demand for skill in the South, thereby increasing the relative wage of skilled workers. We incorporate these theoretical results into an augmented Mincer earnings function and test the model based on a natural experiment in which China lifted its restrictions on foreign ownership for multinational companies upon its accession to the World Trade Organization in 2001. Empirical findings based on detailed Urban Household Surveys and trade data from Chinese customs provide support to our proposed theory, thus shedding light on the changes in firm ownership structure, the skill upgrading in exports, and the evolution of wage inequality from 1992 to 2008 in China's manufacturing sector.
