D25|Investment Responses to Tax Policy under Uncertainty|"How does economic uncertainty affect the impact of tax policy? To answer this question, we exploit a unique natural experiment, in which two very similar investment subsidies were implemented in the same country, two years apart: once during a period of economic stability, and once during a period of very high uncertainty. The experiment features sharp discontinuities in firm eligibility, and we conduct our analysis using tax returns (corporate and VAT) and trade data for the universe of corporations. We find that, under low uncertainty, tax incentives have strong positive effects on investment, both on the extensive and intensive margins. This aligns with the findings in several recent empirical papers. Under high uncertainty, however, the story is very different: the effect at the intensive margin is still present, but the effect at the extensive margin disappears. Together, these results suggest that: (1) some firms ""wait and see"" during periods of high uncertainty, even in the presence of generous incentives; and (2) periods of stability offer an important policy opportunity to encourage investment."
D25|The Reformed EU ETS - Intertemporal Emission Trading with Restricted Banking|With the increase of the linear reduction factor (LRF), the implementation of the market stability reserve (MSR) and the introduction of the cancellation mechanism (CM), the EU ETS changed fundamentally. We develop a discrete time model of the intertemporal allowance market that accurately depicts these reforms assuming that prices develop with the Hotelling rule as long as the TNAC is non-empty. A sensitivity analysis ensures the robustness of the model results regarding its input parameters. The accurate modelling of the EU ETS allows for a decomposition of the eﬀects of the individual amendments and the evaluation of the dynamic eﬃciency. The MSR shifts emissions to the future but is allowance preserving. The CM reduces the overall emission cap, increasing allowance prices in the long run, but does not signiﬁcantly impact the emission and price path in the short run. The increased LRF leads with 9 billion cancelled allowances to a stronger reduction than the CM and is therefore the main price driver of the reform.
D25|Upgrading business investment in Turkey|Starting from a low level in early 2000s, Turkey’s total capital stock has since expanded rapidly, but the composition and quality of investment raises questions. This study focuses on business investment, as the main driver of physical and knowledge-based capital formation and, hence, of potential output and the material foundations of well-being. Micro data allow to distinguish four types of firms: small businesses with a high rate of informality, medium-sized family firms, large formal corporations, and skilled start-ups. The relative importance of the challenges facing these different types of firms varies, notably with respect to skill shortcomings, regulatory burdens, labour costs, access to bank lending, over-leveraging and scarce equity capital. Improving the current business environment and overcoming the fragmentation of the business sector will be crucial to upgrade the quality of business investment and to enhance the allocative efficiency of capital formation. This calls for promoting formality, best management practices, the build-up of equity capital, access to long-term bank financing and other market-based financing that can complement traditional bank lending; and a faster and more inclusive transition to the digital economy.
D25|Is there a zero lower bound? The effects of negative policy rates on banks and firms|Exploiting confidential data from the euro area, we show that sound banks can pass negative rates on to their corporate depositors without experiencing a contraction in funding. These pass-through effects become stronger as policy rates move deeper into negative territory. Banks offering negative rates provide more credit than other banks suggesting that the transmission mechanism of monetary policy is not hampered. The negative interest rate policy (NIRP) provides further stimulus to the economy through firms’ asset rebalancing. Firms with high current assets linked to banks offering negative rates appear to increase their investment in tangible and intangible assets and to decrease their cash holdings to avoid the costs associated with negative rates. Overall, our results challenge the commonly held view that conventional monetary policy becomes ineffective when policy rates reach the zero lower bound. JEL Classification: E52, E43, G21, D22, D25
D25|Can survey-based information help assess investment gaps in the eu?|This study illustrates how information from micro-level and survey-based databases can be used, along with macroeconomic indicators, to provide a better understanding of corporate investment obstacles across the EU. To show this, we use a novel dataset merging firm-level data from the European Investment Bank Investment Survey (EIBIS) and hard data from corporations’ balance sheet and P&L information. We show that the indicators of impediments to investment at the country level, which can be derived from aggregating qualitative answers, correlate relatively well with macro-based hard data, which are commonly considered as determinants of investments in macro-based models. After controlling for firm-specific characteristics, the perceived investment gap (the difference between desired and actual investment) remains correlated with the reported impediments. While access to finance is not the most reported obstacle, reporting it has the highest information content. Moreover, the signal intensifies when it is given by “weaker” firms, defined as those that are smaller, and/or more indebted, and/or less profitable and/or with lower liquidity positions. From a policy standpoint, our findings suggest that survey-based information can be a useful input to complement both macro and micro hard data and better inform the design of targeted policies to support investment.
D25|Quality of enforcement and investment decisions. Firm-level evidence from Spain|Investment decisions are generally irreversible and could be affected by holdup problems and opportunism. Thus, investment may need sound enforcement institutions. This paper analyzes firm level data to identify the impact of judicial system efficacy, as representative of the institutional quality, in business investment decisions. More specifically, this research measures the effects of congestion in the Spanish civil (private) jurisdiction at the local level, both when solving ordinary trials and executions (when a judge forces the debtor to pay or to fulfill an obligation) and finds a negative and significant relationship between judicial inefficacy and the gross investment ratio. The effect holds after running several robustness checks. This paper also analyzes the efficacy of the administrative jurisdiction, inspired by the hypothesis of Acemoglu and Johnson (2005), but it does not have a significant impact on investment in our sample.
D25|The relative performance of family firms depending on the type of financial market|The purpose of this multi-level meta-analytic study is to examine the impact of the financial environment on general performance differences between family firms and non-family firms. The considerable cross-country variability of meta-analyses focusing on this relationship suggests noticeable differences between firm- and country-based characteristics. We trace this variance to differences in the respective development of the financial markets and banking systems. We show that family firms outperform non-family firms in market-based economies. We further show that family firms report worse performance measures in well-developed financial markets. If, however, strong investor protection buttresses these already welldeveloped financial markets, family firms also outperform non-family firms. Our study has implications for banks, family firm owners, investors, and policy-makers.
D25|Sustainable Finance for Sustainable Development|The paper explores how ethical and sustainable oriented finance is key to reach sustainable development by tackling environmental risk through green finance and showing empirical evidence on the link between finance and inequality. The theory provided puts in the right mind frame to analyze markets, intermediaries and instruments with a sustainable lens to focus on the benefits that have brought to sustainable development. A discussion is presented between different intermediaries and highlights the benefits of cooperative banks especially the close relationship of customers and bank and the resilience it gives to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in difficult times. Different investments strategies are discussed walking through the evolution of Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and diving into the ESG analysis to use as criteria to allocate investments based on environmental, social and governance principles. Microfinance is introduced as a different market that has reached the people at the bottom of the pyramid and highlights the key role it will play to bring financial inclusion. Islamic finance and Fintech are also discussed. Different instruments are presented to understand the current landscape of how different investors are using innovative products to attack social and environmental problems. Finally, five different ways are presented on how policies can strengthen and support sustainable development arguing that the most important is by promoting sustainable footprint certification.
D25|Model-based regulation and firms' access to finance|This paper investigates the impact of the model-based approach to bank capital regulation (i.e. the Internal Ratings Based Approach; IRBA) on firms' access to finance. A difference-in-differences methodology is used given that the IRBA, introduced as part of Basel II, was adopted by different banks in different times. The results suggest that firms indirectly affected by the new regulation via their main bank adopting the IRBA faced a 6-7 percentage point higher probability of facing a deterioration in their access to finance. When the sample is adjusted for the demand for credit, this estimate increases to 12-13 percentage points. The impact is found to come via increases in the cost of credit and to a smaller extent, reductions in the volume or size of loans. Around three-quarters of the effect is attributed to the sensitivity of the IRBA capital requirements to economic conditions, with adopting banks also found to specialize in low-risk lending.
D25|企業の内部情報システムの質と企業の投資行動|本稿は、企業の内部情報システムの質が企業の投資行動に与える影響を分析する。企業の内部情報システムが整備されていると、経営者が適時的に投資機会を把握することができると予想される。また、企業内部の資本配分が効率的に行われるようになると予想される。検証の結果、開示ラグの小ささで測定した内部情報システムの質が大きくなるほど、①企業の投資行動が積極的になっており、②産業レベルの投資機会に対する感応度が改善していることが明らかになった。これらの結果は、企業の内部情報システムが、経営者が把握可能な情報を変化させることを通じて、投資行動を変化させていることを示唆する結果である。
D25|Big Data and Firm Dynamics|We study a model where firms accumulate data as a valuable intangible asset. Data accumulation affects firms' dynamics. It increases the skewness of the firm size distribution as large firms generate more data and invest more in active experimentation. On the other hand, small data-savvy firms can overtake more traditional incumbents, provided they can finance their initial money-losing growth. Our model can be used to estimate the market and social value of data.
D25|R&D Financing And Growth|R&D investment are an important engine of growth and development.Yet economists have often claimed underinvestment, based on the consideration thatthese projects are more costly to finance, especially, due to the asymmetric informa-tion between inside and outside investors. Coherently, a recent empirical evidence hasshown that firms intensively active in R&D are less leveraged and rely more heavilyon internal finance. Motivated by this evidence, we study the e↵ects of asymmetricinformation and financial frictions within a GE economy of Schumpeterian tradition.The model and equilibrium concept are rich enough to represent investment and in-novation decisions, technology adoption/di↵usion through patent licensing and, mostimportantly, firms’ financial decisions. In this representation, R&D-intensive firmsmight e↵ectively rely more on internal sources and equity than on debt financing, rel-ative to what would happen in frictionless markets. Further, financial decisions a↵ectaggregate investment and income dynamics.
D25|Endogenous credit constraints: the role of informational non-uniqueness|We point out that the equilibrium deinition applied by Miao and Wang [8] in their model of stock price bubbles involves an implicit assumption about the for-mulation of an endogenous credit constraint. By dropping this assumption, one can construct ininitely many additional equilibria for the Miao-Wang economy, all of which exhibit stock price bubbles. The underlying reason for this result is informational non-uniqueness, a phenomenon known from the literature on dynamic games. Neither the original equilibria discussed by Miao and Wang [8] nor the additional ones which exist due to informational non-uniqueness are Markov-perfect. For this reason we propose a recursive equilibrium deinition for the Miao-Wang economy and show how it can be used to construct Markov-perfect equilibria with stock price bubbles.
D25|Les réformes structurelles : philosophie sociale et choix politique|Les réformes structurelles engagées en France ont une grande cohérence. Elles visent à développer un nouveau modèle économique et un nouveau modèle social basés sur le développement de l’entrepreneuriat et une individualisation des parcours professionnels censés favoriser l’innovation et la croissance en rupture radicale avec ce qui est parfois désigné comme l’ancien monde. L’analyse et l’expérience rappellent à une certaine réalité de l’entreprise et de la finance et conduisent à formuler un diagnostic moins optimiste faisant craindre une montée du dualisme au sein de la société allant à l’encontre du but recherché.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D25|Labor Responses, Regulation and Business Churn in a Small Open Economy|We analyze labor responses to technology shocks when firm entry is sluggish due to endogenous sunk costs. We provide closed-form solutions for transition dynamics that show, when firm entry is slow to respond, labor will increase (decrease) relative to its long-run response if returns to labor input at the firm level are increasing (decreasing). Under stricter regulation (slower business churn), such short-run deviations of labor persist for longer. There is also potential for short-run productivity effects to differ from the long run.
D25|Alleviating the Barriers to Domestic Investment in Addis Ababa: Underlying Causes and Proposed Solutions|While Addis Ababa is rapidly urbanizing, productive job creation remains to be a key challenge. The root cause of this has been the lack of structural transformation towards industries with higher potential for growth and job creation. In response, the government of Ethiopia and the Addis Ababa city government in particular through their Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP2) target the industrial sector to enhance structural transformation and create more productive jobs in Ethiopia’s cities. Despite the priority and importance accorded to the industrial sector and efforts to improve the investment environment, quite a few domestic investors go beyond the licensing stage to start production. A recent World Bank report on the investment climate in Addis Ababa shows that only about 5% of domestic firms that receive investment licenses are able to convert from the pre-operational to the operational phase of investment to establish their businesses. This is also consistent with government reports. By any standard, this is one of the lowest investment conversion rates, and hence is quite concerning. So, the key question is: why 95% of investors were not able to move beyond the licensing stage to start operating? We tried to tackle this using qualitative/semi-structured firm level research among the firms who received an investment license but are stuck or discouraged.
D25|En quoi la dépense d’investissement des entreprises françaises est-elle énigmatique ?|Cette étude offre une description et caractérisation de l’investissement des entreprises françaises. Tout d'abord, la dépense d'investissement des entreprises françaises est soutenue en valeur absolue et en intensité (taux d'investissement) relativement à ses partenaires. Si la crise a affecté fortement l'investissement des entreprises françaises, celui-ci a continûment augmenté depuis les 20 dernières années. Ce qui caractérise la France, c'est une évolution moins cyclique relativement aux autres pays et une augmentation tendancielle du taux d'investissement avec ou sans construction. Il est frappant aussi d'observer la proximité des taux d'investissement allemands et français en niveau et en évolution hors investissement de construction sur l'ensemble du secteur marchand.Ensuite, l'investissement français se singularise par une faiblesse des investissements en équipements et machines alors qu'au contraire les investissements en actifs immatériels comme la R&D et les logiciels et bases de données sont importants dans la dépense d'investissement. Si on observe le taux d'investissement dans les actifs matériels hors construction, la France sous- performe par rapport à ses partenaires. Enfin, la trajectoire du secteur manufacturier relativement aux autres secteurs explique une grande partie des caractéristiques de l'investissement du secteur marchand. La faiblesse del'intensité en robots résulte de la faiblesse de la part du manufacturier et notamment du secteurde l'électronique.
D25|Investitionsverhalten von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht das Investitionsverhalten von kleinen und mittelgroßen Unternehmen anhand der Bilanzkennzahlen deutscher Unternehmen für den Zeitraum von 2005 bis 2014. Hierbei zeigte sich, dass KMU, vor allem seit der Finanzkrise 2009/2010, weniger investieren als Großunternehmen. Das trifft insbesondere auf die Kleinstunternehmen zu. Trotzdem sind KMU - gemessen an den gängigen Performance-Kennzahlen - wirtschaftlich erfolgreich. Das legt nahe, dass sie sehr selektiv und effizient investieren, um ihre Eigenkapitalbasis zu stärken und unabhängiger von (Fremd-)Kapitalgebern zu werden. Die Einflussmöglichkeiten der Wirtschaftspolitik sind zumindest kurzfristig gering. Es empfiehlt sich daher auf eine punktuelle Investitionsförderung zu verzichten und stattdessen eine langfristige, wachstumsorientierte Wirtschaftspolitik zu verfolgen.
D25|Financial Heterogeneity and the Investment Channel of Monetary Policy|We study the role of financial frictions and firm heterogeneity in determining the investment channel of monetary policy. Empirically, we find that firms with low default risk – those with low debt burdens, high credit ratings, and large “distance to default” – are the most responsive to monetary shocks. We interpret these findings using a heterogeneous firm New Keynesian model with default risk. In our model, low-risk firms are more responsive to monetary shocks because their marginal cost of financing investment is relatively flat. The aggregate effect of monetary policy therefore depends on the distribution of default risk, which varies over time.
D25|Optimal Tax Structure for Consumption and Income Inequality:an Empirical Assessment|In the present empirical analysis, we try to assess the impact of taxation on investment, growth. In particular, and by using gross fixed capital formation as a proxy for investment, we intend to evaluate the impact of the taxation structure in investment dynamics, in a short and a long-run perspectives. This empirical exercise was conducted for all OECD countries, during the 1980-2015 period. Through panel data econometric techniques, we find optimal tax-investment threshold values, especially higher for short-term than for long-term horizon. In addition, we find optimal income taxation around 9%, in percentage of GDP, an average optimal value of 12.7% for consumption taxes to promote annual investment growth.
D25|Labor Responses, Regulation and Business Churn|We develop a model of sluggish firm entry to explain short-run labor responses to technology shocks. We show that the labor response to technology and its persistence depend on the degree of returns to labor and the rate of firm entry. Existing empirical results support our theory based on short-run labor responses across US industries. We derive closed-form transition paths that show the result occurs because labor adjusts instantaneously whilst firms are sluggish, and closed-form eigenvalues show that stricter entry regulation results in slower convergence to steady state.
D25|Reclassification Risk in the Small Group Health Insurance Market|We evaluate reclassification risk in the small group health insurance market from a period before ACA community rating regulations. Using detailed individual-level data from a large insurer, we find a pass through of 16% from health risk to premiums with enrollee fixed effects, and 70% without fixed effects. The fixed effects estimates identify the extent to which the insurer passes through changes in risk to changes in premiums while the higher estimates without fixed effects may be due to more risk rating for new accounts. Our estimates control for selection into insurance take-up with a non-parametric selection model, using individual risk and industrial sector as exclusion restrictions. Our results are also robust to other possibilities, including potential measurement error of risk scores and slow pass through over time. We seek to explain why our fixed effects estimates are much closer to community rating than full experience rating. The limited pass through may be due to implicit “guaranteed renewability” contracts with one-sided pricing commitment on the part of the insurer, as our results are broadly consistent with the equilibrium pass through that would occur under these contracts. Our results cannot be explained by market power, search frictions, or slow pass through over time. We simulate the value that is generated by the insurer’s pricing policy relative to counterfactual pricing policies. The insurer’s policy generates 60% of the welfare gain from community rating relative to full experience rating. Even community rated plans generate substantial reclassification risk due to high out-of-pocket costs.
D25|Infrastructural Financing Using Pension Funds Of The West African Monetary Zone’S Member States|This study is pursuant to the directive by the Convergence Council of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) during its Statutory Meetings held from August 1 - 5, 2016 in Conakry, Guinea, to WAMI to carry-out a comprehensive assessment on the feasibility of using pension funds of the Member States of the Zone for infrastructural financing. The overall objective is to accelerate economic growth by leveraging on pension funds to finance infrastructure in the WAMZ. Infrastructure deficit has been a major challenge to growth of WAMZ economies over the years. Apart from telecommunication infrastructure which has recorded considerable improvement in the last decade, huge deficit exists in basic infrastructure such as road networks, railways, airways, waterways and electricity supply. Infrastructure gaps have existed in the Zone dating back to the colonial era and have widened due to political instability, high population growth rate, poor economic development, poor governance and overdependence on external and public sources for infrastructure funding. Weaknesses in public sector salary and wage policies, and unsustainable rate of debt accumulation resulting in huge interest payments, have led to rising recurrent expenditure, which limited available public funding for investments in infrastructure. Volatile commodity prices also adversely affected public funding of infrastructure due to significant reduction in fiscal revenues. Infrastructure development is critical to economic development as it enhances the productive capacity of the economy. As a capital good, it facilitates the delivery of final goods and services to promote economic growth and prosperity. In particular, infrastructure enhances quality of life including social well-being; and health and safety of citizens. The effect of infrastructure on economic development occurs through diffusion of technology, trade facilitation, division of labour, market competition, and efficient allocation of economic resources across countries and regions. Infrastructure also facilitates adoption of new organizational practices and harnessing of latent resources. While the Zone’s total pension fund assets are estimated at US$24.3 billion in 2016 with potential to increase significantly, allocation of pension assets to infrastructure financing is generally low. The low rate of pension fund investment in infrastructure is partly due to insufficient investment vehicles, as well as the inadequacy of financial instruments to support pension fund investment in infrastructure. The capital markets in the WAMZ are not adequately developed to offer long-term capital needed to support the huge financing outlay for infrastructure development. The enormous challenges experienced by governments in bridging infrastructure funding gaps, have compelled WAMZ countries to formulate new policies and programmes to enhance critical infrastructure financing in their economies. Prominent among the policies is the framework that promotes private-sector participation in infrastructure financing. The advocacy for using pension fund to finance infrastructure is hinged on the following rationale: First, shrinking or grossly inadequate traditional funding sources for infrastructure has made pension fund a viable global alternative. Second is the urgent need to bridge the infrastructure funding gap; third is the characteristics of pension fund as a long term instrument which is appropriate for infrastructure financing; fourth, the steady cash flow nature of infrastructure investments makes it ideal for pension fund investment. International experiences suggest that progress towards improving the management of pension funds rely on good governance. Corollary to that is the widely accepted principle that investment using pension fund assets must be done prudently and cost-effectively with quantitative limits. Global infrastructural gap is undoubtedly huge and the pension fund has provided alternative source of funds for infrastructure financing, without any reported case of default wherever it had been experimented. International experience revealed the need for a comprehensive review of strategy for infrastructure financing in the WAMZ countries. This would require issuing infrastructure bonds, with strong ratings premised on strong project analysis and competencies, and good prospects for repayment on Private-Public-Partnership (PPP) models. The population growth and increasing labour force in the WAMZ creates higher potential for increase in the size of pension funds. The large size of the informal sector in the zone, however, constitutes a serious drag on this potential. Currently, pension fund contributors are predominantly from the formal sectors as the informal sector remains informational opaque. The bulk of the contributions to the pension fund are from the public/civil service and the formal private sector as the information available on the informal sector is low. The size of pension funds in the Zone is growing rapidly. However, utilization of these funds to finance infrastructure projects remains low due to some inhibiting factors. These challenges border on the size of pension fund assets relative to the financing need of infrastructure; regulatory and institutional restrictions; weak enforcement of pension laws; underdeveloped financial markets; capacity gap in managing pension funds for investment in infrastructure; unavailability of suitable investment projects; public institutions acting as custodians and managers of pension fund; multiplicity of schemes handled by the pension fund institutions; and lack of regional platform for exchange and collaboration of the pension sector. Given the myriad challenges affecting the flow of pension funds for financing infrastructure in the WAMZ and the need to address the infrastructure deficit, the following policy recommendations are proposed at the country and regional levels to harness the potentials of pension funds. At the national level, the study advocates for the expansion of the size of pension funds and diversification of investment options, through the formalization of the informal sector, enforcement of existing pension regulations, attracting foreign investors and raising awareness. Furthermore, in order to increase access to long term financing, capital markets should be established in those Member States where they are non-existent and further deepened in those countries where they already exist. Pension fund institutions could invest in financial instruments that are linked to particular infrastructure projects. Such instruments should be tradable in the secondary market and granted liquidity status to attract pension fund investors. Other recommendations include: the need for human capital development considering the evolving nature of this initiative; Member States are encouraged to share risk on the basis of Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) models; Authorities should provide guarantees for institutional investors to mitigate anticipated risk; increase transparency in infrastructure financing using pension funds; and sensitize stakeholders, investors and supervisors on the importance of financing infrastructure with pension fund. Further, Member States should reform their legal, institutional and regulatory frameworks to enhance the use of pension funds for the financing of infrastructure; the regulatory framework and guidelines should inter alia set limits or conditionalities for infrastructure financing. Member States should also establish autonomous agencies to regulate and supervise pension funds in countries where none exists.There is need for a platform for regional collaboration, information sharing and harmonization to raise the level of development of the pension sector in the WAMZ. At the WAMZ level, it would be necessary to establish a collaborative platform where pension fund institutions and supervisors in the Zone could meet for cooperation and information sharing on issues regarding pension funds development and infrastructure investments. This synergy would also help members of the association in mitigating inherent risk in investment projects as well as identify project viability gaps in order to achieve sustainability. Finally, the study finds that regardless of the novelty of the concept in the Zone, pension funds have helped to provide alternative sources of funds for financing infrastructure in most jurisdictions. In addition, there has been no report of default that has resulted in erosion or misplacement of pension funds due to its use in financing infrastructure project. Consequently, using the pension funds of WAMZ Member States in financing infrastructure is feasible. However, Member States are strongly encouraged to put measures in place to adequately address the challenges identified in order to unlock the inherent potentials in pension funds with a view to accelerating growth and development of the sub-region.
D25|Firm Heterogeneity and the Dynamics of Credit Rationing in Japan|The role of firms' financial heterogeneity in determining the credit channel of monetary policy attracted more attention recently. We investigate the degree of financial constraints among listed Japanese firms from 1994 to 2014. Based on an estimated financial constraints index, we analyze the distribution of this value and investigate its time-series changes. First, the distribution of financial constraints is approximately a gamma distribution with a long right tail, meaning that many firms have weak credit constraints and a small number of firms have severe credit constraints. Second, the spread between the 75th and the 25th percentiles of the financial constraints index increased, especially after 2000, which implies that financial inequality increased recently. Third, this increased inequality may be due to the growing inequality between firms within the same industry. We conduct a simple regression of the financial constraints index on productivity and find that the increased financial heterogeneity appears to be linked to the increase in productivity dispersion.
D25|On The Second Stage Of The Cambridge Capital Controversy|The second stage of the Cambridge capital controversy concerns the neo‐Walrasian theory of value and distribution. Since production is not understood in this theory as employing factors of production but rather commodities, that is goods and services with date and place of delivery, some scholars maintained that it is not affected by the problems that emerged, during the first stage of the controversy, as regards the conception of capital as a factor of production and the rate of interest as the price for its use. The reply of the ‘neo‐Ricardians’ was based on two arguments. The first regarded the relevance of the new notions of equilibrium adopted in the neo‐Walrasian approach, with particular reference to temporary and Arrow–Debreu equilibria, and the second the possibility that the phenomena of re‐switching and reverse capital deepening, by affecting the working of the saving‐investment market, could cause equilibrium multiplicity and instability also in a neo‐Walrasian framework.
D25|The impact of tax structure on investment: an empirical assessment for OECD countries|In the present empirical analysis we try to assess the impact of taxation on investment growth. In particular, and by using gross fixed capital formation as a proxy for investment, we intend to evaluate the impact of the taxation structure in investment dynamics, in a short and a long-run perspectives. This empirical exercise was conducted for all OECD countries, during the 1980-2015 period. Through panel data econometric techniques, we find optimal tax-investment threshold values, specially higher for short-term than for long-term evolution. Also, we find optimal income taxation rounding 9%, in percentage of GDP, an average optimal value 12.7% for consumption taxes to promote annual investment growth.
D25|Risk trading in capacity equilibrium models|No abstract is available for this item.
D25|Funding Liquidity without Banks: Evidence from a Shock to the Cost of Very Short-Term Debt|In 2011, Colombia instituted a tax on repayment of bank loans, thereby increasing the cost of short-term bank credit more than long-term credit. Firms responded by cutting their short-term loans for liquidity management purposes and increasing their use of cash and trade credit. In industries where trade credit is more accessible (based on U.S. Compustat firms), we find substitution into accounts payable and little effect on cash and investment. Where trade credit is less available, firms increase cash and cut investment. Thus, trade credit offers a substitute source of liquidity that can insulate some firms from bank liquidity shocks.
D25|Experimental Evidence on the Cyclicality of Investment|We report laboratory experiments investigating the cyclicality of investment. In our setting, optimal investment is counter-cyclical because investment costs fall following market downturns. However, we do not observe counter-cyclical investment. Instead, heuristic investment models where firms invest a fixed percentage of their liquidity, or a fixed percentage of anticipated market demand, better fit our data on average than does optimal investment. We also report a control treatment without cost changes and a treatment with asymmetric investment liquidity. Both of these extensions support our main result.
D25|Investments on the Norwegian Continental Shelf - An Empirical Analysis|Investments in oil and gas fields are regressed against variables on panel field-data from the start of oil and gas production on the Norwegian continental shelf in 1968 until 2016. Two alternative models track the observed investments aggregated across fields from 1970 until 2016 relatively accurately, except for the period 2012-2015. These years were marked by an almost world-wide recession in the aftermath of the financial crisis in 2008 and by the increase in production of shale-gas in the US. However when using data until 2010 in the estimation of the model, the fixed effect regression predicts rather accurately the development of aggregated across fields from 2011-2016. By using data only from 1995 until 2016 in the estimation of the fixed effect model the observed development after 2011 is also well tracked. The models imply rather strong and significant effect of the lagged oil price (Brent Blend) on investments. When data for the shorter period 1995-2016 is used, we get significant asymmetric price effects on investments, implying that an increase in the oil price has more positive effects on investments in periods with rising oil prices. In periods with declining prices the price history has a rather strong dampening impact on the effects of prices increases on investment. We also find strong and significant negative effects of lower expected remaining reserves on investments.
D25|Firm Performance and Macro Forecast Accuracy|Ever since Keynes’ famous quote about animal spirits, there has been an interest in linking firms’ expectations and actions. However, empirical evidence has been limited due to a lack of firm-level panel data on expectations and outcomes. In this paper, we build such a dataset by combining a unique survey of Japanese firms’ GDP forecasts with company accounting data for 25 years for over 1,000 large Japanese firms. We find four main results. First, firms’ GDP forecasts are positively associated with their employment, investment, and output growth in the subsequent year. Second, both optimistic and pessimistic forecast errors lower profitability. Third, while over-optimistic forecasts lower measured productivity, over-pessimistic forecasts do not tend to have an effect on productivity. Overall, these results are stronger for firms whose performance is more sensitive to the state of macroeconomy. We show that a simple model of firm input choice under uncertainty and costly adjustment can rationalize there results. Finally, larger and more cyclically sensitive firms make more accurate forecasts, presumably reflecting a higher return to accuracy for these firms. More productive, older, and bank-owned firms also make more accurate forecasts, suggesting that forecasting ability is also linked to management ability, experience, and governance. Collectively, our results highlight the importance of firms’ forecasting ability for micro and macro performance.
D25|The real effects of judicial enforcement|This paper shows that the quality of judicial enforcement has substantial real effects. I exploit a reorganization of the judicial districts in Italy as an exogenous shock to court productivity and, using an instrumental variable approach, estimate an elasticity of employment to average trial length between -0.36 and -0.29. These results are very different from OLS estimates which do not control for endogeneity. Firms with low asset tangibility, high uncertainty, and headquartered in areas with low social capital appear to respond more to changes in the legal environment. The effects are also more pronounced in highly levered and more financially dependent firms, suggesting that weaker law enforcement tightens financing constraints, and appear to affect mainly firms in less financially developed areas. I obtain similar results for revenues and total compensation. There is, instead, a positive relationship between average wages and trial length, possibly because workers demand compensation for bearing risk due to financing constraints. These results offer a more complete picture of the interplay between legal institutions and real economic outcomes.
D25|Firms and Regional Favoritism|We examine formal firm behavior in response to regional favoritism by top-ranked politicians using a balanced panel of 444 rural districts (yearly observations) in Vietnam during 2000 to 2011 and census microdata of firms, politicians' home towns, and climate and population microdata. The study finds that the number of firms and aggregated employment of firms increase in the home town districts of politicians after they resume office. The findings suggest that regional favoritism in a single-party system maintains the continuous development of firms in politicians' home town districts and widens the gaps among rural districts.
D25|Duopolistic Competition and Optimal Switching Time from Export to FDI in Uncertainty|This paper aimed to extend previous real option models to features of multinational firmsÕactivities such as market competition and trade barriers. Few researchers have studied multinationalsÕ optimal switching time from export to FDI using real options, and those who have done so have ignored trade policies and strategic interactions between firms. Yet,the presence of local competitors and trade costs influences the option value of waiting. We find that FDI in host countries with uncertain demand, strong competition and few barriers to trade will likely to be delayed with respect to immediate investment. In terms of policy implications, we find that the trade and competition policies of host countries have lower deterrent effects on FDI when uncertainty is reduced.
D25|Risk trading in capacity equilibrium models|We present a set of power investment models, the class of risky capacity equilibrium problems, reflecting different assumptions of perfect and imperfect markets. The models are structured in a unified stochastic Nash game framework. Each model is the concatenation of a model of the short-term market operations (perfect competition or Cournot), with a long-term model of investment behavior (risk neutral and risk averse behavior under different assumptions of risk trading). The models can all be formulated as complementarity problems, some of them having an optimization equivalent. We prove existence of solutions and report numerical results to illustrate the relevance of market imperfections on welfare and investment behavior. The models are constructed and discussed as two stage problems but we show that the extension to multistage is achieved by a change of notation and a standard assumption on multistage risk functions. We also treat a large multistage industrial model to illustrate the computational feasibility of the approach.
D25|Duopolistic Competition and Optimal Switching Time from Export to FDI in Uncertainty|This paper aimed to extend previous real option models to features of multinational firms' activities such as market competition and trade barriers. Few researchers have studied multinationals' optimal switching time from export to FDI using real options, and those who have done so have ignored trade policies and strategic interactions between firms. Yet, the presence of local competitors and trade costs influences the option value of waiting. We finnd that FDI in host countries with uncertain demand, strong competition and few barriers to trade will likely to be delayed with respect to immediate investment. In terms of policy implications, we nd that the trade and competition policies of host countries have lower deterrent e ffects on FDI when uncertainty is reduced.
D25|The market for scoops: a dynamic approach|Abstract We present a dynamic model of competition in the media industry in which behavioral media outlets compete for the publication of scoops, and both the publication of scoops and their veracity determine an outlet’s future audience. We study the dynamics of the audiences of outlets and how those dynamics relate to two issues: how harsh a society is with the publication of false stories, and how similar media outlets are in their editorial standards for quality. For the case of a duopoly, we show that there is only one stable stationary state. In that equilibrium, the two outlets coexist and which one leads the market (the low-standard outlet or the high-standard outlet) depends on a combination of the two issues mentioned above. We then use numerical simulations to analyze the general case with more than two outlets. The numerical results corroborate most of the analytical insights gained for the duopoly case. We also use numerical simulations to draw up predictions on the number of outlets that will survive in the industry in the long run.
D25|Stock Market Overvaluation, Moon Shots, and Corporate Innovation|We test how market overvaluation affects corporate innovation. Estimated stock overvaluation is very strongly associated with R&D, innovative output, and measures of innovative novelty, originality, and scope. R&D is much more sensitive than capital investment to overvaluation. Misvaluation affects R&D more via a non-equity channel than via equity issuance. We document how the sensitivity of R&D and innovative outcomes to misvaluation depends on growth, overvaluation, and turnover. The frequency of exceptionally high innovative inputs/outputs increases with overvaluation. This evidence suggests that market overvaluation may generate social value by increasing innovative output and by encouraging firms to engage in ‘moon shots.’
D25|Credit demand and supply: a two-way feedback relation|The model developed in this paper extends the framework of self-fulfilling credit market freezes proposed by Bebchuk and Goldstein (2011) by endogenizing firms' investments decisions. The existence of an aggregate investment threshold below which individual investment projects are unsuccessful creates a coordination failure not only among banks but also among firms and, crucially, between the two sides of the market. Because of the resulting strategic complementarities between firms and banks, low credit demand expectations reduce credit supply and viceversa. This two-way feedback loop explains why a severe slump in aggregate demand may be associated with a disruption in lending caused by a financial crisis. Replies to the euro area Bank Lending Survey by individual Italian banks provide support to the model's conclusions.
D25|Permit allocation rules and investment incentives in emissions trading systems|This paper argues that, in situations where choices are made between mutually exclusive investment projects and where there are economic rents, free allocation of tradable emission permits in emissions trading systems can weaken incentives for firms to invest in less carbon-intensive technologies compared to the case where permits would be auctioned. The reason is that permit allocation rules affect economic rents differentially when different product benchmarks apply to products that are close substitutes. Examples of permit allocation rules favouring more emission-intensive technologies for outputs that are close substitutes are found in the California Cap and Trade Program and in the European Union Emissions Trading System. This lack of technology-neutrality is exacerbated in the long run as future patterns of substitutability between technologies are uncertain. Free permit allocation can broaden support for carbon pricing, but this paper shows that this carries a cost in terms of environmental effectiveness if it discourages investment in low-carbon assets.
D25|The Effect of Industrial Cluster Policy on Firm Performance in Ethiopia: Evidence from the Leather Footware Cluster| This paper empirically analyzes the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effects of a public policy promoting micro and small scale industrial clusters in Ethiopia. To this end, firm-level survey data was collected from randomly selected clustered leather shoe manufacturers that have directly benefited from the policy and those that do not, both before and after the cluster policy intervention. The results from econometric analysis suggests that the industrial cluster policy adversely impacts the productivity, profitability, growth, and innovation performance of the small and micro leather shoe manufacturing enterprises that moved to the government created clusters . The analysis of the transmission mechanism further reveals that the relocated cluster policy hampers the treated firms’ collaborative business and knowledge network and aggravates their growth impediments which includes lack of trust, high customer and supplier search and reach cost, lack of market information, imperfect contract enforcement, delays in the supply of raw materials and the lack of skilled labor. The time lag between policy implementation and its impacts may conceal the long-term impact of the cluster policy. The overwhelming majority of the representatives of treatment group firms also continue to believe that their buisness performance will improve over time as a result of their participation in the MSE cluster development program. This study is a pioneer to quantitatively evaluate the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effect of industrial cluster policy in Ethiopia.
D25|More Haste, Less Speed? Signaling through Investment Timing|We consider a cash-constrained firm learning on the value of an irreversible project at a privately known speed. Under perfect information, the optimal date of investment may be non-monotonic in the learning speed: better learning increases the value of experimenting further, but also the speed of updating. Under asymmetric information, the firm uses its investment timing to signal confidence in the project and raise cheaper capital from uninformed investors, which may generate timing distortions: investment is hurried when learning is sufficiently fast, and delayed otherwise. The severity of the cash constraint affects the magnitude of the distortion, but not its direction.
D25|Financing Constraints, Radical versus Incremental Innovation, and Aggregate Productivity|I provide new empirical evidence on the negative relationship between financial frictions and productivity growth over a firm's life cycle. I show that a model of firm dynamics with incremental innovation cannot explain this evidence. However, further including radical innovation, which is very risky but potentially very productive, allows for the joint replication of several stylized facts about the dynamics of young and old firms and the differences in productivity growth in industries with different degrees of financing frictions. These frictions matter because they act as a barrier to entry that reduces competition and the risk-taking of young firms.
D25|Constructing the Economy: The Role of Construction Sector in India’s Growth|No abstract is available for this item.
