D30|Intergenerational Health Mobility: Evidence from Danish Registers|To what extent status depends on family background has been of great interest in the social sciences and the general public for centuries. The transmission of income, earnings and educational attainment is often studied, while equality of opportunity with respect to health outcomes has received far less attention. This paper is the first to investigate intergenerational health mobility using high-quality administrative data from Denmark. The attractiveness of this approach lies in objective health measures and large sample sizes allowing twin analyses. I operationalise health mobility by a variety of statistics: rank-rank slopes, intergenerational correlations and sibling and identical twin correlations. Mobility in health is found to be relatively high for men, both when compared to similar US-based studies, and when contrasted with outcomes such as educational attainment and income. For Danish women, health-related dependence on family background is on par with similar statistics for income and earnings for other Scandinavian countries. Mobility is thus, perhaps somewhat nonintuitively, higher in health than in income. Contrasting sibling and identical twin correlations with parent-child associations confirm earlier findings in the literature on equality of opportunity, namely that sibling correlations capture far more variation than traditional intergenerational correlations. 14-38 percent of the variation in individual health outcomes can be ascribed to family background and genes, factors which the individual cannot be held accountable for. Only a negligible share of this variation can be explained by parental health, which suggests that other family-specific characteristics may play an important role for health mobility.
D30|Aggregate Dynamics in Lumpy Economies|In economies with lumpy microeconomic adjustment, we establish structural relationships between the dynamics of the cross-sectional distribution of agents and its steady-state counterpart and discipline these relationships using micro data. Applying our methodology to firm lumpy investment, we discover that the dynamics of aggregate capital are structurally linked to two cross-sectional moments of the capital-to-productivity ratio: its dispersion and its covariance with the time elapsed since the last adjustment. We compute these sufficient statistics using plant–level data on the size and frequency of investments. We find that, in order to explain investment dynamics, the benchmark model with fixed adjustment costs must also feature a precise combination of irreversibility and random opportunities of free adjustment.
D30|The drivers of income inequality in rich countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. The marked differences in inequality trends across countries and time-periods reflect how global economic forces such as globalisation and technological change have interacted with differing national contexts and institutions. Major analytical challenges stand in the way of a consensus emerging on the relative importance of different drivers in how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
D30|Arming in the Global Economy: The Importance of Trade with Enemies and Friends|We analyze how trade openness matters for interstate conflict over productive resources. Our analysis features a terms-of-trade channel that makes security policies trade-regime dependent. Specifically, trade between two adversaries reduces each one's incentive to arm given the opponent's arming. If these countries have a sufficiently similar mix of initial resource endowments, greater trade openness brings with it a reduction in resources diverted to conflict and thus wasted, as well as the familiar gains from trade. Although a move to trade can otherwise induce greater arming by one of them and thus need not be welfare improving for both, aggregate arming falls. By contrast, when the two adversaries do not trade with each other but instead trade with a third (friendly) country, a move from autarky to trade intensifies conflict between the two adversaries, inducing greater arming. With data from the years surrounding the end of the Cold War, we exploit the contrasting implications of trade costs between enemies versus trade costs between friends to provide some evidence that is consistent with the theory.
D30|The social cost of carbon and inequality: when local redistribution shapes global carbon prices|The social cost of carbon is the central economic measure for aggregate climate change damages and functions as a metric for optimal carbon prices. Previous literature shows that inequality significantly influences the level of the social cost of carbon, but mostly neglects a major source of inequality - heterogeneity in income below the national level. We characterize the relationship between climate and redistributional policy in an optimal taxation model that explicitly accounts for inequality between and within countries. In particular, we demonstrate that climate and distributional policy cannot be separated when national governments fail to compensate low-income households for climate change damages: Even if only one country does not compensate especially affected households, the social cost of carbon increases globally. Further, we use numerical methods to estimate the scope of these effects. Our results suggest that it is crucial to correct previous estimates of the social cost of carbon for national distributional policies.
D30|Optimal Progressivity with Age-Dependent Taxation|This paper studies optimal taxation of labor earnings when the degree of tax progressivity is allowed to vary with age. We analyze this question in a tractable equilibrium overlapping-generations model that incorporates a number of salient trade-offs in tax design. Tax progressivity provides insurance against ex-ante heterogeneity and earnings uncertainty that missing markets fail to deliver. However, taxes distort labor supply and human capital investments. Uninsurable risk cumulates over the life cycle, and thus the welfare gains from income compression via progressive taxation increase with age. On the other hand, average labor productivity rises with age, and thus the welfare losses from progressive taxation's distortionary impact on labor supply also increase with age. The optimal age-varying system balances these distortions. In a calibrated version of the economy, we quantify the welfare gains of moving from the optimal age-invariant to the optimal age-dependent system and find that they are negligible.
D30|Flat-lining or seething beneath the surface?: two decades of changing economic inequality in the UK|This paper analyses what happened to economic inequalities in the United Kingdom in the two decades from 1995-96. In aggregate, inequality changes were unremarkable, especially by comparison with sharp increases in the 1980s. However, over the first decade economic outcomes improved across population groups, while over the second near-stagnation accompanied continuing high inequality. We show that the apparent stability of inequality in this period masked the way in which the nature and depth of economic inequalities changed after the economic crisis, leading to substantial differences between and within groups defined in different ways. Pervasively, younger adults lost out in the second decade compared to older ones. When population groups are defined in other ways (such as region, housing tenure or ethnicity) patterns are more complex, but with the worst-off in particular groups often being ‘left behind’. more complex, but with the worst-off in particular groups often being ‘left behind’.
D30|Estimating the marginal propensity to consume using the distributions of income, consumption and wealth|Recent studies of economic inequality almost always separately examine income, consumption, and wealth inequality and, hence, miss the important synergy among the three measures explicit in the life-cycle budget constraint. Using Panel Study of Income Dynamics data from 1999 through 2013, we examine whether these changes are more dramatic at higher or lower levels of wealth and find that the marginal propensity to consume is lower at higher wealth quintiles. This suggests that low-wealth households cannot smooth consumption as much as other households do, which further implies that increasing wealth inequality likely reduces aggregate consumption and limits economic growth.
D30|The relationship between property transaction prices, turnover rates and buyers' and sellers' reservation price distributions|This paper analyzes the relationship between movements in property transaction prices and movements in the underlying reservation price distributions of buyers and sellers and how these movements are linked to time varying turnover rate. A main conclusion in previous research is that transaction prices lag changes in buyers’ reservation price distribution and that an index tracking transaction prices is less volatile than an index tracking buyer reserves. We show that our less restrictive model of search and price formation reverses the volatility result in previous papers in realistic scenarios, i.e., transaction prices may be more volatile than underlying buyer reserves. We model transaction prices and turnover rates as functions of the moments of buyers’ and sellers’ reservation price distributions, the search intensity and the average bargaining power among buyers and sellers respectively. We derive the probability density function of transaction prices as a function of these parameters and hence a Maximum-likelihood estimator of the parameters, which serves as a new method of estimating indexes tracking movements in reservation price distributions from transaction data. We perform simulations where we show that the Maximum-likelihood estimator works as intended.
D30|Crony Capitalism As An Electoral Outcome|When property rights are poorly secured, crony relations i.e. the tight connection between the owners of major firms and the government are the primary informal mechanism securing the property. However, this institutional framework creates high entry barriers on markets. We propose a theory that explains why in a democracy the majority of voters may prefer this type of institutions. This paper develops a simple voting model with heterogeneous agents, which differ in their skills and wealth endowment. We show that if the policy space is two-dimensional, the wealthy elite and low-skilled workers may form a majority coalition, supporting the regime with high-entry barriers. In this case, the wealthy elite agrees on a higher level of redistribution, preferred by the least skilled agents. We compare the possibility of this outcome for different voting rules, and prove that the electoral support of crony capitalism is more likely for countries with a low level of human capital and high income and skill inequality. The model is also able to explain different effects of democratization process on the institutional structure of the society.
D30|The curvature properties of social welfare functions|This paper characterizes the curvature properties of applied social welfare functions. We choose as an example a general and non-abbreviated social welfare function introduced by Jorgenson and Slesnick (1983) that is frequently used in empirical work. We investigate the regularity of social preferences necessary to maximize social welfare with respect to prices and to guarantee that the social welfare function is well-behaved and suitable for theoretically plausible microsimulations. We use the notion of generalized convexity to define the necessary conditions for the social welfare function to be convex with respect to prices.
D30|Robust dissimilarity comparisons with categorical outcomes|The analysis of many economic phenomena requires partitioning societies into groups, identified for instance, by gender, ethnicity, birthplace, education, age or parental background, and studying the extent at which these groups are distributed with different intensities across relevant outcomes, like jobs, locations, schools, policy treatments. When the groups are similarly distributed, their members could be seen as having equal chances to achieve any of the attainable outcomes. Otherwise, a form of dissimilarity prevails. We frame dissimilarity comparisons of multi-group distributions defined over categorical outcomes by showing the equivalence between axioms underpinning information criteria, majorization conditions, agreement between dissimilarity indicators and new empirical tests based on Zonotopes inclusion. Mainstream approaches to two- and multi-group segregation as well uni- and multivariate inequality analysis are shown to be nested within the dissimilarity model.
D30|Natural amenities and the spatial distribution of Swiss income|The present article describes how the spatial distribution of income in Switzerland is related to natural amenities. We explore the link between inequalities in Swiss municipalities and the presence of lakes, rivers, mountains, good accessibility and green amenities. By using fiscal data on average income, Gini index and density of taxpayers in different income brackets, we confirm that a larger variety of landscape is associated with larger spatial income differentials. We also show that inequalities are more pronounced within municipalities located in a particularly nice environment.
D30|Education-health relationship: New evidence from a distributional perspective|Using data from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE), this paper identifies the education gradient in health and explores its underlying factors using a distributional approach. We start by constructing a separate health distribution for two education subgroups - the lower and higher educated - and compare the difference in the level of health between them at each point of the distribution. As a next step, we perform a semi-parametric decomposition exercise to explore which factors lie behind the observed health differential. In line with previous studies we find that, on average, higher educated people enjoy better health than those who are lower educated. We show, however, that the difference is not constant along the health distribution, with the gap being several times bigger at the top of the distribution than at its bottom. We also find that around 65 percent of the health gap between the lower and higher educated can be explained by the subgroup differences in demographic, labor market, and behavioral characteristics.
D30|On Trade and the Stability of (Armed) Peace|"We consider an environment in which two sovereign states with overlapping ownership claims on a resource/asset first arm and then choose whether to resolve their dispute violently through war or peacefully through settlement. Both approaches depend on the states' military capacities, but have very different outcomes. War precludes trade between the two states and can be destructive; however, once a winner is declared, arming is unnecessary in future periods. By contrast, a peaceful resolution under the threat of war today avoids destruction and supports mutually advantageous trade; yet, settlements must be renegotiated and the states must arm in future periods to resolve their ongoing dispute. Paying special attention to the importance of trade on arming incentives and payoffs in this context, we explore the conditions under which ""armed peace"" arises as the perfectly coalition-proof equilibrium over time. Our analysis reveals that, depending on the destructiveness of war, time preferences, and the distribution of initial resource endowments, greater gains from trade (jointly determined by trade costs and the substitutability of traded commodities) can reduce arming and pacify international tensions. Even when the gains from trade are relatively small, peace might be sustainable, but only for more uneven distributions of initial resources."
D30|Personal Information Disclosure under Competition for Benefits: Is Sharing Caring?|Personal information is shared extensively every day, partly in exchange for benefits or as a reaction to other people’s information sharing. In this paper, we experimentally investigate these two factors by analyzing the interaction of peer comparison and incentives to disclose potentially privacy-sensitive information. We find that information sharing is higher under incentives, and further increases under peer comparison. This effect is driven by those initially disclosing less, who additionally report to feel more compelled to reveal information. Our results provide an explanation for the current information sharing trend while pointing to a potentially neglected side-effect.
D30|Household Heterogeneity and the Value of Government Spending Multiplier: an Analytical Characterization|This paper provides an analytical formula for the government spending multiplier in economy populated with heterogeneous households that face uninsured idiosyncratic risk. To derive this expression I use the canonical Bewley-Huggett-Aiyagari model extended to capture frictional product market. In my analysis I relax several assumptions that were made in the literature to obtain closed-form solutions in heterogeneous agent models such as: partial equilibrium (e.g., Auclert (2017)), extreme illiquidity (e.g., Krusell et al. (2011)) and constant real interest rates (e.g., Auclert et al. (2018)). The resulting formula for the multiplier is decomposed into interpretable, model-based channels. Calibrated model is used to estimate their magnitude under alternative fiscal and monetary policy rules. Quantitative exploration indicates that household heterogeneity plays a crucial role in the propagation of government expenditures shocks.
D30|Modeling Deterrence by Denial and by Punishment|"We explore a defender's prewar allocation of military resources between denial and punishment strategies for deterrence. While denial disproportionately raises the probability to countervail aggression by disrupting military forces (""guns""), punishment proportionately raises costs on the aggressor by damaging civilian values (""butter""). Because these countervailing and deterrence effects are so divergent, the deployment that minimizes the risk of war can vary, depending on the defender's military capacity relative to the aggressor's. Namely, inferior parties resort only to punishment (e.g., post-Cold War North Korea), competitive parties concentrate solely on denial (e.g., Germany, Italy, and Japan), and superior parties develop both denial and punishment capabilities (e.g., Permanent Five)."
D30|Preventing Widening Inequality: Economic Rents and Sustainable Heterogeneity|There has long been a deep-rooted view that economic rents are foremost among the origins of high levels of economic inequality. In this paper, economic rents generated by ranking preference are examined as an important source of widening inequality based on the concept of sustainable heterogeneity. Ranking preference generates widespread and large monopoly rents across an economy because they can be obtained through firms’ product differentiations, but this topic has not been studied as a source of economic inequality. This paper shows that these monopoly rents can greatly accelerate economic inequality because access to these rents is intrinsically heterogeneous among households and are unevenly distributed and persistent. Nevertheless, if a government appropriately intervenes, the acceleration of inequality can be prevented.
D30|An Economic Model of the Distribution of Family Income in Canada|"This paper develops an economic model of the distribution of income based on shares of family incomes in Canada over 1976 - 2016. Major determinants of quintile and decile shares of total and market income include male and female participation rates, unemployment rate, inflation rate, GDP growth rate and manufacturing-to-services employment ratio. The analysis tests the hypothesis of GDP growth neutrality (""a rising tide lifts all boats"") and strongly rejects it. It also examines the distributional benefits and losses from automation and globalization, and finds significant effects of both over the middle and upper two quintile shares, but mixed effects over the lower two quintiles."
D30|Innovation and Inequality in a Monetary Schumpeterian Model with Heterogeneous Households and Firms|This study develops a monetary Schumpeterian growth model with heterogeneous households and heterogeneous firms to explore the effects of inflation on innovation and income inequality. Household heterogeneity arises from an unequal distribution of wealth. Firm heterogeneity arises from random quality improvements. Under endogenous firm entry, inflation has an inverted-U effect on economic growth and income inequality. Calibrating the model for a quantitative analysis, we find that the model can match the growth-maximizing and inequality-maximizing inflation rates that are estimated using cross-country panel data. Finally, we simulate the utility-maximizing inflation rate and explore how it is affected by relative household wealth. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D30|Aggregate dynamics in lumpy economies|In economies with lumpy microeconomic adjustment, we establish structural relationships between the dynamics of the cross-sectional distribution of agents and its steady-state counterpart and discipline these relationships using micro data. Applying our methodology to firm lumpy investment, we discover that the dynamics of aggregate capital are structurally linked to two cross-sectional moments of the capital-to-productivity ratio: its dispersion and its covariance with the time elapsed since the last adjustment. We compute these sufficient statistics using plant–level data on the size and frequency of investments. We find that, in order to explain investment dynamics, the benchmark model with fixed adjustment costs must also feature a precise combination of irreversibility and random opportunities of free adjustment.
D30|Wer gewinnt? Wer verliert? Die Entwicklung auf dem deutschen Arbeitsmarkt seit den frühen Jahren der Bundesrepublik bis heute|Seit der Gründung der Bundesrepublik Deutschland haben verschiedene Megatrends die Entwicklungen auf dem deutschen Arbeitsmarkt maßgeblich beeinflusst. Insbesondere die voranschreitende Globalisierung hat zur weiteren Öffnung der deutschen Volkwirtschaft geführt und den sektoralen Strukturwandel, das heißt den Wandel von der Industrie- zur Dienstleistungsgesellschaft beschleunigt. Gleichzeitig hat das durchschnittliche Wirtschaftswachstum seit den 1950er-Jahren bedeutend nachgelassen. Auf dem Arbeitsmarkt wurden zudem schon Jahrzehnte vor der Einführung der Hartz-Reformen Flexibilisierungsmaßnahmen durchgesetzt, um einem Anstieg der Arbeitslosigkeit entgegenzuwirken. Insgesamt unterlag der Arbeitsmarkt in den vergangenen 60 Jahren einem starken Wandel. Wir identifizieren Gewinner und Verlierer dieser Entwicklung in einer multidimensionalen Betrachtung der Entwicklung in den Bereichen Bildung, Arbeitsmarkbeteiligung, Qualifikationsniveau der Beschäftigung und Einkommensentwicklung. Die Analyse wird mit harmonisierten Mikrodaten (Mikrozensus 1962-2013) auf Individualebene und auf dem Haushaltslevel durchgeführt.
D30|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
D30|Productivity, wages and profits: Does firms’ position in the value chain matter?|This paper is the first to estimate the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness on productivity, wage costs and profits (i.e. productivity-wage gaps). To do so, we merged detailed Belgian linked panel data, covering all years from 2002 to 2010, to a unique data set developed by Dhyne et al. (2015), which contains accurate information on the position of (almost) each commercial firm in the value chain at each year. We rely on the methodological framework that has been pioneered by Hellerstein et al. (1999) to estimate dynamic panel data models at the firm level. Our estimates show that if upstreamness increases by one step (that is, by approximately, one standard deviation), productivity rises on average by 5%. They also indicate that productivity gains associated to upstreamness are shared almost equally between wages and profits. However, upstreamness is found to be more beneficial for workers’ wages in less competitive environments, where the price-elasticity of demand for firms’ products is typically smaller. Overall, these findings are compatible with the assertion that firms should move up the value chain to be more productive and profitable, but also that being higher in the value chain is likely to facilitate firms’ control over strategic downstream activities. Our results can also be understood through the application of the Melitz (2003) model to the value chain framework.
D30|Employment Prospects and the Propagation of Fiscal Stimulus|I study a novel channel that amplifies the effects of a rise in government purchases. Fiscal stimulus increases aggregate demand and boosts job creation. The latter improves employment prospects by reducing idiosyncratic unemployment risk faced by households. This, in turn, weakens precautionary motives and raises private consumption which strengthens the initial fiscal impulse. To explore the mechanism, I use a model with uninsured idiosyncratic risk, frictional labor market and sticky prices. Quantitative analysis indicates that magnitude of the employment prospects channel is substantial: its elimination implies that crowding out of aggregate consumption associated with higher government expenditures rises by 47%.
D30|Poor country, rich history, many lessons: The evolution of wealth-income ratios in India 1860-2012|The evolution and metamorphoses of wealth underpins historical questions of growth and distribution. This article develops new, homogenized series of the wealth-income ratio in India over fifteen transformational decades: from colonial rule after the demise of the Mughals to the contemporary rise of Indian capitalists on a global scale. Over the long run, there were two major waves of wealth accumulation. The first ended around World War II and was characterized by a Ricardian vision - landlords appropriated surplus value under low productivity conditions, benefiting from a large divergence of asset prices relative to consumer price infl ation. Between 1939 and 2012, the Indian wealth-income ratio mimics the U shaped trend observed in other large economies. The second wave (between 1960 and 2012) is partly explained by capital accumulation but price effects consistently dominate large changes in wealth dynamics. Implications for distribution are noteworthy. Upswings of the wealth-income ratio are nearly always accompanied by rising concentration of economic power. Finally, over the last three decades the structure of national wealth favors private wealth over public capital. These ndings underline an important stylized fact: despite large structural differences between rich and emerging countries, wealth-income ratios are rising everywhere in the twenty first century.
D30|The term structure of cross-sectional dispersion of expectations in a Learning-to-Forecast Experiment|Abstract In this paper, we present the results of a Learning-to-Forecast Experiment (LtFE) where we eliciting short- as well as long-run expectations regarding the future price dynamics in markets with positive and negative expectations feedback. Comparing our results on short-run expectations with the LtFE literature, we prove that eliciting long-run expectations has no impact on the price dynamics nor on short-run expectations formation. In particular, we confirm that the Rational Expectation Equilibrium (REE) is a good benchmark only for the markets with negative feedback. Interestingly, our data show that while the term structure of the cross-sectional dispersion of expectations is convex in positive feedback markets, it is concave in negative feedback markets. Differences in the slope of the term structure stem from diverse degrees of uncertainty regarding the evolution of prices in the two feedback systems: (1) in the negative feedback system, the convergence of the price to the REE reflects a tendency for coordination of long-run expectations around the fundamental value; (2) conversely, oscillatory price dynamics observed in the positive feedback system is responsible for the diverging pattern of long-run expectations. Finally, we propose a new measure of heterogeneity of expectations based on the scaling of the dispersion of expectations over the forecasting horizon.
D30|Employment prospects and the propagation of fiscal stimulus|I study a novel channel that ampliﬁes the eﬀects of a rise in government purchases. To explore the mechanism, I use a model with uninsured idiosyncratic risk, frictional labor market and sticky prices. Fiscal stimulus increases aggregate demand and boosts job creation. The latter improves employment prospects by reducing unemployment risk faced by households. This, in turn, weakens precautionary motives and raises private consumption which strengthens the initial ﬁscal impulse. Quantitative analysis indicates that magnitude of the employment prospects channel is substantial: without this mechanism, crowding out of aggregate consumption associated with higher government expenditures is three times larger. Interestingly, in contrast to many recent works using heterogeneous agent models, the analyzed channel does not rely on behavior of liquidity constrained, hand-to-mouth agents.
D30|The Drivers of Inequality in Rich Countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. We conclude by highlighting key gaps in knowledge and clarifying what stands in the way of a consensus emerging about the contribution of the various forces affecting how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
D30|Household Debt and Delinquency over the Life Cycle|This paper uses loan-level data from Thailand's National Credit Bureau to study household debt over the life cycle of borrowers. The wide coverage and the granularity of the data allow us to decompose the aggregate, commonly-used debt per capita and delinquency rate into components that unveil the extensive and intensive margins of household indebtedness. This decomposition allows us to analyze debt holding, debt portfolio, and delinquency for each age and cohort. We find the striking inverted-U life cycle patterns of indebtedness as predicted by economic theories. However, peaks are reached at different ages for different loan products and different lenders. We also find that debt has expanded over time for all age groups. In particular, the younger cohorts seem to originate debt earlier in their lives than the older generations. Meanwhile, older borrowers remain indebted well past their retirement age. Finally, we find a downward pattern of delinquency over the life cycle. Our findings have important policy implications on financial access and distress of households as well as economic development and financial stability of the economy.
D30|Consumer Credit Card Choice: Costs, Benefits and Behavioural Biases|The credit card market offers consumers a wide range of options when choosing a card. While many factors may influence this choice, this paper focuses on the main financial costs and benefits of holding a credit card. I summarise these costs and benefits as the net monetary benefit associated with a card. Theory might suggest that a rational consumer will choose a card that maximises their net monetary benefit. But in reality, consumers' decisions may be systematically biased, leading them to select higher-cost credit cards when lower-cost alternatives are available. To test this possibility, I first estimate the net monetary cost or benefit that individuals in a nationally representative survey obtain from their credit card. I then use these estimates to examine whether principles from behavioural economics – such as optimism bias, bounded rationality and present bias – can help to explain consumers' choice of credit card. I find that approximately 40 per cent of Australian credit card holders receive a positive net monetary benefit from their card (that is, they receive benefits from rewards points and their interest-free period that outweigh annual fees and interest payments). Generally these are higher-wealth and higher-income consumers. Of the remaining 60 per cent, around half break even, while half incur a net cost. Moreover, most cardholders, including those who receive a net benefit, appear not to choose cards that best suit their use patterns – for instance, I estimate that consumers who use their card to borrow and pay interest could reduce their annual costs by around $250 by choosing a more appropriate card. Behavioural explanations are consistent with some, but not all, of the patterns observed. Consumers appear to be subject to optimism bias, underestimating how much they will borrow on their card, and a subset of consumers tend to hold inflated estimates of the net monetary benefits that they receive from their card. In contrast, consumers do not appear to be present biased in responding to temporary sign-up offers. Finally, I find that around half of the respondents who made a net loss held high-cost cards, but had not considered switching to a lower-cost card; indicative evidence of cognitive, as well as practical, barriers to switching cards.
D30|Educational Inequality and Public Policy Preferences: Evidence from Representative Survey Experiments|To study how information about educational inequality affects public concerns and policy preferences, we devise survey experiments in representative samples of the German population. Providing information about the extent of educational inequality strongly increases concerns about educational inequality but only slightly affects support for equity-oriented education policies, which is generally high. The small treatment effects are not due to respondents' failure to connect policies with educational inequality or aversion against government interventions. Support for compulsory preschool is the one policy with a strong positive information treatment effect, which is increased further by informing about policy effectiveness.
D30|Problems of commitment in arming and war: how insecurity and destruction matter|Abstract This paper analyzes a guns-versus-butter model in which two agents compete for control over an insecure portion of their combined output. They can resolve this dispute either peacefully through settlement or by military force through open conflict (war). Both types of conflict resolution depend on the agents’ arming choices, but only war is destructive. We find that, insofar as entering into binding contracts on arms is not possible and agents must arm even under settlement to secure a bigger share of the contested output, the absence of long-term commitments need not be essential in understanding the outbreak of destructive war. Instead, the ability to make short-term commitments could induce war. More generally, our analysis highlights how the pattern of war’s destructive effects, the degree of output insecurity and the initial distribution of resources matter for arming decisions and the choice between peace and war. We also explore the implications of transfers for peace.
D30|Do the rich pay their taxes early?|This paper examines the distributional effects of interest credits from early tax payments on average household income at the municipality level. The hypothesis that households from high-income municipalities pay their income taxes early is tested in a demand specification for interest credit for early tax payments. The empirical analysis considers regional data from 170 municipalities in the canton of Zurich from 2007 to 2013. The income elasticity of interest credit for early tax payments is estimated to be near unity for the top 5th percentile of average household income, whereas the same elasticity is below one-half for the lower 95th percentile and is statistically insignificant. The finding that high-income households pay their taxes early supports the view that the rich are not liquidity constrained. Early tax payments make the tax system more regressive for high-income households.
D30|Top incomes and income dynamics from a gender perspective : Evidence from Finland 1995-2012|In this paper I study Finnish top incomes from a gender perspective using the Finnish register-based panel data over the period of 1995-2012. I find that that the under-representation of women at the top has been quite persistent in the overall top but the proportion of women in the top 1% has increased over 18 years. Women’s wage share at the top has increased while the self-employment income has decreased. The top income females more often have an entrepreneurial background and are more often sharing a household with a high-income spouse. The gender-specific income distributions show that female incomes are less dispersed. In this study I also test whether top incomes can be assumed sumed to be Pareto distributed. While the joint and men’s top income distributions can be approximated with Pareto distribution throughout the observation period, the Pareto assumption gets more support for women after the year 2000. The female top income receivers have caught up with top earning men over time but I also show that females are more likely to move downwards from the top than men.
D30|Every crisis has a silver lining? Unravelling the pro-cyclical pattern of health inequalities by income|It is well known that income and health are positively associated. Much less is known about the strength of this association in times of growth and recession. We develop a novel decomposition method that focuses on isolating the roles played by government transfers versus market transfers on changes in income-related health inequality (IRHI) in Europe. Using European Union Survey of Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) panel data for 7 EU countries from 2004 to 2013, we decompose the changes in IRHI while focusing on possible effects of the 2008 financial crisis. We find that such inequalities rise in good economic times and fall in bad economic times. This pattern can largely be explained by the relative stickiness of old age pension benefits compared to the market incomes of younger groups. Austerity measures are associated with a weakening of the IRHI reducing effect of government transfers.
D30|Piketty’s (r – g) Law is Pareto’s Law: Consistent Analyses of Income Distribution Predicated on Inconsistent Definitions of Inequality|On the face of it, Pareto’s law and Piketty’s (r – g) law are inconsistent, with Pareto arguing that real per capita economic growth is the solution to the problem of income inequality and Piketty arguing for redistribution to be funded from a wealth tax. This study, however, establishes that when the same definition of inequality is adopted by the two scholars, Piketty’s and Pareto’s laws are the same economic law. It also establishes that Piketty’s assertion that Pareto treats income distribution as “rock stable” overlooks the critical aspects of Pareto’s law that emphasise change.
D30|Shared Prosperity: Concepts, Data, and Some Policy Examples|"""Shared prosperity"" has become a common phrase in the development policy discourse. This short paper provides its most widely used operational definition – the growth rate in the average income of the poorest 40 percent of a country's population – and describes its origins. The paper discusses how this notion relates to well-established concepts and social indicators, including social welfare, poverty, inequality, and mobility, and reviews some of its design shortcomings. The paper then looks at household survey data to assess recent progress in this indicator globally. The analysis finds that during 2008–13, mean incomes for the poorest 40 percent rose in 60 of 83 countries. In 49 of them, accounting for 65 percent of the sampled population, it rose faster than overall average incomes. Finally, the paper briefly reviews a (non-exhaustive) range of 'pre-distribution' and 'redistribution' policies with a sound empirical track record of raising productivity and well-being among the poor, thus contributing to shared prosperity."
D30|Obesity inequality and the changing shape of the bodyweight distribution in China|Using data from the China Health and Nutrition Survey (CHNS), this study analyses changes in bodyweight (BMI and waist circumference) distributions between 1991 and 2011 among adults aged 20+ in China. To do so, we quantify the source and extent of temporal changes in bodyweight and then decompose the increase in obesity prevalence into two components: a rightward shift of the bodyweight distribution (mean growth) and a (re)distributional skewing. Our analysis reveals a clear rightward distributional shift combined with a leftward skewing. Although the relatively large size of this skewing in the first decade analysed reflects an increase in obesity inequality, this inequality growth subsides in the second decade. Nevertheless, over the entire 20-year period, obesity inequality increases significantly, especially among females, younger age groups, rural residents and individuals with low socioeconomic status.
D30|Refugee resettlement, redistribution and growth|This paper studies the effect of refugee resettlement on human capital accumulation. The analysis is performed in a growth model with endogenous fertility. I show how refugee resettlement from a more advanced and wealthier economy to a less advanced and less wealthy economy combined with income transfers is Pareto-improving for indigenous populations in both countries. I also derive conditions for the proposed resettlement policy to stimulate human capital accumulation and hence economic growth in both economies.
D30|Political Ideology and the Intragenerational Prospect of Upward Mobility|We examine the effect of prospects of upward mobility (POUM) on the support for redistribution in an intragenerational context. In this context, existing literature so far fails to consider the potential indirect channel via political ideology through which mobility expectations affect redistributive preferences. We address this by including an interaction between income mobility and political ideology, such that the POUM-effect is allowed to vary with political beliefs. We find a robust POUM-effect that is conditional on political preferences. Only for right-wing individuals expected upward income mobility negatively affects support for redistribution. Left-wing individuals on the other hand prefer redistribution, regardless of expected upward income movements.
D30|The European Social Welfare Function Shaped on a Difference Principle: A Normative Rawlsian Approach in Favour of Fiscal Union|Why might the European member states seek for Fiscal Union? Coordination, macro-stability purposes and provision of (European) public goods are certainly goals of paramount importance for the implementation of Fiscal Union at European level. However, there is an equally important component of moral-normative nature embodied in the constitution of any fiscal system: reallocation of resources. The core of the paper is the idea that Rawls’ social contract theory can provide some insights about the implementation of European Fiscal Union in the re-allocative perspective. The reasoning put forward in the paper shows how the current European framework can be essentially considered an appropriate object of Rawls’ theory of domestic justice since the European Union holds those two descriptive elements which are sufficient and necessary to raise redistributive issues, to apply Rawls’ pure procedural justice and then to derive a difference principle at European level: a) the mutually advantageous cooperation among its members and b) a set of formal institutions which constitute a basic structure. The European difference principle prescribes to redistribute resources in order to maximize the expectations of the most disadvantaged European citizen(s). A corollary of this conclusion is that the actual redistribution according to similar scheme is achievable by means of Fiscal Union at European level.
D30|Problems, solutions and new problems with the third wave of technological unemployment|The aim of this paper is to discuss possible solutions to the “third wave” of technological unemployment and their main drawbacks. The process has just started and will only be fully realized in the future, but its main novelty is already well known and concerns robots (and artificial intelligence) entering the production process. Robots do not simply increase labor productivity, in cooperation with humans, but can totally substitute labor, making it possible to produce commodities without the use of human input. This in turn generates technological unemployment. Past “compensation” theories have argued that technological unemployment could be reabsorbed thanks to wage reduction and demand (and production) increase. But these theories have ignored robots. If robots are more productive and less expensive than humans, wage reduction may be insufficient due to the minimum wage subsistence boundary; and, in any case, an increase in demand would only determine an increase in the production of goods by robots alone, without any impact on human employment. Meanwhile, the resulting mass unemployment will require redistributive policies. The paper discusses the most relevant among these policies, emphasizing their drawbacks and their unwanted implications, and proposes an alternative rooted in Tietenberg’s tradable permits approach.
D30|Elites in Madagascar: a sociography|The role of the elites in Madagascar’s trajectory, especially in the formation and widening of inequalities as a known source of chronic socio-political instability, calls for a closer study of the elite group. This article establishes a sociography of the elites based on statistical surveys, including a unique representative survey focusing on the Red Island’s elites. It provides insights into their strategies to attain and remain in power, but also their opinions on the running of society and especially their views of the obstacles to and the drivers of the country’s long-term development. The majority of elites are from the old aristocracy. Social capital made up of a rich network in terms of its size, diversity and the intensity of the connections established within the elite circle and straddling is used as a strategy to access the highest hierarchical positions. This dominant class displays rather mixed attitudes to democratic principles. The main point of disagreement between elites and the rest of the population concerns the order of priorities on the political agenda. Although maintaining order counts the most for the elites, the rest of the population prioritises improved living conditions for the poor.
D30|Inequality, Privatization and Democratic Institutions in Developing Countries|We study the distributional impact of privatization in the light of the democrati- zation process in developing countries which have recently experienced economic and political transitions. Using an unbalanced panel of 80 countries in the period 1988-2008, we find that privatization is negatively and significantly correlated with inequality when democratic institutions are well consolidated, and positively when they are not. Our evidence suggests an interesting policy implication for developing countries: only after having established mature representative political institutions, privatization appears to be related to a reduction in income inequality.
D30|Wealth inequality in the long run: A Schumpeterian growth perspective|This paper extends Piketty’s analysis of the wealth-income ratio used as a proxy for wealth inequality, to allow for innovation. Drawing on a Schumpeterian (R&D-based) growth model that incorporates both tangible and intangible capital and using historical data for 21 OECD countries, we find the wealth-income ratio to be significantly and positively related to R&D intensity and the fixed capital investment ratio, but negatively related to income growth. Accounting for the innovation-induced counteracting growth-effect on the wealth-income ratio, we show that the net effect of R&D on wealth inequality is positive.
D30|The Heterogeneous Effects of Government Spending: It's All About Taxes|Empirical work suggests that government spending generates large expansions of output and consumption. Most representative-agent models predict a moderate expansion of output, and a crowding-out of consumption. We reconcile these findings by taking into account the distribution of taxes. Using US data from 1913 to 2012, we provide evidence that government spending induces larger expansions in output and consumption when financed with more progressive taxes. We then develop a model with heterogeneous households and idiosyncratic risk, to show that a rise in government spending can be expansionary, both for output and consumption, only if financed with more progressive labor taxes. Key to our results is the model endogenous heterogeneity in householdsâ€™ marginal propensities to consume and labor supply elasticities. In this respect, the distributional impact of fiscal policy is central to its aggregate effects.
D30|Insurance and Inequality with Persistent Private Information|We study optimal insurance contracts for an agent with Markovian private information. Our main results characterize the implications of constrained efficiency for long-run welfare and inequality. Under minimal technical conditions, there is Absolute Immiseration: in the long run, the agent’s consumption and utility converge to their lower bounds. When types are persistent and utility is unbounded below, there is Relative Immiseration: low-type agents are immiserated at a faster rate than high-type agents, and “pathwise welfare inequality” grows without bound. These results extend and substantially generalize the hallmark findings from the classic literature with iid types, suggesting that the underlying forces are robust to a broad class of private information processes. The proofs rely on novel recursive techniques and martingale arguments. When the agent has CARA utility, we also analytically and numerically characterize the short-run properties of the optimal contract. Persistence gives rise to qualitatively novel short-run dynamics and allocative distortions (or “wedges”) and, quantitatively, induces less efficient risk-sharing. We compare properties of the wedges to their counterparts in the dynamic taxation literature.
D30|Inequality measurement with an ordinal and continuous variable|Abstract What would be the analogue of the Lorenz quasi-ordering when the variable of interest is continuous and of a purely ordinal nature? We argue that it is possible to derive such a criterion by substituting for the Pigou–Dalton transfer used in the standard inequality literature what we refer to as a Hammond progressive transfer. According to this criterion, one distribution of utilities is considered to be less unequal than another if it is judged better by both the lexicographic extensions of the maximin and the minimax, henceforth referred to as the leximin and the antileximax, respectively. If one imposes in addition that an increase in someone’s utility makes the society better off, then one is left with the leximin, while the requirement that society welfare increases as the result of a decrease of one person’s utility gives the antileximax criterion. Incidentally, the paper provides an alternative and simple characterisation of the leximin principle widely used in the social choice and welfare literature.
D30|We Are What We Eat: Obesity, Income, and Social Comparisons| The empirical evidence of a non-monotone relation between income and obesity is not well explained. We build a theoretical model combining income inequality and social comparisons to explain the link between income and obesity and study tax policy implications for fighting obesity. We assume that differences in food consumption patterns between poor and wealthy households partly reflect positionality, which is the concern for social status. Our key assumption is that positionality for low-calorie food consumption is positively related to a country’s wealth. In this framework, body weight outcomes reflect competing income and positionality effects, yielding the following results. We explain the link between average obesity rates, and standards of living and suggest the existence of a Kuznets curve for obesity. For cross sections of the population, we explain the observed correlation between income and obesity, which is positive in poor countries, and negative rich countries. We find that increasing the relative cost of high-calorie food is less effective at decreasing the relative weight of poor individuals in rich countries than in poor countries.
D30|Closed-loop Supply Chain Games with Innovation-led Lean Programs and Sustainability|This paper studies the impact of some innovation-led lean programs in a Closed-loop Supply Chain(CLSC)setting. We use a game-theoretic approach to model a CLSC composed of one supplier and one manufacturer. The supplier sets the wholesale price of an intermediate product while the manufacturer sets the selling price of a final product. Further, the manufacturer invests in innovation-led lean practices to entail both a strategic effect and a process innovation effect. The strategic effect consists of responsiveness involving the CLSC's capacity to properly respond to consumers' needs and leading to increase in sales. Further, the strategic effect enhances sustainability as consumers align their behavior to the CLSC's attitude of reducing the waste through lean, thus using their products for longer time period and entirely exhausting their residual value. Innovation-led lean practices also generate a process innovation effect, which consists of the marginal production cost abatement. Our findings indicate that lean practices leading to both strategic and process innovation are profitable for the manufacturer and sponsor sustainability. When only one of those can be presented, CLSCs should prefer the adoption of a strategic lean program. From its side, the supplier is much less sensitive to environmental benefits, thus it focuses on sales and operational matters. Furthermore, in a centralized CLSC, the preferences for strategic vs. process innovation lean follow the same path of the decentralized CLSC. Nevertheless, we pinpoint that the manufacturer in the decentralized CLSC has a larger incentive to adopt a strategic lean program than in the centralized CLSC. Also, the supplier always obtains larger economic benefits in the decentralized CLSC under any type of innovation-led lean program.
D30|Top incomes and income dynamics from a gender perspective: Evidence from Finland 1995-2012|In this paper I study Finnish top incomes from a gender perspective using the Finnish register-based panel data over the period of 1995-2012. I find that that the under-representation of women at the top has been quite persistent in the overall top but the proportion of women in the top 1\% has increased over 18 years. Women’s wage share at the top has increased while the self-employment income has decreased. The top income females more often have an entrepreneurial background and are more often sharing a household with a high-income spouse. The gender-specific income distributions show that female incomes are less dispersed. In this study I also test whether top incomes can be assumed to be Pareto distributed. While the joint and men’s top income distributions can be approximated with Pareto distribution throughout the observation period, the Pareto assumption gets more support for women after the year 2000. The female top income receivers have caught up with top earning men over time but I also show that females are more likely to move downwards from the top than men.
D30|Unemployment, spell duration and the burden of unemployment in Spain during the XXI Century|This paper presents the families of unemployment indexes sensitive to unemployment duration developed by Sengupta (2009) and Shorrocks (2009a, 2009b). They pick-up in a single index the 3 dimensions of unemployment: incidence, intensity and inequality. An application with the Spanish Labor Force Survey for the period 2001-2017 is offered, and some interesting results arise. In particular, when unemployment duration is taken into account, a less optimistic view of the recent recovery appears, since one of the consequences of the Great Recession has been the huge increase in the very long-term unemployed. Moreover, vulnerable groups in the society should also be measured taking into account not only the incidence of unemployment, but also intensity and inequality, and when we do so other highly vulnerable groups emerge.
D30|Shared prosperity : concepts, data, and some policy examples|"""Shared prosperity""has become a common phrase in the development policy discourse. This short paper provides its most widely used operational definition -- the growth rate in the average income of the poorest 40 percent of a country's population -- and describes its origins. The paper discusses how this notion relates to well-established concepts and social indicators, including social welfare, poverty, inequality, and mobility, and reviews some of its design shortcomings. The paper then looks at household survey data to assess recent progress in this indicator globally. The analysis finds that during 2008?13, mean incomes for the poorest 40 percent rose in 60 of 83 countries. In 49 of them, accounting for 65 percent of the sampled population, it rose faster than overall average incomes. Finally, the paper briefly reviews a (non-exhaustive) range of'pre-distribution'and'redistribution'policies with a sound empirical track record of raising productivity and well-being among the poor, thus contributing to shared prosperity."
D30|Educational Inequality and Public Policy Preferences: Evidence From Representative Survey Experiments|To study how information about educational inequality affects public concerns and policy preferences, we devise survey experiments in representative samples of the German population. Providing information about the extent of educational inequality strongly increases concerns about educational inequality but only slightly affects support for equity-oriented education policies, which is generally high. The small treatment effects are not due to respondents\' failure to connect policies with educational inequality or aversion against government interventions. Support for compulsory preschool is the one policy with a strong positive information treatment effect, which is increased further by informing about policy effectiveness.
D30|Welfare as Simple(x) Equity Equivalents|Inequity plays a fundamental role in the evaluation of social welfare in many dimensions. We revisit the concept of inequity, whether across states of world (uncertainty), across individuals (inequality) and across generations (intergenerational equity), using a common framework generalizing the discounted expected utilitarianism approach. We propose a general measure of welfare as equity equivalents and develop the corresponding inequity index. We then allow for different degrees of inequity aversion across the three dimensions to span a simplex of possible inequity preferences and relate it to the recent literature on this topic. We show that the ordering of aggregation across the different dimensions matters for welfare evaluations and that many welfare-theoretical approaches developed in the literature may be seen as special cases of this general framework.
D30|An Adverse Social Welfare Consequence of a Rich-to-Poor Income Transfer: A Relative Deprivation Approach|Abstract A transfer from a richer individual to a poorer one seems to be the most intuitive and straightforward way of reducing income inequality in a society. However, can such a transfer reduce the welfare of the society? We show that a rich-to-poor transfer can induce a response in the individuals’ behaviors which actually exacerbates, rather than reduces, income inequality as measured by the Gini index. We use this result as an input in assessing the social welfare consequence of the transfer. Measuring social welfare by Sen’s social welfare function, we show that the transfer reduces social welfare. These two results are possible even for individuals whose utility functions are relatively simple (namely, at most quadratic in all terms) and incorporate a distaste for low relative income. We first present the two results for a population of two individuals. We subsequently provide several generalizations. We show that our argument holds for a population of any size, and that the choice of utility functions which trigger this response is not singular – the results obtain for an open set of the space of admissible utility functions. In addition, we show that a rich-to-poor transfer can exacerbate inequality when we employ Lorenz-domination, and that it can decrease social welfare when we draw on any increasing, Schur-concave welfare function.
D30|Equality among Unequals|This paper establishes an equivalence between three incomplete rankings of distributions of income among agents that are vertically differentiated with respect to some other non-income characteristic (health, household size, etc.). The first ranking is that associated with the possibility of going from one distribution to the other by a finite sequence of income transfers from richer and more highly ranked agents to poorer and less highly ranked ones. The second ranking is the unanimity of all comparisons of two distributions made by a utilitarian planer who assumes that agents convert income into utility by the same function exhibiting a marginal utility of income that is decreasing with respect to both income and the source of vertical differentiation. The third ranking is the Bourguignon (1989) ordered poverty gap dominance criterion.
D30|Hammond’s Equity Principle and the Measurement of Ordinal Inequalities|What would be the analogue of the Lorenz quasi-ordering when the variable of interest is of a purely ordinal nature? We argue that it is possible to derive such a criterion by substituting for the Pigou-Dalton transfer used in the standard inequality literature what we refer to as a Hammond progressive transfer. According to this criterion, one distribution of utilities is considered to be less unequal than another if it is judged better by both the lexicographic extensions of the maximin and the minimax, henceforth referred to as the leximin and the antileximax, respectively. If one imposes in addition that an increase in someone's utility makes the society better off, then one is left with the leximin, while the requirement that society welfare increases as the result of a decrease of one person's utility gives the antileximax criterion. Incidently, the paper provides an alternative and simple characterisation of the leximin principle widely used in the social choice and welfare literature.
D30|The Dynamics of Inequality in the Human Story: A Brief Sketch|Teaching contemporary inequality can be significantly enriched by being nested in its dynamics over the course of human history. This essay is intended to provide those teaching inequality with a brief sketch of: a) the original human condition of a high degree of equality that endured for 97 to 98 percent of our species' existence as foragers and early agriculturalists; b) the origin of extreme inequality that accompanied the rise of states and civilization about 5,500 years ago as weapons technology enabled a few to subjugate the producers; and c) why, despite political democracy, extreme inequality persists.
D30|Welfare and Inequality Comparisons for Uni- and Multi-dimensional Distributions of Ordinal Data|Decision makers and social planners are often faced with a problem of evaluating distributions of ordinal variables i.e. variables for which there are no numbers but only the ordering, such as, for example, self-reported health status, life satisfaction, working environment, quality of public goods, living conditions etc. Standard tools, namely, stochastic dominance, and inequality and risk measures, produce conclusions that can be reversed depending on the cardinalisation of an ordinal indicator which is arbitrary. Utilising the notion of integration on partially ordered sets we extend the well-known Hardy et al. (1934) result to an ordinal setting, both univariate and multivariate.
D30|Pampered Bureaucracy, Political Stability and Trade Integration|This paper shows how, under threat of revolution, a nation's elite are able to maintain political stability and hence ownership of their wealth by creating or expanding a `pampered bureaucracy.' The elite thus divert part of an otherwise entrepreneurial middle class from more productive manufacturing activities, reducing economic efficiency. If the country has a comparative advantage in primary products, trade integration is potentially destabilizing since it raises the payoff to the lower classes of mounting a revolution and challenging the elite for their wealth. In that case trade integration mandates expansion of the pampered bureaucracy. Therefore, trade integration may actually reduce economic efficiency. The econometric results provide supportive evidence for our model.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D30|Migration, Congestion and Growth|This article analyzes the effect of migration from a less advanced economy to a more advanced economy on economic growth. The analysis is performed in a two-country growth model with endogenous fertility, in which congestion diseconomies are incorporated. The model shows that out-migration increases fertility and reduces human capital in the source economy. At the same time, in-migration reduces fertility and can increase or decrease the average level of human capital in the host economy. I show how migration affects the inter-temporal evolution of human capital in the world economy. I also demonstrate that a tax imposed on immigrants in the host economy can increase human capital accumulation in the receiving and sending economies and the world as a whole.
D30|The unfortunate regressivity of public natural hazard insurance: A quantitative analysis of a New Zealand case| Natural hazard insurance is almost always provided through public-private partnerships. Given the dominant role of the public sector, it is surprising that equity issues have not faced more scrutiny with respect to the design of hazard insurance. We provide a detailed quantification of the degree of regressivity of the New Zealand earthquake insurance program â€“ a system that was designed with an egalitarian purpose. We measure this regressivity as it manifested in the half a million insurance claims that resulted from the Canterbury earthquakes of 2011. As in other cases, this can be remedied with modifications to the programâ€™s structure.
D30|A theory of trade policy under dictatorship and democratization|This paper develops a new model of trade policy under dictatorship and democratization. The paper makes two contributions. One is to provide a deeper understanding of the relationship between political institutions and economic efficiency by studying the endogenous interaction between the form of government and trade policy. The paper's second contribution is to show how a dictatorship can manipulate trade policy to maintain its grip on power in the face of permanent world price shocks, thus opening the door to a re-examination of trade policy responses to technology shocks. The model is used to explain an interesting episode of trade policymaking between 1815 and 1846, during which time Britain substantially liberalized trade while Prussia, on the other side of the grain market, significantly increased protectionism.
D30|Network Capital|"This paper explores the problem of assembling capital for projects. It can be difficult to assemble capital, when it is disaggregated, for a project that exhibits increasing returns. Small investors may be reluctant to participate, as they may question the ability of the project owner to raise the additional capital he requires. This suggests the possibility that agents with blocks of capital (capital that is already aggregated) might earn rents. Similarly, agents with ""network capital"" - that is, an ability to aggregate the capital of others - may earn rents. In this paper, we develop a theory of the rents attached to capital assembly, and discuss the implications for a range of issues from investment, to growth, to inequality."
D30|Philippine Inequality across the Twentieth Century: Slim Evidence but Fat Questions|In spite of persistent debates about income inequality and pro-poor policy in the Philippines, its history over the past century has been ignored, at least by economists. This is surprising given that the Philippines already had its first Census in 1903, long before its neighbors, augmented by other relevant evidence embedded in official documents generated by the American insular government. It is also surprising given that we know that income distributions change only very slowly and must be examined over the long run to identify its drivers. This essay reviews the (thin) historical evidence and proposes explanations. There is no Kuznets Curve, and no Marxian, Pikettian or other grand endogenous inequality theory at work, but there are dramatic episodes of change. It appears that there was an inequality rise up to World War 1, a fall between the World Wars, a rise to high levels by the 1950s, and an almost certain rise up to the end of the century which, due to mismeasurement, looks instead like stasis . We need to collect better evidence to confirm these narratives and to assess competing hypotheses.
D30|Behavioral Heterogeneity: Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
D30|Does Loss Aversion Beat Procrastination ?A Behavioral Health Intervention at the Gym|Financial incentives are a common tool to encourage overcoming self-control problems and developing beneficial habits. There are different means by which such incentives can be provided, yet, up to date there is little empirical evidence on the relative effectiveness of different incentive designs. In this paper, we conduct a field experiment to explore whether and how incentives that are economically equivalent but framed differently affect the likelihood of exercising at a gym. We find that framing incentives in terms of losses, meaning individuals lose cash incentives by not exercising, encourages more frequent visits to the gym than framing incentives in terms of financial gains. After removing these incentives, we observe habit formation in gym exercise only if incentives were framed as losses rather than gains. The findings are consistent with the concept of loss aversion and suggest that cost reductions and performance improvements can be achieved if opting to frame incentives in terms of losses.
D30|Economic growth and income inequality in the Asia-Pacific region: A comparative study of China, Japan, South Korea, and the United States|This paper builds an inequality-growth-redistribution nexus, and applies the Engle–Granger two-step ECM approach to estimate the long-run and short-run relationships between inequality and growth for four economies: China, Japan, South Korea, and the United States. Our estimation results support the S-shaped curve hypothesis relating GDP per capita to inequality with different starting points for the four economies. For the reverse relationship, we find a positive causal relationship for China, Japan, and the United States, indicating that increased income inequality spurred economic growth. In addition, we find mixed results on the effect of trade openness on inequality and growth. Trade openness reduced inequality in the United States and Japan, worsened it in China and had no significant effect in South Korea. In the inequality-GDP per capita relationship, exports provided an impetus to economic growth for Japan. As for redistribution, although fiscal redistributive measures reduced inequality in Japan, they played no major role in the other three countries. With regard to the inequality-GDP per capita relationship, all countries except for China show a negative effect of fiscal redistribution on GDP per capita.
D30|Regional inequality, convergence, and its determinants – A view from outer space|This paper provides a new dataset of regional income inequalities within countries based on satellite nighttime light data. First, we empirically study the relationship between luminosity data and regional incomes for those countries for which regional income data are available. Second, we use our estimation results for an out-of-sample prediction of regional incomes based on the luminosity data. These results enable us to investigate regional income differentials in developing countries that lack official income data. Third, we calculate commonly used measures of regional inequality within countries based on predicted incomes. An investigation of changes in the dispersion of regional incomes over time reveals that approximately 67–70% of all countries experience sigma-convergence. Forth, we study different major determinants of within-country changes in inequality, i.e., the determinants of the convergence process. We find evidence for an N-shaped relationship between development and regional inequality. Resources, mobility, trade openness, aid, federalism and human capital are also very important.
D30|Measuring discrimination using principles of stochastic dominance|This note develops a new approach to measuring discrimination. A partial ordering of discrimination patterns is proposed that is consistent with the properties of second-degree stochastic dominance (SSD), which are related to changes in the distributions of either the reference (advantaged) or comparison (disadvantaged) group, while keeping the other group's distribution unchanged. Furthermore, a corresponding summary index is derived. This index provides a complete ordering to rank discrimination patterns and also satisfies the principles of SSD.
D30|Improving poverty reduction in Europe: what works (best) where?|In this paper we provide evidence of the relative cost-effectiveness of different types of policy instrument in reducing the risk of poverty (or limiting its increase). We do that by measuring the implications of increasing or reducing the size of the instrument within its national context, comparing across 7 diverse EU countries: Belgium, Bulgaria, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy and the UK. We consider four types of commonly-applied policy instrument that have a direct effect on household income and hence potentially on the risk of income poverty: child benefits, minimum income components of social assistance, income tax lower thresholds and minimum wages; and one general aspect of policymaking, the regular indexation of benefit levels and tax thresholds. We focus on changing the scale of the instrument rather than its structure. Hence, in each case we take the existing policy instrument and calculate the direct effects on household income of inflating/deflating the relevant thresholds and payment levels by common proportions (5%, 20% and 90%), taking account of interactions with the rest of the tax-benefit system. To do this we make use of EUROMOD, the taxbenefit microsimulation model for the European Union, based on microdata from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC). The effect on income poverty (FGT0 and FGT1) is calculated and compared across instruments and countries and is assessed relative to the budgetary effect of the policy change. The aim of this paper is not necessarily to present realistic or politically feasible policy reform scenarios but rather to compare the cost-effectiveness of some common “building blocks” of policy making, drawing on analysis of seven national policy systems and contexts.
D30|Welfare as Simple(x) Equity Equivalents| Inequity plays a fundamental role in the evaluation of social welfare in many dimensions. We revisit the concept of inequity, whether across states of world (uncertainty), across individuals (inequality) and across generations (intergenerational equity), using a common framework generalizing the discounted expected utilitarianism approach. We propose a general measure of welfare as equity equivalents and develop the corresponding inequity index. We then allow for different degrees of inequity aversion across the three dimensions to span a simplex of possible inequity preferences and relate it to the recent literature on this topic. We show that the ordering of aggregation across the different dimensions matters for welfare evaluations and that many welfare-theoretical approaches developed in the literature may be seen as special cases of this general framework.
D30|Inflation at the household level|We use scanner data to estimate inflation rates at the household level. Households’ inflation rates have an annual interquartile range of 6.2–9.0 percentage points. Most of the heterogeneity comes not from variation in broadly defined consumption bundles but from variation in prices paid for the same types of goods. Lower-income households experience higher inflation, but most cross-sectional variation is uncorrelated with observables. Households’ deviations from aggregate inflation exhibit only slightly negative serial correlation. Almost all variability in a household’s inflation rate comes from variability in household-level prices relative to average prices, not from variability in aggregate inflation.
D30|Preferences for distributional impacts of climate policy|What role do people think distributional aspects should play in design of climate policy? The literature assessing climate policies has shown that assumptions regarding peoples’ distributional preferences for climate change policy impacts are central for policy assessment, but empirical evidence for such preferences is lacking. We design a discrete choice experiment that varies how climate policies affect the income of people living in the future in three geographical regions. The experiment is implemented on a representative sample of the Danish population and preferences are modelled in a latent class model. Our results show that i) a small majority of Danes expresses preferences for climate policies consistent with inequity aversion, ii) a group expresses preferences resembling simple warm glow, while iii) a small group prefers not to support additional climate policies. Finally a somewhat larger group expresses some form of distributional preferences, but shows positive preferences for costs, suggesting that responses could be influenced by strategic behaviour and over-signalling of commitment. Our results provide support for the inclusion of social preferences regarding distributional effects of climate change policies in policy assessments, and hence for the significant impact on policy this inclusion have.
D30|Distributive outcomes matter: Measuring social preferences for climate policy|This study examines whether people have distributional preferences for the impacts of climate policy when making donations towards such policies. In an online choice experiment, using a real donation mechanism, a representative sample of 95 members of the Danish public are provided 27€ and asked to make 16 donation choices among different climate policy options. The climate policies are described in terms of two main outcome variables, including future effects on income in 2100 and present co-benefits from mitigation action. Both outcomes are described for three specific regions of the world, Western Europe, Southeast Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. For each participant, one policy choice was drawn at random to be realised and the total amount donated by participants was used to purchase and withdraw CO2 quotas and credits in the European Emission Trading Scheme and as a donation to the UN Adaptation Fund. A random parameter logit model shows that distributional concerns matter for people when they donate to climate policy and that elements of both inequity aversion and general altruism influence the choice of climate policy. The results underscore the importance of considering preferences for distributional outcomes when designing climate policy.
D30|Equality among Unequals|This paper establishes an equivalence between three incomplete rankings of distributions of income among agents that are vertically differentiated with respect to some other non-income characteristic (health, household size, etc.). The first ranking is that associated with the possibility of going from one distribution to the other by a finite sequence of income transfers from richer and more highly ranked agents to poorer and less highly ranked ones. The second ranking is the unanimity of all comparisons of two distributions made by a utilitarian planer who assumes that agents convert income into utility by the same function exhibiting a marginal utility of income that is decreasing with respect to both income and the source of vertical differentiation. The third ranking is the Bourguignon (1989) ordered poverty gap dominance criterion.
D30|Hammond’s Equity Principle and the Measurement of Ordinal Inequalities|What would be the analogue of the Lorenz quasi-ordering when the variable of interest is of a purely ordinal nature? We argue that it is possible to derive such a criterion by substituting for the Pigou-Dalton transfer used in the standard inequality literature what we refer to as a Hammond progressive transfer. According to this criterion, one distribution of utilities is considered to be less unequal than another if it is judged better by both the lexicographic extensions of the maximin and the minimax, henceforth referred to as the leximin and the antileximax, respectively. If one imposes in addition that an increase in someone’s utility makes the society better off, then one is left with the leximin, while the requirement that society welfare increases as the result of a decrease of one person’s utility gives the antileximax criterion. Incidently, the paper provides an alternative and simple characterisation of the leximin principle widely used in the social choice and welfare literature.
D30|Positive illusions and the temptation to borrow|We provide an explanation of the low willingness to save that is observed in many poor countries. Our explanation is based on the hypothesis that People have an over-optimistic outlook. As discussed in the psychological literature,an illusionary positive view of the future may be a good thing. However, we show that it can lead individuals to accumulate unsustainable levels of debt.Using survey data from South Africa, we confirm that poor people are indeed overly optimistic, and also that optimism is positively and significantly related to debt accumulation.
D30|The anatomy of distributional preferences with group identity|The increasing diversity of societies raises questions about the consequences for redistributive preferences. This paper assesses the impact of social identity on distributional preferences in a modified dictator game. I estimate individual-level utility functions with two parameters that govern the trade-offs between equity and efficiency and giving to self and to other. Subjects on average put less weight on income of the out-group. The out-group treatment also changes the distribution of equity-efficiency concerns. However, the experiment also uncovers a large individual heterogeneity of preferences. An analysis of GARP violations reveals that choices in both treatments overwhelmingly stem from well-behaved, yet systematically different underlying utility functions. Hence, the evidence presented here suggests that the rational choice approach is a useful tool for understanding the effect of social identity on preferences.
D30|Social preferences and political attitudes: An online experiment on a large heterogeneous sample|This paper investigates - in a large heterogeneous sample - the relationship between social preferences on the one hand, and socioeconomic factors and political preferences on the other hand. Socioeconomic factors correlate with social preferences, and social preferences robustly shape political attitudes and voting behavior in a particular way: Selfish subjects are the extremists on one side of the political spectrum - they are more likely to vote for a right-wing party, they are less inclined to favor redistribution and they are more likely to self-assess themselves as right-wing than all the other types. Inequality-averse subjects, altruists and maxi-min sit at the opposite end of the political spectrum, while all the other types behave less systematically and in a less extreme fashion. Overall, our evidence indicates that elicited social preferences are externally valid as a predictor for political attitudes, and that social preferences are fairly stable across contexts and over longer periods of time.
D30|Rules for Dividing a Disputed Resource in the Context of the Classical Liberal Argument for Peace|In this paper, we study alternative forms of conflict resolution, both peaceful and non-peaceful, between two countries that compete for claims to a resource used to produce potentially traded goods. Consistent with the classical liberal argument, peace supports mutually beneficial trade, whereas war preempts it. War always induces countries to allocate resources into non-contractible arming (“guns”) for superiority in conflict. Under peaceful settlement, countries might choose to arm as well for gaining leverage in negotiations, but arming is typically less than what it is under war. Building on the observation that arming itself affects the countries’ bargaining sets, we compare the efficiency properties of division rules generated by three prominent bargaining solutions – namely, splitting the surplus, equal sacrifice, and Nash bargaining – and show how they depend on the gains from trade.
D30|Measuring employment deprivation in the EU using a household-level index|Abstract We propose an aggregate measure of employment deprivation among households that follows a methodological framework developed to measure wellbeing. This index verifies a set of reasonable axioms that other available measures do not: increases in three relevant employment deprivation elements-incidence, intensity and inequality. Incidence captures how many households in a population are touched by a lack of employment, while employment deprivation intensity reflects how far households are, on average, from being non-deprived of employment. Finally, employment deprivation inequality increases with the concentration of unemployment among few households. Based on this index, we analyze employment deprivation across the European Union using information from Labor Force Surveys during the current “Great Recession.” Our results provide evidence on the relevance of incorporating the household dimension to identify unemployment profiles, with a variety of implications, in terms of household wellbeing. Specifically, we show that countries with similar (intermediate) unemployment rates differ in their patterns of employment deprivation once the structure of employment across households is incorporated.
D30|Behavioral Heterogeneity : Pareto Distributions of Homothetic Preference Scales and Aggregate Expenditures Income Elasticities|"We evaluate the income elasticity of the aggregate budget share spent on a sub-group of commodities, in a competitive framework, by a continuum of agents having the same income, but heterogeneous behavior described by an ""homothetic preferences scaling factor"" having a bounded Pareto distribution in the population. If individual budget share increases globally significantly in the limit from low to large incomes, aggregate budget share is locally increasing with medium range incomes when the logarithm of the heterogeneity factor has an increasing (exponential) density with a large support. Aggregate income elasticity converges to that exponential density parameter when its support becomes infinitely large. Symmetric results hold in the decreasing case. Applications are made to market expenditures, wealth effects on portfolio choice with many risky assets, concave expenditures, that are compatible with standard (expected) utility maximization or other ""behavioral"" decision making processes."
D30|Long-run effects of public expenditure on poverty|Abstract Household characteristics may have long-run effects on individual outcomes in adulthood. For instance, individuals who lived when young in households experiencing financial problems are more likely to be poor when adults. Governments try to reduce these effects and to promote equality of opportunity. The objective of this paper is to check whether public expenditure has a long-run effect in reducing the probability of being poor when adult, and to what extent. Our main finding is that public expenditure on education has a strong long-run effect on reducing incidence of poverty in adulthood. We also find that this effect is concentrated mainly among individuals who have parents with a low level of education.
D30|Long-run effects of public expenditure on poverty|Abstract Household characteristics may have long-run effects on individual outcomes in adulthood. For instance, individuals who lived when young in households experiencing financial problems are more likely to be poor when adults. Governments try to reduce these effects and to promote equality of opportunity. The objective of this paper is to check whether public expenditure has a long-run effect in reducing the probability of being poor when adult, and to what extent. Our main finding is that public expenditure on education has a strong long-run effect on reducing incidence of poverty in adulthood. We also find that this effect is concentrated mainly among individuals who have parents with a low level of education.
D30|Decomposing the structure of wages into firm and worker effects: Some insights from a high unemployment economy|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to show that for some key topics on labour economics such as the effect of seniority and job mobility in wages, it is important to explicitly consider firm fixed effects. The author also wants to test whether the importance of firm in explaining wage dispersion is higher or lower in Spain than in other European countries. Design/methodology/approach - The author estimates an individual wage equation where firm and workers effects are considered and the estimation process control for censored wages. This exercise is performed for the Spanish economy over the course of a whole business cycle, i.e., 2000-2015. Findings - The author demonstrates that Spanish firms contribute to explain around 27 per cent of the individual wage heterogeneity but more importantly around 74 per cent of inter-industry wage differentials. In both cases, this contribution is mainly related to large dispersion in firm’s wage policies. The process of positive sorting of workers across firms or industries does not play an important role. Interestingly, the importance of firm’s wage policies in explaining individual wage dispersion has increased over the current Big Recession. Practical implications - The results confirm that firms set wages and, henceforth, are partially responsible for individual wage heterogeneity but more importantly for inter-industrial wage dispersion. Originality/value - The exercise is performed under optimal conditions because the author uses a longitudinal matched employer-employee data set, observed wages are at a monthly frequency, and implements an estimation method suitable for censored models with two high-dimensional fixed effects. This is the first study that looks deeply into the role of firms in explaining wage heterogeneity at the individual and industry level in Spain and along the current Big Recession.
D30|Wealth Disparities for Early Childhood Anthropometrics and Skills: Evidence from Chilean Longitudinal Data|We study wealth disparities in the formation of anthropometrics, cognitive skills and socio-emotional skills. We use a sample of preschool and early school children in Chile. We extend the previous literature by using longitudinal data, which allow us to study the dynamics of child growth and skills formation. Also, we include information on mother's and father's schooling attainment and mother's cognitive ability. We find that there are no significant anthropometric differences favoring the better-off at birth (and indeed length differences at birth to the disadvantage of the better-off), but during the first 30 months of life wealth disparities in height-for-age z scores (HAZ) favoring the better-off emerge. Moreover, we find wealth disparities in cognitive skills favoring the better-off emerge early in life and continue after children turn 6 years of age. We find no concurrent wealth disparities for and socio-emotional skills. Thus, even though the wealth disparities in birth outcomes if anything favor the poor, significant disparities favoring the rich emerge in the early post-natal period. Mother's education and cognitive ability also are significantly associated with disparities in skill formation.
D30|Türkiye Ekonomisinde Yoksulluk, Yolsuzluk ve Gelir Dağılımı İlişkisi<BR>[Income Distribution, Poverty and Corruption in Turkey]|Bu çalışmanın ana amacı yoksulluk, yolsuzluk ve gelir dağılımı arasında bir ilişkinin olup olmadığını belirlemektir. Bu amaçla literatürde ilk defa Gini katsayısı ve yolsuzluk algı endeksi arasındaki korelasyona, başta Türkiye olmak üzere, verilerin elde edilebilir olduğu ülkeler için bakılmıştır. Sonuçlar Gini katsayısı ve yolsuzluk algı endeksi arasında, Arjantin ve Kolombiya haricindeki ülkeler için, negatif bir ilişki olduğunu göstermiştir. Bu, “gelir dağılımı ne kadar adilse yolsuzluk o kadar azdır” veya “yolsuzluğun fazla olduğu ülkelerde gelir dağılımı daha adaletsizdir” şeklinde yorumlanmaktadır. Analizin yapıldığı ülkeler arasında bahsi geçen negatif ilişkinin en güçlü olduğu ülkenin Türkiye olması dikkat çekmektedir.
D30|To Err is Human: Inconsistencies in Food Conversion Factors and Inequality in Malawi|One of the key deficiencies of household survey data for measuring poverty and inequality is that survey nonresponse depends on the income of the respondent, whereby rich people are less likely to cooperate with household surveys than poor people. This nonrandom nonresponse may hide the true level of poverty and inequality. Another potential problem with household survey data which has received scant attention in the literature is the quality of food conversion factors. Nonrandom errors and inconsistencies in food conversion factors can potentially have a nontrivial impact on measured poverty and inequality.The paper looks at the impact of errors and inconsistencies in food conversion factors on measured consumption inequality. Malawi has been used as case study with data from the Second and the Third Integrated Household Surveys (IHS2 and IHS3). Two consumption aggregates are used; an official aggregate which is contaminated by errors and inconsistencies in food conversion factors and a new aggregate which cleans out these problems. The paper finds that the inconsistencies and errors in the conversion factors were not random in that they affected the richest households more than the poorest households. Consequently, the official aggregate understates the level of inequality as measured by the Gini coefficient. Inequality is underestimated by 4.4 and 2.3 Gini points for 2004/5 and 2010/11 respectively. The disparities are not only sizable but they are also statistically significant. I also find that the official aggregate progressively underestimates the share accruing to higher percentiles. Nonparametric tests for Lorenz dominance confirm that these differences in measured inequality are robust. Using the new aggregate, the paper also finds that inequality is not worsening overtime as the official aggregate suggests. All this implies that the quality of food conversion factors is critical for the accurate measurement of levels of and trends in inequality.
D30|Does Credit Composition Have Asymmetric Effects on Income Inequality?|This paper studies the effects of credit to private non-financial sectors on income inequality. In particular, we focus on the distinction between household and firm credit, and investigate whether these two types of credit have adverse effects on income inequality. Using balanced panel data for 30 developed and developing countries over the period of 1995-2013, we show that firm credit reduces income inequality whereas there is no significant impact of household credit on income inequality. We conclude that not the size of private credit but the composition of it matters for reducing income inequality due to the asymmetric effects of different types of credit.
D30|Thailand's Household Debt through the Lens of Credit Bureau Data: Debt and Delinquency|This paper uses loan-level data from the National Credit Bureau to study household debt in Thailand. The wide coverage and the granularity of the data allow us to analyze prevalence, intensity, and distribution of debt and delinquency by loan product, lender, and borrower. We show that there are tremendous heterogeneities in debt and delinquency across these attributes. Overall, credit access in Thailand appears moderate and limited for housing loans. Thais begin to have debt earlier in their lives and hold debt until very old. Household debt is largely concentrated and plagued with high debt intensity and delinquency prevalence, especially among the young working age population, implying a potential increase in the vulnerability of the financial system and prolonged sluggish domestic spending. Our findings have important implications for policy design and targeting.
D30|Higher Tax for Top Earners|Abstract The literature can justify both increasing and decreasing marginal taxes (IMT & DMT) on top incomes under different welfare objectives and income distributions. Even when DMT are theoretically optimal, they are often politically infeasible. Then a flat tax seems to be a constrained optimal solution. We show however that, given any flat tax we can increase the total utility of a poor majority by raising the top income tax rate under a simple condition, which can be checked with empirical data. We further generalize our main results allowing different welfare weights, declining elasticity of labor supply and more tax bands.
D30|Why do Poor People Co-hold Debt and Liquid Savings?|I examine the use of flexible savings-and-loan accounts offered by SafeSave, a microfinance institution serving poor slum dwellers in Dhaka, Bangladesh. I find that 59% of the clients co-hold, meaning that they borrow at high interest rates and simultaneously hold low-yield liquid savings. Co-holders could immediately pay down, on average, 32 per cent of their debt using liquid savings and thus avoid significant interest payments. The results show that co-holders are more likely to be regular workers subject to little income uncertainty, suggesting that co-holding is not a consequence of liquidity needs. The paper discusses alternative explanations.
D30|Is inequality harmful for innovation and growth? Price versus market size effects|Abstract We introduce non-homothetic preferences into an R&D based growth model to study how demand forces shape the impact of inequality on innovation and growth. Inequality affects the incentive to innovate via a price effect and a market size effect. When innovators have a large productivity advantage over traditional producers a higher extent of inequality tends to increase innovators’ prices and mark-ups. When this productivity gap is small, however, a redistribution from the rich to the poor increases market sizes and speeds up growth.
D30|Dynamics of Military Expenditure and Income Inequality in Pakistan|Abstract This study investigates the impact of military expenditures on income inequality in Pakistan using data over the period of 1972–2012. For this purpose, we applied the ARDL bounds testing cointegration approach which confirmed the presence of long-run equilibrium relationship between military expenditure and income inequality. Furthermore, empirical analysis indicates that military spending has a positive impact on income inequality. The analysis of Granger causality, Toda–Yamamoto Modified Wald test and variance decomposition approaches confirm the presence of unidirectional causality running from military expenditure to income inequality. The findings of our study suggest that higher military expenditure leads to higher income inequality in Pakistan. Therefore, we advise the policy makers to focus more on the policies which can increase the economic activities in the country and eventually reduce income inequality.
D30|Poor Health Reporting? Using Vignettes to Recover the Health Gradient by Wealth|In spite of the well-known wide disparities in wealth and in objective measures of health like mortality in countries like South Africa, health inequality by wealth in self-reported health measures appears to be nearly non-existent. We test and correct for reporting heterogeneity in sixteen domains of self-assessed health by wealth and race among elderly South Africans using anchoring vignettes. We find that significant reporting differences between high and low wealth groups lead to severe underestimation of the health-wealth gap: poorer individuals rate the same health relatively higher than richer. Using hierarchical ordered probit (HOPIT) modeling, we show that a significant and substantial health disadvantage of the poor emerges after correction. We also address the question whether and how health inequality and reporting heterogeneity are confounded by race. We find that within race groups - especially among Blacks but also among Whites - reporting heterogeneity leads to the underestimation of the health inequalities between richest and poorest. Finally, we show that the apparent Black (vs White) health disadvantage within the top wealth quintile disappears once we correct for reporting tendencies. All in all, our findings suggest that reporting tendencies are an important source of bias in the measurement of health disparities and that anchoring vignettes and HOPIT models can play a role in correcting for these biases.
D30|Wealth Disparities for Early Childhood Anthropometrics and Skills: Evidence from Chilean Longitudinal Data|We study wealth disparities in the formation of anthropometrics, cognitive skills and socio-emotional skills. We use a sample of preschool and early school children in Chile. We extend the previous literature by using longitudinal data, which allow us to study the dynamics of child growth and skills formation. Also, we include information on mother's and father's schooling attainment and mother's cognitive ability. We find that there are no significant anthropometric differences favoring the better-off at birth (and indeed length differences at birth to the disadvantage of the better-off), but during the first 30 months of life wealth disparities in height-for-age z scores (HAZ) favoring the better-off emerge. Moreover, we find wealth disparities in cognitive skills favoring the better-off emerge early in life and continue after children turn 6 years of age. We find no concurrent wealth disparities for and socio-emotional skills. Thus, even though the wealth disparities in birth outcomes if anything favor the poor, significant disparities favoring the rich emerge in the early post-natal period. Mother's education and cognitive ability also are significantly associated with disparities in skill formation.
D30|A Non-Parametric Approach to Testing the Axioms of the Shapely Value with Limited Data|The unique properties of the Shapley value–efficiency, equal treatment of identical input factors, and marginality–have made it an appealing solution concept in various classes of problems. It is however recognized that the pay schemes utilized in many real-life situations generally depart from this value. We propose a nonparametric approach to testing the empirical content of this concept with limited datasets. We introduce the Shapley distance, which, for a fixed monotone transferable-utility game, measures the distance of an arbitrary pay profile to the Shapley pay profile, and show that it is additively decomposable into the violations of the classical Shapley axioms. The analysis has several applications. In particular, it can be used to assess the extent to which an income distribution or a cost allocation can be considered fair or unfair, and whether any particular case of unfairness is due to the violation of one or a combination of the Shapley axioms.
D30|The Unfortunate Regressivity of Public Natural Hazard Insurance: A Quantitative Analysis of a New Zealand Case|Natural hazard insurance is almost always provided through public-private partnerships. Given the dominant role of the public sector, it is surprising that equity issues have not faced more scrutiny with respect to the design of hazard insurance. We provide a detailed quantification of the degree of regressivity of the New Zealand earthquake insurance program – a system that was designed with an egalitarian purpose. We measure this regressivity as it manifested in the half a million insurance claims that resulted from the Canterbury earthquakes of 2011. As in other cases, this can be remedied with modifications to the program’s structure.
D30|The older, the richer? A decomposition of wealth inequality by age subgroups|Departing from the implication of the basic life cycle model that substantial wealth inequality may arise simply because of differences in age, at first, we investigate the quantitative importance of age as a source of wealth differences in Germany using individual wealth data from the German Socio-Economic Panel for the years 2002, 2007 and 2012. Employing the well-known Gini coefficient, we decompose wealth inequality by age subgroups and calculate within- and between-group inequalities. Results suggest that more than one third of overall wealth inequality can be explained by transitory lifetime wealth differences due to age. Secondly, unconditional quantile regression is used to examine the effects of age on different points of the wealth distribution. Results reveal that the age effect is heterogeneous across the distribution. We find that age has no effect on low quantiles and an almost linear effect for the higher ones. For the middle part of the distribution, results show a hump-shaped pattern as predicted by theory. A combination of these results provides tentative evidence that an aging of the German population is associated with a growing dispersion of wealth at the upper tail of the distribution.
D30|Die gesellschaftliche Akzeptanz der Energiewende: Befunde eines interdisziplinären Forschungsprojektes|Die gesellschaftliche Zustimmung zu den politischen Zielen der Energiewende wird nicht unwesentlich von ihren finanziellen Verteilungswirkungen und den individuellen Gerechtigkeitsvorstellungen der privaten Haushalte beeinflusst. Die empirische Untersuchung dieses Zusammenhangs bildet den Kern dieses Beitrags, welcher die Ergebnisse des vom Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung (BMBF) geförderten Forschungsprojektes AKZEPTANZ zusammenfasst. Die empirischen Einzelbefunde verweisen auf drei wesentliche Erkenntnisse hinsichtlich der Präferenzstruktur der privaten Haushalte bei der Gestaltung der energiewendebedingten Kostenbelastung. Erstens besteht grundsätzlich der Wunsch nach einer Anwendung des Leistungsfähigkeitsprinzips bei der Finanzierung der Ökostromförderung. Zweitens kann die Unsicherheit über die Kosten der Energiewende zu einer Abkehr vom Leistungsfähigkeitsprinzip führen und drittens können Anreize in Form von Subventionen für Investitionen in Energieeffizienz zu kontraproduktiven Nebeneffekten führen.
D30|Europäische Volkswirtschaften im Lichte der Kreislauftheorie der Einkommensverteilung|No abstract is available for this item.
D30|Growth of Income and Welfare in the U.S. 1979-2011|We estimate growth rates of real incomes in the U.S. by quintiles using the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) post-tax, post-transfer data as basis for the period 1979-2011. We improve upon them by including only the present value of earnings that will accrue in retirement and excluding items included in the CBO income estimates such as “corporate taxes borne by labor” that do not increase either current purchasing power or utility. We estimate a high and a low growth rate using two price indexes, the CPI and the Personal Consumption Expenditure index. The major consistent findings include what in the colloquial is referred to as the “hollowing out” of the middle class. According to these estimates, the income of the middle class 2nd and 3rd quintiles increased at a rate of between 0.1% and 0.7% per annum, i.e., barely distinguishable from zero. Even that meager rate was achieved only through substantial transfer payments. In contrast, the income of the top 1% grew at an astronomical rate of between 3.4% and 3.9% per annum during the 32-year period, reaching an average annual value of $918,000, up from $281,000 in 1979 (in 2011 dollars). Hence, the post-tax, post-transfer income of the 1% relative to the 1st quintile increased from a factor of 21 in 1979 to a factor of 51 in 2011. However, income of no other group increased substantially relative to that of the lowest quintile. Oddly, the income of even those in the 96-99 percentiles increased only from a multiple of 8.1 to a multiple of 11.3. We next estimate growth in welfare assuming diminishing marginal utility of income. A logarithmic utility function yields a growth in welfare for the middle class of roughly 0.01% to 0.07% per annum, which is indistinguishable from zero. With interdependent utility functions only the welfare of the 5th quintile experienced meaningful growth while those of the first four quintiles tend to be either negligible or even negative.
D30|A Methodological Dialogue on Justice|This paper analyzes the methodological perspectives of two great theorists, John Rawls and Amartya Sen, on the issue of justice. Rawls's justice as fairness and Sen's capability approach have an important place in contemporary moral and political theory. A fruitful methodological dialogue has developed between them over time in the context of justice. In this paper, we examine relevant arguments of this dialogue on their methodologies in dealing with the issue of justice. By doing this we draw attention to the emphasis of methodological issues in theorizing about justice because the methodological departing points of both Rawls and Sen are extremely critical on the formation of the substance of their distributive justice theories.
D30|Cross-Country Comparison of Farm Size Distribution|This report summarises selected measures of the farm size distribution for fourteen OECD countries: Canada, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Latvia, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom (England) and the United States over the period 1995-2010. The farm size statistics are presented for four major production systems: crop, dairy, cattle and pig farming. The report documents consolidation of agricultural production in large-scale farms in most countries and sub-sectors covered by the report. Nevertheless, farm size growth rates show substantial differences across countries and periods which underlines the importance of country-specific natural, social, and economic conditions and the regulatory and policy environment for the evolution of farm structures. Increased inequality in farm size distributions, as captured using Gini coefficients, indicates a trend towards more polarized farm structures.
D30|Regional GDP in OECD countries: How has inequality developed over time?|This paper surveys the state and evolution of GDP per capita in 281 regions of OECD countries for the time period 1995 – 2013. It puts a special focus on the disparities between the regions. These can be substantial: In 2013, GDP per capita of the least and most developed region varied by a factor of roughly ten. Using standard inequality measures like the coefficient of variation or the Gini coefficient, it is found that inequality has been decreasing between countries, while within-country disparities have often widened. Furthermore, transition matrices reveal that mobility within the distribution over time is higher in countries with larger degrees of fiscal decentralisation. This suggests that decentralisation allows regions to “take matters into their own hands”. Implications of other factors that correlate with the level of economic development are also discussed. Le PIB régional dans les pays de l'OCDE : comment les inégalités ont-elles évolué au fil du temps ? Nous étudions dans ce document l'état et l'évolution du produit intérieur brut (PIB) par habitant dans 281 régions de pays de l'OCDE au cours de la période 1995-2013. Nous mettons l'accent sur les disparités entre régions, qui peuvent être substantielles. En 2013, le PIB par habitant variait d'un facteur de 1 à 10 environ entre les régions les moins développées et les plus développées. À partir de mesures classiques des inégalités telles que le coefficient de variation ou le coefficient de Gini, nous parvenons à la conclusion que les inégalités ont diminué entre les pays, tandis que les disparités se sont souvent accentuée à l'intérieur de chaque pays. En outre, des matrices de transition montrent que la mobilité à l'intérieur de la distribution au fil du temps est plus forte dans les pays caractérisés par un degré relativement élevé de décentralisation budgétaire. Cela laisse à penser que la décentralisation permet aux régions de « prendre les choses en mains ». Nous examinons également les implications d'autres facteurs corrélés au niveau de développement économique.
D30|Measuring and decomposing the distance to the Shapley wage function with limited data|We study the Shapley wage function, a wage scheme in which a worker's pay depends both on the number of hours worked and on the output of the firm. We then provide a way to measure the distance of an arbitrary wage scheme to this function in limited datasets. In particular, for a fixed technology and a given supply of labor, this distance is additively decomposable into violations of the classical axioms of efficiency, equal treatment of identical workers, and marginality. The findings have testable implications for the different ways in which popular wage schemes violate basic properties of distributive justice in market organizations. Applications to the linear contract and to other well-known compensation schemes are shown.
D30|Analysis of the Retail Market in Brasov|This paper aims to analyze the retail market in Brasov in terms of development and expansionof retail networks. Thus, the expansion of chain stores creates a number of advantages forconsumers because the big retailer relies on various sales strategies in order to attract or retaincustomers. This analysis shows that, to apply competitive prices and accessible to consumers, tooffer products in a wide range and because of numerous customer loyalty campaigns, majorretailers put pressure on small local producers who fail to meet the requirements of major retailersor facing conditions imposed by them (entrance fee shelf, very low prices, approvals andcertifications). Also small traders working in traditional forms fail to keep pace with the variedassortment of products at low prices and with the continuous modernization of hypermarkets.
D30|Thorstein Veblen on the nature of the firm and income distribution|The aim of this paper is to provide a theoretical model inspired by Veblen’s theory of the firm, and to derive some implications of firms’ behaviour for the process of income distribution. It will be shown that the firm is a locus of conflict, involving technicians – interested in expanding production – and “businessmen” – interested in gaining money profits via the management of the “pecuniary side” of the firm. The outcome of the bargaining within the firm defines the ‘workmanship-type’ or ‘non-workmanship-type’ nature of the firm, and affects the level of real wages and employment, insofar as the greater the power of technicians, the higher the real wages are. Moreover, since the expansion of production is associated with the minimum degree of underutilization of capital, technical improvements have a positive effect on the level of employment. Finally, it is argued that a wage increase can have a positive effect on the degree of capital utilization and the level of employment, via the increase in total demand and in the degree of capital utilization.
D30|Monetary Expressions of Labour Time and Market Prices: Theory and Evidence from China, Japan and Korea| This article presents estimates of labour values and prices of production following two approaches: the first is based on the classical and Marxian theory of value and distribution; the second on the so-called ‘new solution’ to the ‘transformation problem’ and its variant, the Temporary Single-System Interpretation (TSSI). The major advantage of the latter approach is its simplicity, along with the relatively low data requirements. Our empirical findings from the economies of China, Japan and South Korea suggest that both approaches give estimates of labour values and prices of production which are extremely close to each other as well as to actual market prices. On further examination, however, we conclude that our empirical findings are absolutely consistent with the theoretical requirements of the classical approach and contradict those of the TSSI.
D30|Measuring and Decomposing the Distance to the Shapley Wage Function with Limited Data|We study the Shapley wage function, a wage scheme in which a worker's pay depends both on the number of hours worked and on the output of the firm. We then provide a way to measure the distance of an arbitrary wage scheme to this function in limited datasets. In particular, for a fixed technology and a given supply of labor, this distance is additively decomposable into violations of the classical axioms of efficiency, equal treatment of identical workers, and marginality. The findings have testable implications for the different ways in which popular wage schemes violate basic properties of distributive justice in market organizations. Applications to the linear contract and to other well-known compensation schemes are shown.
D30|Middle income trap and income inequality: Empirical evidence on the distributional effect of economic liberalization and political regime|In this paper I empirically examine the income-equalizing role of economic liberalization policies and political regime in a sample of 117 countries over the period of 1970-2014. With a specific focus on the middle income countries (MICs) shown to have been “trapped” at that level long after their transition from low income status, I propose that income inequality could be the underlying factor exacerbating growth slowdowns and suppressing development strategies aiming to escape from the trap and graduate to high income level. Using the Standardized World Income Inequality dataset, and via panel fixed effects and system GMM estimations that are able to handle unobserved heterogeneity, omitted variable bias and potential endogeneity, I examine the interrelationship between income inequality, five dimensions of Economic Freedom in the World, and democracy measures. The findings yield robust empirical evidence that freedom to trade internationally, unpredictable inflation and money supply, and small government size have significant relationship with inequality. Nevertheless, the impact of these variables on income inequality depends on the types of political regime in the country under study. The results suggest that these liberalization policies may yield the intended positive effect on income distribution in the presence of sufficiently democratic political regime.
D30|Zipf's Law: A Microfoundation|Existing explanations of Zipf's law (Pareto exponent approximately equal to 1) in size distributions require strong assumptions on growth rates or the minimum size. I show that Zipf's law naturally arises in general equilibrium when individual units solve a homogeneous problem (e.g., homothetic preferences, constant-returns-to-scale technology), the units enter/exit the economy at a small constant rate, and at least one production factor is in limited supply. My model explains why Zipf's law is empirically observed in the size distributions of cities and firms, which consist of people, but not in other quantities such as wealth, income, or consumption, which all have Pareto exponents well above 1.
D30|Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Thought - M. Kalecki|Michał Kalecki was an original Polish economist, who is ranked among unorthodox Marxists. He focused mainly on issues of macroeconomic dynamics. He created the dynamic theory of effective demand, in which he overtook the more familiar concept of J. M. Keynes. Kalecki influenced many diverse economists, including, e.g., the first generation of post-Keynesian economics.
D30|Poverty and Aging|This chapter explores the relationship between poverty and aging, in terms of its measurement and trends, as well as its alleviation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable individuals at each end of the age distribution. The measurement addresses both the definition of poverty and its aggregation over various age groups. The trends highlight a significant reduction in poverty among the elderly and a gradual increase in poverty among children and working age individuals, both in the United from dependence as a child to independence as a young adult, from being 50 years. Two important secular changes are also detected: a college spike and a retirement dip in poverty across the age distribution. The alleviation of poverty is then attributed to working in the labor market and to social expenditure and its associated policies, which have been especially effective for the elderly. A summary and a discussion follow that set forth an agenda for further research and policy.
D30|Trading with the Enemy|We analyze how trade openness matters for interstate conflict over productive resources. Our analysis features a terms-of-trade channel that makes security policies trade-regime dependent. Specifically, trade between adversarial countries reduces their incentives to arm given the opponent's arming. If they have a sufficiently similar mix of initial resource endowments, a move to trade brings with it a reduction in resources diverted to conflict and thus wasted, as well as the familiar gains from trade. Otherwise, a move to trade can induce greater arming by one of them and thus need not be welfare improving for both. Moreover, when the two adversarial countries do not trade with each other but instead trade with a third (friendly) country, a move from autarky to trade intensifies conflict between the two adversaries. Building on the welfare implications, we also analyze the endogenous choice of trade regimes.
D30|Resources versus Capabilities in Social Justice|Over the last decades, economists, political theorists and philosophers have debated the question of what the proper metric of justice is. In other words, they have sought to answer the questions what should we look at, when evaluating whether one state of affairs is more or less just than another? Should we evaluate the distribution of happiness? Or wealth? Or some combination of these and other factors? The resourcist approach and the capability approach as egalitarian theories of social justice are two prominent answers to these questions. While the former approach has been developed by the studies of John Rawls and Donald Dworkin, the latter approach has been associated with the studies of Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum. A fundamental debate between these approaches continues over what should be distributed. This paper attempts to bridge the gap between these approaches. By this we aim to bring their different perspectives together to reconsider the relationship between resource and the capability approach, and to open up a new insight to understand both approaches as complementary theories, rather than purely rival theories of justice. JEL: D30, D63
D30|European regional convergence revisited: the role of intangible assets|Abstract The contributions evaluating convergence across European regions are now numerous and take a wide variety of approaches. However, evidence for the most recent years is still scant, and studies considering the role of intangible assets in the enlarged European Union are virtually nonexistent. This article focuses on the convergence patterns of income per capita in 260 European regions during the period 2000–2011. Following the distribution dynamics approach, the role of a set of intangible assets is considered by introducing several conditioning schemes. In line with previous contributions the results suggest that the distribution of income is bimodal. The regional stocks of the different intangible assets considered have some power for explaining convergence tendencies in the studied period.
D30|The Distributional Effects of US Clean Energy Tax Credits|"Since 2006, US households have received more than $18 billion in federal income tax credits for weatherizing their homes, installing solar panels, buying hybrid and electric vehicles, and other ""clean energy"" investments. We use tax return data to examine the socioeconomic characteristics of program recipients. We find that these tax expenditures have gone predominantly to higher-income Americans. The bottom three income quintiles have received about 10% of all credits, while the top quintile has received about 60%. The most extreme is the program aimed at electric vehicles, where we find that the top income quintile has received about 90% of all credits. By comparing to previous work on the distributional consequences of pricing greenhouse gas emissions, we conclude that tax credits are likely to be much less attractive on distributional grounds than market mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs)."
D30|The Distributional Effects of U.S. Clean Energy Tax Credits|"Since 2006, US households have received more than $18 billion in federal income tax credits for weatherizing their homes, installing solar panels, buying hybrid and electric vehicles, and other ""clean energy"" investments. We use tax return data to examine the socioeconomic characteristics of program recipients. We find that these tax expenditures have gone predominantly to higher-income Americans. The bottom three income quintiles have received about 10% of all credits, while the top quintile has received about 60%. The most extreme is the program aimed at electric vehicles, where we find that the top income quintile has received about 90% of all credits. By comparing to previous work on the distributional consequences of pricing greenhouse gas emissions, we conclude that tax credits are likely to be much less attractive on distributional grounds than market mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
D30|Market competition and efficient cooperation|We use laboratory experiments to study the causal effects of favorable and unfavorable competitive market experience on cooperation in a subsequent social dilemma game. The issues we study are part of the broader topic of whether there are behavioral spillovers between different spheres of social interactions. Market interaction takes place in a continuous double auction market in which one side of the market obtains the larger part of the surplus. We examine the efficiency of subsequent cooperation for pairs of market-winners, market-losers and mixed pairs and study both the cases where interaction in the social dilemma is with others from the same market, ‘market-partners’, and where it is with others from another market, ‘market-strangers’, and compare it with benchmark behavior in a stand-alone social dilemma game. We find that in market-partners, market experience has adverse effects on the efficiency of cooperation on both market-winner and market-loser pairs. In market-strangers, pairs of market-winners manage to cooperate more efficiently. These results indicate that it is not market experience per se that lowers the ability to cooperate. Rather, having competed for scarce resources on the same side of the market makes it difficult to overcome the social dilemma and positive market experience fosters cooperation only for those who did not have to compete with each other. We also show that differences in cooperation cannot be explained by ex-ante income differences and find that market experience also affects subjective well-being and social value orientation.
D30|The Gini Coefficient and Personal Inequality Measurement|The Gini coefficient is based on the sum of pairwise income differences. For an individual, differences vis-à-vis poorer people represent advantage, and those versus richer people deprivation. Any weighted average of deprivation and advantage generates a “Gini admissible” personal inequality index. The mean value of such an index across individuals equals the Gini coefficient. Properties of the personal indexes explain the differing sensitivity of the Gini coefficient to inequality in various ranges of the income distribution. Applications to the Kuznets transformation in developing countries, to polarization in advanced countries and to broad increases or decreases in income dispersion are explored.
D30|Micro- and Macrodata: a Comparison of the Household Finance and Consumption Survey with Financial Accounts in Austria|This article compares the results of Austria’s Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) on savings deposits and estimates on total financial assets with administrative records from the national accounts for the household sector. The microdata that are newly generated through the HFCS and the detailed (internally available) breakdown of savings deposits in the existing macrodata (financial accounts) lend themselves to a more in-depth analysis of the similarities and differences in these two sources. Comparing the data shows that the HFCSbased aggregate estimates are lower than the financial accounts data, which is in line with evidence from the literature. The article also shows, however, that the survey adequately captures the underlying patterns at the microlevel in terms of the overall financial portfolio allocation and the distribution of savings deposits over detailed breakdowns. Moreover, a simulation based on the HFCS data demonstrates the effect that the inclusion of savings deposits in the most affluent tail of the distribution has on common statistics. Undercoverage above all of the upper deposit ranges suggests an underestimation or bias in the statistics. This underestimation, however, can be shown to be relatively minor, particularly in the case of robust statistical measures, such as the median or percentile ratios.
D30|Regulation via the Polluter‐pays Principle|We consider the problem of regulating an economy with environmental pollution. We examine the distributional impact of the polluter-pays principle which requires that any agent compensates all other agents for the damages caused by his or her (pollution) emissions. With constant marginal damages we show that regulation via the polluter-pays principle leads to the unique welfare distribution that assigns non-negative individual welfare and renders each agent responsible for his or her pollution impact. We extend both the polluter-pays principle and this result to increasing marginal damages due to pollution. We also discuss the acceptability of the polluter-pays principle and compare it with the Vickrey-Clark-Groves mechanism.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D30|Children's Opportunities in Germany – An Application Using Multidimensional Measures|Single parents and unmarried couples are increasingly replacing the traditional nuclear family. This paper investigates if the greater variety in living arrangements contributes to increased resource disparities among children in Germany. Children in single parent families are disadvantaged in at least three dimensions decisive for their later achievements: material standard of living, parental education, and parental childcare time. We compute multidimensional inequality and poverty indices using SOEP data from 1991-2012. We distinguish between parental and publicly provided childcare, which is an increasingly important in-kind benefit in Germany. We find that both multidimensional inequality and poverty declined as expanded public childcare strongly reduces resource disparities among children.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D30|Bread and bullets|Standard economics omits the role of narratives (the stories that people tell themselves and others) when they make all kinds of decisions. Narratives play a role in understanding the environment; focusing attention; predicting events; motivating action; assigning social roles and identities; defining power relations; and establishing and conveying social norms. This paper describes the role narratives play in decision making, as it also juxtaposes this description against the backdrop of the Bolshevik-spawned narrative that played a critical role in the history of Russia and the Soviet Union in the 20th Century.
D30|Causes and consequences of the financial crisis and the implications for a more resilient financial and economic system|The increasing dominance of finance starting in the late 1970s/early 1980s in the US and the UK, and somewhat later in other countries, was associated with two fundamental and structural processes generating the contradictions of this phase of development and finally the financial and economic crises starting in 2007: the deregulation of the financial (and economic) system and the massive redistribution of income at the expense of labour and low income households. These fundamental processes provided the conditions for the generation of major imbalances within some of the national economies, on the one hand, and at the international level, on the other hand. These imbalances and contradictions led eventually to the deep financial and economic crisis, starting in 2007. Therefore, a more resilient financial and economic system requires the re-regulation and downsizing of the financial sector, the re-distribution of income (and wealth) from top to bottom and from capital to labour, the re-orientation of macroeconomic policies towards stabilizing domestic demand at non-inflationary full employment levels, and the re-creation of international monetary and economic policy coordination.
D30|The Pattern of Home Ownership Across Age Cohorts and its Impact on the German Net Wealth Distribution|We analyze the link between homeownership and the net wealth distribution using household-level micro data from Germany and the US. We are particularly interested in the effect of the pattern of ownership across cohorts. Given that wealth accumulates over the life-cycle and that owners are wealthier than renters, past tenure choices, affecting today’s share of owners for different cohorts, should be related to current wealth levels and inequality. In order to gauge the effect of the ownership structure over cohorts on the distribution of net wealth we impose the homeownership pattern of the US on Germany. This leads to a large increase in the German median net wealth and reduces wealth inequality. Past tenure choice seems to affects today’s net wealth distribution. Some of the effects can be attributed to the difference in ownership shares between old cohorts in Germany and the US, but this effect appears to be less pronounced than expected.
D30|Top Lights - Bright Spots and their Contribution to Economic Development|Satellite data on nighttime luminosity is an increasingly popular proxy for economic activity in developing countries. However, their use for analyzing inequality and convergence on a global scale is severely limited by top-coding of the NOAA satellite images, which fail to accurately capture the brightness of large and densely populated cities, as well as by comparability problems between satellites. As a result, they severely underestimate differences between urban and rural regions, and developed and developing countries. We propose a new and easy-to-use procedure to correct for top-coding in nighttime lights, which borrows from the top incomes literature. We show that just as top incomes, top lights are Pareto distributed. We then derive simple formulas for the top-coding adjusted spatial Gini coeffcient and top-coding adjusted average light intensity. Using data for Germany we show that by correcting for top-coding of the top 2% of lights, we can account for up to 40% of the difference between saturated and unsaturated satellites. We also analyze corrections for between and within satellite measurement errors. Finally, we present three economic applications to determine where the influence of top-coding is most severe. We show that top-coding and satellite calibration aspects estimates of the income elasticity of light, regional inequalities and urban-rural differences.
D30|German Consumption Inequality. An evaluation with a focus on the financial crisis|How did the financial crisis impact on German demand? Are there significant differences in consumption behaviour depending on income? We analyse consumption data from 2005 to 2012/13 and find some indication for divergence of different income categories' consumption after 2009 and for a higher real interest rate sensitivity of higher income earners' consumption. Like in studies of income and wealth inequality, we also see a slight upward trend in consumption inequality that might have briefly staggered when the financial crisis hit.
D30|Growth and welfare effects of intellectual property rights when consumers differ in income|This paper analyzes how changing the expected length of intellectual property (IP) protection affects economic growth and the welfare of rich and poor consumers. The analysis is based on a product-variety model with non-homothetic preferences and endogenous markups in which, in accordance with empirical evidence, rich households consume a larger variety of goods than poorer ones. The effects of IP protection on growth can be either positive or negative, depending on the distribution of income and wealth. Given that increasing the length of IP protection increases growth, poorer households prefer a shorter length of protection than richer ones.
D30|Beyond the austerity dispute: new priorities for fiscal policy|The workshop aimed at moving forward the fiscal policy debate, which in the crisis years was unavoidably focused on how to regain fiscal credibility and to implement sizable and fast consolidation plans. Four main themes have been proposed for the debate during the workshop. First, the two-way link between fiscal consolidation and inequality, with the idea that consolidation efforts cannot be successful in the long run if they entail a socially unsustainable increase in inequality. Second, the importance of preserving, even in contexts in which the fiscal policy stance is necessarily restrictive, growth-enhancing public investments. Third, the challenges posed to fiscal management by a low inflation context, taking into account that a subdued price dynamics not only makes the real burden of debt heavier, but it also has subtle effects, at least in the short term, on several budgetary items. Finally, the need for a simpler and more appropriate set of rules for the governance of the EMU. The latter topic was also the object of the high-level panel at the end of the workshop. While differences in emphasis emerged among the panellists, they agreed that the current framework could be streamlined, and – more importantly – that no set of rules can work if trust and a sense of sharing a common objective is not rebuilt among the Member States.
D30|Market Interaction and Efficient Cooperation|We experimentally study causal effects of competitive market experience on efficiency levels attained in a subsequent social dilemma. We compare behavior of pairs of traders who have been market-winners with that of pairs who have been market- losers. We study both the cases where traders interacting in the social dilemma have competed with each other in the market before and where traders do not have a shared market experience. Shared market experience adversely affects efficiency in the social dilemma for both market-winner and market-loser pairs. Market-winners achieve higher efficiency levels in the social dilemma only if market experience is not shared.
D30|Identity-Driven Cooperation versus Competition|This paper seeks to extend the domain of identity economics by exploring motivational foundations of in-group cooperation and out-group competition. On this basis, we explore the reflexive interaction between individual economic decisions and social identities in response to technological change in market economies. Our analysis explores how technological change falling on marketable goods and services, rather than non-market caring relationships, leads to a restructuring of identities, which increases the scope of individualism and promotes positional competition at the expense of caring activities. Since positional competition generates negative externalities while caring activities create positive ones, these developments have important welfare implications.
D30|Growth of income and welfare in the U.S, 1979-2011|We estimate growth rates of real incomes in the U.S. by quintiles using the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) post-tax, post-transfer data as basis for the period 1979-2011. We improve upon them by including only the present value of earnings that will accrue in retirement and excluding items included in the CBO income estimates such as “corporate taxes borne by labor” that do not increase either current purchasing power or utility. We estimate a high and a low growth rate using two price indexes, the CPI and the Personal Consumption Expenditure index. The major consistent findings include what in the colloquial is referred to as the “hollowing out” of the middle class. According to these estimates, the income of the middle class 2nd and 3rd quintiles increased at a rate of between 0.1% and 0.7% per annum, i.e., barely distinguishable from zero. Even that meager rate was achieved only through substantial transfer payments. In contrast, the income of the top 1% grew at an astronomical rate of between 3.4% and 3.9% per annum during the 32-year period, reaching an average annual value of $918,000, up from $281,000 in 1979 (in 2011 dollars). Hence, the post-tax, post-transfer income of the 1% relative to the 1st quintile increased from a factor of 21 in 1979 to a factor of 51 in 2011. However, income of no other group increased substantially relative to that of the lowest quintile. Oddly, the income of even those in the 96-99 percentiles increased only from a multiple of 8.1 to a multiple of 11.3. We next estimate growth in welfare assuming diminishing marginal utility of income. A logarithmic utility function yields a growth in welfare for the middle class of roughly 0.01% to 0.07% per annum, which is indistinguishable from zero. With interdependent utility functions only the welfare of the 5th quintile experienced meaningful growth while those of the first four quintiles tend to be either negligible or even negative.
D30|The March of the Techies: Technology, Trade, and Job Polarization in France, 1994-2007|"Using administrative employee-firm-level data on the entire private sector from 1994 to 2007, we show that the labor market in France has polarized: employment shares of high and low wage occupations have grown, while middle wage occupations have shrunk. During the same period, the share of hours worked in technology-related occupations (""techies"") grew substantially, as did imports and exports, and we explore the causal links between these trends. Our paper is among the first to analyze polarization in any country using firm-level data, and we show how polarization occurred within firms, but mostly due to changes in the composition of firms (between firms). Motivated by the fact that technology adoption is mediated by technically qualified managers and technicians, we use a new measure of the propensity of a firm to adopt new technology: its employment share of techies. Using the subsample of firms that are active over the whole period, we show that firms with more techies in 2002 saw greater polarization, and grew faster, from 2002 to 2007. Offshoring reduced employment growth. Among blue- collar workers in manufacturing, importing caused skill upgrading while exporting caused skill downgrading. To control for the endogeneity of firm-level techies and trade in 2002, we use values of techies and trade from 1994 to 1998 as instruments. We conclude that technological change, mediated through techies, is an important cause of polarization in France. Firm-level trade had important effects in manufacturing."
D30|The Gini Coefficient and Personal Inequality Measurement|The Gini coefficient is the most popular inequality index. It is based on the sum of pairwise absolute income differences, which can be viewed as taking a separate sum for each individual of the differences between his/her income and others’, and then adding up those separate sums. The differences vis-à-vis people with lower income can be used to construct an individual’s advantage, while the differences with respect to people with higher incomes generate the individual’s deprivation. Deprivation and advantage can be weighted differently, producing a whole family of “Gini admissible” personal inequality indexes. The population average of any one of the latter equals the Gini coefficient. The properties of the personal inequality indexes explain the sensitivity of the Gini coefficient to transfers in different ranges of the income distribution. They also throw light on individual views of secular changes in income distribution interesting for their own sake. For example, throughout the change from a traditional to a modern economy that gives rise to the Kuznets curve, those in the traditional sector believe that inequality is constantly increasing while those in the modern sector believe the opposite. Personal views about polarization and rising inequality, as seen in most high income countries in recent decades, are also illuminated.
D30|Heimliche Steuererhöhungen – Belastungswirkungen der Kalten Progression und Entlastungswirkungen eines Einkommensteuertarifs auf Rädern|"• Die Kalte Progression schwächt die Verteilungswirkungen des Steuersystems und führt zu einer Ausweitung der Steuerquote, die sich der demokratischen Kontrolle entzieht. Die Beseitigung der Kalten Progression ist somit angezeigt. • In der öffentlichen Debatte wird zumeist auf die Kalte Progression im engeren Sinne fokussiert, die lediglich den Effekt steigender Preise berücksichtigt. Diese Kalte Progression im engeren Sinne allein führte zu Steuermehreinnahmen von 33,5 Mrd. Euro im Zeitraum von 2011 bis 2016. Berücksichtigt man auch den Effekt steigender Reallöhne (Kalte Progression im weiteren Sinne), ergeben sich in diesem Zeitraum aufsummiert Steuermehreinnahmen von 70,1 Mrd. Euro. • Die Belastungswirkungen durch die Kalte Progression sind nicht gleich über die Einkommensteuerzahler verteilt. Besonders Einkommensteuerzahler im Bereich geringer und mittlerer Einkommen leiden unter der Kalten Progression. • Die Kalte Progression im engeren Sinne verursacht einen Anstieg des Einkommensteueraufkommens im Zeitraum 2017 bis 2030 von insgesamt 314,9 Mrd. Euro. Möchte man die Steuerquote konstant halten, betrachtet man also die Kalte Progression im weiteren Sinne, so liegen die kumulierten „heimlichen"" Steuermehreinnahmen gar bei 433,6 Mrd. Euro. • Es wird ein „Tarif auf Rädern"" vorgeschlagen, bei dem die Steuertarifparameter und Progressionszonen an die Inflation und das Wachstum der Realeinkommen gekoppelt sind (Kalte Progression im weiteren Sinne), um die Steuerquote ceteris paribus konstant zu halten. • Auch bei einem Tarif auf Rädern wachsen die Staatseinnahmen weiter an: Sogar bei einer Berücksichtigung der Kalten Progression im weiteren Sinne steigen die Staatseinnahmen noch proportional mit dem Wachstum von Preisniveau und Reallöhnen."
D30|An individual-based approach to the measurement of multiple-period mobility for nominal and ordinal variables|This paper discusses meanings of intra-generational mobility when variables take values corresponding to either unordered or ordered categories. We propose concepts of maximum and minimum mobility, along with mobility-inducing transformations and related desirable properties. Then we axiomatically characterize indices of individual mobility and social mobility. Our first set of concepts, properties and indices, measures mobility as diversity, unpredictability or instability in people’s status along the accounting period. This notion of mobility is relevant and applicable to both nominal and ordinal variables. Our second set measures mobility as average distance traveled across categories from one period to the next. This latter notion is only relevant for ordinal variables. We apply these indices to measure the extent of mobility in the responses to subjective wellbeing questions in the United Kingdom, using the British Household Panel Survey.
D30|An individual-based approach to measurement of multiple-period mobility for nominal and ordinal variables|This paper discusses meanings of intra-generational mobility when variables take values corresponding to either unordered or ordered categories. We propose concepts of maximum and minimum mobility, along with mobility-inducing transformations and related desirable properties. Then we axiomatically characterize indices of individual mobility and social mobility. Our first set of concepts, properties and indices, measures mobility as diversity, unpredictability or instability in people’s status along the accounting period. This notion of mobility is relevant and applicable to both nominal and ordinal variables. Our second set measures mobility as average distance travelled across categories from one period to the next. This latter notion is only relevant for ordinal variables. We apply these indices to measure the extent of mobility in the responses to subjective wellbeing questions in the United Kingdom, using the British Household Panel Survey.
D30|The persistence of inequality across Indian states|The persistence of regional inequalities in developing countries is well recognised to be of great concern. In this paper I track stochastic convergence in relative incomes for Indian states between 1960-2011 with the intent to identify high persistence and mean reversal. Traditional unit root tests suggest that shocks to relative incomes across the Indian states are permanent thus contradicting the stochastic convergence hypothesis. Interval estimates of the largest autoregressive root for the relative incomes of 15 Indian states are very wide. However, confidence interval estimates of the half life of the relative income shocks, that are robust to high persistence and small samples, reveal that in most cases they die out within 10 years, suggesting mean reversion for a large number of states. Finally, I estimate a fractionally integrated model and obtain mixed evidence of mean reversion in the data, with six out of the fifteen states experiencing mean reversion. In sum, while the evidence obtained does not support the stochastic convergence hypothesis, our findings reveal that the relative incomes have a relatively short half life and that some states’ relative incomes are mean-reverting. This result is encouraging and in contrast to earlier studies which indicate long term divergence and polarisation (Bandyopadhyay 2011).
D30|So what is Capital in the Twenty-First Century? Some notes on Piketty’s book Working paper, forthcoming in Capitalism & Society|This study was inspired by Piketty’s excellent and important book. Its title and numerous statements in it arouse in readers expectations of a comprehensive analysis of capitalism. By comparison the author of this paper felt important aspects were lacking. The capitalist system has numerous immanent traits and innate tendencies, of which the paper takes a closer look at three properties. 1. One basic feature is dynamism, innovation, and creative destruction. No picture of capitalism can be full if this basic aspect is ignored. 2. Capitalism inevitably brings about a high degree of inequality; this must be eased by reforms, but cannot be entirely overcome. 3. The basic characteristics of capitalism – private ownership and the dominance of market coordination – give rise to strong incentive mechanisms that encourage but owners and enterprise executives to innovate and to cooperate effectively. One of the main incentives is competition, especially oligopolistic competition. There are strong mutual effects among these three important tendencies. It is impossible to understand well Piketty’s main subject, the distribution of income and wealth, if it is divorced from the other two tendencies. The study ends with its author’s own value judgements on the favourable and harmful, unjust attributes of the capitalist system.
D30|The Bottom Twenty: An Analysis Of Income Inequality In High Income And Developing Countries, 1990-2010|The theory that there is a link between income inequality and per capita income has variously been proposed with strong convictions. The theory generally presupposes that income inequality, where or when exists, will ultimately decline as macroeconomic performance (growth) improves over time. Using empirical analysis, econometric models, and time series data from 1990 to 2010, this paper finds that though the relationship between income inequality and per capita income may be theoretically valid for a variety of countries at different levels of economic growth, the relationship may not be statistically significant. Contrary to the inverted-U hypothesis, the empirical evidence suggests that distributive trends may not be sustainable and that institutional variables and policies might have more explanatory power over the subsequent trajectory of income inequality in rich and poorer countries.
D30|A Tight Sufficient Condition for Recursive Formulation of Dynamic Implementation Problems|This note explores conditions that admit recursive representation for a class of dynamic mechanism design problems. We derive a tight sufficient condition, called the common state property (CSP), which ensures that temporary incentive constraints guarantee implementability, and so allows to characterize the principal's problem recursively. The condition imposes no restrictions on agent's preferences and only concerns the properties of the evolution of private information.
D30|Endogenous Repeated Cooperation and Surplus Distribution - An Experimental Analysis|This paper investigates experimentally how the endogenous group formation combined with the possibility of repeated interaction impacts cooperation levels and surplus distribution. We developed a Surplus Production Distribution Game where the cooperation of four agents is needed to produce a surplus. In case of cooperation, two of the four subjects, the distributors, decided how much of surplus each of them wanted to give to the two other agents, the receivers. This game was played repeatedly with different matching procedures. In the Re-match Treatment (RT) the subjects got randomly re-matched every round, while in the Endogenous-match Treatment (ET) a group was maintained as long as its members cooperated. There was also a Base treatment (BT) where cooperation was exogenously enforced. We found that the distributor's contributions were higher in the ET and the RT than in the BT - unsurprisingly, receivers' possibility to refuse cooperation led to more equal surplus distributions. But contrary to commonly hold beliefs, the possibility of repeated interaction did not lead to higher cooperation levels and more equal allocations of the surplus. Instead, endogenous group formation combined with the possibility of repeated interaction led to self-selection of the subjects in the ET. The endogenous group duration varied drastically between different groups in the ET, with long-lived groups exhibiting contributions and cooperation levels higher than in the RT, while short-lived groups showed contributions and cooperation levels lower than in the RT. Furthermore, for given contribution levels, receivers were more likely to refuse cooperation when their average relationship length was short. This shows that long-lived groups consisted of generous distributors and not so demanding receivers, while ungenerous distributors and demanding receivers formed short-lived groups. Hence, the possibility of repeated interaction does not necessarily increase cooperation and efficiency levels when combined with endogenous group formation. Rather, such a situation might lead to self-selection of agents.
D30|How to make a carbon tax reform progressive: The role of subsistence consumption|This letter analyzes the distributional effects of a carbon tax reform when households must consume carbon-intensive goods above a subsistence level. The reform is progressive if revenues are recycled as uniform lump-sum transfers, in other cases it is regressive.
D30|Estimation of Annual Consumption Expenditures by Japanese Households Based on the Microdata from the Family Income and Expenditure Survey:Estimation Methods and Illustrative Tables and Figures (in Japanese)|An issue that has attracted growing attention in Japan is the increasing economic inequality among households against the background of dramatic economic and social changes as a result of liberalization and globalization. This paper presents details on a dataset of Japanese households annual consumption expenditure that we constructed based on the Family Income and Expenditure Survey (FIES) and to provide an overview of our estimation methods. More specifically, we constructed a micro dataset of households’ consumption covering all years from 1983 to 2012 making adjustments for imputed rent, consumption seasonality, survey fatigue, and sampling ratio. Our findings based on the dataset can be summarized as follows: (1) The mean annual consumption expenditure of individual households in Japan has been gradually declining since the early 1990s. A possible explanation is the shrinking of household sizes, since the mean of equivalent consumption appears to have been broadly stable. (2) While the variance and Gini coefficient of total household consumption look stable throughout our observation period, those for equivalent consumption of non-durable goods increased until the early 2000s. (3) The shape of the consumption path over households’ life-cycle is hump-shaped (with a peak at around age fifty) and stable regardless of the household head cohort. (4) Consumption inequality among households appears to be greater among households with older heads. (5) The age-saving rate profiles differ considerably across different cohorts. JEL Classification Number: D12, D30, E21 Key Words: Family Income and Expenditure Survey, Microdata, Household Consumption, Income/Expenditure Distribution, Japan
D30|Time-varying volatility and the power law distribution of stock returns|While many studies find that the tail distribution of high frequency stock returns follows a power law, there are only a few explanations for this finding. This study presents evidence that time-varying volatility can account for the power law property of high frequency stock returns. In particular, one finds that a conditional normal model with nonparametric volatility provides a strong fit. Specifically, a cross-sectional regression of the power law coefficients obtained from stock returns on the coefficients implied by the nonparametric volatility model yields a slope close to one. Further, for most of the stocks in the sample taken individually, the model-implied coefficient falls within the 95 percent confidence interval for the coefficient estimated from returns data.
D30|Inflation at the Household Level: Web Appendix|This appendix contains additional results on using scanner data to estimate inflation rates at the household level. There are three sections. Section 1 shows cross-sectional distributions of Fisher and Paasche inflation rates. Section 2 shows the evolution over time of measures of dispersion of Fisher and Paasche inflation rates. Section 3 shows cross-sectional distributions of two-year inflation rates measured with Fisher and Paasche indexes.
D30|Money Income And Spending Of Population|Since November 2014, the population’s real disposable money income have been steadily on the decline. Data for January–September 2015 point to a rising poverty rate. In 2015, the share of personal income spent on commodities and services hit its record low of the past 16 years. The share of saving in the personal money income structure signiﬁ cantly increased.
D30|Денежные Доходы И Расходы Населения|С ноября 2014 г. реальные располагаемые денежные доходы населения и реальная заработная плата устойчиво снижаются. Данные за январь-сентябрь 2015 г. свидетельствуют об увеличении уровня бедности. В 2015 г. доля доходов, использованных на покупку товаров и оплату услуг, достигла минимального значения за последние 16 лет. Произошел существенный рост доли сбережений в структуре использования денежных доходов населения.
D30|Comparing the relationship between stature and later life health in six low and middle income countries|This paper examines the relationship between stature and later life health in 6 emerging economies, each of which are expected to experience significant increases in the mean age of their populations over the coming decades. Using data from the WHO Study on Global Ageing and Adult Health (SAGE) and pilot data from the Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI), I show that various measures of health are associated with height, a commonly used proxy for childhood environment. In the pooled sample, a 10cm increase in height is associated with between a 2 and 3 percentage point increase in the probability of being in very good or good self-reported health, a 3 percentage point increase in the probability of reporting no difficulties with activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living, and between a fifth and a quarter of a standard deviation increase in grip strength and lung function. Adopting a methodology previously used in the research on inequality, I also summarise the height-grip strength gradient for each country using the concentration index, and provide a decomposition analysis.
D30|Education, Gender, and State-Level Gradients in the Health of Older Indians: Evidence from Biomarker Data|This paper examines health disparities in biomarkers among a representative sample of Indians aged 45 and older, using data from the pilot round of the Longitudinal Aging Study in India (LASI). Hemoglobin level, a marker for anemia, is lower for respondents with no schooling (0.7 g/dL less in the adjusted model) compared to those with some formal education. There are also substantial state and education gradients in underweight and overweight. The oldest old have higher levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) (1.1 mg/L greater than those aged 45-54), an indicator of inflammation and a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, as do those with greater body-mass index (an additional 1.2 mg/L for those who are obese compared to those who are of normal weight). We find no evidence of educational or gender differences in CRP, but respondents living in rural areas have CRP levels that are 0.8 mg/L lower than urban areas. We also find state-level disparities, with Kerala residents exhibiting the lowest CRP levels (1.96 mg/L compared to 3.28 mg/L in Rajasthan, the state with the highest CRP). We use the Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition approach to explain group-level differences, and find that state-level gradients in CRP are mainly due to heterogeneity in the association of the observed characteristics of respondents with CRP, as opposed to differences in the distribution of endowments across the sampled state populations.
D30|The design of in-work benefits: how to boost employment and combat poverty in Belgium|In-work benefits have received increased attention over the past decades in OECD countries, as a core part of making-work-pay policies. They have two main objectives: on the one hand, increase employment by creating additional financial rewards for remaining in work or for taking up a low-paid job. On the other hand, reduce poverty by increasing incomes of disadvantaged groups of workers and their families. Both objectives of enhancing employment and reducing poverty have been extensively analysed for several countries. Most papers in this domain have investigated existing in-work benefits (for an overview see e.g. Kenworthy, 2015). We take a different approach as we evaluate the impact of different design components on work incentives and poverty indicators by building step-by-step a stylised working tax credit. By different design components we mean: is the working tax credit individual or household based? What is the impact of using an income threshold? What happens when a tapering-out or a tapering-in is implemented? The main question of this paper is thus whether and how the design of a working tax credit has an impact on work incentives and poverty figures. The focus of our analysis is Belgium, a country with a less dispersed income distribution as e.g. the United Kingdom or the USA (which are the countries who first implemented in-work benefits and for which the bulk of the evaluations have been done). We make use of BE-SILC 2012 data and built a discrete labour supply model to evaluate the impact of the design of an in work-benefit on work incentives. Simulations are done using the microsimulation model EUROMOD.
D30|Scenarios for reducing poverty in Belgium, Greece and the United Kingdom|Poverty reduction remains a huge challenge for policy makers in Europe. In this paper, we outline three strategies for identifying effective policy reform packages for reducing income poverty in Europe: (1) reversing regressive reforms and using measures of ‘poverty reduction / public budget trade-offs’ to identify efficient and effective policy reforms; (2) upscaling existing policies; (3) breaking down policies into their elementary parts and combining policy options systematically for identifying the most effective policy design. All three strategies make use of the European microsimulation EUROMOD. We illustrate them with case studies of the United Kingdom, Greece and Belgium, three countries with a very different welfare state trajectory, and social outcomes. The paper shows that all three strategies are useful for identifying policy packages that work, and for producing evidence for more effective poverty-reducing policy reform packages. We also highlight the most important limitations of our approach.
D30|Capital Shares and Income Inequality: Evidence from the Long Run|This paper investigates the relationship between the capital share in national income and personal income inequality over the long run. Using a new historical cross-country database on capital shares in 19 countries and data from the World Wealth and Income Database, we find strong long-run links between the aggregate role of capital in the economy and the size distribution of income. Over time, this dependence varies; it was strong both before the Second World War and in the early interwar era, but has grown to its highest levels in the period since 1980. The correlation is particularly strong in Anglo-Saxon and Nordic countries, in the very top of the distribution and when we only consider top capital incomes. Replacing top income shares with a broader measure of inequality (Gini coefficient), the positive relationship re-mains but becomes somewhat weaker.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D30|Wealth-Income Ratios in a Small, Developing Economy: Sweden, 1810–2014|This study uses new data on Swedish national wealth over the last two hundred years to examine whether the patterns in wealth-income ratios found by Piketty and Zucman (2014) extend to small and less developed economies. The findings reveal both similarities and differences. During the industrialization era, Sweden's domestic wealth was relatively low because of low saving rates and instead foreign capital imports became important. Twentieth century trends and levels are more similar, but in Sweden government wealth grew more important, not least through its relatively large public pension system. Overall, the findings suggest that initial conditions and economic and political institutions matter for the structure and evolution of national wealth.
D30|Innovation Capabilities and Financing Constraints of Family Firms|Using the 2007 Mannheim innovation survey, we investigate whether family firms are more financially constrained than other firms and how this affects both innovation input as well as innovation outcomes such as market and firm novelties or process innovations. Based on the CDM framework, estimation of the recursive system of equations shows that family businesses are more likely to be constrained and have, on average, lower innovation input. Surprisingly, however, this does not reduce their innovation outcomes as, on average, family firms have the same level of innovation outcomes as nonfamily firms.
D30|Evaluating The Quality Of Gross Incomes In SILC: Compare Them With Fiscal Data And Re-calibrate Them Using EUROMOD|In this paper, we shed light on the quality of the gross incomes as reported in the Survey on Income and Living Conditions (SILC). This is done in three steps. First, as both net and gross incomes are reported in SILC, implicit tax rates are calculated and evaluated. In a second step, gross incomes from SILC are compared with gross incomes reported on the fiscal form for the same individuals. Finally, we make use of EUROMOD to re-calibrate SILC gross incomes in order to make them consistent with the reported net ones. We find that, on average, fiscally reported gross incomes exceed gross incomes in the SILC survey. It is not clear however whether the re-calibration method (whereby we use an iterative method to construct adjusted SILC gross incomes starting from the observed net ones) is a genuine improvement upon the reported gross income distribution.
D30|Robust ordinal inequality comparisons with Kolm-independent measures|Lv, Wang, and Xu (2015) recently characterized a new class of ordinal inequality measures axiomatically. In addition to their appealing functional forms, these measures are the only ones in the literature satisfying a property of independence, inspired by Kolm (1976). As acknowledged by the authors, the robustness of ordinal inequality comparisons to the several alternative suitable measures within the class is a natural concern. This note derives the stochastic dominance condition whose fulfilment guarantees that all inequality measures within the class rank a pair of distributions consistently.
D30|The Benchmark of Maximum Relative Bipolarisation|Abstract Relative bipolarisation indices are usually constructed making sure that they achieve their minimum value of bipolarisation if and only if distributions are perfectly egalitarian. However, the literature has neglected discussing the existence of a benchmark of maximum relative bipolarisation. Consequently there is no discussion as to the implications of maximum bipolarisation for the optimal normalisation of relative bipolarisation indices either. In this note we characterize the situation of maximum relative bipolarisation as the only one consistent with the key axioms of relative bipolarisation. We illustrate the usefulness of incorporating the concept of maximum relative bipolarisation in the design of bipolarisation indices by identifying, among the family of rank-dependent Wang–Tsui indices, the only subclass fulfilling a normalisation axiom that takes into account both benchmarks of minimum and maximum relative bipolarisation.
D30|The Necessary Requirement of Median Independence for Relative Bipolarisation Measurement|Abstract The relative bipolarisation literature features examples of indices which depend on the median of the distribution, including the renowned Foster–Wolfson index. This study shows that the use of the median in the design and computation of relative bipolarisation indices is both unnecessary and problematic. It is unnecessary because we can rely on existing well-behaved, median-independent indices. It is problematic because, as the study shows, median-dependent indices violate the basic transfer axioms of bipolarisation (defining spread and clustering properties), except when the median is unaffected by the transfers. The convenience of discarding the median from index computations is further illustrated with a numerical example in which median-independent indices rank distributions according to the basic transfer axioms while median-dependent indices do not.
D30|Gender differences in risk attitudes|Many experimental studies and surveys have shown that women consistently display more risk-averse behavior than men when confronted with decisions involving risk. These differences in risk preferences, when combined with gender differences in other behavioral traits, such as fondness for competition, have been used to explain important phenomena in labor and financial markets. Recent evidence has challenged this consensus, however, finding gender differences in risk attitudes to be smaller than previously thought and showing greater heterogeneity of results depending on the method used to measure risk aversion.
D30|The Assignment of Workers to Tasks with Endogenous Supply of Skills|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecca12071-abs-0001""> This paper presents a general equilibrium assignment model of workers to tasks with endogenous supply of skills. In the model, skills are endogenous and multidimensional, and two types of assignment occur: workers self-select the type of skills to supply, and firms assign workers to tasks. The model shows that the impact of any skill-biased technical change on wage inequality is tightly related to the distribution of skills in the population. When the supply of skills is endogenous, productivity effects can be overestimated or underestimated by wage data, and Johnson's ( ) distinction between intensive and extensive technical change is impossible."
D30|A Political Economy Model of Earnings Mobility and Redistribution Policy| This paper presents a politico-economic model that includes a mutual link between life cycle earnings mobility and redistributive politics. The model demonstrates that when an economy features a high opportunity of upward mobility and high risk of downward mobility, it attains a unique equilibrium where unskilled, low-income agents support a low redistribution because of the hope of upward mobility in future. In contrast, the economy attains multiple equilibria when mobility opportunity and risk are low: one is an unskilled-majority equilibrium defined by low mobility and the other is a skilled-majority equilibrium defined by high mobility. The paper gives a comparison between the political equilibrium and the social planner's allocation in terms of mobility, and shows that the skilled-majority equilibrium realizes mobility close to the optimal one.
D30|The Role of Income Distribution in the Diffusion of Corporate Social Responsibility| The purpose of this paper is to investigate the link between corporate social responsibility (CSR) growth and income distribution. We present a general equilibrium model where social responsibility enters both firms' and consumers' decisions. At equilibrium, different degrees of CSR diffusion may arise. We study the conditions under which there exists a virtuous circle which ties increases in the diffusion of CSR to reductions in income inequality. Under certain circumstances, any policy which promotes CSR diffusion induces a reduction in income inequality. By contrast, when such conditions are not satisfied, only redistributive policies may generate the virtuous circle.
D30|A Comparative Analysis of Gibrat’s and Zipf’s Law on Urban Population|The regional economics and geography literature on urban population size has in recent years shown interesting conceptual and methodological contributions on the validity of Gibrat’s Law and Zipf’s Law. Despite distinct modeling features, they express similar fundamental characteristics in an equilibrium situation. Zipf’s law is formalized in a static form, while its associated dynamic process is articulated by Gibrat’s Law. Thus, it is likely that both Zipf’s Law and Gibrat’s Law share a common root. Unfortunately, empirical investigations on the direct relationship between Gibrat’s Law and Zipf’s Law are rather rare and not conclusive. The present paper aims to answer the question whether (a generalisation of) Gibrat’s Law allows us to infer Zipf’s Law, and vice versa? In our conceptual and applied framework, particular attention will be paid to the role of the mean and the variance of city population as key indicators for assessing the (non-) validity of the generalised Gibrat’s Law. Our empirical experiments are based on a comparative analysis between the dynamics of the urban population of four countries with entirely mutually contrasting spatial-economic and geographic characteristics: Botswana, Germany, Hungary and Luxembourg. We arrive at the following results: if (i) the mean is independent of city size (first necessary condition of Gibrat’s law) and (ii) the coefficient of the rank-size rule/Zipf’s Law is different from one, then the variance is dependent on city size.
D30|Capital, richesse et croissance. De la recherche empirique aux éclairages théoriques|Le livre de Thomas Piketty « Le Capital au XXIème siècle » est ambivalent. D'un côté, une lecturethéorique trop simple, fondamentalement a-institutionnelle, retient un taux de croissancedéfinitivement exogène et ignore l'hétérogénéité du capital, faisant de la répartition des revenus et desrichesses une donnée technique sans influence en retour sur la croissance elle-même. D'un autre côté,les faits stylisés rassemblés et les intuitions qui y sont associées incitent réfléchir sur les tenants etaboutissants de la répartition des revenus et des patrimoines pour lui redonner une place centraledans la théorie économique et lui restituer sa dimension sociale.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D30|World Price Shocks, Income, and Democratization|This paper shows how a world price shock can increase the likelihood that democratization must be used to resolve the threat of revolution. Initially, a ruling elite may be able to use trade policy to maintain political stability. But a world price shock can push the country into a situation where the elite face a commitment problem that only democratization can resolve. Because the world price shock may also reduce average incomes, the model provides a way to understand why the level of national income per capita and democracy may not be positively correlated. The model is also useful for understanding dictatorial regimes' rebuttal of World Bank calls to keep their export markets open in the face of the 2007–08 world food crisis.
D30|Wealth-income ratios in a small, late-industrializing, welfare-state economy: Sweden, 1810–2014|This paper uses new data on Swedish national wealth over a period of two hundred years to study whether the patterns in wealth-income ratios previously found by Piketty and Zucman (2014) for some very rich and large Western economies extend to smaller countries that were historically backward and developed a different set of political and economic institutions during the twentieth century. The findings point to both similarities and differences. In the pre-industrial era, Sweden had much lower wealth levels than the rest of Europe, and the main explanation is that the Swedes were too poor to save their income. Over the twentieth century, Swedish aggregate trends and levels are much more similar to those of the rest of Europe, but the structure of national wealth differs. In Sweden, government wealth grew much faster and became more important, not least through its relatively large public pension system. This suggests an explicit role of historical economic and political institutions for the long-run evolution of wealth-income ratios.
D30|An experimental study of gender differences in distributive justice|This paper shows that women are more likely than men to employ the fair allocation that most benefits their financial payoff. The experimental evidence is gleaned from a dictator game with production, in which subjects first solve a quiz to accumulate earnings and then divide the surplus by choosing one over five different allocations, some of which represent a fairness ideal. The data also suggest that women are more sensitive to the context as their allocation choices depend on whether they have accumulated more or less money than their counterparts. This is not the case for the men's allocation choices.
D30|European-Wide Inequality in Times of the Financial Crisis|In view of rising concerns over increasing inequality in the European Union since the financial crisis, this study provides an inequality decomposition of the overall European income distribution by country. The EU Statistics on Income and Living Conditions are our empirical basis. Inequality has risen moderately within the core Euro area, particularly in the last two years of the observation period (2010/11). Widening disparities between EU Member States are the driving force behind this trend, while inequalities within countries do not exhibit systematic changes. An analysis of binational distributions reveals that it is the countries hit worst by the crisis - Greece and Spain - for which the between-country disparities have changed most markedly.
D30|Private wealth across European countries: the role of income, inheritance and the welfare state|Using microdata from the Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS), this study examines the role of inheritance, income and welfare state policies in explaining differences in household net wealth within and between euro area countries. First, about one third of the households in the 13 European countries we study report having received an inheritance, and these households have considerably higher net wealth than those which did not inherit. Second, regression analyses on households' relative wealth position show that, on average, having received an inheritance lifts a household by about 14 net wealth percentiles. At the same time, each additional percentile in the income distribution is associated with about 0.4 net wealth percentiles. These results are consistent across countries. Third, multilevel cross-country regressions show that the degree of welfare state spending across countries is negatively correlated with household net wealth. These findings suggest that social services provided by the state are substitutes for private wealth accumulation and partly explain observed differences in levels of household net wealth across European countries. In particular, the effect of substitution relative to net wealth decreases with growing wealth levels. This implies that an increase in welfare state spending goes along with an increase - rather than a decrease - of observed wealth inequality. JEL Classification: D30, D31
D30|Growth process of U.S. small cities|This study analyzes the growth process of lower tail small U.S. cities for 2000 and 2010 census data using stochastic kernel, contour plot, and nonparametric regression. The results show that Gibrat’s law hold for small cities.
D30|About the hyperbolic Lorenz curve|In a recent paper in this journal, Wang and Smyth (2015) propose a new bi-parametric functional form for the Lorenz curve and use it to derive new parametric forms. In this paper, we demonstrate that the new bi-parametric model is a reparameterization of the hyperbolic Lorenz curve proposed by Arnold (1986). We obtain new and important properties not previously considered.
D30|Decomposing changes in CO2 emission inequality over time: The roles of re-ranking and changes in per capita CO2 emission disparities|This paper analyzes the effects of changes in country ranking and per capita CO2 emissions on the change in CO2 emission inequality over time. For this purpose, we introduce a three-term decomposition of the change occurring in the Gini index of per capita CO2 emissions when moving from an initial to a final per capita CO2 emission distribution. The decomposition explains the link between the inequality trend and the changes in country ranking, population size, and per capita CO2 emission disparities. We show that all components of inequality change can be further decomposed by subgroup. This provides analysts with a decomposition technique detecting the within-group and between-group contributions to each component of inequality change. The decomposition is used to analyze the change in per capita CO2 emission inequality in Europe over the 1991–2011 period.
D30|Methods for including income distribution in global CGE models for long-term climate change research|The consequences of climate policy and the impacts of climate change vary among different types of households depending on their income level, expenditure pattern, and other socioeconomic characteristics. Global economy-environment models that are used to assess climate change issues traditionally do not distinguish households by income or other attributes. To facilitate progress in this area, we review and assess literature on methods to include household heterogeneity in global long-term Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) models. We distinguish among three categories of approaches: 1) the explicit modeling of multiple household types within the CGE framework, 2) micro-simulation modeling, and 3) direct modeling of income distribution. For each of these approaches we describe the method, key assumptions, limitations and several prominent examples from the literature. Moreover, we discuss data needs, including the contents of household survey data, their availability and processing. We conclude with an overview of what each method could provide for global, long-term climate-related research.
D30|Trade and insecure resources|We construct a model of conflict and trade to study the consequences of interstate disputes over contested resources (land, oil, water or other resources) for arming, welfare and trade flows. Different trade regimes imply different costs of such disputes in terms of arming. Depending on world prices, free trade can intensify arming to such an extent that the additional security costs it brings swamp the traditional gains from trade and thus render autarky more desirable for one or all rival states. Free trade, though, is always an equilibrium, and sometimes is a dominant one with features of a prisoner's dilemma outcome. Furthermore, contestation of resources can reverse a country's apparent comparative advantage relative to its comparative advantage in the absence of conflict. And, where such conflict is present, comparisons of autarkic prices to world prices could be inaccurate predictors of trade patterns.
D30|Norm conformity across societies|This paper studies the aggregate distribution of declared opinions and behavior when heterogeneous individuals make the trade-off between being true to their private opinions and conforming to a social norm. The model sheds light on how various sanctioning regimes induce conformity and by whom, and on phenomena such as societal polarization and unimodal concentration. In strict societies, individuals will tend to either fully conform to the social norm or totally ignore it, while individuals in liberal societies will tend to compromise between these two extremes. Furthermore, the degree of strictness determines whether those who nearly agree with the norm or those who strongly disagree with it will conform. The degree of liberalism similarly determines which individuals will compromise the most. A number of empirical predictions, and several methods of how to test them, are suggested.
D30|Trade openness and the settlement of domestic disputes in the shadow of the future|We explore the severity of an ongoing dispute over a productive resource within a country that participates in world trade. In addition to arming, the contending groups in our setting choose either to engage in destructive conflict or to settle their dispute peacefully. Our central objective is to characterize the conditions under which the dispute might be resolved peacefully instead of violently. The analysis underscores the intuitive roles played by the destructiveness of open conflict and the salience of the future that have been identified in the previous literature, but it also provides some novel insights into how world prices and trade openness matter. Among other things, we find that, given conflict׳s destructive effects and time preferences, settlement is most likely to be supported as a stable equilibrium when the “traditional” gains from trade are largest. However, there also exist circumstances under which increased trade openness can induce destructive conflict.
D30|The challenge of measuring UK wealth inequality in the 2000s|The concentration of personal wealth is now receiving a great deal of attention – after having been neglected for many years. One reason is the growing recognition that, in seeking explanations for rising income inequality, we need to look not only at wages and earned income but also at income from capital, particularly at the top of the distribution. In this paper, we use evidence from existing data sources to attempt to answer three questions: (i) what is the share of total personal wealth that is owned by the top 1 per cent, or the top 0.1 per cent? (ii) is wealth much more unequally distributed than income? (iii) is the concentration of wealth at the top increasing over time? The main conclusion of the paper is that the evidence about the UK concentration of wealth post-2000 is seriously incomplete and significant investment in a variety of sources is necessary if we are to provide satisfactory answers to the three questions
D30|Unemployment and spell duration during the Great Recession in the EU|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to analyze the different dynamic characteristics of unemployment in a selected group of European Union countries during the current Great Recession, which had unequal consequences on employment depending on the country considered. Design/methodology/approach - – The paper follows Shorrocks’s proposal of a duration-sensitive measure of unemployment, and uses cross-sectional data reported by Eurostat coming from European Labour Force Surveys. Findings - – The results add some evidence on the relevance of incorporating spells’ duration in measuring unemployment, finding remarkable differences in unemployment patterns in time among European countries. Research limitations/implications - – In this paper unemployment is analyzed for all the labor force. Future research should investigate patterns across specific groups such as young people, women, immigrants or the low skilled. Practical implications - – It is generally accepted that the negative impact of unemployment on individual welfare can be very different depending on its duration. However, conventional statistics on unemployment do not adequately capture to what extent the recession is not only increasing the incidence of unemployment but also its severity in terms of duration in time of ongoing unemployment spells. The paper shows an easy and practical way to do it in order to improve the understanding of the unemployment phenomenon, using information usually reported by statistical offices. Originality/value - – First, the paper provides a tool for dynamic analysis of unemployment based on reported cross-sectional data. Second, the paper demonstrates the empirical relevance of considering spells’ duration when assessing differences in unemployment across countries or in unemployment trends. This is usually neglected or only partially addressed by most conventional measures of unemployment.
D30|Financial development and income inequality in India: an application of ARDL approach|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between financial development and income inequality in India using annual data from 1982-2012. Design/methodology/approach - – Stationarity properties of the series are checked by using ADF, DF-GLS, KPSS and Ng- Perron unit root tests. The paper applied the auto regressive distributed lag (ARDL) bound testing approach to co-integration to examine the existence of long run relationship; and error correction mechanism for the short run dynamics. Findings - – The co-integration test confirms a long run relationship between financial development and income inequality for India. The ARDL test results suggest that financial development, economic growth, inflation aggravates the income inequality in both long run and short run. However, trade openness reduces the gap between rich and poor in India. Research limitations/implications - – The present recommend for appropriate economic and financial reforms focussing on financial inclusion to reduce income inequality in India. Originality/value - – Till date, there is hardly any study that makes a clear comparison between market-based indicator and bank based indicator of financial development in India and those examining the relationship between finance and income inequality nexus. Further there is hardly any study to include gini coefficient as a proxy for inequality for India and apply ARDL techniques of co-integration, using the basic principles of GJ hypothesis and provide short run and long run dynamics for India. So the contribution of the paper is to fill these research gaps.
D30|Modelling the Impact of Direct and Indirect Taxes Using Complementary Datasets|Comprehensive modelling of the impact of taxes and tax policy options requires data on the impact at micro-level of both direct and indirect taxes. There are, however, limits on the amount of data that can be gathered by any one survey. With some exceptions, most notably the Living Costs and Food Survey (LCF) in the UK, most national expenditure surveys are not suitable for use in detailed modelling of the direct tax and welfare system. This makes approaches which impute expenditure data into detailed income surveys of considerable interest. In this paper, we assess the sensitivity of the distributional effects of indirect taxes to the choice between actual, estimated and imputed expenditure data. By doing so, the analysis here serves as an updated picture of the distributional effects of the indirect tax system in Ireland, as well as a base for future microsimulation analysis of simultaneous direct tax, indirect tax and welfare reform.
D30|Causes and Consequences of the Financial Crisis and the Implications for a More Resilient Financial and Economic System: Synthesis of FESSUD Work Package 3|The increasing dominance of finance starting in the late 1970s/early 1980s in the US and the UK, and somewhat later in other countries, was associated with two fundamental and structural processes generating the contradictions of this phase of development and finally the financial and economic crises starting in 2007: the deregulation of the financial (and economic) system and the massive redistribution of income at the expense of labour and low income households. These fundamental processes provided the conditions for the generation of major imbalances within some of the national economies, on the one hand, and at the international level, on the other hand. These imbalances and contradictions led eventually to the deep financial and economic crisis, starting in 2007. Therefore, a more resilient financial and economic system requires the re-regulation and downsizing of the financial sector, the re-distribution of income (and wealth) from top to bottom and from capital to labour, the re-orientation of macroeconomic policies towards stabilizing domestic demand at non-inflationary full employment levels, and the re-creation of international monetary and economic policy coordination.
D30|Inequality Indebtedness and Financial Crises|This work is an empirical contribution that investigates the presence of a relationship among income inequality, household indebtedness and the erup- tion of systemic banking crises (namely the I-I-C nexus). We test this hy- pothesis on a panel of 31 countries over the period 1980-2012 within four different scenarios. We find strong evidence of a statistically significant asso- ciation between income inequality and systemic banking crises via household indebtedness (the I-I-C nexus) regardless of the specification and the estima- tion technique chosen. However, we find no evidence of a feedback effect of a systemic banking crisis on income inequality, at least in the short run. We also find that economies characterized by highly liberalized financial mar- kets are more prone to experience such a nexus. These results suggest that reforming the architecture of financial regulation and supervision is still an important issues. However, it is a necessary but not sufficient condition in order to ensure financial stability.
D30|Who Got What, Then And Now? A Fifty Year Overview From The Global Consumption And Income Project|Using newly comprehensive data and tools from the Global Consumption and Income Project or CGIP, covering most of the world and five decades, we present a portrait of the changing global distribution of consumption and income and discuss its implications for our understanding of inequality, poverty, inclusivity of growth and development, world economic welfare, and the emergence of a global ‘middle class’. We show how regional distributions of income and consumption have evolved very differently over time. We also undertake sensitivity analysis to quantify the impact of various choices made in database construction and analysis. We find that levels of consumption and income have increased across the distribution, that the global distribution has become more relatively equal due to falling inter-country relative inequality, and that by some measures global poverty has declined greatly but by others it has hardly declined at all, even over the fifty years. The global middle class has grown markedly in certain countries but only slightly worldwide. Most of the marked changes have occurred after 1990. China’s rapid economic growth is by far the most important factor underlying almost all of them, notwithstanding sharply increasing inequalities within the country. Most improvements outside of China are associated with rapid developing country growth after 2000, and are of unknown durability. Country-experiences vary widely; there is for instance some evidence of ‘inequality convergence’ with previously more equal countries becoming less equal over time and the obverse. We provide support for previous findings (e.g. the replacement of the global ‘twin peaks’ by a unimodal distribution) but also arrive at some conclusions that overthrow old ‘stylized facts’ (e.g. that the Sub-Saharan African countries, and not Latin American ones, have the highest levels of inequality in the world, when measured using standardized surveys). The GCIP provides a resource for ongoing analysis, and forecasting, of developments in the world distribution.
D30|The Middle Muddle: Conceptualizing and Measuring the Global Middle Class|Interest in the emergence of a global middle class has resulted in a number of attempts to identify and enumerate who belongs to it . Current research provides wildly different estimates about the size and evolution of the global middle class because of a lack of consensus on appropriate identification criteria for a person to be deemed to be middle class. We identify three competing and often conflated understandings in the literature on the subject. We further argue that for at least two of these understandings, the literature has been using inappropriate thresholds for identification. Using data from the Global Consumption and Income Project, we provide estimates of the size, composition and evolution of the global middle class for three competing understandings and contrast these to existing estimates.
D30|Innovation Capabilities and Financing Constraints of Family Firms|Using the 2007 Mannheim innovation survey, we investigate whether family firms are more financially constrained than other firms and how this affects both innovation input as well as innovation outcomes such as market and firm novelties or process innovations. Based on the CDM framework, estimation of the recursive system of equations shows that family businesses are more likely to be constrained and have, on average, lower innovation input. Surprisingly, however, this doesnot reduce their innovation outcomes as, on average, family firms have the same level of innovation outcomes as nonfamily firms.
D30|Fairness and family background|Fairness preferences fundamentally affect individual behavior and play an important role in shaping social and political institutions. However, people differ both with respect to what they view as fair and with respect to how much weight they attach to fairness considerations. In this article, we study the role of family background in explaining these heterogeneities in fairness preferences. In particular, we examine how socioeconomic background relates to fairness views and to how people make trade-offs between fairness and self-interest. To study this, we conducted an economic experiment with a representative sample of 14- to 15-year-old and matched the experimental data to administrative data on parental income and education. The participants made two distributive choices in the experiment. The first choice was to distribute money between themselves and another participant in a situation where there was no difference in merit. The second choice was to distribute money between two other participants with unequal merits. Our main finding is that there is a systematic difference in fairness view between children from low-socioceconomic status (SES) families and the rest of the participants; more than 50 percent of the participants from low-SES families are egalitarians, whereas only about 20 percent in the rest of the sample hold this fairness view. In contrast, we find no significant difference in the weight attached to fairness between children from different socioeconomic groups.
D30|Wealth-income ratios in a small, late-industrializing, welfare-state economy: Sweden, 1810–2014|This paper uses new data on Swedish national wealth over a period of two hundred years to study whether the patterns in wealth-income ratios previously found by Piketty and Zucman (2014) for some very rich and large Western economies extend to smaller countries that were historically backward and developed a different set of political and economic institutions during the twentieth century. The findings point to both similarities and differences. In the pre-industrial era, Sweden had much lower wealth levels than the rest of Europe, and the main explanation is that the Swedes were too poor to save their income. Over the twentieth century, Swedish aggregate trends and levels are much more similar to those of the rest of Europe, but the structure of national wealth differs. In Sweden, government wealth grew much faster and became more important, not least through its relatively large public pension system. This suggests an explicit role of historical economic and political institutions for the long-run evolution of wealth-income ratios.
D30|Wealth-income ratios in a small, late-industrializing, welfare-state economy: Sweden, 1810–2014|This paper uses new data on Swedish national wealth over a period of two hundred years to study whether the patterns in wealth-income ratios previously found by Piketty and Zucman (2014) for some very rich and large Western economies extend to smaller countries that were historically backward and developed a different set of political and economic institutions during the twentieth century. The findings point to both similarities and differences. In the pre-industrial era, Sweden had much lower wealth levels than the rest of Europe, and the main explanation is that the Swedes were too poor to save their income. Over the twentieth century, Swedish aggregate trends and levels are much more similar to those of the rest of Europe, but the structure of national wealth differs. In Sweden, govern-ment wealth grew much faster and became more important, not least through its relatively large public pension system. This suggests an explicit role of historical economic and political institutions for the long-run evolution of wealth-income ratios.
D30|El papel de las bluelaws en los modelos de evolución de los for¬matos comerciales|La literatura sobre las bluelaws (regulación de horarios comerciales) es muy amplia e importante, pero sus resultados son muy dispersos y distintos, y siempre ha trabajado con una perspectiva estrictamente sectorial y una metodología univariable. Es necesario estudiar la desregulación de horarios comerciales dentro de un modelo global de cambio, incorporando variables económicas externas (PIB) y variables de competencia endógenas (como las cuotas de superficie comercial). Nuestro modelo destaca que la desregulación de horarios afecta de forma inmediata a las estrategias de tiempo como servicio al con¬sumidor ofertado por los supermercados y los centros comerciales. Que la competencia determina los cambios en la estructura comercial, la productividad y en el empleo del sector. En tanto que la situación de la economía explica las variaciones en las ventas y los precios
D30|Financial Stress Thresholds and Household Equivalence Scales|This paper relates indicators of household financial stress to household income and expenditure with the objective of identifying household stress thresholds and comparable equivalence scales. A model is proposed whereby households try to absorb income shocks or shifts by shrinking consumption or engaging in consumption substitution, and is applied to data from the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia Survey. Households have different capacities to absorb a shock or shift, with those unable to absorb a shock or shift being financially stressed. The distribution of household financial stress thresholds is estimated, and is found to be dependent on heterogeneity in both welfare sensitivity and discretionary consumption stickiness. We also examine the equivalence scales implied by the model and derive the distortion associated with the assumption of homogeneity. We find that this assumption has a distortionary impact and results in significant over- or underestimation of equivalence scales depending on household type and size.
D30|Value Added Tax policy and the case for uniformity: empirical evidence from Mexico| Value added taxes (VAT) are an important, and in many cases increasing, source of revenue in both developed and developing countries. Unsurprisingly there is an intense academic and policy debate about the appropriate VAT rate structure, for both equity and efficiency reasons. In this paper we examine the distributional and efficiency case for VAT rate differentiation in Mexico, and analyse the effects of the 2010 reforms to Mexico’s tax system, making use of a tax micro-simulation model, MEXTAX. The amendments to the initial proposed reforms were made to make the tax change more ‘progressive’. We find that, measured as a proportion of income or expenditure, poorer households did gain most from the amendments, but that the cash-terms gains were much larger for households with high levels of income and expenditure. In other words, the reduction in tax take from the amendments was weakly targeted at poorer households; even simple universal cash transfers would have been much more beneficial to poor households. This shows the distributional case for zero rates of VAT on goods like food is weak – especially given the growing sophistication of cash transfer programmes in particularly middle income countries. We then examine the efficiency implications of Mexico’s VAT rate structure. We find that deviations from uniformity have a notable effect on spending patterns, but very little effect on aggregate welfare and economic efficiency as estimated by a standard QUAIDS model of consumer demand. We then argue that economic informality may actually provide an efficiency reason for lower rates of tax on goods like food for which informal production and transactions seem to be much more prevalent. This may turn the typical arguments about differential VAT rates on their head. Rather than being justifiable on distributional grounds, but entailing an efficiency cost, the reverse may actually be true.
