D39|Firm-size distribution in Poland – is power law applicable?|The article focuses on power laws and their growing popularity in science in general and in economics specifically. The theoretical mechanisms responsible for their generating are reviewed. We also empirically test whether firm-size distribution of companies in Poland has the characteristics of the Zipf’s law – a special case of a power law. This is confirmed based on an investigation within the sample of 2000 largest companies and a set of alternative estimators of the power law exponent.
D39|The Fair Reward Problem: The Illusion of Success and How to Solve It|Humanity has been fascinated by the pursuit of fortune since time immemorial, and many successful outcomes benefit from strokes of luck. But success is subject to complexity, uncertainty, and change – and at times becoming increasingly unequally distributed. This leads to tension and confusion over to what extent people actually get what they deserve (i.e., fairness/meritocracy). Moreover, in many fields, humans are over-confident and pervasively confuse luck for skill (I win, it’s skill; I lose, it’s bad luck). In some fields, there is too much risk-taking; in others, not enough. Where success derives in large part from luck – and especially where bailouts skew the incentives (heads, I win; tails, you lose) – it follows that luck is rewarded too much. This incentivizes a culture of gambling, while downplaying the importance of productive effort. And, short term success is often rewarded, irrespective, and potentially at the detriment, of the long-term system fitness. However, much success is truly meritocratic, and the problem is to discern and reward based on merit. We call this the fair reward problem. To address this, we propose three different measures to assess merit: (i) raw outcome; (ii) risk-adjusted outcome, and (iii) prospective. We emphasize the need, in many cases, for the deductive prospective approach, which considers the potential of a system to adapt and mutate in novel futures. This is formalized within an evolutionary system, comprised of five processes, inter alia handling the exploration-exploitation trade-off. Several human endeavors – including finance, politics, and science – are analyzed through these lenses, and concrete solutions are proposed to support a prosperous and meritocratic society.
D39|Income and wealth inequality in Malta: evidence from micro data|This paper studies the distribution of income and wealth in Malta over the period 2010-16, based on three waves of detailed micro-data from the Household Finance and Consumption Survey. This is the first paper that explores the evolution of income and wealth inequality jointly, and over time, using household-level data in Malta. In particular, the focus of the present paper is to examine how income and wealth are distributed over different socioeconomic characteristics, their joint distribution and its determinants, as well as factors that influence a household’s ability to obtain credit, using decomposition methods and binary response models. Our results suggest that households with tertiary education experienced strong increases in their incomes and wealth in the period examined. With reference to wealth, household main residence (HMR) is the most equalising factor of wealth inequality and self-employment wealth is the most disequalising factor. Regarding the determining factors of the position of a household in the wealth distribution, the financing structure of HMR is particularly important to explain the household’s position in the wealth distribution. Furthermore, the age and education level of the reference person of a household as well as increases in household’s income affect positively the probability of being in a higher wealth quintile. This finding also holds true for households who have received inheritance or gifts.
D39|Beyond equal rights: Equality of opportunity in political participation|It is well understood that political participation is stratified by socio-economic characteristics. Yet it is an open question how this finding bears on the normative evaluation of the democratic process. In this paper we argue that the equality of opportunity (EOp) concept furnishes an attractive framework to answer this question. Drawing on the analytical tools developed by an expanding empirical literature on EOp we investigate to what extent political participation is determined by factors that lie beyond individual control (circumstances) and thus is unfairly distributed. Using rich panel data from the US, we find that a lack of political opportunity is particularly pronounced for contacts with officials, participation in rallies and marches, and membership in political organizations. These opportunity shortages tend to complement each other across activities and persist over time. While family characteristics and psychological dispositions during childhood emanate as the strongest determinants, genetic variation is a small yet significant contributor to unequal political opportunities in the US.
D39|Il tempo condiviso in Italia|"Shared time is the set of moments that we are free to use in connection with others. Our research asks where Italians use their shared time in similar ways. Based on the proportion of time spent in shared activities, we have identified ten ""lifestyles"". Each ""style"" unites people who have a similar distribution of shared time among activities. Between 2003 and 2008 all Italian macro- regions moved in the same direction and roughly the same size. The inhabitants of various areas tend to converge on the normal ""lifestyle"", eliminating the particularities that differentiate one type from the other. In the following period, which runs from 2008 to 2013, Italy appears fossilized on the choice made during the previous phase: the polygons enclosing the trajectories of the two years overlap, and all the trajectories are shortened. The whole decade can thus be captured by the expression ""fossilized normalization"" of the uses of shared time."
D39|Heterogeneity, distribution and financial fragility of non-financial firms: an agent-based stock-flow consistent (AB-SFC) model|In Minsky's Financial Instability Hypothesis (FIH), financial fragility of non-financial firms tends to increase endogenously over the cycle along with the macroeconomic leverage ratio. This analysis has been criticized for two main complementary reasons: firstly, it does not duly consider the aggregate pro-cyclicallity of profits; secondly, due to an overly aggregate analysis, some inferences about the relation between aggregate leverage and systemic fragility are potentially misleading. In this paper, we take these criticisms into account by building an agent-based stock-flow consistent model which integrates the real and financial sides of the economy in a fundamentally dynamic environment. We calibrate and simulate our model and show that the dynamics generated are in line with empirical evidence both at the micro and the macro levels. We create a financial fragility index and examine how systemic financial fragility relates to the aggregate leverage along the cycle. We show that our model yields both Minskian regimes, in which the aggregate leverage increases along with investment, and Steindlian regimes, where investment brings leverage down. Our key findings are that the sensitivity of financial fragility to aggregate leverage is not as big as assumed in the literature; and that the distribution of profits amongst firms does matter for the stability of the system, both statically (immediately for financial fragility) and dynamically (because of the dynamics of leverage).
D39|Distributional impact analysis: toolkit and illustrations of impacts beyond the average treatment effect|Program evaluations often focus on average treatment effects. However, average treatment effects miss important aspects of policy evaluation, such as the impact on inequality and whether treatment harms some individuals. A growing literature develops methods to evaluate such issues by examining the distributional impacts of programs and policies. This toolkit reviews methods to do so, focusing on their application to randomized control trials. The paper emphasizes two strands of the literature: estimation of impacts on outcome distributions and estimation of the distribution of treatment impacts. The article then discusses extensions to conditional treatment effect heterogeneity, that is, to analyses of how treatment impacts vary with observed characteristics. The paper offers advice on inference, testing, and power calculations, which are important when implementing distributional analyses in practice. Finally, the paper illustrates select methods using data from two randomized evaluations.
D39|Applicability of Teleworking in Software Distributed Development|The purpose of this research is to confirm the possibility of personnel participation in a software development project remotely. Modern system development projects require secure specialist personnel with a wide range of technical capabilities to satisfy the diversified customer needs and the remarkable technological advancement. Nevertheless, many Japanese companies are oriented toward centralized development. There are limited people in the organization with the latest technology, and their work orientation is not uniform, making it difficult to realize intensive development. These trends are not limited to the IT industry. At the same time, the Japanese government recommends that companies adopt teleworking in order to provide flexibility to their employees and improve their quality of life. In research, teleworking has become a trend in current software development environments, confirming the possibility of distributed software development in the IT industry. Here, we propose a teleworking system configuration for such distributed development.
D39|Heterogeneity, distribution and financial fragility of non-financial firms: an agent-based stock-flow consistent (AB-SFC) model|In Minsky's Financial Instability Hypothesis (FIH), financial fragility of non-financial firms tends to increase endogenously over the cycle along with the macroeconomic leverage ratio. This analysis has been criticized for two main complementary reasons: firstly, it does not duly consider the aggregate pro-cyclicallity of profits; secondly, due to an overly aggregate analysis, some inferences about the relation between aggregate leverage and systemic fragility are potentially misleading. In this paper, we take these criticisms into account by building an agent-based stock-flow consistent model which integrates the real and financial sides of the economy in a fundamentally dynamic environment. We calibrate and simulate our model and show that the dynamics generated are in line with empirical evidence both at the micro and the macro levels. We create a financial fragility index and examine how systemic financial fragility relates to the aggregate leverage along the cycle. We show that our model yields both Min-skian regimes, in which the aggregate leverage increases along with investment, and Steindlian regimes, where investment brings leverage down. Our key findings are that the sensitivity of financial fragility to aggregate leverage is not as big as assumed in the literature; and that the distribution of profits amongst firms does matter for the stability of the system, both statically (immediately for financial fragility) and dynamically (because of the dynamics of leverage).
D39|International Inequality in Subjective Well-Being: An exploration with the Gallup World Poll|In this paper we compute inequality measures over the distribution of a subjective well-being variable constructed from a life satisfaction question included in the Gallup World Poll in almost all countries in the world. We argue that inequality in subjective well-being may be a better proxy for the degree of unfairness in a society than income inequality. We find evidence that inequality in subjective well-being has an inverse-U relationship with per capita GDP, but it is monotonically decreasing with respect to mean subjective well-being. We argue that this difference might be associated to inequality aversion in the space of utility.
D39|The distribution of excess liquidity in the euro area|Since 2008, excess liquidity – defined as the sum of holdings of central bank reserves in excess of reserve requirements and holdings of equivalent central bank deposits – has tended to accumulate in specific euro area countries and in a small, slowly changing group of credit institutions. Despite the stability of the concentration of excess liquidity in specific countries over time, the relevance of individual drivers has changed. First, risk aversion has played a much smaller role in explaining the concentration since 2013 than it did at the time of “flight-to-quality” phenomena in the period 2010-12. Second, the location of the relevant market infrastructures (i.e. central securities depositories, securities settlement systems and TARGET2 accounts) used by counterparties that sold assets to the Eurosystem has been a more important driver directing flows in the period 2015-16. In addition, the more recent concentration of excess liquidity is explained by the combination of a number of factors, such as banks following strict internal credit limits, investment incentives created by yield differences across the euro area and the “home bias” in euro area government bond holdings. Overall, the net cross-border flows of liquidity that resulted also determined TARGET2 balances. At the individual bank level, when controlling for banks’ capital, non-performing loans, credit risk and profitability, excess liquidity holdings in relation to total assets are found to be higher for smaller and better-capitalised banks, and for banking groups with liquidity centralised at the head institution. In addition, participation in Eurosystem longer-term refinancing operations and deposit inflows are associated with liquidity accumulation. Finally, new regulatory initiatives such as the liquidity coverage ratio are explained to be creating incentives to hold or not to distribute liquidity, thereby affecting its distribution. JEL Classification: E44, E50, G01, G28, D39, E41
D39|Estimation of Unobserved Dynamics of Individual Partisanship: A Bayesian Approach|Political party preference is a crucial element in the analysis of economics and political science. However, it is often di cult to investigate the dynamic properties of the individual partisanship due to inaccessibility to panel data. This study proposes a Bayesian approach for estimating Markov dynamics of individual-level partisanship with repeated cross-section data in which the history of respondents' choice of favored party cannot be observed. The proposed approach identifies individual heterogeneities that affect transitional patterns of partisanship, and replicates the dynamic patterns of individual partisan mobility. Using the proposed method with American survey data, the study shows that age, education and race significantly influence partisan dynamics among Americans for three decades from 1972.
D39|A human rights-consistent approach to multidimensional welfare measurement applied to sub-Saharan Africa|The rights-based approach to development targets progress towards the realization of 30 articles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In current practice, progress is frequently measured using the multidimensional poverty index. While elegant and useful, the multidimensional poverty index is inconsistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights principles of indivisibility, inalienability, and equality. We argue that a first-order dominance (FOD) methodology maintains basic consistency with these principles. Specifically, FOD comparisons are independent of any applied weighting schemes and hence are free from assumptions regarding substitutability between included welfare indicators (indivisibility). FOD cannot be established when welfare in any indicator is deteriorating, no matter how great the advancement is in other indicators (inalienability). Finally, FOD requires that domination occurs throughout the population (equality), implying that welfare gains among better-off groups never offset welfare losses among worse-off groups. We discuss and compare the properties of the multidimensional poverty index and first-order dominance approach and apply both measures to 26 African countries using data near 2002 and 2012. Results across the two measures are broadly similar but not the same. For example, while the multidimensional poverty index suggests that all countries are advancing, FOD indicates that 14 countries experience broad-based progress, two countries show more moderate likelihoods of progress, and the remaining 10 countries neither improve nor deteriorate in terms of attainment of rights for the dimensions considered. We conclude that the multidimensional poverty index and first-order dominance approaches are useful complements that should be employed in tandem.
D39|Les échanges internationaux de services de la France|Les échanges de services de la France, troisième exportateur mondial, sont plus dynamiques que ceux des biens. Les entreprises concernées sont relativement peu nombreuses (60 000 exportatrices environ en 2013). Pour les principales contributrices, bien insérées dans le système productif international, importer et exporter sont complémentaires plutôt que substituables.
D39|France’s international trade in services|France, the third largest exporter in the world, records stronger growth in the services trade than in the goods trade. The companies concerned are relatively few (around 60,000 exporters in 2013). For the main contributors, which are well integrated into the international system of production, importing and exporting are complementary rather than substitutable.
D39|Money Income And Spending Of Population|Since November 2014, the population’s real disposable money income have been steadily on the decline. Data for January–September 2015 point to a rising poverty rate. In 2015, the share of personal income spent on commodities and services hit its record low of the past 16 years. The share of saving in the personal money income structure signiﬁ cantly increased.
D39|Денежные Доходы И Расходы Населения|С ноября 2014 г. реальные располагаемые денежные доходы населения и реальная заработная плата устойчиво снижаются. Данные за январь-сентябрь 2015 г. свидетельствуют об увеличении уровня бедности. В 2015 г. доля доходов, использованных на покупку товаров и оплату услуг, достигла минимального значения за последние 16 лет. Произошел существенный рост доли сбережений в структуре использования денежных доходов населения.
D39|The Dynamics of Income-Related Health Inequalities in Australia versus Great Britain|This study compares the evolution of income-related health inequality (IRHI) in Australia (2001–2006) and in Great Britain (1999–2004) by exploring patterns of morbidity- and mortality-related health changes across income groups. Using Australian longitudinal data, the change in health inequality is decomposed into those changes related to health changes (income-related health mobility) and income changes (health-related income mobility), and compared with recent results from Great Britain. Absolute IRHI increased for both sexes, indicating greater absolute health inequality in Australia over this period, similar to that seen in Great Britain. The income-related health mobility indicates that this was due to health losses over this period being concentrated in those initially poor who were significantly more likely to die. The health-related income mobility further indicates that those who moved up the income distribution during the period were more likely to be those who were healthy. Australian estimates of mobility measures are similar, if not greater, in magnitude than for Great Britain. While reducing health inequality remains high on the political agenda in Great Britain, it has received less attention in Australia even though the evidence provided here suggests it should receive more attention.
D39|Opportunities in education: are factors outside individual responsibility really persistent? Evidence from Indonesia, 1997-2007|Education is a strong predictor for economic performance. Therefore, educational inequality particularly in opportunity could make significant contribution to earning disparities. Following Ferreira and Gignoux (2014) parametric method, we construct aggregate indices of inequality of educational opportunities for fourteen Indonesian provinces in the years 1997, 2000 and 2007. Our particular and original contribution is to define individual indices of the power of circumstances which measure the strength of the influence that the accumulation of factors outside individual responsibility has in the short and in the long run on individual educational achievements and on earnings. We found that-along the period considered- there has been a declining trend in inequality of educational opportunities but not in all the provinces. Our findings also suggest that parental educational background is the most significant factor for school survival and that the effect that circumstances exert on future individual educational achievements and on early earnings perspectives tend to persist over time, but only to a very small extent. Moreover, our causal model which relates educational budget policy to equality of opportunity shows a negative impact of educational budget for the youngest cohorts, questioning therefore the effectiveness of the allocation of resources to primary and intermediate schools.
D39|Decomposing Poverty-Inequality Linkages Of Sources Of Deprivation By Men-Headed And Women-Headed Households In Cameroon|We decompose poverty-inequality linkages of sources of deprivation by men-headed and women-headed households in Cameroon. Results indicate that (a) women-headed and gender-neutral households face more human and household capital deprivation and higher levels of inequality than their men-headed counterparts; and (b) whereas decreasing inequality between the men-headed and women-headed households would reduce the incidence and depth of human capital deprivation, reducing inequality among the men-and women-headed households will reduce the incidence and depth of household capital deprivation. Policies should simultaneously reduce household capital deprivations among men-headed and women-headed and human capital deprivation between these households.
D39|Empirics of the International Inequality in $$\hbox {CO}_{2}$$ CO 2 Emissions Intensity: Explanatory Factors According to Complementary Decomposition Methodologies|This paper analyses the international inequalities in $$\hbox {CO}_{2}$$ CO 2 emissions intensity for the period 1971–2009 and assesses explanatory factors. Group, additive and multiplicative methodologies of inequality decomposition are employed. The first allows us to understand the role of regional groups; the second allows us to investigate the role of different fossil energy sources (coal, oil and gas); and the third allows us to clarify the separated role of the carbonisation index and the energy intensity in the pattern observed for inequalities in $$\hbox {CO}_{2}$$ CO 2 intensities. The results show that, first, the reduction in global emissions intensity has coincided with a significant reduction in international inequality. Second, the bulk of this inequality and its reduction are attributed to differences between the groups of countries considered. Third, coal is the main energy source explaining these inequalities, although the growth in the relative contribution of gas is also remarkable. Fourth, the bulk of inequalities between countries and its decline are explained by differences in energy intensities, although there are significant differences in the patterns demonstrated by different groups of countries. The policy implications of these results are discussed. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
D39|Assessment of the Financial Situation of the Elderly in Poland, with Particular Emphasis on Wealth and Debt (Ocena sytuacji finansowej osob starszych w Polsce ze szczegolnym uwzglednieniem zasobnosci i zadluzenia)|The aging of the population is an important and interdisciplinary subject. Its importance has extensive consequences for employment, social welfare, pension security, medical care as well as many other aspects of the economy, therefore posing burden for future generations. The increasing importance of the elderly has become so considerable that has led to the appearance of the concepts of “silver generation” as well as “silver economy” covering existing and emerging opportunities for economic growth of public and consumer income related to aging of the population, taking into account the specific needs of people above 50 years of age. “Silver generation” includes a large variety of individuals of different status, income, health, social and cultural context. It applies to both rich and active people and poor persons whose health is declining. The aim of the article is to present the financial situation of the elderly group in Poland, with a specific focus on wealth and debt against the background of EU countries. The study used mainly an empirical approach using secondary research taking into account the latest reports covering the years 2013–2016.
D39|Dynamic directed search|Abstract The directed search model (Peters 52(5):1117–1127, 1984) is static; its dynamic extensions typically restrict strategies, often assuming price or match commitments. We lift such restrictions to study equilibrium when search can be directed over time, without constraints and at no cost. In equilibrium, trade frictions arise endogenously, and price commitments, if they do exist, are self-enforcing. In contrast to the typical model, there exists a continuum of equilibria that exhibit trade frictions. These equilibria support any price above the static price, including monopoly pricing in arbitrarily large markets. Dispersion in posted prices can naturally arise as temporary or permanent phenomenon despite the absence of preexisting heterogeneity.
D39|The causal factors of international inequality in co2 emissions per capita: a regression-based inequality decomposition analysis|This paper uses the possibilities provided by the regression-based inequality decomposition (Fields, 2003) to explore the contribution of different explanatory factors to international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita. In contrast to previous emissions inequality decompositions, which were based on identity relationships (Duro and Padilla, 2006), this methodology does not impose any a priori specific relationship. Thus, it allows an assessment of the contribution to inequality of different relevant variables. In short, the paper appraises the relative contributions of affluence, sectoral composition, demographic factors and climate. The analysis is applied to selected years of the period 1993–2007. The results show the important (though decreasing) share of the contribution of demographic factors, as well as a significant contribution of affluence and sectoral composition.
D39|Erbschaften und Schenkungen im Kanton Bern, Steuerjahre 2002 bis 2012|Anhand von Steuerdaten der Jahre 2002 bis 2012 des Kantons Bern werden einige Ergebnisse zur Verteilung von Erbschaften und Schenkungen präsentiert. Aufgezeigt wird, (1) wie sich Erbschaften und Schenkungen über die Zeit entwickelt haben, (2) wie Erbschaften und Schenkungen nach Höhe der erhaltenen Beträge verteilt sind, (3) wie hoch die statistische Wahrscheinlichkeit ist, Erbschaften und Schenkungen bestimmten Umfangs zu erhalten, (4) wie sich Erbschaften und Schenkungen über Alter der empfangenden Steuersubjekte verteilen und (5) welcher Zusammenhang zwischen den bisherigen ökonomischen Ressourcen (Einkommen, Vermögen) und dem Erhalt von Erbschaften und Schenkungen besteht. Zentrale Ergebnisse sind unter anderem, dass Erbschaften und Schenkungen extrem schief verteilt sind und folglich die Wahrscheinlichkeit, grössere Beträge zu erben oder geschenkt zu erhalten, nur gering ist. Nur ein kleiner Teil der Bevölkerung wird je in den Genuss von Erbschaften oder Schenkungen kommen, die nach Annahme der Erbschaftssteuerinitiative zu einer Besteuerung führen würden. Weiterhin sind Erbschaften und Schenkungen hinsichtlich der bisherigen ökonomischen Position der empfangenden Steuersubjekte extrem ungleich verteilt. Grössere Erbschaften und Schenkungen gehen in erster Linie an diejenigen, die bereits zuvor die höchsten Einkommen und grössten Vermögen aufweisen.
D39|Wirkung einer möglichen Erbschaftssteuer. Rechenbeispiele mit Berner Steuerdaten|"Mit der Abstimmung über die eidgenössische Volksinitiative ""Millionenerbschaften besteuern für unsere AHV (Erbschaftssteuerreform)"" am 14. Juni 2015 rückte die Aufmerksamkeit betreffend der Vermögensverteilung und der Bedeutung von Erbschaften zunehmend ins öffentliche Interesse. Gleichzeitig ist der Wissenstand jedoch beschränkt. Dieser Kurzbericht begegnet dieser Wissenslücke auf der Basis von Steuerdaten des Kantons Bern (2002-2012). Auswertungen des Reinvermögens zeigen, dass die Vermögensverteilung sehr ungleich ist. Einige wenige besitzen sehr viel, während die Mehrheit über wenig verfügt und ein Teil sogar beträchtliche Schulden aufweist. Entsprechend wären von einer Erbschaftssteuer auf Vermögen ab 2 Millionen nur sehr wenige betroffen (ca. 1,5 Prozent aller Steuersubjekte). Vererbt werden im Mittel jährlich 1,5 Milliarden; die Summe der jährlichen Schenkungen liegt etwas tiefer (1 Milliarde). Unserer Schätzung zu Folge würde die Steuer schweizweit ca. 1,07 Milliarden jährlich generieren. Gemäss Simulationen würde die Steuer nur sehr langsam Vermögen umverteilen."
D39|Private Spending on Children’s Education: Low-Income Families Pay Relatively More|Education is not financed solely by the taxpayer—many institutions and activities require payment of top-up fees, at the very least. This applies for instance to education and care services for children. A household’s private expenditure on education depends largely on the families’ available financial resources. However, to date, very little research has been conducted on the relationship between income and expenditure on education. The present study by DIW Berlin is based on data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study and the SOEP-related study, Families in Germany (Familien in Deutschland, FiD) for 2012. The present work analyzes private spending on various educational provisions such as child daycare services, private schools, or non-formal educational programs, i.e. sports clubs or music schools. The findings of the study indicate that, of the families who actually spend money on their children’s education, it is the low-income households that use a higher share of their household budget for this purpose—this applies both to overall education expenditure and to spending on individual educational services. However, if we consider all family households in Germany, higher-income families spend more on education, both in absolute and relative terms. Furthermore, it also holds true that the younger the children, the higher the share of the household’s income spent on education. More progressive fee scales could help reducing expenditure burdens of low-income families and support children to make full use of their educational potentials.
D39|Private Bildungsausgaben für Kinder: einkommensschwache Familien sind relativ stärker belastet|Education is not financed solely by the taxpayer— many institutions and activities require payment of top-up fees, at the very least, this applies for instance to education and care services for children. A household’s private expenditure on education depends largely on the families’ available financial resources. However, to date, very little research has been conducted on the relationship between income and expenditure on education. The present study by DIW Berlin is based on data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study and the SOEP-related study, Families in Germany (Familien in Deutschland, FiD) for 2012. The present work analyzes private spending on various educational provisions such as child daycare services, private schools, or non-formal educational programs such as those organized by sports clubs or music schools. The findings of the study indicate that, of the families who actually spend money on their children’s education, it is the low-income households that use a higher share of their household budget for this purpose— this applies both to overall expenditure and to spending on individual educational services. However, if we consider all family households in Germany, higher-income families spend more on education, both in absolute and relative terms. Furthermore, it also holds true that the younger the children, the higher the share of the household’s income spent on education. More progressive fee scales could help reducing expenditure burdens of low-income family’s education inequalities, and support children to make full use of their educational potentials. Bildung ist nicht ausschließlich steuerfinanziert – für viele Angebote sind mindestens Zuzahlungen aus eigener Tasche nötig, so auch bei Bildungs- und Betreuungsangeboten für Kinder. Die privaten Ausgaben von Haushalten für Bildungsangebote hängen maßgeblich von den Ressourcen des jeweiligen Familienhaushalts ab. Wie dieser Zusammenhang im Detail aussieht, ist bislang allerdings wenig erforscht. Die vorliegende Studie des DIW Berlin, die auf Daten des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP) und der Zusatzstichprobe Familien in Deutschland (FiD) für das Jahr 2012 basiert, analysiert die privaten Ausgaben für unterschiedliche Bildungsangebote wie Kindertageseinrichtungen, Privatschulen oder für non-formale Angebote, also Sportvereine oder Musikschulen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass Familien, die tatsächlich Ausgaben für die Bildung ihrer Kinder tätigen, einen höheren Anteil ihres Haushaltseinkommens aufwenden, wenn sie sich im unteren Einkommensbereich befinden – dies gilt sowohl für die Gesamtausgaben als auch für die Ausgaben für einzelne Bildungsangebote. Betrachtet man hingegen alle Familienhaushalte in Deutschland, geben Familien mit höherem Einkommen absolut und auch relativ mehr für Bildung aus. Zudem gilt: Je jünger die Kinder, desto höher der Ausgabenanteil am Einkommen für Bildung. Sofern diese ungleiche Ausgabenbelastung abgemildert werden soll, um Bildungsungleichheiten zu reduzieren und Bildungspotentiale besser auszuschöpfen, ließe sich dies über progressivere Gebührenstaffelungen erreichen.
D39|European-Wide Inequality in Times of the Financial Crisis|In view of rising concerns over increasing inequality in the European Union since the financial crisis, this study provides an inequality decomposition of the overall European income distribution by country. The EU Statistics on Income and Living Conditions are our empirical basis. Inequality has risen moderately within the core Euro area, particularly in the last two years of the observation period (2010/11). Widening disparities between EU Member States are the driving force behind this trend, while inequalities within countries do not exhibit systematic changes. An analysis of binational distributions reveals that it is the countries hit worst by the crisis - Greece and Spain - for which the between-country disparities have changed most markedly.
D39|Lower bounds on inequality of opportunity and measurement error|I show that lower bound estimates of inequality of opportunity can have substantial measurement error, and that measurement error can vary considerably across samples. As a consequence, the traditional cross-country comparisons researchers make can be misleading.
D39|Spatial incidence of large-scale power plant curtailment costs|Strongly correlated and spatially concentrated curtailment of power plants strongly affects the electricity market. Such curtailment is observed during heat waves in middle Europe, for example. First, curtailed power plants need to be substituted by more expensive ones. Second, additional congestion of the electricity grid may constrain substitution. These consequences and their spatial incidence have yet not been thoroughly assessed at the level of a national electricity system. Does congestion excessively amplifes curtailment costs? Do costs remain localized? How does the cost incidence depend on the market design? We employ a calibrated DC load flow model of the German electricity system that simulates an energy-only market followed by redispatch, as well as nodal prices, for a representative week and renewable feed-in scenarios. We find that spatially concentrated curtailment by 10% of Germany's installed non-renewable generation capacity leads to a 3% welfare loss of the market value, but that loss is not driven by congestion. The electricity price rises by 14% in average, and up to 17% in peak load hours. Consumers bear the burden of curtailment, whereas producer gain in the aggregate. Effects considerably spill over to other regions. While consumers in Southern Germany always lose, consumers in Eastern and Western Germany may gain welfare. Nodal pricing reduces loss by up to 1.5%, and shifts a larger burden to consumers and to Southern Germany. The aggregated economic effects of curtailment are manageable in Germany, but its distributional effects are multiple times larger.
D39|What can we learn from Eurosystem Household Finance and Consumption Survey data? – An application to household debt in Slovakia|This study delivers a stock-taking exercise of household debt in Slovakia. About 27% of all Slovak households hold at least some debt. The rate of homeownership in Slovakia is close to 90% and the highest in the euro area, while the share of indebted households is lowest. The reason for this peculiarity lies in the country’s history. Less than 10% of households are mortgage debt holders, and about 20% hold nonmortgage debt. About 15% of total debt holdings are covered by liquid financial assets and about 50% by households’ total assets excluding the main residence. When accounting only for the debt of vulnerable households, the share of total debt not covered by households’ total assets excluding the main residence lies between about 4% and 15% – depending on the definition used for debt burden measures. In Slovakia, mostly households with relatively young household heads are indebted. Regression analyses show that while self-employed persons and persons with higher education are more likely to hold debt, especially the self-employed are less likely to be vulnerable.
D39|Two Decades of Declining Poverty Despite Rising Inequality in Laos|Over the last two decades the distribution of private household expenditures has become more unequal in Laos, with the Gini coefficient rising from 0.311 to 0.364, even though absolute poverty incidence has halved. The increase in inequality was statistically significant and reduced the average rate of poverty reduction per year by about 28 percent, meaning the actual rate compared with the counterfactual rate that would have occurred if the mean real expenditures had increased at their observed levels but inequality had not changed. When the data are decomposed into rural and urban areas of residence or by province, or by the ethnicity of the household head, the increase in inequality within groups dominates any changes between groups; inequality has increased throughout the country. In contrast, access to publicly provided services has become more equal; disparities in participation rates between richer and poorer groups have diminished
D39|US city size distribution revisited: Theory and empirical evidence|We develop a urban economic model in which agents locate in cities of different size so as to maximize the net output of the whole system of cities in a country. From this model two new city size distributions are exactly derived. We call these functions “threshold double Pareto Generalized Beta of the second kind” and “double mixture Pareto Generalized Beta of the second kind”. In order to test empirically the theory, we analyze the US urban system and consider three types of data (incorporated places from 1900 to 2000, all places in 2000 and 2010 and City Cluster Algorithm nuclei in 1991 and 2000). The results are encouraging because the new distributions clearly outperform the lognormal and the double Pareto lognormal for all data samples. We consider a number of different tests and statistical criteria and the results are robust to all of them. Thus, the new distributions describe accurately the US city size distribution and, therefore, support the validity of the theoretical model.
D39|A Retrospective Look at Rescuing and Restructuring General Motors and Chrysler|The rescue of the US automobile industry amid the 2008-2009 recession and financial crisis was a consequential, controversial, and difficult decision made at a fraught moment for the US economy. Both of us were involved in the decision process at the time, but since have moved back to academia. More than five years have passed since the bailout began, and it is timely to look back at this unusual episode of economic policymaking to consider what we got right, what we got wrong, and why. In this article, we describe the events that brought two of the largest industrial companies in the world to seek a bailout from the US government, the analysis that was used to evaluate the decision (including what the alternatives were and whether a rescue would even work), the steps that were taken to rescue and restructure General Motors and Chrysler, and the performance of the US auto industry since the bailout. We close with general lessons to be learned from the episode.
D39|Two Decades of Rising Inequality and Declining Poverty in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic|Over the last 2 decades the distribution of private household expenditures has become more unequal in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, with the Gini coefficient rising from 0.311 to 0.364, even though absolute poverty incidence has halved. The increase in inequality was statistically significant and reduced the average rate of poverty reduction per year by about 28%, meaning the actual rate compared with the counterfactual rate that would have occurred if the mean real expenditures had increased at their observed levels but inequality had not changed. When the data are decomposed into rural and urban areas of residence or by province, or by the ethnicity of the household head, the increase in inequality within groups dominates any changes between groups; inequality has increased throughout the country. In contrast, access to publicly provided services has become more equal; disparities in participation rates between richer and poorer groups have diminished.
D39|Inequality and crises revisited|Recent debate has suggested that growing levels or high levels of inequality may be systematically associated with the occurrence of banking crises. Using the updated version of the Chartbook of Economic Inequality, this paper provides new empirical evidence on the ‘level’ hypothesis and reassesses the empirical validity of the ‘growth’ hypothesis. In line with previous work, the empirical analysis on the entire set of countries and years under investigation does not provide any conclusive and compelling statistical support to either of the hypotheses. However, the apparent statistical insignificance of the findings does not rule out the economic relevance of the question at hand, given that the hypotheses cannot be rejected for important crises and countries such as the US and the UK. Hence, the overall evidence is far from being conclusive and there are several reasons to shed further light on this important research topic. Copyright Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
D39|Regionale Verteilung umwelt- und energiepolitischer Fördermittel des Bundes im Zeitraum 1999 bis 2012|In dieser Untersuchung wird die regionale Verteilung der Fördermittel des Bundes für Maß-nahmen der Energieeinsparung und Verbesserung der Energieeffizienz in Deutschland im Durch-schnitt für den Zeitraum 1999 bis 2012 dargestellt und es wird ein Vergleich mit der regionalen Verteilung der EEG-Vergütungen vorgenommen. Räumliche Betrachtungseinheiten sind die Bundesländer, Bundesländergruppen, Landkreise und siedlungsstrukturelle Kreistypen. Es werden sowohl die regionalen Unterschiede der absoluten Fördermittel wie auch Unterschiede in der Fördermittelintensität analysiert. Die Untersuchung kommt zu dem Ergebnis, dass für die EEG-Vergütungen zur Erzeugung er-neuerbaren Stroms knapp das 6-fache an Fördergeldern ausgegeben wurde als für Maßnahmen, die der Energieeinsparung und Verbesserung der Energieeffizienz dienen. An der Stromerzeugung aus erneuerbaren Energien sind die ländlichen Regionen maßgeblich beteiligt und erhalten 68,5 % der EEG-Vergütungen. Auf die Einwohner umgerechnet erhalten unter den ländlichen Regionen die dünn besiedelten ländlichen Kreise mit rund 530 Euro je Einwohner die höchsten EEG-Vergütungszahlungen im Jahr 2011. Aus Fördertöpfen des Bundes für Energiespar- und Energieeffizienzprogramme sowie für investive Maßnahmen der Erzeugung erneuerbarer Energie erhalten die ländlichen Regionen einen Fördermittelanteil von rund 38 %. Die jahresdurchschnittlichen Fördermittel liegen für die dünn besiedelten ländlichen Kreise bei rund 21 Euro je Einwohner. Ländliche Kreise mit Verdichtungs-ansätzen kommen ebenfalls auf knapp 21 Euro, schneiden jedoch mit rund 345 Euro je Einwohner bei den EEG-Vergütungen schlechter ab als die dünn besiedelten ländlichen Kreise. Die Einwohner der nicht ländlichen Kreise erreichen im Durchschnitt bei den investiven Maßnahmen der Erzeugung erneuerbarer Energien sowie den Energiespar- und Energieeffizienzprogrammen eine Förderintensität von rund 15 und bei den EEG-Vergütungen eine Förderintensität von 92 Euro je Einwohner. Betrachtet man die absoluten Fördermittel schneiden die südlichen alten Bundesländern, ins-besondere Bayern und Baden-Württemberg, bei den EEG-Vergütungszahlungen wie bei den Fördermitteln für Energiespar- und Energieeffizienzprogramme besser ab als der Durchschnitt der nördlichen Bundesländer. Auch im Vergleich zu den neuen Bundesländern stehen sie besser da. Bezieht man die Fördermittel auf die Einwohner holen die nördlichen alten Bundesländer sowie die neuen Bundesländer im Ranking auf.
D39|Seasonal cycles in a model of the housing market|The US housing market exhibits seasonal boom and bust cycles where prices and the speed of trade (turnover rate) rise in summers and fall in winters. We present a search model that analytically generates the observed cycles. The proposed mechanism is based on swings in market thickness rather than market tightness, the leading explanation in the literature.
D39|World polarization in carbon emissions, potential conflict and groups: An updated revision|Typically, conflicts in world environmental negotiations are related, amongst other aspects, to the level of polarization of the countries in groups with conflicting interests. Given the predictable relationship between polarization and conflict, it would seem logical to evaluate the degree to which the distribution of countries – for example, in terms of their CO2 emissions per capita – would be structured through groups which in themselves are antagonistic, as well as their evolution over time. This paper takes the concept of polarization to explore this distribution for the period 1992–2010, looking at different analytic approaches related to the concept. Specifically, it makes a comparative evaluation of the results associated with endogenous multi-polarization measures (i.e. EGR and DER indices), exogenous measures (i.e. Z–K or multidimensional index) and strict bipolarization measures (i.e. Wolfson’s measure). Indeed, the interest lies not only in evaluating the global situation of polarization by comparing the different approaches and their temporal patterns, but also in examining the explanatory capacity of the different proxy groups used as a possible reference for designing global environmental policy from a group premise.
D39|Uniqueness of equilibrium in directed search models|We study a decentralized trading model as in [7], where a finite number of heterogeneous capacity-constrained sellers compete for a finite number of homogeneous buyers, by posting prices. This “directed search” model is known to admit symmetric equilibria; yet, uniqueness has proved elusive. This study makes two contributions: a substantive contribution is to establish uniqueness of symmetric equilibrium; a methodological contribution is to develop a tool based on directional derivatives to characterize equilibrium.
D39|Social norms on rent seeking and preferences for redistribution|Empirical studies have shown that preferences for redistribution are significantly correlated with expectations of future mobility and the belief that society offers equal opportunities. We add to previous research by investigating the role of individual and social norms on rent seeking. We find that the individual propensity for stigmatizing rent seeking significantly and positively affects preferences for redistribution. On the other hand, living in an area where most citizens do not stigmatize rent seeking, makes men more favourable to redistribution, which may be seen as a social equalizer in an unfair society that does not offer equal opportunities to all. This effect does not hold for women, whose preference for redistribution is negatively associated to the regional tolerance of rent seeking.
D39|Rugby League in Australia between 2001 and 2012: an Analysis of Home Advantage and Salary Cap Violations|Within this paper, we review whether incidences of salary cap circumvention within the Australian professional rugby league competition led to improved home team wins during the period between 2001 and 2012. In doing so, we show that while the salary cap breach amounts can be attributed to an improved home team win record in the case of the Melbourne Storm, success during the period can also be attributed with other factors such as the management of the club, talent identification and the quality of the coach and/or captain. This raises an important issue surrounding the effectiveness of a salary cap to create a level playing field when uncertainty over the quality and performance of players exists. A notable role of the salary cap violations was the retention of a core group of players that were instrumental in the success that occurred in the 2007 season. As part of the analysis we also review home team advantage. A focus on the NRL is justified due to the peculiar nature of having multiple stadium types within the same city and team. For the year 2012 we find that a match at a traditional Sydney stadium against a non-Sydney team had the highest probability of a home team win when the two teams have had a similar level of success during the season.
D39|The Measurement of Educational Inequality: Achievement and Opportunity|Two related measures of educational inequality are proposed: one for educational achievement and another for educational opportunity. The former is the simple variance (or standard deviation) of test scores. Its selection is informed by consideration of two measurement issues that have typically been overlooked in the literature: the implications of the standardization of test scores for inequality indices, and the possible sample selection biases arising from the Program of International Student Assessment (PISA) sampling frame. The measure of inequality of educational opportunity is given by the share of the variance in test scores that is explained by pre-determined circumstances. Both measures are computed for the 57 countries in which PISA surveys were conducted in 2006. Inequality of opportunity accounts for up to 35 percent of all disparities in educational achievement. It is greater in (most of) continental Europe and Latin America than in Asia, Scandinavia, and North America. It is uncorrelated with average educational achievement and only weakly negatively correlated with per capita gross domestic product. It correlates negatively with the share of spending in primary schooling, and positively with tracking in secondary schools.
D39|Utilización y tiempos de espera: dos vertientes inseparables del análisis de la equidad en el acceso al sistema sanitario público|El objetivo de esta investigación consiste en analizar si existe equidad en el acceso a los servicios sanitarios públicos por niveles socioeconómicos. Se analiza conjuntamente la probabilidad de utilizar los servicios sanitarios y los tiempos de espera hasta ser atendidos, corrigiéndose así el sesgo de selección que se derivaría de su estudio separado, tal y como se evidencia en esta investigación. Se propone una aproximación bayesiana y se hace uso de la información a nivel individual sobre la utilización sanitaria, tiempos de espera, nivel socioeconómico, necesidad sanitaria y otras variables sociodemográficas contenidas en la En-cuesta nacional de salud (2006). Los resultados muestran que hay inequidad en el acceso a los servicios especializados y hospitalarios (tanto en utilización como en tiempos de espera) que perjudica a los niveles socioeconómicos inferiores. En los servicios de medicina general, si bien la utilización beneficia relativa-mente más a los grupos de menor nivel socioeconómico, los tiempos de espera perjudican a los de menor nivel educativo.
D39|The causal factors of international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita: A regression-based inequality decomposition analysis|This paper uses the possibilities provided by the regression-based inequality decomposition (Fields, 2003) to explore the contribution of different explanatory factors to international inequality in CO2 emissions per capita. In contrast to previous emissions inequality decompositions, which were based on identity relationships (Duro and Padilla, 2006), this methodology does not impose any a priori specific relationship. Thus, it allows an assessment of the contribution to inequality of different relevant variables. In short, the paper appraises the relative contributions of affluence, sectoral composition, demographic factors and climate. The analysis is applied to selected years of the period 1993–2007. The results show the important (though decreasing) share of the contribution of demographic factors, as well as a significant contribution of affluence and sectoral composition.
D39|Inequality of opportunity in daycare and preschool services in Brazil|In this paper we measure inequality of opportunity in daycare and preschool services in Brazil. For this purpose, we construct an opportunity index that modifies the Human Opportunity Index proposed in the literature and used in Barros et al. ( 2009 ) to measure inequality in basic opportunities in Latin America and the Caribbean. Specifically, we construct an opportunity measure that includes not only attendance but also parental choice not to enroll children in daycare or preschool, using data from a supplementary questionnaire included in the 2006 version of Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicílios (PNAD). The results show that there are large differences between our opportunity index and the Human Opportunity Index for children aged 0–3 years old and considerably smaller differences for children aged 4–6 years old, which suggests that preschool may be closer to a basic opportunity than daycare. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
D39|Financial Services and Household Inequality in Mexico|The Mexican government has recently launched several initiatives aimed at increasing the use of formal financial services, under the implicit assumption that they allow households to smooth consumption and finance investment in human capital. This study seeks to determine what is the impact of the use of formal financial services, proxied by the use of credit cards, on the level and distribution of household consumption in Mexico. Using data from the 2010 household income and expenditure survey, an instrumental variables approach is used in the context of quantile regressions, to correct for the bias that stems from households' self-selection in the decision to use formal financial services. The results indicate that financial services increase consumption of those households that use them, and that this effect is strongest for households in the lowest quantiles, thus reducing inequality of consumption across households.
D39|Banking Crises in the US: the Response of Top Income Shares in a Historical Perspective|This paper examines the response of the national income shares accruing to different groups within the richest decile in the US to the occurrence of major systemic banking crises since the beginning of the twentieth century. The findings suggest that the impact of banking crises on the US top income shares is mostly small in magnitude. Indeed, the estimated total effect of crises is never bigger than one standard deviation of a specific top shares under investigation. Results are robust to a variety of checks and the analysis also highlights interesting heterogeneity across different income groups. Additional results also point out that the short-term impact of crises may be also temporary in nature as top shares recover faster in the aftermath of a shock. These findings lend indirect support to the idea that only substantial changes in government policies and institutional frameworks can bring about radical changes in income distribution.
D39|Understanding The Vertical Equity Judgements Underpinning Health Inequality Measures| ABSTRACT The choice of income‐related health inequality measures in comparative studies is often determined by custom and analytical concerns, without much explicit consideration of the vertical equity judgements underlying alternative measures. This note employs an inequality map to illustrate how these judgements determine the ranking of populations by health inequality. In particular, it is shown that relative indices of inequality in health attainments and shortfalls embody distinct vertical equity judgments, where each may represent ethically defensible positions in specific contexts. Further research is needed to explore people's preferences over distributions of income and health. Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
D39|"""Billions and Billions Served"" Heterogeneous Effects of Food Source on Child Dietary Quality"| This paper estimates heterogeneous effects of food source (food away from home, at home and from school) on child dietary quality. Using a quantile estimator designed for panel data, two non-consecutive days of intake are used to identify the effiect of food source across the unconditional distribution of dietary quality. Main results suggest that food away from home has a negative impact on dietary quality for all children except those falling in the very lowest portion of the unconditional distribution. As compared to home-prepared food, school food is found to increase dietary quality for children falling in the bottom quartile of the distribution. For children with a very high underlying proneness to consume a healthful diet, food from school has a negative effect. While food consumed under the National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs may not benefit every child (especially at the mean), it does improve the diets of many children whom otherwise would have poorer dietary quality. The implication is that U.S. schools are fertile grounds to improve nutrition skill formation, especially for the most disadvantaged.
D39|The Effects of Age and Birth Cohort on Dietary Quality in the United States| Secular trends in health outcomes related to dietary quality have changed substantially over the past three decades. The objective of this study is to decompose changes in dietary quality over 1977-2008 into the biological effects of age, contemporaneous effects of time period and group membership effects related to birth cohort. Dietary quality is measured by the Healthy Eating Index-2005 (HEI-2005). Using an Age-Period-Cohort (APC) model, findings suggest HEI-2005 scores follow a U-shaped trajectory over the typical American's lifetime (aged 2-79 y), with the lowest scores observed during early-to-mid adulthood (20-50 y, HEI = 54). Period effects largely increase throughout the sample period over 1977-2008. By examining over 100 birth cohorts (1898-2005), results show that those born in the first half of the 20th century have similar levels of dietary quality. However, following the end of the second World War, a substantial decrease in HEI-2005 scores is observed for those born between 1950 and 1990. Although recent cohorts in the 1990's and early 2000's have yet to fully age, preliminary estimates suggest dietary quality may be on the rebound. While nutritional and epidemiological studies tend to focus on secular trends (or period effects) this study suggests cohorts play an important role in characterizing changes in dietary quality.
D39|Cross Docking Implementation In Distribution Of Food Products| The research domain of this paper is food distribution improvement using the logistic concept of cross docking. The study purpose is to explore, analyse and demonstrate effects of cross docking implementing in business trading company and the factors influencing to implementation effectivness, as well. The metodology used in the study includes the actual logistics and supply chain management literature review and the real-world study with the concept implementation. Thе main achieved results are that under defined circumstances cross docking can be suitable tool for food distribution improvement and valuable for the company’s competitivness increasing. The validity of the cross docking implementation is reflected in multiple (direct and indirect) benefits not only for the company, but also for the whole supply chain.
D39|An alternative to studies of income distribution: University of Texas Inequality Project data sets|Income inequality is one of the most important issues in the economic literature. Since the 1980s, in line with neoliberal model, income inequality has increased both between and within countries. However, it is not easy to have high quality data for long period of time particulary for the developing countries. This study aims to introduce the University of Texas Inequality Project - United Nations Indusrial Development Organization (UTIP-UNIDO) and Estimated Household Income Inequality (EHII) data sets, which are not commonly utilized in the Turkish literature, as alternative to Deininger ve Squire (DS) data set that has some serious problems. These data sets have been constructed by calculating pay inequality in the manufacturing sector by utilizing between-group components of Theil Index and by transforming it into Gini coefficient form. Therefore, this work is not a generel literature survey on income inequality but rather it deals with some particular works by UTIP that uses these data sets.
D39|Bienes sociales: ¿precios, primas o subsidios? Tres formas ineficientes de proveerlos y/o valorarlos|resumenEl concepto de bien social ha sido de uso frecuente en diferentes círculosacadémicos; sin embargo, es un concepto del cual no se tiene muchaclaridad en el momento de referenciarlo en diferentes disciplinas. El presentedocumento, por tanto, tiene el objetivo de aproximarse a dicho concepto yahondar en el fenómeno económico asociado, su provisión y valoración. Ala luz de diferentes disciplinas, se toma como referente las ideas de Rawlspara proponer una generalización del concepto y así tratar de llenar el vacíoteórico que se encuentra en la indagación del mismo.SUMMARYThe concept of social ben efits has been frequently used in different academiccircles. However, this is not a very clear concept when used as a reference indifferent disciplines.This document is an approximation to such concept and deepens in therelated economical phenomenon, to provide and value it.In the light of different disciplines, Rawls´s ideas are taken as a reference topropose a generalization of the concept in an attempt to fill in the theoreticalgap found in its own investigation.RESUMOO conceito de bem social tem sido de uso frequente em diferentes círculosacadêmicos; no entanto, é um conceito do qual não se tem muita claridade nomomento de referenciá-lo em diferentes disciplinas. O presente documento,portanto, tem o objetivo de aproximar-se a tal conceito e aprofundar-seno fenômeno econômico associado, sua provisão e avaliação. A luz dediferentes disciplinas, toma-se como referente as ideias de Rawls para proporuma generalização do conceito e assim tentar preencher o vazio teórico queencontra-se na indagação do mesmo.rÉsumÉLe concept de bien social a souvent été utilisé dans divers milieux académiques,cependant c´est un concept qui n´est pas très claire. Ce document vise doncà aborder ce concept et à approfondir le phénomène économique associé.Différentes disciplines prennent comme référence les idées de Rawls à fin deproposer une généralisation du concept.
D39|Motivated sellers and predation in the housing market|We develop an equilibrium search model of the housing market where sellers may become distressed as they are unable to sell. A unique steady state equilibrium exists where distressed sellers attempt liquidation sales by accepting prices that are substantially below fundamental values. During periods where a large number of sellers are forced to liquidate customers exhibit ‘predation’: they hold off purchasing and strategically slow down the speed of trade, which in turn causes more sellers to become distressed. The model naturally suggests several proxies of liquidity. Interestingly, the average time on the market (TOM), one of the most frequently used statistics in the literature, does a poor job within the context of liquidation sales and predation. Specifically we show that TOM falls during periods of predatory buying, which, if interpreted on face value, indicates that the market becomes more liquid with predation. We propose an alternative proxy – the profit loss in fire sales – which appears to be a more robust measure of liquidity than TOM.
D39|Ecological footprint inequality across countries: The role of environment intensity, income and interaction effects|Recently, White (2007) analysed the international inequalities in ecological footprints per capita (EF hereafter) based on a two-factor decomposition of an index from the Atkinson family (Atkinson, 1970). Specifically, this paper evaluated the separate role of environment intensity (EF/GDP) and average income as explanatory factors for these global inequalities. However, in addition to other comments on their appeal, this decomposition suffers from the serious limitation of the omission of the role exerted by probable factorial correlation (York et al., 2005). This paper proposes, by way of an alternative, a decomposition of a conceptually similar index like Theil's (1967) which, in effect, permits clear decomposition in terms of the role of both factors plus an inter-factor correlation, in line with Duro and Padilla (2006). This decomposition might, in turn, be extended to group inequality components (Shorrocks, 1980), an analysis that cannot be conducted in the case of the Atkinson indices. The proposed methodology is implemented empirically with the aim of analysing the international inequalities in EF per capita for the 1980–2007 period and, amongst other results, we find that, indeed, the interactive component explains, to a significant extent, the apparent pattern of stability observed in overall international inequalities.
D39|Buyer’s equilibrium with capacity constraints and restricted mobility: A recursive approach|We study a decentralized trading model as in Peters (1984a), where heterogeneous market participants face a trade-off between price and trade probability. We present a novel proof of existence of a unique demand vector in Nash equilibrium, based on a recursive approach that exploits the monotonicity of matching functions.
D39|Weighting vectors and international inequality changes in environmental indicators: An analysis of CO2 per capita emissions and Kaya factors|Analyses of international inequality in environmental factors, such as the well-known CO2 per capita or the Kaya factors (that is, carbon intensity, energy intensity and affluence), have overlooked the effect that weighting vectors of distance functions and their time variations can have on the evolution of the inequality observed. Thus, for example, increases in the relative weight of countries with low emissions tend, ceteris paribus, to increase the inequality, even when the vector of international per capita emissions remains unchanged. This effect, strictly associated with share variations, is assessed in this paper by means of a simple decomposition methodology. This methodology allows us to ascertain what part of the time variation of the inequality is attributable to the variations in the shares and/or the variations in the environmental variable analysed and, in turn, suggests extending the analysis to the group components of inequality (Shorrocks, 1980). This proposition is used empirically to assess international inequalities in CO2 per capita and the Kaya factors for a variety of sub-periods during the 1971–2007 period and for various satisfactory inequality indices.
D39|Uneven landscapes and city size distributions|This paper proposes a new model generating city size distributions that asymptotically follow the log-normal distribution. The log-normal distribution is consistent with Zipf’s law in the top tail, which is known to hold for many countries in different periods. The key feature of our model is that it can express city size as a product of multiple random factors (e.g., climate, geographic features, and industry composition). Each factor alone need not generate Zipf’s law. Our model provides a justification for classical urban economics models that have been criticized for not delivering Zipf’s law, since a single model typically represents only one factor among many present in reality.
D39|Is more health always better for society? Exploring public preferences that violate monotonicity|There has recently been some literature on the properties of a Health-Related Social Welfare Function (HRSWF). The aim of this article is to contribute to the analysis of the different properties of a HRSWF, paying particular attention to the monotonicity principle. For monotonicity to be fulfilled, any increase in individual health—other things equal—should result in an increase in social welfare. We elicit public preferences concerning trade-offs between the total level of health (concern for efficiency) and its distribution (concern for equality), under different hypothetical scenarios through face-to-face interviews. Of key interests are: the distinction between non-monotonic preferences and Rawlsian preferences; symmetry of HRSWF; and the extent of inequality neutral preferences. The results indicate strong support for non-monotonic preferences, over Rawlsian preferences. Furthermore, the majority of those surveyed had preferences that were consistent with a symmetric and inequality averse HRSWF. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
D39|Problems of priority change in kidney allocation and beyond|Standardized and transparent priority setting in medicine, desirable as it is, will generally exacerbate inter-temporal equity problems arising from changes in treatment priorities: when can it be fair that the treatment of already waiting patients who would have had priority under an established system should be postponed (withheld) for an extended period of time to advance the treatment of others under a reformed system? The reform of the Eurotransplant system of priority setting in kidney allocation (ETKAS), which is in many respects ideal, is a case in point. To give due weight to new medical knowledge, waiting time after the onset of end state renal failure should change from a priority-enhancing to a priority-reducing factor. Since those who have gained in priority by waiting under the present system would be set back under the new, severe problems of transitional justice must be overcome when responding to advances in medical knowledge. The paper explores conceptually some possible ways of rule change and indicates their general relevance from an ethical and a practical point of view for future problems of medical resource allocation under transparent, standardized priority-setting rules. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
D39|Empirics of the international inequality in CO2 emissions intensity: explanatory factors according to complementary decomposition methodologies| This paper analyses the international inequalities in CO2 emissions intensity for the period 1971â€“2009 and assesses explanatory factors. Multiplicative, group and additive methodologies of inequality decomposition are employed. The first allows us to clarify the separated role of the carbonisation index and the energy intensity in the pattern observed for inequalities in CO2 intensities; the second allows us to understand the role of regional groups; and the third allows us to investigate the role of different fossil energy sources (coal, oil and gas). The results show that, first, the reduction in global emissions intensity has coincided with a significant reduction in international inequality. Second, the bulk of this inequality and its reduction are attributed to differences between the groups of countries considered. Third, coal is the main energy source explaining these inequalities, although the growth in the relative contribution of gas is also remarkable. Fourth, the bulk of inequalities between countries and its decline are explained by differences in energy intensities, although there are significant differences in the patterns demonstrated by different groups of countries. JEL codes: D39; Q43; Q56. Key words: CO2 international distribution, inequality decomposition, CO2 emissions intensity
D39|Unstructured Bargaining over an Endogenously Produced Surplus and Fairness Ideals – An Experiment|Fairness considerations are important determinants of behavior in unstructured bargaining situations with equal bargaining power. If the surplus over which the bargaining takes place was created by separate, individual efforts, several entitlementrelated fairness ideals might be relevant. In our experiment we first elicit subjects' fairness ideals using a questionnaire. In the following production phase each player generates output by luck, individual effort and talent. We analyze whether the elicited fairness ideals guide subjects' behavior in the subsequent bargaining in which the joint output is distributed among two individuals. We find that bargaining claims deviate significantly from the elicited fairness ideals and are strongly related to performance if one individual had produced more than the partner. These findings contrast the previous literature on fairness ideals and enrich the findings on self-serving fairness.
D39|Consistent Comparisons of Attainment and Shortfall Inequality: A Critical Examination|An inequality measure is ‘consistent’ if it ranks distributions the same irrespective of whether health quantities are represented in terms of attainment or shortfalls. This consistency property severely restricts the set of admissible inequality measures. We show that, within a more general setting of separate measures for attainments and shortfalls, the consistency property is a combination of two conditions. The first is a compelling rationality condition that says that the attainment measure should rank attainment distributions as the shortfall measure ranks shortfall distributions. The second is an overly demanding condition that says that the attainment measure and the shortfall measure should be identical. By dropping the latter condition, the restrictions on the admissible inequality measures disappear.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D39|International Equity on Greenhouse Gas Emissions and World Levels: an integrated analysis through distributive welfare indices| Up until now, analyses of the international distribution of pollutant emissions have not paid sufficient attention to the implications that, in terms of social welfare, the combined evolution of the global world average entails. In this context, this paper proposes the use of environmental welfare indices, taken and adapted from the literature on social welfare and inequality, in order to make a comprehensive examination of the international equity factor and the mean factor in this field. The proposed methodology is implemented empirically in order to explore the evolution in distributive-based environmental welfare on a global level for the three main pollutants with greenhouse gas effects: CO2, CH4 and NO, both globally and for selected years during the period of 1990- 2005. The main results found are as follows: firstly, typically, the environmental welfare associated with the overall greenhouse gases decreased significantly over the period, due primarily to the role of CO2; secondly, in contrast, the global welfare associated with CH4 and NO improved; and thirdly, typically, the evolutions can be attributed to a greater extent to the mean component than to the distributive component, although there are exceptions. These results would seem to be relevant in policy terms. JEL codes: D39; Q43; Q56. Keywords: environmental welfare: greenhouse gases; environmental equity.
D39|Empirics of the international inequality in CO2 emissions intensity: explanatory factors according to complementary decomposition methodologies|This paper analyses the international inequalities in CO2 emissions intensity for the period 1971- 2009 and assesses explanatory factors. Multiplicative, group and additive methodologies of inequality decomposition are employed. The first allows us to clarify the separated role of the carbonisation index and the energy intensity in the pattern observed for inequalities in CO2 intensities; the second allows us to understand the role of regional groups; and the third allows us to investigate the role of different fossil energy sources (coal, oil and gas). The results show that, first, the reduction in global emissions intensity has coincided with a significant reduction in international inequality. Second, the bulk of this inequality and its reduction are attributed to differences between the groups of countries considered. Third, coal is the main energy source explaining these inequalities, although the growth in the relative contribution of gas is also remarkable. Fourth, the bulk of inequalities between countries and its decline are explained by differences in energy intensities, although there are significant differences in the patterns demonstrated by different groups of countries.
D39|Intra-regional Disparity and Municipal Merger: Case Study in Fukuoka Prefecture|This study examines intra-regional disparity and municipal merger in Fukuoka Prefecture. Fukuoka Prefecture (Fukuoka-ken) is a prefecture of Japan located on Kyushu Island. It faces the sea on three sides, bordering on Saga, Oita, and Kumamoto prefectures and facing Yamaguchi Prefecture across the Kanmon Straits. It is also located near the Korean peninsula. It includes two government-designated major cities: the Fukuoka city, the capital and central city in Fukuoka Prefecture, and the Kitakyushu city, a big city with a population of about one million. They include much of Kyushu's industry The history of the municipal merger is long and the municipal organization and municipality organization enforcement in Fukuoka Prefecture is started on April 1, 1889 (Meiji era). After enforcement, many municipal mergers and other self-governing bodies have so far been performed. Especially, after entering in the 21st century, it decreased about 1/3 times. Now, there are 60 municipalities (28 cities, 30 towns and 2 villages). These 60 municipalities are classified into 15 areas (Fukuoka, Chikushi, Kasuya, Munakata, Itoshima, Asakura, Kitakyushu, Onga, Kyouchiku, Yame, Kurume, Ariake, Chikuhou, Iiduka, and Tagawa). However, the possibility of municipal merger still can be considered. One of reason is the problem of low birthrate and longevity of population. The other reason is the problem of fiscal deficit. Furthermore, the federal system (Dou Shu-sei) aiming at wide area regional integration is also related. In this study, the municipal merger is considered from a viewpoint of the regional disparity. First, the income disparity of 60 municipalities and 15 areas is analyzed. Theil index is adopted to interpret evidence. It can decompose samples and investigate the factor analysis of regional disparities. In this case, it can be analyzed inter-area disparity as well as municipalities and area level disparity. Second, same analysis is conducted from industrial structure. It is divided into 8 industries (Agriculture, Manufacture, Construction, Trade, Service, Other private sector, Government sector, and Non-profit sector). For understanding the evidence, we suggest simple index which carried out indexation of the difference in a share for comparing the industrial structure between municipalities (areas). Through these evidences, it is examined whether it should unify in the area.
D39|Regionale Verteilungswirkungen durch das Vergütungs- und Umlagesystem des Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetzes (EEG)|Die Untersuchung analysiert regionale Verteilungseffekte der Energiewende in Deutschland. Im Fokus steht die regionale Verteilung erneuerbarer Energieanlagen, des erneuerbar erzeugten Stroms sowie des EEG-Finanzierungssaldos für das Jahr 2011. Räumliche Betrachtungseinheit sind die Bundesländer, Landkreise und siedlungsstrukturelle Kreistypen. Mit Hilfe der Verteilung der Anlagen und der Herstellerfirmen werden die Wertschöpfungs- und Beschäftigungseffekte aus der Erzeugung von Strom durch erneuerbare Energieträger für ländliche und nicht ländliche Regionen abgeschätzt. Zudem werden sektorale Verteilungseffekte des EEG-Finanzierungssystems am Beispiel des Agrarsektors untersucht. Die Untersuchung zeigt, dass ländliche Regionen maßgeblich zur Stromerzeugung aus erneuerbaren Energien beitragen. Die Energieanlagendichte ist zumeist höher als in den nicht ländlichen Regionen. Nach wie vor gibt es auch ländliche Räume mit geringer Produktion erneuerbarer Energien. Ländliche Regionen profitieren von den EEG-Vergütungszahlungen und erzielen höhere Wertschöpfungs- und Beschäftigungseffekte aus dem Betrieb und der Wartung der Energieanlagen. Nicht ländliche Regionen profitieren hingegen von den höheren Wertschöpfungseffekten aus der Herstellung der Anlagen.
D39|Unstructured Bargaining over an Endogenously Produced Surplus and Fairness Ideals: An Experiment|Fairness considerations are important determinants of behavior in unstructured bargaining situations with equal bargaining power. If the surplus over which the bargaining takes place was created by separate, individual efforts, several entitlement-related fairness ideals might be relevant. In our experiment we first elicit subjects' fairness ideals using a questionnaire. In the following production phase each player generates output by luck, individual effort and talent. We analyze whether the elicited fairness ideals guide subjects' behavior in the subsequent bargaining in which the joint output is distributed among to individuals. We find that bargaining claims deviate significantly from the elicited fairness ideals and are strongly related to performance if one individual had produced more than the partner. These findings contrast the previous literature on fairness ideals, but enrich the findings on self-serving fairness.
D39|Distributional Changes in U.S. Dietary Quality 1989-2008| This paper uses stochastic dominance to measure changes in the distribution of overall dietary quality in the U.S. over the period 1989{2008. Diet quality is often used as as a proxy for wellbeing and an outcome variable for a wide variety of interventions. For the population as a whole, we find significant improvements in diets across all levels of dietary quality. Further, we find improvements for both low-income and higher-income individuals alike. We show that the improvements vary between these groups with regards to the timing and distributional location. Further, we find that over half of the improvement for all individuals can be explained by changes in food formulation and changes in demographics.
D39|Is the Age Gradient in Self-Reported Material Hardship Explained By Resources, Needs, Behaviors, or Reporting Bias?|Older people report much less hardship than younger people in a range of contexts, despite lower incomes. Hardship indicators are increasingly influential, so the source of the gradient has considerable policy implications. We propose a theoretical and empirical strategy to decompose the sources of this relationship. We exploit a unique feature of the Household, Income & Labour Dynamics Australia (HILDA) survey, which collects reports of hardship from all adult household members, facilitating within-couple estimates. The majority of the relationship is explained by observed resources, particularly wealth and home ownership. One third of the relationship is explained by unobserved differences between households, which we interpret as age-related behavioural choices. Reporting error does not appear to contribute to the age gradient.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D39|Seasonal cycles in the housing market|The housing market exhibits a puzzling yet repetitive seasonal boom and bust cycle where prices and trade volume rise in summers and fall in winters. This paper presents a search model that analytically generates the observed deterministic cycle.
D39|Profitability of pension contributions – evidence from real-life employment biographies|Micro-econometric intra-cohort profitability analyses of pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension contributions are rare. We use representative employment histories of German PAYG pension insurants retiring in year 2005 to examine the determinants of the profitability of contributions using nominal internal rates of return (IRR) as measure. When future nominal pension entitlements are frozen at today's level, average IRR is about three percent. It increases in beneficiaries' remaining life expectancies at retirement and in the length of non-contribution periods resulting, for example, from child care. Interestingly, IRR is decreasing in insurants' earnings capacity, indicating that the system entails an intra-cohort progressive element.
D39|On the automatic application of inequality indexes in the analysis of the international distribution of environmental indicators|In recent years traditional inequality measures have been used to quite a considerable extent to examine the international distribution of environmental indicators. One of the main characteristics of these measures is that each one assigns different weights to the changes that occur in the different sections of the variable distribution and, consequently, the results they yield can potentially be very different. Hence, we suggest the appropriateness of using a range of well-recommended measures to achieve more robust results. We also provide an empirical test for the comparative behaviour of several suitable inequality measures and environmental indicators in the international context. Our findings support the hypothesis that in some cases there are differences among measures in both the sign of the evolution over time and its size.
D39|Unmet need and met unneed in health care utilisation in Iran|Purpose - This paper uses a unique nationwide survey data derived from the 2003 Utilisation of Health Services Survey (UHSS) in Iran ( Design/methodology/approach - Concentration indices are used to measure socioeconomic inequality in actual use of the five types of health services, and in unmet need for two of those types of service (any ambulatory care and hospital admissions). Horizontal inequity indices are employed to examine inequity in ambulatory and hospital care. Generalised linear model (GLM) was employed to investigate factors contributing to the phenomena of “unmet need” and “met unneed”. Moreover, a decomposition analysis of inequality is performed to determine the contributions of each factor to the inequality of “unmet need”. Findings - Results suggest that self-reported need for ambulatory and inpatient care is concentrated among the poor, whereas the utilisation of ambulatory and inpatient care were generally distributed proportionally. Results of horizontal inequity indices show that the distributions of any ambulatory care and hospital admissions are pro-rich. The probability of “unmet need” for ambulatory care was higher among wealthier individuals. The decomposition analysis demonstrates that the wealth index, health insurance, and region of residence are the most important factors contributing to the concentration of “unmet need” for ambulatory health care among the poor. Results also illustrate that higher wealth quintiles used more unneeded ambulatory care than their poorer counterparts. Originality/value - A special characteristic of the UHSS is that it contains questions about the need for medical services use and about actual services use. This characteristic provides an opportunity to measure the inequality of health care consumption against self-assessed treatment needs, as well as an analysis of which observables are associated with “unmet need”. Moreover, the incidence of health care use when it is reported as not needed can be analysed with this dataset. The analysis of this phenomenon – which we refer to as “met unneed” – is another novel aspect of this work.
D39|Education, Life Expectancy and Pension Reform|In a two-period model with agent heterogeneity we analyze a pension reform toward a stronger link between contributions and benefits (as recently observed in several countries) in a pension system with a Bismarckian and a Beveridgean component. We show that such a policy change may discourage human capital investment at the margin and thus reduce the average educational level in an economy. The life expectancy differential between skilled and unskilled individuals drives this result. Furthermore, we investigate the consequences on the intragenerational redistribution characteristics of the pension system –in the sense of the number of net-recipients relative to net-payers– as well as welfare effects.
D39|Ten Years Of Gdp Evolution In Correlation With The Turnover. The Case Of Romania|The economic environment must be parsed because of the multitude of phenomena that determine developments which generate effects and show sinuous ridges that can be interpreted differed depending on the context. Tourism is an important sector of the economy, and the evolution must be analyzed through the signification of a set of specific indicators. However, there are common indicators for all the areas of activity which are relevant both for industry and for the country's economic level. Thus, the analysis of the achieved turnover by the most successful travel agencies in conjunction with the evolution of gross domestic product per capita is important and highlights significant elements for the future forecasts, and analysis of the business environment in this area. The time period under analysis should be long enough so that the valuable judgments are issued from the normal not random trend of the indicators.
D39|Risk Buffer Profiles of Foreign Currency Mortgage Holders|In Austria, the share of foreign currency mortgages in total household debt has been increasing since the late 1990s. Today about one-third of household credit debt is denominated in foreign currency, mostly in Swiss francs. A major issue with regard to the resulting implications for financial stability is the vulnerability of indebted households. Do foreign currency borrowers opt for foreign currency loans because they cannot afford a given loan in domestic currency? Or are foreign currency borrowers just less risk averse and better able to absorb risks than their domestic currency counterparts? We employ a subsample of the Household Survey on Housing Wealth 2008 for the first borrower analysis of this kind for Austria. Using simple linear regression techniques may be misleading given the heterogeneity of borrowers’ characteristics and the heterogeneity of differences along risk buffers. Hence we estimate conditional counterfactual distributions in order to calculate the differences in terms of risk buffers between foreign currency borrowers and their domestic currency counterparts over the entire marginal distributions of the risk buffers. We find that foreign currency borrowers have substantially higher risk buffers than their domestic currency counterparts and therefore reject the hypothesis that most of them have loans in foreign currency because they would not be able to afford the same amounts in domestic currency on account of the higher interest rate burden.
D39|Seasonal Cycles in the Housing Market|The housing market exhibits a puzzling yet repetitive seasonal boom and bust cycle where prices and trade volume rise in summers and fall in winters. This paper presents a search model that analytically generates the observed deterministic cycle.
D39|Motivated Sellers & Predatory Buyers|We develop an equilibrium search model of the housing market where sellers may become distressed as they are unable to sell. A unique steady state equilibrium exists where distressed sellers attempt fire sales by accepting prices that are substantially below fundamental values. During periods where a large number of sellers are forced to liquidate customers exhibit predation: they hold off purchasing and strategically slow down the speed of trade, which in turn causes more sellers to become distressed. From sellers' point of view liquidity disappears when it is needed the most. The model naturally suggests several proxies of liquidity. Interestingly, the expected time on the market, one of the most frequently used statistics in the literature, does a poor job within the context of fire sales and predation.
D39|The Spatial Distribution Of Fire Services In Izmir|THE SPATIAL DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE SERVICES IN IZMIR Zeynep Elburz Vedia Dokmeci Abstract During the recent decades, the transformations in the global economy, technology and economic development have stimulated the growth of service sector, especially the growth of producer services at the international level. The producer services support the growth of economy and investment and contribute to a great extent to the restructuring of mega-cities in developed and developing countries. Especially, in some of the developed countries, suburban sub-centers have more producer services than the center of the city. This study investigates the spatial distribution of FIRE services employment and firms in Izmir which is the third most important city of Turkey and has been integrated with international trade for centuries. Free trade policy and globalization increased trade with other countries. Service sector covers more than fifty percent of employment in Izmir as one of the characteristics of a post-modern city. The growth of service sector follows the growth pattern in Turkey. During the last two decades, while service sector employment almost doubled, FIRE services employment were tripled which was much more than population growth ratio in Izmir. Spatial distribution of FIRE firms is investigated according to the concentric zones. The results of the analysis reveal that FIRE firms are mostly concentrated in the core area of Izmir as in the large cities of developing countries, due to highly educated people who they need, high quality cultural and public services demanded by these people, their customers and their linkages with the other firms are mostly found in or near the core area. This trend is within the concept of central place theory. However, there are recently developing two suburban sub-centers which cover one third of FIRE firms due to their higher income background. Also, the distribution of FIRE firms is investigated with respect to sub-sectors. According to these results, while the ratio of financial and insurance firms are higher in the core area, the ratio of real estate firms is higher in the intermediate zone and in the periphery due to large amount of construction going on in these areas. Thus, this trend stimulates multi-center development of the city to some extent as one of the major characteristics of a post-modern city. Key words: Service sector; FIRE service employment; FIRE firms; Space economy; Izmir JEL codes: D39 G21 G22 L84 L85
D39|On decomposing the causes of changes in income-related health inequality with longitudinal data| Regression-based decomposition procedures are used to both standardise the concentration index and to determine the contribution of inequalities in the individual health determinants to the overall value of the index. The main contribution of this paper is to develop analogous procedures to decompose the income-related health mobility and health-related income mobility indices first proposed in Allanson, Gerdtham and Petrie (2010) and subsequently extended in Petrie, Allanson and Gerdtham (2010) to account for deaths. The application of the procedures is illustrated by an empirical study that uses British Household Panel Survey (BHPS) data to analyse the performance of Scotland in tackling income-related health inequalities relative to England & Wales over the five year period 1999 to 2004.
D39|On decomposing the causes of changes in income-related health inequality with longitudinal data|Regression-based decomposition procedures are used to both standardise the concentration index and to determine the contribution of inequalities in the individual health determinants to the overall value of the index. The main contribution of this paper is to develop analogous procedures to decompose the income-related health mobility and health-related income mobility indices first proposed in Allanson, Gerdtham and Petrie (2010) and subsequently extended in Petrie, Allanson and Gerdtham (2010) to account for deaths. The application of the procedures is illustrated by an empirical study that uses British Household Panel Survey (BHPS) data to analyse the performance of Scotland in tackling income-related health inequalities relative to England & Wales over the five year period 1999 to 2004.
D39|Inequality across countries in energy intensities: An analysis of the role of energy transformation and final energy consumption|This paper analyzes the role of the energy transformation index and of final energy consumption per GDP unit in the disparities in energy intensity across countries. In that vein, we use a Theil decomposition approach to analyze global primary energy intensity inequality as well as inequality across different regions of the world and inequality within these regions. The paper first demonstrates the pre-eminence of divergence in final energy consumption per GDP unit in explaining global primary energy intensity inequality and its evolution during the 1971-2006 period. Secondly, it shows the lower (albeit non negligible) impact of the transformation index in global primary energy inequality. Thirdly, the relevance of regions as unit of analysis in studying cross-country energy intensity inequality and their explanatory factors is highlighted. And finally, how regions around the world differ as to the relevance of the energy transformation index in explaining primary energy intensity inequality.
D39|Accounting for the dead in the longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequalities|This paper develops an accounting framework to consider the effect of deaths on the longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequalities. Ignoring deaths or using Inverse Probability Weights (IPWs) to re-weight the sample for mortality-related attrition can produce misleading results. Incorporating deaths into the longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequalities provides a more complete picture in terms of the evaluation of health changes in respect to socioeconomic status. We illustrate our work by investigating health mobility from 1999 till 2004 using the British Household Panel Survey (BHPS). We show that for Scottish males explicitly accounting for the dead rather than using IPWs to account for mortality-related attrition changes the direction of the relationship between relative health changes and initial income position, from negative to positive, while for other groups it significantly increases the strength of the positive relationship. Incorporating the dead may be vital in the longitudinal analysis of health inequalities.
D39|Effects of Argentina's Social Security Reform on Labor Markets and Poverty|In 1994, Argentina introduced Pension Reform and Unemployment Benefits as a major reform component to its social security system. This papers analyzes the effects of introducing new individual accounts in the pension system -which was under effect between 1994 and 2008- over wages, employment and poverty. While the macroeconomic effects of a change in the pension system is an issue that is relatively well addressed by the literature, its microeconomic effects are often neglected in the analysis. We use a CGE model to evaluate the effects of the reform on labor market and poverty. Our result indicate that if private pension funds are allocated to physical investment, labor demand and wages increase and poverty goes down. However, these effects fade out if funds of private accounts are used to buy government debt.
D39|Spatial and Inter-temporal Sources of Poverty, Inequality and Gender Disparities in Cameroon: a Regression-Based Decomposition Analysis|This study applies the regression-based inequality decomposition technique to explain poverty and inequality trends in Cameroon. We also identify gender related factors which explain income disparities and discrimination based on the 2001 and 2007 Cameroon household consumption surveys. The results show that education, health, employment in the formal sector, age cohorts, household size, gender, ownership of farmland and urban versus rural residence explain household economic wellbeing; disparities in income inequality between male- and female-headed households are largely explained by education, the share of active household members, employment in the formal sector, household size and health. The study concludes that public interventions which encourage education for all, employment and rural development in Cameroon have some prospects of addressing gender-based inequality in Cameroon.
D39|Results and financial situation of firms in 2010|The article looks at the financial situation of non-financial corporations in Belgium over the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010. After briefly describing the methodology and the population studied, it presents an extrapolation of the main operating result items for 2010. It then assesses the financial situation of companies as regards profitability and solvency. Since last year, the scope of this assessment has been widened to cover the entire population, examining not only the medians but also the first and third quartiles and the tenth and ninetieth percentiles. Moreover, the results of the financial health model developed by the Bank are also reported. Finally, section 4 presents a regional analysis of the data.
D39|Earnings Mobility in Europe: 1994-2001 : Do more flexible labour markets experience a higher earnings mobility?|"The economic reality of the 1990s in Europe forced the labour markets to become more flexible. Using a consistent comparative dataset for 14 European countries, the European Community Household Panel (ECHP), we explore the evolution and the cross-national differences in earnings mobility across Europe between 1994 and 2001 from three angles: first, the evolution of short-term inequality and its link with cross-sectional inequality; second, the evolution of long-term mobility relative to short-term mobility and the implications for long-term inequality; third, we try to understand the cross-national differences in earnings mobility across Europe by exploring the cross-country heterogeneity in labour market policies/institutions. We explore the rank mobility and mobility as an equalizer of longer-term earnings. We find evidence supporting a negative association between the evolution of earnings inequality and earnings mobility. More flexible labour markets, with low levels of regulation and with a high labour market support are found to have higher earnings mobility. Similarly, unionization and corporatism are positively associated with earnings mobility. The ""Flexicurity"" countries (Denmark and Finland) have among the highest earnings mobility levels in Europe, close to the Anglo-Saxon countries (Ireland and the UK), whereas the Mediterranean countries with a strict regulation and a low labour market support have the lowest mobility. Portugal is the only country with disequalizing mobility in a long-term perspective"
D39|Motivated Sellers in the Housing Market|We present a search-and-matching model of the housing market where potential buyers' willingness to pay is private information and sellers may become desperate as they are unable to sell. A unique steady state equilibrium exists where desperate sellers offer sizeable price cuts and sell faster. If the number of distressed sales rises then even relaxed sellers are forced to lower their prices. Buyers, on the other hand, become more selective and search longer for better deals. The model yields a theoretical density function of the time-to-sale, which is positively skewed and may be hump-shaped. These results are consistent with recent empirical findings.
D39|Polarisierung der Einkommen: die Mittelschicht verliert|Die Einkommensgegensätze zwischen ärmeren und reicheren Haushalten nehmen in Deutschland seit der Wiedervereinigung zu. Zwar reduziert sich diese Einkommenspolarisierung in konjunkturell günstigen Phasen mit starken Beschäftigungszuwächsen. Danach aber steigt sie umso schneller wieder an. Im längerfristigen Trend ist einerseits nicht nur die Zahl der ärmeren Haushalte stetig gewachsen - sie wurden im Durchschnitt auch immer ärmer. Auf der anderen Seite gibt es im Trend immer mehr Reichere, die im Durchschnitt auch immer reicher werden. Dieser Gegensatz wird von den Menschen nicht nur als besonders ungerecht empfunden, sondern er schürt auch die Verunsicherung der Mittelschicht. Im Krisenjahr 2009 nahm zwar der Anteil der Haushalte mit hohen Einkommen ab. Das Durchschnittseinkommen der verbliebenen reichen Haushalte aber stieg weiter. Im unteren Einkommensbereich wirkte sich auch dank der unterstützenden Arbeitsmarktmaßnahmen die Finanz- und Wirtschaftkrise bislang kaum negativ aus.
D39|Income Polarisation in Germany Is Rising|Income disparities between poorer and richer households in Germany have been widening since reunification. Although this income polarisation is reduced during economically favourable periods by strong growth in employment, once the good times are over, it rises all the faster. The longer-term trend not only shows that the number of poorer households is steadily increasing, but also that on average they are getting poorer. On the flip side, the trend is toward an increasing number of richer individuals, whose average wealth is steadily increasing. This contrast is not only felt to be highly unfair, but also creates uncertainty among the middle class. Although the year of the financial crisis, 2009, saw the number of high-income households decrease, the average incomes of the remaining rich households continued to rise. As a result of job market measures, the lower income bracket has scarcely been affected by the financial and economic crisis.
D39|Longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequality: welfare foundations and alternative measures| This paper elaborates the approach to the longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequalities first proposed in Allanson, Gerdtham and Petrie (2010). In particular, the paper establishes the normative basis of their mobility indices by embedding their decomposition of the change in the health concentration index within a broader analysis of the change in health achievement or wellbeing. The paper further shows that their decomposition procedure can also be used to analyse the change in a range of other commonly-used incomerelated health inequality measures, including the generalised concentration index and the relative inequality index. We illustrate our work by extending their investigation of mobility in the General Health Questionnaire measure of psychological well-being over the first nine waves of the British Household Panel Survey from 1991 to 1999.
D39|Longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequality: welfare foundations and alternative measures|This paper elaborates the approach to the longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequalities first proposed in Allanson, Gerdtham and Petrie (2010). In particular, the paper establishes the normative basis of their mobility indices by embedding their decomposition of the change in the health concentration index within a broader analysis of the change in “health achievement” or wellbeing. The paper further shows that their decomposition procedure can also be used to analyse the change in a range of other commonly-used incomerelated health inequality measures, including the generalised concentration index and the relative inequality index. We illustrate our work by extending their investigation of mobility in the General Health Questionnaire measure of psychological well-being over the first nine waves of the British Household Panel Survey from 1991 to 1999.
D39|Longitudinal analysis of income-related health inequality|"This paper considers the characterisation and measurement of income-related health inequality using longitudinal data. The paper elucidates the nature of the Jones and López Nicolás (2004) index of ""health-related income mobility"" and explains the negative values of the index that have been reported in all the empirical applications to date. The paper further presents an alternative approach to the analysis of longitudinal data that brings out complementary aspects of the evolution of income-related health inequalities over time. In particular, we propose a new index of ""income-related health mobility"" that measures whether the pattern of health changes is biased in favour of those with initially high or low incomes. We illustrate our work by investigating mobility in the General Health Questionnaire measure of psychological well-being over the first nine waves of the British Household Panel Survey from 1991 to 1999."
D39|Personal Income Tax Structure: Theory and Policy|The eminent contributors (including Altshuler, Creedy, Freebairn, Gravelle, Heady, Kalb, Sørensen and Zodrow) investigate the beneficial directions for medium-term tax reform in the light of global developments and lessons from the latest taxation research. In addressing this issue, they review recent advances in both the theoretical and empirical tax literature and reform evidence from individual countries. Topics covered include the impact of taxes on economic performance; international and corporate taxation; personal tax and welfare systems; environmental taxation; and country-specific tax reform experiences.
D39|Mind the Gap: Education Inequality at the Regional Level in Portugal, 1986-2005|Portugal stands as one of the most unequal countries in terms of income among the developed countries. Over the period 1980-2005, income inequality kept high, fostered mainly by a monotonic increase in earnings inequality. Given the close link between education and earnings, it is of major importance to study the distribution of education. This paper examines the distribution of education at the regional level in Portugal between 1986 and 2005. Our results indicate that education inequality decreased for the whole country as the average education level of the workforce rose, over the sample years. This finding does not apply at the regional level however, with several districts initially poor in terms of education exhibiting an increase in education inequality. The evidence also supports the existence of a Kuznets curve of education: as the average level of education rises, education inequality first increases, and, after reaching a peak at 5.13 years of schooling, starts declining.
D39|Black feminization of poverty:evidence from the U.S. cross-regional data|We explore the issue of feminization of poverty among Black women despite their much improved labor market advantages relative to White women and Black men. Black women generally possess comparable human capital and positive work ethic attributes and characteristics, and face comparable unemployment rates. One would therefore expect that their overall income levels and degree of poverty be comparable to those of their White female and Black male counterparts. The question then arises as to why Black women experience relatively higher poverty rates than White females and Black males. The work applies a simple theoretical and empirical framework utilizing Current Population Surveys (CPS) sources to analyze cross-regional U.S. data to verify the extent to which the causal factors of Black feminization of poverty can be traced to labor market attributes.
D39|Results and financial structure of firms in 2009|The article looks at the financial situation of non-financial corporations in Belgium over the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009. After briefly describing the methodology and the population studied, it presents an extrapolation of the main operating result items for 2009. It assesses then the financial situation of companies as regards profitability and solvency. Since last year, the scope of this assessment has been widened to cover the entire population : apart from the medians, the first and third quartiles, as well as the tenth and ninetieth percentiles, have been studied too. Finally, the article gives some insight into the relation between financial ratios’ distribution and bankruptcy risk. This insight shows for instance that the relation between solvency and bankruptcy risk is markedly negative : the higher the solvency, the lower the bankruptcy risk, and vice versa. The same kind of relation can be derived for other variables, such as profitability or debt ratios.
D39|Analysis of the population of non-financial corporations with negative economic profitability|The article describes the characteristics of firms with negative economic profitability. Analysis of the pattern of profitability during the period from 1999 to 2008 on the basis of the annual accounts of non-financial corporations shows that, year after year, one in ten firms makes a loss, and in the case of SMEs that figure is actually as high as one in four firms. These findings require further investigation. For the majority of non-financial corporations (85.6 p.c.) the period of negative economic profitability does not persist for longer than 4 years. Negative economic profitability is proportionately more common for firms in the non-manufacturing sectors than in manufacturing industry. Analysis by firm size, distinguishing between large firms and SMEs, reveals that SMEs are proportionately more affected. If age is considered, large firms with negative economic profitability are 2 to 3 years younger, on average, than other firms, whereas age is not a factor in the case of SMEs. In regard to regional location, the Brussels Capital Region has the highest ratio of firms with a negative profitability. For most firms, the negative sign of the profitability ratio can be attributed to the firm ending the financial year with an operating loss. Within that group of firms with a negative operating result, as many as 33.1 p.c. of large firms and 44.9 p.c. of SMEs fail to generate any value added. Ultimately, in the case of 30.8 p.c. of the large firms and 42.1 p.c. of the SMEs, the net assets had fallen below the specified minimum, so that – under the alarm bell procedure – any interested party can apply to the court for dissolution of the company
D39|Particularities Of The Logistic Operations In The Pharmaceutical Domain|The management of logistic operations has a very important role in the case of pharmaceutical products. The purpose of this article is to analyze the particularity of the logistic operations management in the pharmaceutical domain. This is seen in the fact that there is the obligatory of using the exclusive distribution system, because the carriers do not have selling right to the final users. In the pharmaceutical domain, the logistic channels may be represented by a system of vertical marketing, made from producers, en-gross sellers and en-detail sellers that action in the frame of an unified system in which a member of the channel may detain property right over the other members the vertical marketing system may be corporative or contractual. In Romania the medicine producers adopted both marketing systems. Organizing and distributing medicine from the specialized unities (pharmaceutical deposit, close circuit pharmacy or community pharmacy) are settled through laws that are specific to the pharmaceutical domain. In these conditions the mission of the company is to give medicine with a balance between price – quality – asureness – efficacy, for giving accessibility to different treatments. The role of the state is significant, reason for an interdisciplinary approaching that may drive to ideas, opinions that may be applied.
D39|Inequality of Opportunities in the Educational Attainment of Chilean Students|This study measures the contribution of inequality of opportunities on the educational attainment of Chilean students, captured through the SIMCE test scores. For this, it employs a recently introduced methodology that quantifies the effect of exogenous and endogenous factors on socioeconomic outcomes, using parametric and non-parametric techniques. The study applies this methodology for the SIMCE tests in Mathematics and Language in the 1999 to 2007 period for fourth grade primary, eighth grade primary and for second grade of secondary school. The results show a reduction in the percentage of inequality of SIMCE results arising from exogenous circumstances, which can be interpreted as a decrease in inequality of opportunities. This conclusion is robust to the estimation technique and the schooling grade. In addition, the results reveal that inequality of opportunities is greater in secondary school than in primary school.
D39|Desigualdade e polarização entre empregados na agricultura brasileira: 1992-2007|The paper discusses the concept of polarization of an income distribution and examines the earnings distribution of employees in Brazilian agriculture in the period 1992-2007. Considering the period 1995-2007, after the monetary stabilization, it is shown that the inequality of that distribution is stable and that its degree of polarization has a decreasing trend. Next, the paper analyses the changes in the inequality between permanent and temporary employees and between those with or without the legal employee?s document, pointing to the different role of the legal minimum wage in influencing the earnings distribution within these worker categories. Finally, the paper shows that the share of regional differences in the inequality of the distribution of wages in Brazilian agriculture has increased.
D39|Price Changes in Finland: Some Evidence from the Micro CPI data|This paper studies the adjustment patterns of Finnish Consumer Price Index (CPI) from the following perspectives. First, we examine how the adjustment patterns have changed from late 1990s to mid 2000s. We find significant differences in the price adjustment patterns both over time and between item subgroups. Second, we examine the relative importance of time and state dependent pricing elements found in the Finnish CPI data. Our empirical findings are consistent with a time dependent pricing model, although we find some signs of state dependent pricing behaviour as well.
D39|Conflicting Interests in Environmental Policy-making?|No abstract is available for this item.
D39|Pay Inequality in Turkey in the Neo-Liberal Era, 1980-2001|This paper examines pay inequality in Turkish manufacturing annually from 1980 to 2001. Using the between-group component of Theil's T statistic, we decompose the evolution of inequality by geographic region, province, sub-sector and by East-West distinction both for private and public sectors. The decompositions show that while inequality remains approximately the same between regions, it increases in the late 1980s in the private sector between provinces, between East and West, and as well as between manufacturing sub-sectors.
D39|Trend in the financial structure and results of firms in 2008|The article looks at the financial situation of non-financial corporations in Belgium over the period running from 1 January to 31 December 2008. Because of the contrasting economic trends during that period, the analysis is somewhat blurred. Nevertheless, the data collected still give a good idea of the resistance capacity of firms at the beginning of the recession. For the year 2008 as a whole, growth of the total value added generated by Belgian non-financial corporations amounted to 1.8 p.c. (in current prices), well down on previous years. Meanwhile, operating costs grew more quickly than value added, resulting in a drop in operating profit for the first time since 2001. As far as the financial position of firms is concerned, there was a widespread decline in profitability and repayment ability in 2008, due to the economic downturn. On the other hand, solvency ratios continued to rise as a result of newly-invested capital. Finally, a distribution analysis shows that a large proportion of firms are in an unfavourable situation and that the dispersion of ratios has widened over the last ten years.
D39|Is more health always better? Exploring public preferences that violate monotonicity|Abásolo and Tsuchiya (2004a) report on an empirical study to elicit public preferences regarding the efficiency-equality trade-off in health, where the majority of respondents violated monotonicity. The procedure used has been subject to criticisms regarding potential biases in the results. The aim of this paper is to analyse whether violation of monotonicity remains when a revised questionnaire is used. We test: whether monotonicity is violated when we allow for inequality neutral preferences and also if we allow for preferences that would reject any option which gives no health gain to one group; whether those who violate monotonicity actually have non-monotonic or Rawlsian preferences; whether the titration sequence of the original questionnaire may have biased the results; whether monotonicity is violated when an alternative question is administered. Finally, we also test for symmetry of preferences. The results confirm the evidence of the previous study regarding violation of monotonicity.
D39|Price Dispersion with Directed Search| We present a model that generates empirically plausible price distributions in directed search equilibrium. There are many identical buyers and many identical capacity-constrained sellers who post prices. These prices can be renegotiated to some degree and the outcome depends on the number of buyers who want to purchase the good. In equilibrium all sellers post the same price, demand is randomly distributed, and there is sale price dispersion. Prices and distributions depend on market tightness and on the properties of renegotiation outcomes. In a labor market context, the model generates a strong empirical prediction. if workers can renegotiate the posted wage, then the model predicts a positively skewed and realistic-looking density function of realized wages when the mean number of job-seekers per vacancy is large. (JEL: C780, D390, D490, E390) (c) 2009 by the European Economic Association.
D39|La desigualdad en las intensidades energéticas y la composición de la producción. Un análisis para los países de la OCDE|Esta investigación analiza las desigualdades de las intensidades energéticas entre países de la OCDE, su evolución y sus causas. Estas intensidades constituyen uno de los principales factores determinantes de las emisiones per cápita y, por tanto, de las diferencias que se dan entre países y grupos de países. Se desarrolla una metodología que permite la descomposición de la desigualdad en los consumos de energía per cápita en factores explicativos, además de analizar la contribución de diferentes grupos de países. Destaca que, si bien las diferencias en afluencia económica son el factor más relevante en la explicación las desigualdades en el consumo energético per cápita, la desigualdad en intensidad energética juega un papel prominente en su reducción en el periodo analizado. A continuación, se desarrolla una metodología que permite determinar la importancia de las diferentes estructuras productivas y de las diferencias en eficiencia energética en el mayor o menor uso de energía por unidad de PIB en los diferentes países y grupos de países. Los resultados muestran que la especialización productiva gana peso en la explicación de las desigualdades en las intensidades energéticas, mientras que se da una importante tendencia a la igualación de la eficiencia energética entre países sector a sector. Esta tendencia explicaría, a su vez, el peso decreciente de la intensidad energética como factor explicativo de las desigualdades en consumos energéticos.
D39|Power-Law and Log-Normal Distributions in Temporal Changes of Firm-Size Variables|In this paper the author shows that signed temporal changes of firm size variables follow the power-law for large changes; while, for middle changes a log-normal distribution is found. In the analyses, the author employed three databases: highincome data, high-sales data and positive-profits data of Japanese firms. It is particularly worth noting that the growth rate distributions in temporal changes of the firm size data have no wide tail, unlike the distributions observed in assets and sales of firms, the number of employees and personal income data. An Extended-Gibrat's Law was also found in the growth rate distributions of temporal changes of firm size variables, which induces both the power-law and the log-normal distributions in the temporal changes of firm size under the Detailed Balance.
D39|Indebtedness and the Household Financial Health: An Examination of the Canadian Debt Service Ratio Distribution|The household debt-to-disposable income ratio in Canada increased from 110 per cent in 1999 to 127 per cent in 2007. This increase has raised questions about the ability of households to service their increased debt if faced with a negative economic or socio-economic shock. The debt service ratio (DSR) measures the proportion of disposable income that households must devote to servicing their debt obligations. The aggregate DSR for Canada, as reported in the Bank of Canada's Financial System Review, has drifted up recently but remained below its historical average in 2007Q4. This would suggest that households' debt burden has remained broadly manageable. However, the aggregate DSR could mask potential vulnerabilities for the most heavily indebted households. The main contribution of this paper is that it examines the distribution of debt service burden amongst Canadian households using micro-data. This work shows that the density of households in the vulnerable tail of the DSR distribution has actually decreased somewhat since 1999, especially for lower-income households. Overall, our micro data analysis support inferences based on the aggregate data that, despite the increase in the debt-to-income ratio since the late 1990s, households remain well positioned to manage their increased debt levels. The paper also compares the DSR distributions for Canada and the U.S. The cross-country comparison suggests that, in 2004, the household sector in Canada seemed to be in a better financial position than U.S. households.
D39|Equity in the utilization of public health care services by regions in Spain: a multinivel analysis|The aim of this paper is to analyse if there is horizontal equity in the utilisation of public health care services by región (comunidad autónoma) of residence in Spain. Data from the 2006 National Health Survey were considered to undertake a multilevel analysis, using a binary logistic function for each of the public health care services analysed (general practitioner –GP- visits, specialist visits and hospitalisations). Health care need and other socioeconomic and demographic characteristics were controlled at individual level. It can be concluded that, although there is no evidence of territorial inequity in hospitalisations, there is territorial inequity in the case of GP and also of specialist visits, which can not be explained by regional differences in the availability of resources at both health care levels
D39|Some remarks on the classical theory of rent|According to Ricardo, land rent, in a capitalistic system of production, would consist of differential elements only, thus there would not be absolute rent. The present arti-cle is aimed at discussing this thesis by reconstructing the theoretical reasons leading Ricardo toward it and by showing how they have been overcome by the more solid foundations which Sraffa provided for the classical theory of distribution between wages and profits. Moreover, historical and theoretical reasons supporting the pres-ence of absolute rent, beside differential rent elements, are put on evidence.
D39|Analysis of the effect of the “double insularity” condition on the equity in the utilisation of public health care services: the case of the Canary Islands|The aim of this paper is to test whether the condition of “double insularity”, -i.e. being resident in one of the five small islands of the seven Canary Islands- has any effect on equity in the utilisation of public health care services. Data on 4.320 participants from the 2004 Canary Health Survey were considered for this analysis. A zero inflated negative binomial (ZINB) model was estimated for each of the four health services analysed (general practice services, specialist services, emergency services and hospitalisations), controlling for area of residence, for health care need and for socioeconomic and demographic characteristics, measured at the individual level. The results show evidence that, in general, the “double insularity” condition represents a limitation in the utilisation of public health care services, therefore to the detriment of the residents in the small islands.
D39|Power-Law and Log-Normal Distributions in Firm Size Displacement Data|We have shown that firm size signed displacement data follow not only power-law in the large scale region but also the log-normal distribution in the middle scale one. In the analyses, we employ three databases: high-income data, high-sales data and positive-profits data of Japanese firms. It is particularly worth noting that the growth rate distributions of the firm size displacement have no wide tail which is observed in assets, sales of firms, the number of employees and personal income data. An extended-Gibrat's law is also found in the growth rate distributions. This leads the power-law and the log-normal distributions of the firm size displacement under the detailed balance.
D39|On representative social capital|This paper combines an economic experiment with survey data to investigate determinants of trust and trustworthiness in the Dutch society. We contrast the inferences which can be made on the trust propensity using stated and revealed measures and we test for participation bias in our experiment. We find that middle aged and educated individuals trust relatively more but are relatively less trustworthy. The effect of age and religion on trust is shown to depend heavily on whether experimental or survey trust measures are used. We find no evidence of participation bias in any experimental decisions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D39|Finansal liberalleşme, finansal krizler ve finansal transferlerin yeniden dağıtım boyutu|Finansal liberalleşme ile ortaya çıkan krizler önemli maliyetleri de beraberinde getirmiştir. Özellikle gelişmekte olan ülkelerde finansal karakterli krizlerin maliyeti oldukça büyük olmuştur. 1970’lerin sonlarından günümüze gelişmiş ve gelişmekte olan ülkelerde sınırlı veya ve çok sistemik olmayan 51 ve sistemik karakterli olarak ta 117 kriz meydana gelmiştir. Krizler ülkelerin GSYİH’da ortalama %10’un üzerinde bir maliyete neden olmuştur. Söz konusu maliyet bazı ülkeler açısından GSYİH’ya oran itibariyle %50’nin üzerine çıkmıştır. Özellikle 1997 Doğu Asya krizinde maliyet oldukça büyük olmuş ve ülkeler açısından büyük ölçüde yoksullaşmaya neden olmuştur. Krizler sonrası oluşan maliyet diğer önemli bir sorun olan gelir ve servet transferi konusunu gündeme getirmiştir. Oluşan maliyetin paylaşım biçimi veya bölüşüm ilişkilerini ne ölçüde etkileyeceği temel tartışma alanlarından biri haline gelmiştir. Krizlerin yeniden dağıtım boyutu çok büyük ve derin etkilere sahiptir. Kriz sonrası ülke içi ve ülkelerarası büyük boyutlarda gelir ve servet transferleri yaşanmakta, bu durum bölüşüm ilişkilerinde yeni dengelerin oluşmasına yol açmaktadır. Finansal karakterli krizlerden sonra oluşan maliyet önemli ölçüde vergi mükellefleri tarafından taşınmaktadır. Finansal kurumlara, mudilere, finansal kurumlardan borçlananlara ve uluslararası kuruluşlara veya gelişmiş ülkelere büyük miktarlara varan gelir ve servet transferleri olmaktadır. Krizler sonrası oluşan kamusal maliyet bankacılık sisteminin iyileştirilmesini de içine alan değişik şekillerde yapılan harcamaları içermektedir. Bunlar, açık veya örtülü olarak hükümetin mevduat sigortası yoluyla likidite desteği, batık kredilerin üstlenilmesi, bankaların sermayelerinin yeniden yapılandırılması, alacaklılara ve mudilere yapılan ödemeleri içermektedir.
D39|Flexible Approximation of Subjective Expectations using Probability Questions -An Application to the Investment Game-|We use spline interpolation to approximate the subjective cumulative distribution function of an economic agent over the future realization of a continuous (possibly censored) random variable. The method proposed exploits information collected using a small number of probability questions on expectations and requires a weak prior knowledge of the shape of the underlying distribution. We find that eliciting 4 or 5 points on the cumulative distribution function of an agent is sufficient to accurately approximate a wide variety of underlying distributions. We show that estimated moments of general functions of the random variable can be computed analytically and/or using standard simulation techniques. We illustrate the usefulness of the method by estimating a simple model to asses the impact of expectations on investment decisions in a commonly used trust game.
D39|Flexible Approximation of Subjective Expectations Using Probability Questions: An Application to the Investment Game|We use spline interpolation to approximate the subjective cumulative distribution function of an economic agent over the future realization of a continuous (possibly censored) random variable. The method proposed exploits information collected using a small number of probability questions on expectations and requires a weak prior knowledge of the shape of the underlying distribution. We find that eliciting 4 or 5 points on the cumulative distribution function of an agent is sufficient to accurately approximate a wide variety of underlying distributions. We show that estimated moments of general functions of the random variable can be computed analytically and/or using standard simulation techniques. We illustrate the usefulness of the method by estimating a simple model to asses the impact of expectations on investment decisions in a commonly used trust game.
D39|Pensions, Education and Life Expectancy|In a two-period model with agent heterogeneity we analyze a pension reform toward a stronger link between contributions and benefits (as recently observed in several countries) in a pension system with a Bismarckian and a Beveridgian component. We show that such a policy change reduces the educational level in an economy. The life expectancy differential between skilled and unskilled individuals drives this result. Furthermore, we investigate the consequences on the intragenerational redistribution characteristics of the pension system – in the sense of the number of net-recipients relative to net-payers – as well as welfare effects.
D39|Análisis de la distribución de las emisiones de CO2 a nivel internacional mediante la adaptación del concepto y las medidas de polarización|La medida de la polarización está ligada a la inestabilidad potencial —la aparición de grupos con intereses opuestos— generada por una situación de distribución específica. Esta investigación analiza la distribución internacional de las emisiones de CO2 per cápita a través de la adaptación del concepto y las medidas de polarización. La descripción agrupada más interesante que se deriva del análisis de polarización es la de dos grupos. Estos grupos coinciden ampliamente con los países del Anexo B del Protocolo de Kyoto y los que no lo son, lo que podría indicar la capacidad del análisis de polarización para explicar la generación de grupos en el mundo real. El análisis muestra una reducción significativa en la polarización internacional de las emisiones de CO2 per cápita entre 1971 y 2001. Esto se explica en gran parte por el aumento en las emisiones experimentado por China e India. Una reducción en la polarización puede implicar una reducción en la dificultad de alcanzar acuerdos. No obstante, la polarización no ha cambiado mucho desde 1995 o 1997 (año en que tuvieron lugar las negociaciones de Kyoto), lo que podría indicar que la polarización de la distribución de emisiones entre países es aún uno de los factores importantes llevando a la dificultad en alcanzar nuevos acuerdos respecto a las políticas globales de
D39|Modernizing the informal sector|The multiplicity of policies proposed to support the informal sector reflects the lack of a common definition. Although they may produce positive effects, these are limited and fail to constitute a comprehensive strategic approach. The different interpretations in the absence of a common definition as well as the strategies emerging from them are reviewed. The identification of informality with illegality and labour precariousness, although conceptually related, is often misleading. Lastly, it explores a strategic option to regulate the informal sector, tracing the different approaches to formalizing informal activities, to facilitate their full integration into the modernization process.
D39|Inequality in CO2 emissions across countries and its relationship with income inequality: A distributive approach|This paper analyses the inequality in CO2 emissions across countries (and groups of countries) and the relationship of this inequality with income inequality across countries for the period (1971-1999). The research employs the tools that are usually applied in income distribution analysis. The methodology used here gives qualitative and quantitative information on some of the features of the inequalities across countries that are considered most relevant for the design and discussion of policies aimed at mitigating climate change. The paper studies the relationship between CO2 emissions and GDP and shows that income inequality across countries has been followed by an important inequality in the distribution of emissions. This inequality has diminished mildly, although the inequality in emissions across countries ordered in the increasing value of income (inequality between rich and poor countries) has diminished less than the “simple” inequality in emissions. Lastly, the paper shows that the inequality in CO2 emissions is mostly explained by the inequality between groups with different per capita income level. The importance of the inequality within groups of similar per capita income is much lower and has diminished during the period, especially in the low-middle income group.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D39|Social segregation in secondary schools: How does England compare with other countries?|We provide new evidence about the degree of social segregation in England’s secondary schools, employing a cross-national perspective. Analysis is based on data for 27 rich industrialised countries from the 2000 and 2003 rounds of the Programme of International Student Assessment (PISA), using a number of different measures of social background and of segregation, and allowing for sampling variation in the estimates. England is shown to be a middle-ranking country, as is the USA. High segregation countries include Austria, Belgium, Germany and Hungary. Low segregation countries include the four Nordic countries and Scotland. In explaining England’s position, we argue that its segregation is mostly accounted for by unevenness in social background in the state school sector. Focusing on this sector, we show that cross-country differences in segregation are associated with the prevalence of selective choice of pupils by schools. Low-segregation countries such as those in the Nordic area and Scotland have negligible selection in schools. High segregation countries like Austria, Germany and Hungary have separate school tracks for academic and vocational schooling and, in each case, over half of this is accounted for by unevenness in social background between the different tracks rather than by differences within each track.
D39|Social segregation in Secondary Schools: how does England compare with other countries?|We provide new evidence about the degree of social segregation in England's secondary schools, employing a cross-national perspective. Analysis is based on data for 27 rich industrialised countries from the 2000 and 2003 rounds of the Programme of International Student Assessment (PISA), using a number of different measures of social background and of segregation, and allowing for sampling variation in the estimates. England is shown to be a middle-ranking country, as is the USA. High segregation countries include Austria, Belgium, Germany and Hungary. Low segregation countries include the four Nordic countries and Scotland. In explaining England's position, we argue that its segregation is mostly accounted for by unevenness in social background in the state school sector. Focusing on this sector, we show that cross-country differences in segregation are associated with the prevalence of selective choice of pupils by schools. Low-segregation countries such as those in the Nordic area and Scotland have negligible selection in schools. High segregation countries like Austria, Germany and Hungary have separate school tracks for academic and vocational schooling and, in each case, over half of this is accounted for by unevenness in social background between the different tracks rather than by differences within each track.
D39|Measuring polarization, inequality, welfare and poverty|This paper analyzes the relationship between polarization and inequality, welfare and poverty measures. First, the Wolfson polarization measure is generalized in terms of the between-groups and within-groups Gini components for income groups separated by any z income value. Second, it is shown that polarization is the difference between the welfare levels of rich and poor income groups when feelings of identification between individuals are based on their utility functions. Third, the proposed polarization measure is a function of the Sen poverty index, its extension due to Shorrocks (1995) and the normalized poverty deficit index when the z income value represents the poverty line. In addition, these results are linked to the Esteban and Ray (1994) and Esteban et al. (1999) polarization measures.
D39|Inequality of Learning in Industrialised Countries|Within-country differences in educational outcomes are compared for a large group of industrialised countries. We investigate where inequality is greatest, the association between inequality in learning and average levels of learning, the interpretation of measured levels of inequality, and differences in inequality at the top and bottom of the national distributions. Our analysis is based on test score data for 21 countries present in the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS), the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), and the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS). The use of three different surveys avoids reliance on a single source.
D39|A Generalized Preferential Attachment Model for Business Firms Growth Rates: II. Mathematical Treatment|We present a preferential attachment growth model to obtain the distribution $P(K)$ of number of units $K$ in the classes which may represent business firms or other socio-economic entities. We found that $P(K)$ is described in its central part by a power law with an exponent $\phi=2+b/(1-b)$ which depends on the probability of entry of new classes, $b$. In a particular problem of city population this distribution is equivalent to the well known Zipf law. In the absence of the new classes entry, the distribution $P(K)$ is exponential. Using analytical form of $P(K)$ and assuming proportional growth for units, we derive $P(g)$, the distribution of business firm growth rates. The model predicts that $P(g)$ has a Laplacian cusp in the central part and asymptotic power-law tails with an exponent $\zeta=3$. We test the analytical expressions derived using heuristic arguments by simulations. The model might also explain the size-variance relationship of the firm growth rates.
D39|Análisis De Los Factores Determinantes De Las Desigualdades Internacionales En Las Emisiones De Co2 Per Cápita Aplicando El Enfoque Distributivo: Una Metodología De Descomposición Por Factores De Kaya (*)|. En este trabajo desarrollamos una metodología para descomponer las desigualdades internacionales en las emisiones de CO2 en factores (multiplicativos) de Kaya y dos términos de interacción. Utilizamos el índice de desigualdad de Theil y mostramos que esta metodología de descomposición puede extenderse para analizar los componentes de desigualdad inter e intragrupal. A continuación podemos analizar los factores detrás de las desigualdades en las emisiones de CO2 per cápita entre países, entre grupos de países y dentro de los grupos de países. La ilustración empírica sugiere algunas cuestiones. Primero, la desigualdad internacional en las emisiones de CO2 per cápita es principalmente atribuible a las desigualdades en los niveles de renta per cápita, lo que ayuda a explicar su reciente reducción, mientras que las diferencias en la intensidad de carbono de la energía y la intensidad energética han hecho una contribución mucho menos significativa. Este resultado está fuertemente influenciado por el comportamiento de China e India. En segundo lugar, el componente de la desigualdad entre grupos, que es el mayor, está también explicado en buena medida por el factor ingreso. En tercer lugar, el componente de la desigualdad dentro de los grupos aumentó ligeramente durante el período, algo principalmente debido al cambio en el factor de ingreso y los términos de interacción en unas pocas regiones.
D39|Twin - Peaks in E.U. Regional Productivity Dynamics: a nonparametric analysis|Working within the 'distributional approach', this research offers evidence, based on empirical density estimates and modality tests, of past polarization in regional labour productivity in EU-15. Most importantly, it provides evidence on the related ergodic density which suggests that this polarization may persist in the future. This past and probably future polarization is primarily related to the service sector of the regional economies and not to manufacturing industries sector.
D39|Les effets redistributifs des transferts en faveur des familles en France : un éclairage en longue période|The aim of this paper is to analyse how the criteria of horizontal and vertical equity of the French system of family transfers evolved from 1975 till 2002. It focuses primarily on non-contributory benefits and on income taxation and uses family type's methods. Two main findings can be outlined : firstly, the publicly financed compensation for dependents is better in 1975 than in 2002, especially for families on low or medium incomes. Secondly, the redistributive impact of the French system of family transfers has dropped. Otherwise, we also highlight that the predominant instruments are means-tested benefits in the low end of the revenue scale and income tax rates in the other hand.
D39|The Growth of Business Firms: Theoretical Framework and Empirical Evidence|We introduce a model of proportional growth to explain the distribution of business firm growth rates. The model predicts that the distribution is exponential in the central part and depicts an asymptotic power-law behavior in the tails with an exponent 3. Because of data limitations, previous studies in this field have been focusing exclusively on the Laplace shape of the body of the distribution. In this article, we test the model at different levels of aggregation in the economy, from products to firms to countries, and we find that the model's predictions agree with empirical growth distributions and size-variance relationships.
D39|Análisis de las emisiones de CO2 y sus factores explicativos en las diferentes áreas del mundo|En el presente artículo se analiza la evolución de las emisiones de CO2 –el principal gas de efecto invernadero– en las diferentes áreas del mundo, prestando mayor atención a lo ocurrido en la Unión Europea y España. El análisis se centra especialmente en lo sucedido desde 1990, año de referencia en el protocolo de Kyoto para la gran mayoría de países. Se investigan también los principales factores determinantes de las emisiones y su evolución utilizando el análisis de los factores de la identidad de Kaya. El análisis permite explicar las grandes diferencias que se dan entre unas zonas y otras y las distintas variaciones que se han dado a lo largo del tiempo.
D39|Fairness under Uncertainty with Indivisibilities|I analyze an economy with uncertainty in which a set of indivisible objects and a certain amount of money is to be distributed among agents. The set of intertemporally fair social choice functions based on envy-freeness and Pareto efficiency is characterized. I give a necessary and sufficient condition for its non-emptiness and propose a mechanism that implements the set of intertemporally fair allocations in Bayes-Nash equilibrium. Implementation at the ex ante stage is considered, too. I also generalize the existence result obtained with envy-freeness using a broader fairness concept, introducing the aspiration function.
D39|Is An Inequality-Neutral Flat Tax Reform Really Neutral?|. Let us assume a revenue- and inequality-neutral flat tax reform shifting from a graduated-rate tax. Is this reform really neutral in terms of the income distribution? Traditionally, there has been a bias toward the inequality analysis, forgetting other relevant aspects of the income distribution. This kind of reforms implies a set of composite transfers, both progressive and regressive, even though inequality remains unchanged. This paper shows that polarization is a useful tool for characterizing this set of transfers caused by inequality-neutral tax reforms. A simulation exercise illustrates how polarization can be used to discriminate between two inequality-neutral tax alternatives.
D39|The Experience of Rising Inequality in Russia and China during the Transition|This paper examines the changes in regional and sectoral inequality that accompanied economic transformation in Russia and China throughout the 1990s. The experiences of the two countries are widely viewed as having been polar opposites. While the Soviet collapse had adverse consequences for many parts of the post-Soviet population, the Chinese experience produced a continuing rise of average living standards. Nevertheless, both countries experienced a drastic increase in economic inequality. In both cases, regional inequalities rose more sharply than inequalities across sectors but within regions. In particular, major urban centers gained dramatically relative to the hinterlands. Also, in Russia as in China, those sectors exercising the largest degrees of monopoly power gained the most (or lost the least) in relative terms. In both countries, the respective position of finance improved greatly, while that of agriculture declined. The decline of agriculture in China, however, was not as precipitous as in Russia, and certain sectors, such as education and science, maintained their position in China in a way that was not possible for them in Russia.
D39|Preferential attachment and growth dynamics in complex systems|Complex systems can be characterized by classes of equivalency of their elements defined according to system specific rules. We propose a generalized preferential attachment model to describe the class size distribution. The model postulates preferential growth of the existing classes and the steady influx of new classes. According to the model, the distribution changes from a pure exponential form for zero influx of new classes to a power law with an exponential cut-off form when the influx of new classes is substantial. Predictions of the model are tested through the analysis of a unique industrial database, which covers both elementary units (products) and classes (markets, firms) in a given industry (pharmaceuticals), covering the entire size distribution. The model’s predictions are in good agreement with the data. The paper sheds light on the emergence of the exponent τ ≈ 2 observed as a universal feature of many biological, social and economic problems.
D39|Análisis de agrupaciones provinciales a partir del enfoque de desigualdad y polarización: una nota|Con motivo de analizar las fuentes de las desigualdades interprovinciales de la renta en España las provincias vienen siendo agrupadas en función de su pertenencia a las CCAA. Este criterio de tipificación, de origen administrativo, no agota, sin embargo, las posibilidades existentes en orden a dividir a las provincias en grupos pretendidamente homogéneos. Disponemos, por ejemplo, de agrupaciones informales como las NUTS 1 europeas, los ejes de desarrollo (VILLAVERDE Y PÉREZ (1996) y las áreas geoeconómicas (ALCAIDE (2002) ó formales, como las sugeridas por AGHEVLI y MEHRAN (1981) y DAVIES y SHORROCKS (1989). El principal objeto de esta nota consiste en evaluar el atractivo asociado a esta variedad de agregaciones atendiendo a dos criterios básicos: el error de agregación y el número de grupos considerado.
D39|Polarització comarcal de rendes a Catalunya|Sovint parlem de les comarques catalanes en termes de grups més o menys homogenis. Per exemple, les segmenten en riques i pobres, en dinàmiques i estancades, en interiors o costaneres, etc. Apart de l’interès com a instrument de síntesi, el grau de formació de grups cohesionats i distants entre si pot ser un assumpte rellevant en termes de la cohesió territorial. En aquestes circumstàncies, la disponibilitat d’una mesura específica que permeti la quantificació precisa d’aquest fenomen sembla particularment útil. En aquest sentit, la literatura ens ha suggerit diverses mesures de polarització, entre les que s’haurien de destacar els Índexos de Polarització Generalitzada (Esteban, Gradín i Ray (1999)). El principal objecte d’aquest treball consisteix a aplicar aquestes mesures a la distribució comarcal de la renda a Catalunya al llarg del període 1990-2002. El principal resultat obtingut apunta cap a una creixent polarització econòmica de les comarques que, conjuntament amb l’increment observat en les desigualtats, recolzaria una actitud molt més decidida per part de l’administració en el reequilibri del territori.
D39|Regional Income Inequalities in Europe: An Updated Measurement and Some Decomposition Results|In this paper well-known summary inequality indexes are used to explore interregional income inequalities in Europe. In particular, we mainly employ Theils’population-weighted index because of its appealing properties. Two decomposition analysis are applied. First, regional inequalities are decomposed by regional subgroups (countries). Second, intertemporal inequality changes are separated into income and population changes. The main results can be summarized as follows. First, data confirm a reduction in crossregional inequality during 1982-97. Second, this reduction is basically due to real convergence among countries. Third, currently the greater part of European interregional disparities is within-country by nature, which introduce an important challenge for the European policy. Fourth, inequality changes are due mainly to income variations, population changes playing a minor role.
D39|Exchanging good ideas|No abstract is available for this item.
D39|On size and growth of business firms|We study size and growth distributions of products and business firms in the context of a given industry. Firm size growth is analyzed in terms of two basic mechanisms, i.e., the increase of the number of new elementary business units and their size growth. We find a power-law relationship between size and the variance of growth rates for both firms and products, with an exponent between −0.17 and −0.15, with a remarkable stability upon aggregation. We then introduce a simple and general model of proportional growth for both the number of firm independent constituent units and their size, which conveys a good representation of the empirical evidences. This general and plausible generative process can account for the observed scaling in a wide variety of economic and industrial systems. Our findings contribute to shed light on the mechanisms that sustain economic growth in terms of the relationships between the size of economic entities and the number and size distribution of their elementary components.
D39|The Inequality of Regional Economic Development in China between 1991 and 2001| This paper measures the unequal development of the regional economies in China and investigates the primary factors leading to the inequality. The official data on China's regional GDP and the regional GDP of three industrial sectors from 1991-2001, as reported in the China Statistical Yearbook and A Statistical Survey of China, are adopted to calculate and decompose the Gini coefficient for each year. The primary finding is that the levels of inequality in China's regional economies clearly showed a slight upward trend after 1991. The inequality of the overall GDP is primarily attributed to the between-group effect rather than to the within-group effect. It is also found that the regional inequality of the secondary industry sector's development accounted for half of the overall inequality. Thus, this study suggests that it is crucial for China to formulate and adhere to policies that will help it to develop the economy more equally among all areas and to develop the secondary industry sector among all regions/provinces in order to overcome the important issue of the inequality in regional economic development.
D39|On Representative Trust|This paper combines an economic experiment with survey data to investigate determinants of trust and trustworthiness in the Dutch society. We contrast the inferences which can be made on the trust propensity using stated and revealed measures and we test for participation bias in our experiment. We find that middle aged and educated individuals trust relatively more but are relatively less trustworthy. The effect of age and religion on trust is shown to depend heavily on whether experimental or survey trust measures are used. We find no evidence of participation bias in any experimental decisions.
D39|Les théories de la justice distributive post-rawlsiennes. Une revue de la littérature|"[fre] Les théories de la justice distributive post-rawlsiennes. . Le but de cet essai est de présenter la littérature consacrée au problème de la justice distributive dans le champ de la philosophie politique de tradition rawlsienne, au regard du concept de la responsabilité. Après avoir rappelé la théorie de Rawls, socle des théories égalitaristes modernes, laquelle prône l'égalisation de certains biens sociaux, nous présentons l'approche de Sen, qui met davantage l'accent sur les opportunités de réalisation des individus au sein de la société. La contribution de Kolm en matière d'égalitarisme est également soulignée. Les théories de l'égalité des ressources (incluant divers talents et handicaps) de Dworkin et de « plus grande liberté réelle pour tous » de van Parijs sont mises en relief, pour ensuite passer en revue les théories récentes de l'égalité des chances développées par des auteurs comme Arneson, Cohen, Roemer, Fleurbaey ou encore Bossert. [eng] Post-rawlsian distributive justice theories: a survey. . The purpose of this essay is to review the literature devoted to distributive justice in the Rawlsian tradition of political philosophy, with a concern for the treatment of the notion of responsibility. After reviewing the theory of Rawls - founding theory of modem egalitarianism - which advocates equalization of some social goods, we present Sen's approach which emphasizes ""capabilities to function"" for individuals in society. The egalitarian view of Kolm is underlined too. The theories of equality of resources (including innate talents and handicaps) of Dworkin and of ""real-freedom-for-all"" of van Parijs are highlighted for then surveying recent equality-of-opportunity theories developed by authors such as Arneson, Cohen, Roemer, Fleurbaey or Bossert."
D39|Les théories de la justice distributive post-rawlsiennes. Une revue de la littérature|The purpose of this essay is to review the literature devoted to distributive justice in the Rawlsian tradition of political philosophy, with a concern for the treatment of the notion of responsibility. After reviewing the theory of Rawls – founding theory of modern egalitarianism – which advocates equalization of some social goods, we present Sen’s approach which emphasizes “capabilities to function” for individuals in society. The egalitarian view of Kolm is underlined too. The theories of equality of resources (including innate talents and handicaps) of Dworkin and of “real-freedom-for-all” of van Parijs are highlighted for then surveying recent equality-of-opportunity theories developed by authors such as Arneson, Cohen, Roemer, Fleurbaey or Bossert. Classification JEL : D39, D63
D39|Reconciling the Nash and Kalai-Smorodinsky Cooperative Solutions: Generalized Maximands of CES Form|This note suggests variations to the baseline Nash cooperative solution that take into account the Kalai-Smorodinsky critique. One the one hand, a CES form of the maximand is proven to accommodate both the generalized two-person Nash and the Kalai-Smorodinsky - as other proportional - solutions as special cases. As an alternative, a Stone-Geary formulation is forwarded, weighing both the distances to the threat and to the ideal point, along with the corresponding CES generalization. Interpretations of the implied equilibrium solutions – generalizable to n-person cooperative games – are provided, arising as equations balancing geometric averages of measures of attitude towards (large) risk(s) of the players.
D39|Income Distribution Across Countries: How is it Measured and What Do the Results Show?|Recent studies of trends in the distribution of income across countries and globally have produced highly conflicting results. Several studies, including some from the World Bank and UNDP, have reported that income disparities between nations have more than doubled since 1960. Other investigations have found that income inequality has been reduced over the same period. The three main reasons for the diverging results identified in the paper are the use of different income measurements, different distribution concepts and the weighting or not of countries according to the size of the populations. This paper aims at clarifying the relative importance of these differences behind the conflicting results and to reach a firm conclusion on what has really happened.
D39|A conflict of interests in electricity taxation? A micro econometric analysis of household behaviour|In conducting economic policy, governments generally face conflicts in various objectives, e.g. between efficiency and equity. In Norway, one objective of energy politics has been to reduce electricity consumption, and several tax increases have been proposed. Whether this objective may be in conflict with objectives of efficiency and equity is the focus in this paper. We discuss the effects on household behaviour of three different electricity tax schemes, one proportional and two non-linear. For each household we estimate the reduction in household electricity consumption. As measures of distributional effects and efficiency effects we estimate compensating variation and excess tax burden from the tax schemes. We find that the non-linear tax scheme targeting high electricity consumption is most preferred in order to reduce consumption and least preferred concerning the objective of minimizing excess tax burden. When considering distributional effects, the ranking of tax schemes depends on the weight placed on different household groups.
D39|Efficiency Criteria and the Sen-type Social Welfare Function|Most of the Social Welfare Functions available in the literature are Paretian, that is increase in anybody's income in the society is welfare augmenting. The Sen type social welfare function possesses this property as well. However, Paretianity is normative criteria and might not be accepted by everybody. This paper has demonstrated this problem of Paretianity and proposes an alternative Social Welfare Function.
D39|The Trend Of Welfare Disparity Among Subgroups Of Population In Australia 1983-84 - 1993-94|The aim of this paper is to estimate the trend of social welfare for Australia using 1983-84, 1988-89 and 1993-94 Household Expenditure Survey data. The functional form of the Social Welfare Function (SWF) was derived by Sen, Degum, Yitzhaki and Shesinski (all independently). Since the function contains the Gini coefficient as the inequality parameter, it could not be formally disaggregated by subgroups of population. This paper, using a method of subgroup decomposition of the Gini coefficient developed by Podder, attempts to disaggregate the SWF. With this method it is now possible to identify disadvantaged groups by their relative shares in total welfare. In addition the method is used to determine effect of economic growth on specific subgroups, and in turn, on total social welfare. This study is based on the Australian economy. We identify distribution of relative shares of total social welfare among various regional groups, groups determined by occupational status and groups determined by country of birth. The effect on society's welfare for a percentage change in income of a group and the trend of relative welfare of a specific group are also computed. This information can be used in a variety of social decision making situations, including cost benefit analysis.
D39|A Generalized Social Welfare Function, its Decomposition and Application|It is easy to demonstrate that Sen's SWF satisfies Pareto criteria. This paper questions the philosophy of this concept and shows that it is possible to formulate a generalized SWF, which can be non-Paretian under special circumstances. This paper also demonstrates a method of decomposition of the proposed SWF by subgroups of population using a Gini decomposition method developed by Podder. The method is applied to investigate the trend of welfare in Australia at regional level using the Household Expenditure Survey data of 1983-84 to 1993-94. It is found that the states NSW, Victoria and Queensland, with the maximum total income share, had almost 70 percent of the share of total welfare. The elasticity of welfare with respect to mean income showed a prominent increasing trend for NSW. It is also observed that the relative share of welfare decreased for NSW, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland and Australian Capital Territory and increased for Tasmania and Northern Territory.
D39|Changes In Social Welfare In Singapore - 1982-1999|This paper examines the changes in social welfare in Singapore using Labour Force Survey data. To study the changes and dominance, both ordinal and cardinal measures are used. By Lorenz Dominance social welfare in Singapore during 1999 is less than in 1991 while unambiguous conclusion cannot be made on the welfare ranking of 1982 and 1991 or of 1982 and 1999. 1999 ranks first according to the Generalized Lorenz Dominance; however, this criterion is also unable to make any unambiguous ranking between 1982 and 1991. The ranking based on Sen-Dagum-Yitzhaki-Sheshinski Social Welfare Function shows a continuous increase in the social welfare in Singapore. But when a more general Social Welfare Function is used a different ordering might occur.
D39|A Generalised Social Welfare Function and its Disaggregation by Components of Income: The Method and Application|The Social Welfare Function (SWF) is a decision rule to rank alternative social states in a complete fashion in terms of social welfare. This paper questions the philosophy of Paretian Principle as a desirable property of the SWF. It shows that it is possible to generalize the widely used Sen SWF, which can be non-Paretian under special circumstances. Also, it demonstrates the disaggregation method of this SWF by components of income using the Gini decomposition process. The method is applied to Australian Household Expenditure Survey data to estimate the trend of welfare of total income and its components in Australia from 1984 to 1993-94.
D39|La mobilità dei redditi: un'analisi empirica per gli Stati Uniti|Obiettivo di questo lavoro è stato quello di quantificare ed interpretare la mobilità dei redditi negli Stati Uniti tra gli anni '70 e '90, utilizzando dei dati provenienti dal Panel Study of Income Dynamics. Il confronto empirico delle due classi di indici di mobilità presenti in letteratura - misure della mobilità strutturale e di scambio - hanno permesso di investigare il diverso comportamento degli indici nei vari sottogruppi della popolazione, di confrontare l'estensione della mobilità utilizzando dati disaggregati (sesso, razza, livello di istruzione, back ground familiare, occupazione, composizione della famiglia, etc.) ed infine di quantificare la significatività di ciascun fattore quale determinante della mobilità dei redditi.
D39|What Hides Behind the Rate of Unemployment? Micro Evidence from Norway|Building on a complete account of registered unemployment spells in Norway, we study how the composition of unemployment has developed over the last ten years. The total volume of unemployment has become more unequally distributed than before, but it is difficult to identify the ‘losers’ in terms of observed characteristics. There are no signs of low-education workers doing systematically worse. The most conspicuous change with respect to observed characteristics is that the relative outflow rates for older workers have deteriorated sharply.
D39|Distribution of Export Price Risk in a Developing Country|We address the issue of social distribution of an aggregate risk (on agricultural export price), in a macro-economic perspective. Individual incomes in representative social groups are computed as a function of export prices, which are assumed to be stochastic, using an applied general equilibrium model of an archetype developing economy.
D39|Distribution of Export Price Risk in a Developing Country|We address the issue of social distribution of an aggregate risk (on agricultural export price), from a macroeconomic perspective. Individual incomes in representative social groups are computed as a function of export prices, which are assumed to be stochastic, using an applied general equilibrium model of an archetype developing economy. The statistical properties of the resulting distribution of individual incomes are then examined. We consider a mapping of different policies on agricultural prices (stabilization or complete pass-through), monetary rules (accommodating or not) and exchange rate regimes (fixed versus flexible).
D39|Anatomy of the US Income Distribution: Two Decades of Change|Forty years ago, Simon Kuznets, in his presidential address to the American Economics Association, outlined his hypothesis that the process of economic development would first be accompanied by rising disparities in economic well-being, followed by a period when the distribution wouls be stable or eventually move toward greater equality. The distributional changes over the last two decades have been accompanied by a number of key demographic and economic developments.
D39|Income Dynamics Over the Life Cycle: New Evidence for New Zealand|This paper examines the pattern of income changes over the life cycle for both males and females, using information from a special data set compiled by the New Zealand Inland Revenue Department.
D39|Wealth Distribution and Asset Prices|No abstract is available for this item.
D39|Age-Earning Profiles|No abstract is available for this item.
D39|Estimation and Testing of Fixed Effect Models: Estimating the Union Wage Effect Using Panel Data|This paper presents estimates of the union wage effect while controlling for person specific unmeasured variables which do not change over time ('fixed effects') as well as specification tests for the person effect models commonly in use. a sample of men from the PSID, we find that controlling for a person effect POSUH in estimates of the union wage effect on the order of 5-81, as opposed to 201 in the cross section. An omnibus test based on an unrestricted reduced form and an instrumental variables test based on a differencing idea provide no evidence against the conventional model. A third test, based on a comparison of those who enter and leave union coverage, does provide evidence against the usual model.
D39|The Growth of Business Firms: Theoretical Framework and Empirical Evidence|We introduce a model of proportional growth to explain the distribution of business firm growth rates. The model predicts that it is exponential in the central part and depicts an asymptotic power-law behavior in the tails with an exponent ζ = 3. Because of data limitations, previous studies in this field have been focusing exclusively on the Laplace shape of the body of the distribution. In this article, we test the model at different levels of aggregation in the economy, from products to firms to countries, and we find that the model’s predictions agree with empirical growth distributions and size-variance relationships.
D39|A Generalized Preferential Attachment Model for Business Firms Growth Rates: II. Mathematical Treatment|We present a preferential attachment growth model to obtain the distribution P(K) of number of units K in the classes which may represent business firms or other socio-economic entities. We found that P(K) is described in its central part by a power law with an exponent φ = 2+b/(1−b) which depends on the probability of entry of new classes, b. In a particular problem of city population this distribution is equivalent to the well known Zipf law. In the absence of the new classes entry, the distribution P(K) is exponential. Using analytical form of P(K) and assuming proportional growth for units, we derive P(g), the distribution of business firm growth rates. The model predicts that P(g) has a Laplacian cusp in the central part and asymptotic power-law tails with an exponent ζ = 3. We test the analytical expressions derived using heuristic arguments by simulations. The model might also explain the size-variance relationship of the firm growth rates.
