D40|From Forward to Spot Prices: Producers, Retailers and Loss Averse Consumers in Electricity Markets|The benefits of smoothing demand peaks in the electricity market has been widely recognised. European countries such Spain and some of the Scandinavian countries have recently given to the consumers the possibility to face the spot prices instead of having a fixed tariffs determined by retailers. This paper develops a theoretical model to study the relations between risk averse consumers, retailers and producers, both in the spot and in the forward markets when consumers are able to choose between fixed tariffs and the wholesale prices. The model is calibrated on a real market case - Spain - where since 2014 spot tariffs were introduced beside the flat tariffs for household consumers. Finally, simulations of agents behavior and markets performance, depending on consumers risk aversion and the number of producers, are used to analyse the implications from the model. Our results show that the quantities the retailers and the producers trade in the forward market are positively related with the loss aversion of consumers. The quantities bought by the retailers in the forward market are negatively related with the skewness of the spot prices. On the contrary, quantity sold forward by producers are positively related with the skewness of the spot prices (high probability of getting high prices increase the forward sale) and with the total market demand. In the spot market, the degree of loss aversion of consumers determine the quantity the retailers buy in the spot market but does not have a direct effect on the spot prices.
D40|Beyond the Doomsday Economics of “Proof-of-Work” in Cryptocurrencies|This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, i.e., “proof-of-work.” Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via “double-spending” attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of “mining” income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation.
D40|Embedded supervision: how to build regulation into blockchain finance|The spread of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in finance could help to improve the efficiency and quality of supervision. This paper makes the case for embedded supervision, ie a regulatory framework that provides for compliance in tokenised markets to be automatically monitored by reading the market's ledger, thus reducing the need for firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data. After sketching out a design for such schemes, the paper explores the conditions under which distributed ledger data might be used to monitor compliance. To this end, a decentralised market is modelled that replaces today's intermediary-based verification of legal data with blockchain-enabled data credibility based on economic consensus. The key results set out the conditions under which the market's economic consensus would be strong enough to guarantee that transactions are economically final, so that supervisors can trust the distributed ledger's data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the legislative and operational requirements that would promote low-cost supervision and a level playing field for small and large firms.
D40|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D40|Pricing Better|Electronic shelf label (ESL) is an emerging price display technology around the world. While these new technologies require non-trivial investments by the retailer, they also promise significant operational efficiencies in the form of savings in material, labor and managerial costs. The presumed benefits of ESL, for example, tend to be focused around lower price adjustment costs (PAC), also known as menu costs. However, ESL not only can save PAC but may also enable the retailer to price “better,” generating greater value for the transacting parties. Thus, ESL’s strategic impact for retailers occurs between claiming these presumed efficiencies and realizing the value generating potential. Using transactions data from a longitudinal field experiment, we assess such impact of ESL by studying how it shapes retail pricing practices and outcomes. Our general finding is that ESL plays an enabling role to the retailer’s strategy – thereby enhancing the retailer’s sales and revenues. The price adjustment efficiencies of ESL allows retailers to do better waste management, price discovery, as well as leveraging value in information for consumers. However, ESL’s impact on prices is nuanced, based on the retail strategy (EDLP, HI-LO) being used. Papers quantifying emerging technologies’ impact on retail outcomes are sparse, even fewer investigating their role in pricing. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore and quantify how ESL interacts with retail strategy to affect retail pricing practices and retail outcomes.
D40|Market power and monetary policy|In this paper we explore the link between monetary policy and market power. We start by establishing several facts on market power in UK markets using micro data. First, while no clear trend emerges for market concentration, market power measured by markups estimated at the firm level have clearly increased in recent years, with the rise being reasonably broad-based across sectors. Second, we show that the increase is heavily concentrated in the upper tail of the distribution — companies whose mark-ups are in, say, the top quartile. Third, internationally-oriented firms are the driving force behind the rise in markups. Fourth, following Díez et al (2018), we find some reduced-form evidence of a non-monotonic relation between markups and investment at the firm level, with high levels of markups being associated with lower investment. Having established these facts, we show that the Phillips curve becomes steeper in the textbook New Keynesian model when firms tend to have more market power, reducing the sacrifice ratio for monetary policy. As inflation becomes less costly in an economy with high market power, however, the optimal targeting rule for monetary policy also changes. A rise in both the trend and volatility of mark-ups may lead to a significant rise in inflation variability. But a secular rise in mark-ups by itself improves monetary policy’s ability to stabilise inflation without inducing large movements in output.
D40|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|Interconnectors have value for Britain, providing access to cheaper Continental power, security of supply, and managing increased renewables, prompting proposals for substantial new interconnectors. The EU Target Electricity Model requires interconnector market coupling via Day Ahead and IntraDay Markets. We examine the efficiency and value of uncoupled and coupled trading for the four DC interconnectors to GB, over different timescales from year ahead to intraday, and the social costs and benefits not reflected in the private benefits. IFA and BritNed have a commercial value of about €500 million/yr and create additional surplus of €25 m./yr. The island of Ireland coupled on 1 Oct 2018, dramatically reducing trading inefficiency. Because the GB carbon tax is not replicated abroad it transfers some €40 m./yr to the foreign share of IFA and BritNed as well as adding distortionary costs when trade flows change. The policy implication is that while further investment in interconnectors appears socially profitable, it is important to harmonise carbon taxes across the EU. If GB leaves the EU and is uncoupled, some of these trading gains would be sacrificed, but other financial markets may alleviate the cost of Brexit, making policies to enhance liquidity desirable.
D40|The drivers of income inequality in rich countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. The marked differences in inequality trends across countries and time-periods reflect how global economic forces such as globalisation and technological change have interacted with differing national contexts and institutions. Major analytical challenges stand in the way of a consensus emerging on the relative importance of different drivers in how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
D40|The impact of price adjustment costs on price dispersion in E-commerce|We analyze price dispersion using panel data from a large price comparison site. We use past pricing behavior to instrument for potential endogeneity that might result from the selection of firms to certain product markets. We find that greater price adjustment costs result in greater price dispersion. Although the impact of price adjustment costs on price dispersion became weaker over time, the causal effect of price adjustment costs on price dispersion is still present at the end of the period. Our results are robust to many alternative empirical speciffications. We also test a range of alternative explanations of price dispersion, such as search cost, service differentiation, obfuscation, vertical restraints, and market structure.
D40|Attention-driven demand for bonus contracts|In many markets supply contracts include a series of small, regular payments made by consumers and a single, large bonus that consumers receive at some point during the contractual period. But, if for instance its production costs exceed its value to consumers, such a bonus creates inefficiencies. We offer a novel explanation for the frequent occurrence of bonus contracts, which builds on a model of attentional focusing. Our main result identifies market conditions under which bonus contracts should be observed: while a monopolist pays a bonus to consumers - if at all - only for low-value goods, firms standing in competition always - i.e., independent of the consumers’ valuation - offer bonus contracts. Thus, competition does not eliminate but rather exacerbates inefficiencies arising from contracting with focused agents. Common contract schemes in markets for electricity, telephony, and bank accounts are consistent with our model, but cannot be reconciled with alternative approaches such as models on consumption smoothing, (quasi-)hyperbolic discounting, or switching costs.
D40|Peer effects in product adoption|We study the nature of peer effects in the market for new cell phones. Our analysis builds on de-identified data from Facebook that combine information on social networks with information on users’ cell phone models. To identify peer effects, we use variation in friends’ new phone acquisitions resulting from random phone losses and carrier-specific contract terms. A new phone purchase by a friend has a substantial positive and long-term effect on an individual’s own demand for phones of the same brand, most of which is concentrated on the particular model purchased by the friend. We provide evidence that social learning contributes substantially to the observed peer effects. While peer effects increase the overall demand for cell phones, a friend’s purchase of a new phone of a particular brand can reduce individuals’ own demand for phones from competing brands—in particular those running on a different operating system. We discuss the implications of these findings for the nature of firm competition. We also find that stronger peer effects are exerted by more price-sensitive individuals. This positive correlation suggests that the elasticity of aggregate demand is substantially larger than the elasticity of individual demand. Through this channel, peer effects reduce firms’ markups and, in many models, contribute to higher consumer surplus and more efficient resource allocation.
D40|Is There a Gender Wage Gap in Online Labor Markets? Evidence from Over 250,000 Projects and 2.5 Million Wage Bill Proposals|We explore whether there is a gender wage gap in one of the largest EU online labor markets, PeoplePerHour. Our unique dataset consists of 257,111 digitally tradeable tasks of 55,824 hiring employers from 188 countries and 65,010 workers from 173 countries that made more than 2.5 million wage bill proposals in the competition for contracts. Our data allows us to track the complete hiring process from the employers' design of proposed contracts to the competition among workers and the final agreement between employers and successful candidates. Using Heckman and OLS estimation methods we provide empirical evidence for a statistically significant 4% gender wage gap among workers, at the project level. We also find that female workers propose lower wage bills and are more likely to win the competition for contracts. Once we include workers’ wage bill proposals in the regressions, the gender wage gap virtually disappears, i.e., it is statistically insignificant and very small in magnitude (0.3%). Our results also suggest that female workers’ higher winning probabilities associated with lower wage bill proposals lead to higher expected revenues overall. We provide empirical evidence for heterogeneity of the gender wage gap in some of the job categories, all job difficulty levels and some of the worker countries. Finally, for some subsamples we find a statistically significant but very small “reverse” gender wage gap.
D40|Monetary Equilibrium and the Cost of Banking Activity|We investigate the effects of banks’ operating costs on allocations and welfare in a low interest rate environment. We introduce an explicit production function for banks in a microfounded model where banks employ labor resources, hired on a competitive market, to run their operations. In equilibrium, this generates a spread between interest rates on loans and deposits, which naturally reflects the underlying monetary policy and the efficiency of financial intermediation. In a deflation or low inflation environment, equilibrium deposits yield zero returns. Hence, banks end up soaking up labor resources to offer deposits that do not outperform idle balances, thus reducing aggregate efficiency.
D40|Cadena Productiva de Azúcar, Confitería y Chocolatería Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen Azúcar, Confitería y Chocolatería para el período 2002 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
D40|"Beyond the doomsday economics of ""proof-of-work"" in cryptocurrencies"|"This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, ie ""proof-of-work"". Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via ""double-spending"" attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of ""mining"" income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation."
D40|Paywalls and the demand for online news|The digitisation of society has posed a challenge to news outlets. Seeking advertising revenues and facing competition for the attention of their readers, many news outlets entered the digital era with unrestricted access to their online content. More recently, news outlets have sought to restrict the amount of content available for free. We quantify the impact of introducing a paywall on the demand for news in Norway. The short-run average impact of a paywall is negative and between 3 and 4%, in the long run the effect increases to between 9 and 11%. We find heterogeneity in the response to paywalls. The largest news outlet within its market experiences larger effects than the other news outlets. After introducing a paywall, the largest news outlets face a long-run reduction in demand between 13 and 15%, as compared to the others who experience a decrease of between 8 and 11%. The timing of introducing a paywall does not seem to affect the demand response very much.
D40|Tick Size, Trading Strategies and Market Quality|We model a public limit order book (PLB) with rational investors choosing to supply or demand liquidity. Following a reduction in the tick size the effects on PLBâ€™s market quality depend on the liquidity of the stocks. Spread improves for tick-constrained stocks and deteriorates for unconstrained stocks; inside depth decreases in particular for constrained stocks, and volume increases for unconstrained stocks. The model also shows how results change when competition from a crossing network generates order flow migration. We find empirical support for these predictions by exploiting the 2014 reduction of tick size at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
D40|Breaking it Down: Competitive Costs of Cost Disclosures|Does decomposing cost of goods sold entail significant competitive costs? We examine this question using a relaxation of disaggregated manufacturing cost disclosure requirements in Korea. Our survey evidence indicates managers perceive these disclosures to provide a competitive edge to competitors. Using archival data, we find firms with distinctive cost structures and high market shares are less willing to disclose, consistent with a desire to protect cost-leadership advantages embedded in production and sourcing. Firms experience higher gross profits and lower liquidity after withholding manufacturing cost details, suggesting these disclosure decisions involve trading off competitive costs (and not managersâ€™ self-interests) against capital market benefits. At the aggregate level, industries with more nondisclosing firms subsequently experience greater profitability dispersion, suggesting uncertainty about competitorsâ€™ cost of goods sold helps drive the widely studied performance dispersion observed within industries.
D40|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|No abstract is available for this item.
D40|Skills Mismatch and Productivity in the EU|This paper analyses different dimensions of skills mismatch (notably ‘macro-economic skills mismatch’, ‘skills shortages’, and ‘on-the-job skills mismatch’) and their empirical relationship with labour productivity. Macro-economic skills mismatch arises when the skills distribution differs between the available workers and those that get hired. Skills shortages occur when employers encounter difficulties to fill their vacancies. On-the-job skills mismatch (overqualification or underqualification) refers to a discrepancy between the qualification level of a jobholder and the requirements for that particular job. Our data suggest that certain types of skills mismatch are indeed on the rise in the EU, notably skills shortages and overqualification. Other types are on a long-term declining trend (e.g. underqualification) or follow more complex patterns over time (e.g. macro-economic skills mismatch). There are also significant differences across EU Member States in the levels of these indicators. We further suggest that theoretical predictions on the relationship between skills mismatch and productivity depend on the dimension of skills mismatch considered. Our empirical analysis suggests a negative relationship between macro-economic skill mismatch and labour productivity and – as a sign of a buoyant economy - a positive relationship between skills shortages and labour productivity. With regard to on-the-job skills mismatch, our data confirm earlier findings from the economic literature: when comparing a mismatched with a well-matched worker within the same occupation, overqualification raises and underqualification reduces productivity. When comparing a mismatched with a well-matched worker within the same qualification level, overqualification reduces and underqualification increases productivity. Our results imply a positive link between skills supply and productivity. However, to realise the full potential of higher skills, skills should be labour market relevant and skilled workers need to be matched with jobs that use these skills. Therefore, upskilling policies should ideally be accompanied by policies that assure quality and labour market relevance of acquired skills, policies that foster a general upgrading of jobs such as business regulations allowing for firm entry, growth, sectoral reallocation, and policies supporting labour mobility and innovation.
D40|Using Brexit to Identify the Nature of Price Rigidities|Using price quote data that underpin the official U.K. consumer price index (CPI), we analyze the effects of the unexpected passing of the Brexit referendum to the dynamics of price adjustments. The sizable depreciation of the British pound that immediately followed Brexit works as a quasi-experiment, enabling us to study the transmission of a large common marginal cost shock to inflation as well as the distribution of prices within granular product categories. A large portion of the inflationary effect is attributable to the size of price adjustments, implying that a time-dependent price-setting model can match the response of aggregate inflation reasonably well. The state-dependent model fares better in capturing the endogenous selection of price changes at the lower end of the price distribution, however, it misses on the magnitude of the adjustment conditional on selection.
D40|What is the value of being a superhost?|We construct a search model where sellers post prices and produce goods of unknown quality. A match between a buyer and a seller reveals the quality of the seller. We look at the pricing decisions of the sellers in this environment. We then introduce a rating system whereby buyers reveal the seller's type by giving them a `star' if they are a high quality seller. We show that new sellers charge a low price to attract buyers and if they receive a star they post a high price. Furthermore, high quality sellers sell with a higher probability than new sellers. We show that welfare is higher with a ratings system. Using data on Airbnb rentals to compare the pricing decisions of Superhosts (elite rentals) to non-Superhosts we show that Superhosts: 1) charge higher prices, 2) have more bookings and 3) higher revenue than non-Super hosts.
D40|Macroeconomic Implications of Uniform Pricing|We compile a new database of grocery prices in Argentina, with over 9 million observations per day. We find uniform pricing both within and across regions—i.e., product prices almost do not vary within stores of a chain. Uniform pricing implies that prices would not change with regional conditions or shocks, particularly so if chains operate in several regions. We confirm this hypothesis using employment data. While prices in stores of chains operating almost exclusively in one region do react to changes in regional employment, stores of chains that operate in many regions do not seem to react to local labor market conditions. We study the impact of uniform pricing on estimates of local and aggregate consumption elasticities in a tractable two-region model in which firms have to set the same price in all regions. The estimated model predicts an almost one-third larger elasticity of consumption to a regional than an aggregate income shock because prices adjust more in response to aggregate shocks. This result highlights that some caution may be necessary when using regional shocks to estimate aggregate elasticities, particularly when the relevant prices are set uniformly across regions.
D40|Hotel rankings of online travel agents, channel pricing, and consumer protection|We investigate whether online travel agents (OTAs) assign hotels worse positions in their search results if these set lower hotel prices at other OTAs or on their own websites. We formally characterize how an OTA can use such a strategy to reduce price differentiation across distribution channels. Our empirical analysis shows that the position of a hotel in the search results of OTAs is better when the prices charged by the hotel on other channels are higher. This is consistent with the hypothesis that OTAs alter their search results to discipline hotels for aggressive prices on competing channels, thereby reducing the search quality for consumers.
D40|Paywalls and the demand for online news|The digitisation of society has posed a challenge to news outlets. Seeking advertising revenues and facing competition for the attention of their readers, many news outlets entered the digital era with unrestricted access to their online content. More recently, news outlets have sought to restrict the amount of content available for free. We quantify the impact of introducing a paywall on the demand for news in Norway. The short-run average impact of a paywall is negative and between 3 and 4%, in the long run the effect increases to between 9 and 11%. We find heterogeneity in the response to paywalls. The largest news outlet within its market experiences larger effects than the other news outlets. After introducing a paywall, the largest news outlets face a long-run reduction in demand between 13 and 15%, as compared to the others who experience a decrease of between 8 and 11%. The timing of introducing a paywall does not seem to affect the demand response very much.
D40|The Impact of Price Adjustment Costs on Price Dispersion in E-Commerce|We analyze price dispersion using panel data from a large price comparison site. We use past pricing behavior to instrument for potential endogeneity that might result from the selection of firms to certain product markets. We find that greater price adjustment costs result in greater price dispersion. Although the impact of price adjustment costs on price dispersion became weaker over time, the causal effect of price adjustment costs on price dispersion is still present at the end of the period. Our results are robust to many alternative empirical specifications. We also test a range of alternative explanations of price dispersion, such as search cost, service differentiation, obfuscation, vertical restraints, and market structure.
D40|On the Strategic Benefits of Diversity|This paper studies the relationship between functional diversity and team performance. The main question is whether diversity may entail strategic benefits that enable diverse teams to outperform homogenous teams even if the homogenous teams are more skilled on average, or diversity entails a direct efficiency loss a la Benabou (1996). Both ability diversity and cognitive diversity (Johnson- Laird (1983), Page (2008)) are studied, and the paper also considers the role of Becker and Murphy (1992)-type coordination costs. In all cases, the main message is that effort adjustments set off by greater diversity may significantly change the outcome in comparison with an assessment based on the more familiar direct effects. For example, a diverse team may outperform a homogenous team even if the elasticity of substitution is positive and less capable individuals therefore “drag down” the more capable individuals productivities; and under the same condition, a “superstar” may outperform a cognitively diverse team even though a positive elasticity of substitution implies decreasing returns to talent in the sense of Rosen (1981). The paper discusses the implications of these findings for the general diversity debate, for optimal team selection, and for market salaries. The main insights, as well as the tools developed to reach those insights, are very general and extend to other contexts where diversity plays a role.
D40|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D40|Pricing Better|Electronic shelf label (ESL) is an emerging price display technology around the world. While these new technologies require non-trivial investments by the retailer, they also promise significant operational efficiencies in the form of savings in material, labor and managerial costs. The presumed benefits of ESL, for example, tend to be focused around lower price adjustment costs (PAC), also known as menu costs. However, ESL not only can save PAC but may also enable the retailer to price “better,” generating greater value for the transacting parties. Thus, ESL’s strategic impact for retailers occurs between claiming these presumed efficiencies and realizing the value generating potential. Using transactions data from a longitudinal field experiment, we assess such impact of ESL by studying how it shapes retail pricing practices and outcomes. Our general finding is that ESL plays an enabling role to the retailer’s strategy – thereby enhancing the retailer’s sales and revenues. The price adjustment efficiencies of ESL allows retailers to do better waste management, price discovery, as well as leveraging value in information for consumers. However, ESL’s impact on prices is nuanced, based on the retail strategy (EDLP, HI-LO) being used. Papers quantifying emerging technologies’ impact on retail outcomes are sparse, even fewer investigating their role in pricing. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore and quantify how ESL interacts with retail strategy to affect retail pricing practices and retail outcomes.
D40|A Multi-Stage Market Game that Implements any Walrasian Allocation in any Pure-Exchange Environment|This paper studies retrading in a multi-stage Shapley--Shubik structure market game with symmetric limit orders and a finite number of agents. Without restrictions on preferences and endowments, a constructive proof is used to show that any Walrasian allocation can be implemented by a Markov perfect equilibrium if agents are allowed to retrade for a finite number of rounds before they consume. As part of the proof, we give a closed form expression for the required number of rounds, which depends on the Walrasian allocation and the selection of a numeraire.
D40|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
D40|A quantum framework for economic science: New directions|The current paper explores the cutting-edge applications of quantum field theory and quantum information theory modelling in different areas of economic science, namely, in the behavioural modelling of agents under market uncertainty, and mathematical modelling of asset or option prices and firm theory. The paper then provides a brief discussion into a possible extension of the extant literature of quantum-like modelling based on scattering theory and statistical field theory. A statistical theory of firm based on Feynman path integral technique is also proposed very recently. The collage of new initiatives as described in the current paper will hopefully ignite still newer ideas.
D40|Price-cost margin and bargaining power in the European Union|Using firm-level data between 2004 and 2012 for eleven countries of the European Union (EU), we document the size of product and labour market imperfections within narrowly defined sectors including services which are virtually undocumented. Our findings suggest that perfect competition in both product and labour markets is widely rejected. Levels of the price-cost margin and union bargaining power tend to be higher in some service sectors depicting however substantial heterogeneity. Dispersion within sector and across countries tends to be higher in some services sectors assuming a less tradable nature which suggests that the Single Market integration is partial particularly relaxing the assumption of perfect competition in the labour market. We report also figures for the aggregate economy and show that Eastern countries tend to depict lower product and labour market imperfections compared to other countries in the EU. Also, we provide evidence in favour of a very limited adjustment of both product and labour market imperfections following the international and financial crisis.
D40|The new media economics of video-on-demand markets: Lessons for competition policy (updated version)|"The markets for audiovisual content are subject to dynamic change. Where once ""traditional"" (free-to-air, cable, satellite) television was dominating, i.e. linear audiovisual media services, markets display nowadays strong growth of different types of video-on-demand (VoD), i.e. nonlinear audiovisual media services, including both Paid-for VoD like Amazon Prime and Netflix and Advertised-financed VoD like YouTube. Competition policy decisions in such dynamic markets are always particularly challenging. The German competition authority was presented such a challenge when, at the beginning of the 2010s, German television providers sought to enter online VoD markets with the help of cooperative platforms. We review the antitrust concerns that were raised back then in an ex post analysis. In doing so, we first discuss the dynamic development of the German VoD markets during the last decade. In the second part of this paper, we derive four aspects, in which the previous antitrust analysis cannot be upheld from today's perspective. First, relevant implications of modern platform economics were neglected. Second, some inconsistencies in the assessment of the two projects appear to be inappropriate. Third, the emerging competitive pressure of international VoD providers was strongly underestimated. Fourth, the question of market power in online advertising markets looks very different at the end of the decade."
D40|Hedging costs and joint determinants of premiums and spreads in structured financial products|This paper is the first to analyze the joint determinants of premiums and spreads in structured financial products, while also focusing on issuers' hedging costs. We evaluate more than 396,000 single stock discount certificates on an intraday basis in the German secondary market. We find that premiums and spreads are endogenous and negatively related to each other, and depend on different key determinants. The economically significant determinants of the premiums are mainly profit-related, i.e. dividends of the underlying, issuers' credit risk, lifecycle effect and competition, whereas hedging costs and risks are economically less important. However, initial hedging costs are also priced into the premium in the case of large inventory changes. The spread is mostly determined by hedging costs and risk components, such as initial hedging costs, rebalancing costs, volatility, scalper risk, and overnight gap risk, but also depends on dividends. Initial hedging costs appear to be more relevant than rebalancing costs.
D40|How dynamic hedging affects stock price movements: Evidence from German option and certificate markets|We examine the impact of dynamic hedging demand of German option and discount certificate markets on the autocorrelation of German stock price changes. We theoretically model the demand of liquidity providers in the discount certificate market, a structured financial product with a concave payoff profile, asking whether dynamic hedging by certificate issuers induces negative return autocorrelation in stock markets. We find empirical evidence that the hedging demand of option issuers has a positive impact on return autocorrelation, while the opposite holds for certificate issuers, whose hedging demand enhances the negative return autocorrelation in the stock market. We thus theoretically and empirically provide evidence that there are persistent spillover effects from option and certificate markets to stock markets due to dynamic hedging activities.
D40| Does sentiment harm market efficiency? An empirical analysis using a betting exchange setting| This paper investigates whether the sentimental preferences of investors influence market efficiency. We use a betting exchange market environment to analyze the influence of sentimental bettors on market efficiency in 2,333 soccer matches played between 2006-2014 during the last three hours of the pre-play period. Contrary to bookmaker markets, there is no intermediary in a betting exchange and, thus, the market prices solely reflect the beliefs of person to person betting. We use three different proxy variables to measure the bettor sentiment and find that price changes are more likely to be inefficient for betting events that are more prone to sentiment. Based on that finding, we propose a trading strategy that generates positive returns before considering the transaction costs and commission fees. Although the returns turn negative after considering the transaction costs and commission fees, the proposed trading strategy still outperforms a random betting strategy.
D40|Pre-Match Investment Competition with Bounded Transfers|This paper studies pre-match investment competition with upper and lower bounds on feasible transfers to sellers in a general signaling environment, where the types of buyers and sellers are private information and the surplus may depend on both types and investments. Bounded transfers create methodological challenges - e.g., externalities in the bottom match, limits of a separate investment reward (or market utility) schedule for each side - that would be present even in a large market. To overcome such challenges, this paper proposes a notion of equilibrium that incorporates strategic behavior of a continuum of agents. Given our notion of equilibrium with bounded transfers, our model explains remarkably well why sellers and buyers in the bottom tail of the match distribution are stuck in a vicious cycle of a rat race, and how stars who stand out from the rest endogenously arise through pre-match investment competition.
D40|Peer Effects in Product Adoption|We study the nature of peer effects in the market for new cell phones. Our analysis builds on de-identified data from Facebook that combine information on social networks with information on users' cell phone models. To identify peer effects, we use variation in friends' new phone acquisitions resulting from random phone losses and carrier-specific contract terms. A new phone purchase by a friend has a substantial positive and long-term effect on an individual's own demand for phones of the same brand, most of which is concentrated on the particular model purchased by the friend. We provide evidence that social learning contributes substantially to the observed peer effects. While peer effects increase the overall demand for cell phones, a friend's purchase of a new phone of a particular brand can reduce individuals' own demand for phones from competing brands---in particular those running on a different operating system. We discuss the implications of these findings for the nature of firm competition. We also find that stronger peer effects are exerted by more price-sensitive individuals. This positive correlation suggests that the elasticity of aggregate demand is substantially larger than the elasticity of individual demand. Through this channel, peer effects reduce firms' markups and, in many models, contribute to higher consumer surplus and more efficient resource allocation.
D40|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
D40|Too Little Lending: A Problem of Symmetric Information|In a simple model of the consumer credit market, we show that asymmetric information may enhance welfare relative to full information. The advantage of hidden types is that solvency and default constraints are relaxed, allowing beneficial lending. Prohibiting the use of observable information may therefore be efficient. It is also shown that rather than the nature of borrower heterogeneity, whether asymmetric information involves adverse or advantageous selection depends on the magnitude of default costs. Even when selection is adverse, lending and welfare may be higher under asymmetric information than under symmetric information.
D40|Social power as a solution to the Bertrand Paradox|We show that in a duopoly with homogeneous consumers, if these are negatively influenceable by each other behavior (e.g. congestion/ snob/ Veblen/ network effects), a pure price equilibrium with positive profits for both firms exists. Furthermore, even in the case products are undifferentiated, an equilibrium where firms charge different (positive) prices and have different profits exists. Thus, when firms engage in uniform price competition, heterogeneity, and in particular non-atomicity in the distribution of preferences, is neither a necessary condition to ensure existence, nor to achieve asymmetries. We further show that in the case products are differentiated, social differentiation overcomes the effect of standard differentiation in creating price asymmetries.
D40|Oil and pump prices: Is there any asymmetry in the Greek oil downstream sector?|The aim of this study is to assess whether fuel prices in Greece respond asymmetrically to changes in the global oil prices. To do so, we depart from the current practice in the literature that focuses on fuel prices. Rather, we consider the mark-up of both the refineries and retailers. Even more, unlike the bulk of the existing literature, we take into consideration the whole supply chain, i.e. both the refineries and the retail fuel sector. Hence, we first assess whether the refineries’ mark-up responds asymmetrically to the global oil prices and subsequently whether the retailers’ mark-up shows an asymmetric behaviour relatively to changes in the refineries’ fuel prices. Our findings show that the Greek fuel retailers do not change their mark-up behaviour based on changes of the refined fuel price. By contrast, the asymmetric behaviour is evident in the refineries mark-up relatively to changes in the global oil prices, which is then passed through to the retailers and consumers. Finally, we convincingly show that weekly and monthly data mask any such asymmetric relationship. Thus, we maintain that unless the appropriate data frequency, fuel price transformations and the whole supply chain are considered, misleading findings could be revealed.
D40|What is the Impact of Increased Business Competition?|This paper studies the impact of a structural reform that reduces entry costs for firms. We provide novel empirical evidence on the response of firms’ entry, employment, and exit behavior. To do so, we use as a natural experiment a reform in Portugal that significantly reduced entry time and costs. We find that the reform had an expansionary impact: firm entry and employment increased by 25% and 4% per year, respectively. Moreover, around 60% of the increase in employment came from incumbent firms expanding their size, with most of the rise occurring among the firms that were the most productive before the reform. Standard models of entry, exit, and firm dynamics, which assume a constant elasticity of substitution, are inconsistent with our findings about the heterogeneous response of incumbents to the reform. We show that a model with heterogeneous firms and variable markups accounts for our evidence. In this framework, the most productive firms face a lower demand elasticity and increase their employment in response to the entry of new firms.
D40|Uniform Pricing Within and Across Regions: New Evidence from Argentina|We compile a new database of grocery prices in Argentina, with over 9 million observations per day. Our main novel inding is that product prices almost do not vary within stores of a chain (i.e., uniform pricing). We also find that prices do not change significantly with regional conditions or shocks, particularly so for chains that operate in many regions. To study the impact of uniform pricing on both consumers and firms, this paper uses a tractable model based on the trade literature. Motivated by our empirical findings, each firm has to set the same price in both regions. Relative to a counterfactual in which firms can set different prices across regions (i.e., flexible pricing), uniform pricing reduces firms’ profits by 0.4%. Consumers, however, prefer uniform pricing and are willing to give up 6.7% of their income to avoid flexible pricing in the baseline model. The effect on consumers, however, depends on how much uniform pricing limits firms’ power to extract consumer surplus and how heterogeneous the regions are.
D40|What is the Value of Being a Superhost?|We construct a search model where sellers post prices and produce goods of unknown quality. A match reveals the quality of the seller. Buyers rate sellers based on quality. We show that unrated sellers charge a low price to attract buyers and that highly rated sellers post a high price and sell with a higher probability than unrated sellers. We fi nd that welfare is higher with a ratings system. Using data on Airbnb rentals, we show that Superhosts and hosts with high ratings: 1) charge higher prices, 2) have a higher occupancy rate and 3) higher revenue than average hosts.
D40|The Effect of Anchoring on Dishonest Behavior|This study conducts experiments on dishonest behavior after anchoring the participants' expected reward to investigate the effect of anchoring on dishonest behavior. The experimental results show that those who are anchored to high reward behave less honestly than those anchored to low reward. This is because the anchoring changes participants' expected reward. Such a change in expected reward serve as participants' reference point to affect the likelihood of facing a loss frame where dishonest behaviors are more likely to occur.
D40|Competition and Firm Productivity: Evidence from Portugal|This paper presents empirical evidence on the impact of competition on firm productivity for the Portuguese economy. To that effect, firm-level panel data comprising information between 2010 and 2015 gathered from the Integrated Business Accounts System (Portuguese acronym: SCIE) is used. The database enables the construction of economic and financial indicators, which allow for isolating the impact of competition on firm-level productivity. We find a positive relationship between competition and both total factor productivity and labor productivity. This relationship is found to be robust to different specifications and in accordance with the results in the literature obtained for other countries.
D40|Productivity, wages and profits: Does firms’ position in the value chain matter?|This paper is the first to estimate the impact of a direct measure of firm-level upstreamness on productivity, wage costs and profits (i.e. productivity-wage gaps). To do so, we merged detailed Belgian linked panel data, covering all years from 2002 to 2010, to a unique data set developed by Dhyne et al. (2015), which contains accurate information on the position of (almost) each commercial firm in the value chain at each year. We rely on the methodological framework that has been pioneered by Hellerstein et al. (1999) to estimate dynamic panel data models at the firm level. Our estimates show that if upstreamness increases by one step (that is, by approximately, one standard deviation), productivity rises on average by 5%. They also indicate that productivity gains associated to upstreamness are shared almost equally between wages and profits. However, upstreamness is found to be more beneficial for workers’ wages in less competitive environments, where the price-elasticity of demand for firms’ products is typically smaller. Overall, these findings are compatible with the assertion that firms should move up the value chain to be more productive and profitable, but also that being higher in the value chain is likely to facilitate firms’ control over strategic downstream activities. Our results can also be understood through the application of the Melitz (2003) model to the value chain framework.
D40|Integrability and Generalized Separability|This paper examines demand systems where the demand for a good depends only on its own price, consumer income, and a single aggregator synthesizing information on all other prices. This generalizes directly-separable preferences where the Lagrange multiplier provides such an aggregator. As indicated by Gorman (1972), symmetry of the Slutsky substitution terms implies that such demand can take only one of two simple forms. Conversely, here we show that only weak conditions ensure that such demand systems are integrable, i.e. can be derived from the maximization of a well-behaved utility function. This paper further studies useful properties and applications of these demand systems.
D40|Regulatory framework for the loan-based crowdfunding platforms|In a growing number of OECD countries policymakers are designing specific regulations for lending-based crowdfunding platforms. In March 2018, as a part of its Fintech action plan, the European Commission also presented its proposal for the EU-wide passporting regime. To evaluate these new regimes, this study collects information about the regulation of lending-based crowdfunding platforms in 17 OECD countries and proposes a theoretical framework to reflect about different regulatory regimes. In this context, we explore market failures in lending-based crowdfunding and identify regulatory challenges. Although lending-based crowdfunding platforms do not technically perform risk and maturity transformation, in some countries, flexible regulation allows them to experiment with different business models to provide services of credit risk management (via risk grades, provision funds, automated lending) and liquidity provision (via secondary markets). These platforms could perform the same functions as banks in the future, but there are theoretical reasons to believe that platform-based intermediation could be more stable than banking intermediation. The success of lending-based crowdfunding platforms hinges on their ability to solve moral hazard issues and overcome significant barriers to entry related to scale and scope economies, adverse selection, as well as funding cost advantage of incumbent large banks. There are also risks related to an excessive reliance on funding of leveraged and ‘too big to fail’ institutional investors that are prone to runs and moral hazard problems.
D40|Perception Versus Reality - Competitive Balance In Major League Soccer From 1996 – 2016|For different sports leagues, studies show the positive effect of competitive balance on fan interest and consequently revenues. Particularly for Northern American leagues, competitive balance is a core concept in the construction of such, also to ensure financial stability of teams. Nevertheless, most studies in the literature concentrate on measuring competitive balance in European football leagues. To enhance the existing literature, our paper analyzes competitive balance in Major League Soccer (MLS), a comparatively young and therefore still developing league. To encompass ex-post results, as well as the ex-ante perception of fans if a league or match is uncertain in its outcome, we distinguish between ´actual´ and ´perceived´ competitive balance. Based on compiled data for MLS from 1996 until 2016 we measure the ´actual´ level of competitive balance in MLS with several commonly used competitive balance measures. Considering the corresponding decimal odds predictions and team wage bill information from 2006 until 2016, the ´perceived´ competitive balance is measured using a seemingly unrelated regression and further explanatory statistics. While the results of the ´actual´ competitive balance measurements indicate a league that becomes more balanced over time, the perception points towards an imbalanced league with clear favorites and reduced uncertainty of outcome.
D40|Long Run Trends and Fluctuations In Cotton Prices|One revelation from the 2008 Global Financial Crisis was the fragility of models and assumptions based on samples too short to include periods of high volatility, and this study attempts to remedy that short-coming for USDA’s development of long run cotton price projections. Real cotton prices have fallen significantly since 1900, but statistical verification of the presence of a long-run downward trend has proven elusive. Cotton price volatility has varied widely over the last 226 years, largely correlated with macroeconomic instability. Cotton’s period of greatest instability—during the U.S. Civil War—was primarily driven by cotton-specific trade and production disruptions, but since the Civil War, cotton volatility has largely coincided with broader commodity price volatility. One of cotton’s most volatility\e episodes since 18th century occurred over 2009-12, and was in part a consequence of nearly unprecedented macroeconomic instability and, in part due to factors specific to cotton markets. Looking ahead, cotton price volatility over 2018-27 is likely to be greater than the volatility experienced during 2016-17, when volatility was unusually low, likely reduced by China’s large sales from its National Reserve.
D40|An internally consistent approach to the estimation of market power and cost efficiency with an application to U.S. banking|We develop a novel unified econometric methodology for the formal examination of the market power – cost efficiency nexus. Our approach can meaningfully accommodate a mutually dependent relationship between the firm’s cost efficiency and marker power (as measured by the Lerner index) by explicitly modeling the simultaneous determination of the two in a system of nonlinear equations consisting of the firm’s cost frontier and the revenue-to-cost ratio equation derived from its stochastic revenue function. Our framework places no a priori restrictions on the sign of the dependence between the firm’s market power and efficiency as well as allows for different hierarchical orderings between the two, enabling us to discriminate between competing quiet life and efficient structure hypotheses. Among other benefits, our approach completely obviates the need for second-stage regressions of the cost efficiency estimates on the constructed market power measures which, while widely prevalent in the literature, suffer from multiple econometric problems as well as lack internal consistency/validity. We showcase our methodology by applying it to a panel of U.S. commercial banks in 1984–2007 using Bayesian MCMC methods.
D40|Market Mechanism in the View of Ibn Taymiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taymiyya reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept on justice.
D40|Market Mechanism in the View Of Ibn Taimiyyah|The advancement of the economy is heavily dependent on market conditions. The market brings together the sellers and buyers, to conduct transactions on goods and services (supply and demand). Balance in supply and demand is needed to maintain economic stability. Market urgency attracts the characters to put forward their theories of both Islamic and western thinkers. Islam is a divine religion that brings the benefit of the afterlife. Islam has different views and thoughts about market mechanisms. This thinking precedes what western thinkers have expressed. Ibn Taimiyyah reveals five concepts in the development of market mechanisms, namely fair prices, fair markets, fair profit concepts, the concept of fair wages and aims for society. The essence of Ibn Taimiyyah's thought is about the justice of the ummah. Broadly speaking Ibn Khaldun thought of concept of justice.
D40|Negara, ekonomi dan pasar: Analisis institusi hisbah dan kontribusinya dalam perspektif al-Mawardi<BR>[Countries, economy and markets: Analysis of hisbah institution and its contribution to Al-Mawardi perspective]|The capitalist and socialist economy throughout the history of economic thought can not factually bring about market justice and even tends to be distorted due to the weakening of economic ethics and the absence of the institutions that oversee the market. This article uses the method of content analysis and critical historical method in revealing the history of Islamic economic thought about the issue. The conclusion of this paper asserts that the state, economy, and market are inseparable in creating economic justice, one of which is al-Mawardi's idea of the institution of hisbah which plays a role in controlling and overseeing economic activity.
D40|Dynamic Price Discrimination in Airlines|Prices for the same flight change substantially depending on the time of purchase. Labeling this time-variation as discriminatory is misleading because the cost of an unsold airline seat changes with inventory, days before departure and aggregate demand expectations. This paper uses a unique dataset with round-the-clock posted fares to identify a dynamic price discrimination component. Consistent with agents forming expectations of future prices, we find higher prices during office hours (when business travelers are likely to buy tickets) and lower prices in the evening (when leisure travelers are more likely to purchase). As the proportion of business travelers increases closer to departure, both price dispersion and price discrimination become larger. We also find that price discrimination is more pronounced for low cost carriers than for legacy carriers.
D40|Testing the Quiet Life Hypothesis in the African Banking Industry|Abstract The Quiet Life Hypothesis (QLH) is the pursuit of less efficiency by firms. In this study, we assess if powerful banks in the African banking industry are increasing financial access. The QLH is therefore consistent with the pursuit of financial intermediation inefficiency by large banks. To investigate the hypothesis, we first estimate the Lerner index. Then, using Two Stage Least Squares, we assess the effect of the Lerner index on financial access proxied by loan price and loan quantity. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 162 banks from 42 countries for the period 2001–2011. The findings support the QLH, although quiet life is driven by the below-median Lerner index sub-sample. Policy implications are discussed.
D40|Free-on-board and uniform delivered pricing strategies in pure and mixed spatial duopolies: the strategic role of cooperatives|The present work analyzes free-on-board against uniform delivered strategic prices in pure and mixed duopolistic spatial markets with reference to the food sector. Along with investor owned firms (IOFs) that maximize profits, we introduce member welfare maximizing cooperatives (COOPs) and examine their impact on the strategic pricing choices. Demand is price responsive. We use a two stage game between two IOFs, between an IOF and a COOP, and between two COOPs. The findings indicate that the introduction of COOPs acts as a disciplinary factor regarding the pricing behavior of the IOFs. As competition in the spatial market escalates, we move from the quasi--collusive (FOB,FOB) Nash equilibrium, where there are only IOFs in the market, to the more aggressive (UD,UD) strategic pricing configuration where COOPs replace one or both IOFs in the market.
D40|The Drivers of Inequality in Rich Countries|Rising income inequality has recently come centre-stage as a core societal concern for rich countries. The diagnosis of the forces driving inequality upwards and their relative importance remains hotly contested, notably with respect to the roles of globalization versus technology and of market forces versus institutions and policy choices. This survey provides a critical review and synthesis of recent research. The focus is on income inequality across the entire distribution, rather than only on what has been happening at the very top. We pay particular attention to including what has been learned from the analysis of micro-data, to ensuring that the coverage is not unduly US-centric, and to analyses of the interrelations between the different drivers of inequality. We conclude by highlighting key gaps in knowledge and clarifying what stands in the way of a consensus emerging about the contribution of the various forces affecting how income inequality has evolved in recent decades.
D40|Thai Inflation Dynamics: A View from Micro CPI Data|This paper examines the patterns of price adjustment at the micro level in order to further our understanding of price rigidity at the aggregate level. We highlight 5 stylized facts: 1) Prices change infrequently with a mean duration of approximately 4 to 7 months between price changes; 2) Price decreases are common accounting for roughly 45 percent of all price changes; 3) Price changes, both increases and decreases, are sizable compared to the prevailing in ation rate; 4) The size of price changes covaries strongly with the rate of in ation, whereas the fraction of items changing prices does not; and 5) There is signi cant dispersion in price levels as well as in the synchronicity of price changes across geographical regions. Based on a dynamic factor model, we also utilize prices at the disaggregated level to perform an in ation decomposition to understand the underlying driving factors of in ation. The key ndings are: 1) Prices at the micro level are driven mainly by idiosyncratic shocks but these shocks become less important for CPI in ation at the aggregate level; 2) Pure in ation which drives long-term price movements in Thailand is responsible for approximately 10 percent of overall price movements; 3) More than half of all within-quarter uctuations can be classi ed as relative price changes in response to aggregate shocks; 4) The short-run in ation-output tradeoff which appears weak in aggregate data becomes much stronger once volatile idiosyncratic price changes are removed.
D40|Consumer exploitation and notice periods|Firms often set long notice periods when consumers cancel a contract, and sometimes do so even when the costs of changing or canceling the contract are small. We investigate a model in which a firm offers a contract to consumers who may procrastinate canceling it due to naive present-bias. We show that the firm may set a long notice period to exploit naive consumers.
D40|A new price test in geographic market definition – an application to german retail gasoline market|Market delineation is a fundamental tool in modern antitrust analysis. However, the definition of re- levant markets can be very difficult in practice. This preliminary draft applies a new methodology combining a simple price correlation test with hierarchical clustering -a method known from machine learning- in order to analyze the competitive situation in the German retail gasoline market. Our analysis reveals two remarkable results: At first, there is a uniform pattern across stations of the same brand regarding their maximum daily prices which confirms the claim that prices are partly set centrally. But more importantly, price reactions are also influenced by regional or local market conditions as the price setting of gasoline stations is strongly affected by commuter routes.
D40|Bribes vs. Taxes: Market Structure and Incentives|Firms in developing countries often avoid paying taxes by making informal payments to tax officials. These bribes may raise the cost of operating a business, and the price charged to consumers. To decrease these costs, we designed a feedback incentive scheme for business tax inspectors that rewards them according to the anonymous evaluation submitted by inspected firms. We show theoretically that feedback incentives decrease the equilibrium bribe amount, but make firms with more inelastic demand more attractive for inspectors. A tilted scheme that attaches higher weights to the evaluation of smaller firms limits the scope for targeting and decreases the bribe amount to a lesser extent. We evaluate both schemes in a field experiment in the Kyrgyz Republic and find evidence that is consistent with the model predictions. By decreasing bribes, our intervention reduces the average cost for firms and the price they charge to consumers. Since fewer firms substitute bribes for taxes, tax revenues increase. Our study highlights the role of firm heterogeneity and market structure in shaping the relationship between firms and tax inspectors, and provides clear evidence of pass-through of bribes to consumers.
D40|The pricing of FX forward contracts: Micro evidence from banks' dollar hedging|Using transaction-level data on foreign exchange (FX) forward contracts, we document large demand-driven heterogeneity in banks' dollar hedging costs. For identification, we exploit regulatory end-of-quarter reporting that penalizes banks' currency exposure with capital surcharges. Contracts that reduce quarter-end currency exposure trade at higher prices, specifically for banks with high dollar funding gaps and high leverage, while access to internal dollar capital markets and bargaining power reduces prices. Spreads between similar contracts with and without initial margin widen with leverage. Our results suggest that banks' shadow costs of capital are important for the international propagation of shocks through FX derivatives markets.
D40|Liquidity Requirements, Free-Riding, and the Implications for Financial Stability Evidence from the Early 1900s|Maintaining sufficient liquidity in the financial system is vital for financial stability. However, since returns on liquid assets are typically low, individual financial institutions may seek to hold fewer such assets, especially if they believe they can rely on other institutions for liquidity support. We examine whether state banks in the early 1900s took advantage of relatively high cash balances maintained by national banks, due to reserve requirements, to hold less cash themselves. We find that state banks did hold less cash in places where both state legal requirements were lower and national banks were more prevalent.
D40|The impact of large-scale social protection interventions on grain prices in poor countries: Evidence from Ethiopia|There has long been concern that cash and in-kind transfers might affect prices in developing country food markets. While there have been a number of studies at highly aggregated levels, much less is known about the effects of cash transfers on local food prices and even less about how they compare to food transfers. We consider this issue in the context of a large social protection intervention, Ethiopia’s Productive Safety Net Programme. Using 12 months of price data from 233 localities and controlling for temporal, location, and market characteristics we find: Cash transfers have no effect on food prices. There is some evidence that food transfers reduce food prices. Maize transfers reduce aggregate grain prices, wheat transfers reduce the price of maize, and the negative effect of food transfers on food prices is larger in more remote markets. However, the magnitudes of these effects are trivially small, both in absolute and percentage terms.
D40|Machine learning with screens for detecting bid-rigging cartels|We combine machine learning techniques with statistical screens computed from the distribution of bids in tenders within the Swiss construction sector to predict collusion through bid-rigging cartels. We assess the out of sample performance of this approach and find it to correctly classify more than 84% of the total of bidding processes as collusive or non-collusive. We also discuss tradeoffs in reducing false positive vs. false negative predictions and find that false negative predictions increase much faster in reducing false positive predictions. Finally, we discuss policy implications of our method for competition agencies aiming at detecting bid-rigging cartels.
D40|Evaluation of best price clauses in online hotel bookings|We analyze the best price clauses (BPCs) of online travel agents (OTAs) using meta-search price data of nearly 30,000 hotels in different countries. We find that BPCs influence the pricing and availability of hotel rooms across online sales channels. In particular, hotels publish their offers more often at Booking.com when the OTA does not use the narrow BPC, and also tend to promote the direct online channel more actively. Moreover, the abolition of Booking.com’s narrow BPC is associated with the direct channel of chain hotels having the strictly lowest price more often.
D40|Convenience pricing in online retailing: Evidence from Amazon.com|To expedite payments, firms use convenience pricing strategies. A price is considered convenient if it can be paid with few coins. Convenient prices are well understood in offline retailing, but not online. This article fills the gap, examining an original panel dataset more than 2.5 million observations of book prices from Amazon.com. We provide empirical evidence supporting two claims. First in a static setup, more convenient prices are more likely to be set. Second in a dynamic setup, more convenient prices are more rigid. Emphasizing the role of convenience, this work sheds new light on price setting in online retailing.
D40|The origins, development, and fate of Clower's “stock-flow” general-equilibrium programme|No abstract is available for this item.
D40|Incertitude de classement final et affluence en Ligue 1 française de football : une nouvelle approche|This study proposes a new method for estimating supporters? attendance in considering uncertainty about the games results and the final ranking of teams. Outcome uncertainty is expressed by some probabilities, which is determined according to the gap between team qualities. In this turn, the qualities of teams are randomly estimated by average wages of their players. However, unlike previous studies, these probabilities are further adjusted according to the past results of these specific teams during the championship. Moreover, instead of relying on an aggregate indicator to estimate the uncertainty about the final ranking, we estimate the probability of each possible final ranking. This procedure allows us to make use of a more complete information statistics in estimation than usually done in this kind of studies. We provide three main results. First, the effect that uncertainty about the match outcome has on supporters? attendance is positive, significant and non-linear. Second, concerning the final ranking, we identify two opposite effects on supporter?s behaviour. While their attendance is inversely related to the gap between the position of their preferred team and its followers in the ongoing ranking, their attendance is also higher if the gap between each teams in the final ranking is sufficiently low. Third, supporters? attendance is not linearly decreasing with the position of the supported team in the championship, but this link presents a sinusoidal curve. The reason is that supporters? attendance also depends on the likelihood of their team to accede to Europea League during the next season, and also on the likelihood of their team being drawn out of ?Ligue?1? at the end of the season. We also show that supporters? attendance is directly proportional to the uncertainty level about the championship final victory. In particular, the attractiveness of the championship is negatively affected by the recent financial power of PSG.
D40|A growth theory of professional services|IMost of the current economic literature on growth has focused on products and manufacturing. But professional services differ from manufactured products because their value stems from an interaction with the customer, while products value stems from technology. Therefore, growing a professional service is not about investing in technology but rather about increasing the amount of interactions that can be performed with the same level of quality. This article thus proposes a quality based theory of growth. The proposed theory is shown to explain professional services observed empirical growth patterns with respect to age and size. It also shows that in professional services, growth can either be competition-driven or opportunity-driven depending in the importance of the client interaction in the service delivery. Finally, it is able to capture most of the known growth heterogeneity sources in terms of market and services characteristics.
D40|Airbnb in Paris : quel impact sur l’industrie hôtelière?|In many cities around the world short-term housing platforms have become an alternative in the eyes of tourists. These new players, led by Airbnb, are disrupting the market, raising concerns from the hotel industry and public authorities. Using data from hotels and Airbnb in Paris, this paper proposes a new methodology for measuring the competitive pressure exerted by Airbnb on the hotel industry. The results indicate that an increase in the number of Airbnb hosts close to a hotel leads the hotel to reduce its price. This effect is amplified on weekend evenings.
D40|Trade Policy and Market Power: Firm-level Evidence|This paper identifies the effect of trade policy on market power through new data and a new identication strategy. We use a large dataset containing export values and quantities by product and destination for all exporting firms in 12 developing and emerging countries over several years, merged with destination-product specific information on tariffs and non-tariff barriers. We identify market power by observing how exporting firms price discriminate across markets in reaction to variations in bilateral exchange rates. Pricing-to-market is prevalent in all regions of our sample, even among small firms, although it is increasing in firm size, in accordance with theory. More importantly, we find that the effect of non-tariff measures is not isomorphic to that of tariffs: the pricing-to-market behavior we observe suggests that, while tariffs reduce the market power of foreign firms through classic rent-shifting effects, non-tariff measures alter market structure and reinforce the market power of non-exiting firms, domestic and foreign ones alike. Keywords: Trade policy, non-tariff measures, tariffs, exchange rate, price discrimination
D40|Risker och kostnader för prissamordningar på den svenska generikamarknaden|Företag som ofta möter varandra på en eller flera marknader kan ibland genom att observera varandras tidigare priser lyckas samordna sina priser. Konkurrensen sätts då ur spel och priserna blir högre än de annars skulle ha varit. I denna rapport visar vi att den svenska generikamarknaden har många egenskaper som underlättar prissamordning, exempelvis att priserna kan ändras varje månad, att företagen lätt kan observera varandras priser, och att konkurrensen främst sker i en variabel, priser. Vi redogör även för empiriska resultat som indikerar att prissamordningar ibland förekommer på marknaden, samt att dessa då orsakar läkemedelsförmånen och konsumenterna betydande merkostnader. Dessa uppskatter vi till i storleksordningen 50 till 200 miljoner kronor per år. Ett sätt att minska risken för prissamordning är att förlänga tiden mellan att företag kan observera konkurrenters priser och att de kan ändra sina egna priser. Det är sedan länge välkänt inom nationalekonomin att denna tid har en avgörande betydelse för risken för prissamordning. Tiden kan förlängas genom att priserna endast tillåts ändras exempelvis kvartalsvis eller halvårsvis och/eller genom att kräva att företagen meddelar sina priser längre tid i förväg innan prisperioderna börjar. En förlängning av prisperioderna till 3-6 månader skulle troligen ha mycket små oönskade effekter samtidigt som det skulle minska möjligheterna för företag att samordna sina priser. Sammantaget skulle därför en sådan förändring troligen minska läkemedelsförmånens och konsumenternas kostnader. Ett annat sätt att minska risken för att företag samordnar sina priser är att sänka marknadsandelen för periodens vara genom att minska kraven att de förskrivna varorna byts ut på apoteken. Detta skulle öka betydelsen av andra faktorer än priset och göra det svårare för företag att över tid dela försäljningen lika, vilket minskar risken för prissamordning. En tidigare studie visar också att detta skulle leda till fler konkurrerande företag på marknaden, vilket även det minskar risken för att företag samordnar sina priser. En lägre marknadsandel för periodens vara skulle dock kunna leda till svagare konkurrens och ökade kostnader för läkemedel på marknader som inte påverkas av prissamordningar. För hela generikamarknaden skulle en liten sänkning av marknadsandelen för periodens vara kunna bli kostnadsneutral, men det är inte säkert att detta resultat håller om prisperioderna förlängs.
D40|"Fast, ""Robust"", and Approximately Correct: Estimating Mixed Demand Systems"|"Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifications in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D40|Central Bank Policy Announcements and Changes in Trading Behavior: Evidence from Bond Futures High Frequency Price Data|We present a theoretical model to explain how financial traders incorporate public and private information into security prices. We explain that the model enables us to simultaneously identify when public information caused surprises and how large an impact it had on the market. By applying the model to the tick-by-tick data on Japanese government bond futures prices, we show that the Bank of Japan fs introduction of quantitative and qualitative monetary easing was one of the most surprising episodes during the period from 2005 to 2016. We also show that the sensitivity to the Bank fs announcements has strengthened since the introduction of the negative interest rate policy, whereas the sensitivity to economic indicators and surveys has weakened substantially.
D40|Bribes vs. Taxes: Market Structure and Incentives|Firms in developing countries often avoid paying taxes by making informal payments to tax officials. These bribes may raise the cost of operating a business, and the price charged to consumers. To decrease these costs, the author has designed a feedback incentive scheme for business tax inspectors that reward them according to the anonymous evaluation submitted by inspected firms. It shows theoretically that feedback incentives decrease the equilibrium bribe amount, but make firms with more inelastic demand more attractive for inspectors. A tilted scheme that attaches higher weights to the evaluation of smaller firms limits the scope for targeting and decreases the bribe amount to a lesser extent. The paper evaluates both schemes in a field experiment in the Kyrgyz Republic and find evidence that is consistent with the model predictions. By decreasing bribes, our intervention reduces the average cost for firms and the price they charge to consumers. Since fewer firms substitute bribes for taxes, tax revenues increase. Our study highlights the role of firm heterogeneity and market structure in shaping the relationship between firms and tax inspectors, and provides clear evidence of pass-through of bribes to consumers.
D40|One-off export events|Isolated single-month, one-off export transactions (observed once in a 49-month window) turn out to be the dominant spell length in granular firmproductdestination trade data. Moreover, on average, for an export-active firm, such one-off events generate a significant part of foreign sales. These patterns cannot be explained by the lumpiness of trade (e.g., seasonal shipments), nor do they sit well with available trade models. To reconcile theory with the data, we introduce passive (i.e., unsolicited buyer-side driven) exporting in addition to proactive exporting. Our empirical investigation establishes novel stylized facts on firm and destination characteristics associated with one-off exporting.
D40|Adverse Selection with Heterogeneously Informed Agents|A model of over-the-counter markets is proposed. Some asset buyers are informed in that they can identify high quality assets. Heterogeneous sellers with private information choose what type of buyers they want to trade with. When the measure of informed buyers is low, there exists a unique and stable equilibrium, and interestingly, price, trading volume and welfare typically decrease with more informed buyers. When the measure of informed buyers is intermediate, multiple equilibria arise, and price, trading volume and welfare may decrease or increase with more informed buyers, depending on the equilibrium being played. A switch from one equilibrium to another can lead to large drops in liquidity, price, trading volume and welfare, like a financial crisis. The measure of informed buyers is then endogenized by allowing buyers to invest in a technology that enables them to identify high quality assets. In this case, the model features endogenous strategic complementarity in acquiring the information technology. Multiple equilibria still exist, with different measures of informed buyers, but a scheme of tax/subsidy on information acquisition sometimes leads to the unique equilibrium.
D40|Inflation targeting and financial stability: Does the quality of institutions matter?|Inflation targeting (IT) has recently been seen as one of the main causes of the authorities’ unresponsiveness to the build up of financial imbalances during the recent financial crisis. We take data from banks from 66 countries for the period of 1998-2014 and compare how institutional quality as perceived by the national population impacts financial stability in countries that adopted IT with those that did not. We find that, while banks from IT countries with high quality of institutions do not have their stability significantly enhanced by this policy (the “paradox of credibility”), countries with average levels of quality of institutions seem to benefit from it. In addition, in the estimations, IT and financial stability are negatively associated in countries with low levels of institutional quality, which is consistent with the fact that governments must have at least some trust of their population in order to conduct effective economic policies. This inverted U-shaped relationship between IT and financial stability as function of the institutional quality reflects the two opposing views in the literature regarding this topic.
D40|Are lenders using risk-based pricing in the consumer loan market? The effects of the 2008 crisis|This paper analyzes whether in Italy the price of consumer loans is based on borrower specific risk. Mispricing could threat financial stability through negative effects on lenders' profitability; risk-based pricing also leads to a more efficient allocation of credit through lower prices for low-risk borrowers, with positive effects on economic growth and financial stability. The evidence available from data collected since 2006 through the Survey on Household Income and Wealth shows that consumer loan pricing has been more risk-based after the 2008 financial crisis. Households’ economic and financial conditions (net wealth, number of income earners and education of the household head) became significant and economically important in influencing the interest rates in 2010-12. These are also the most important drivers of the probability of delinquency on consumer loans; lenders also focus on these variables in selecting borrowers. As a consequence of the 2008 crisis, lenders have therefore paid more attention to borrowers' credit risk not only during the selection process, but also in deciding the price of the loan.
D40|Beliefs and Consumer Search in a Vertical Industry|This paper studies vertical relations in a search market. As the wholesale arrangement between a manufacturer and its retailers is typically unobserved by consumers, their beliefs about who is to be blamed for a price deviation play a crucial role in determining wholesale and retail prices. The common assumption in the consumer search literature is that consumers exclusively blame an individual retailer for a price deviation. We show that in the vertical relations context, predictions based on this assumption are not robust in the sense that if consumers assign just a small probability to the event that the upstream manufacturer is responsible for the deviation, equilibrium predictions are qualitatively diﬀerent. For the robust beliefs, the vertical model can explain a variety of observations, such as retail price rigidity (or, alternatively, low cost pass-through), non-monotonicity of retail prices in search costs, and (seemingly) collusive retail behavior. The model can be used to study a monopoly online platform that sells access to ﬁnal consumers.
D40|An explanation of negative swap spreads: demand for duration from underfunded pension plans|The 30-year U.S. swap spreads have been negative since September 2008. We offer a novel explanation for this persistent anomaly. Through an illustrative model, we show that underfunded pension plans optimally use swaps for duration hedging. Combined with dealer banks' balance sheet constraints, this demand can drive swap spreads to become negative. Empirically, we construct a measure of the aggregate funding status of Defined Benefit pension plans and show that this measure is a significant explanatory variable of 30-year swap spreads. We find a similar link between pension funds' underfunding and swap spreads for two other regions.
D40|Foreign ownership and market power: the special case of European banks|The paper examines the nexus of foreign ownership and market power in 26 European banking sectors, for the period 1997-2013. The sample comprises 11,761 bank-year estimates of marginal cost and market power, which are then matched with data on the foreign ownership status and presence across all host countries. The analysis reports strong evidence over the significant effect of well-capitalised foreign-owned banks on their monopolistic conduct. There is also a weaker indication that foreign presence leads to higher margins in large-sized foreign banks in fast-growing economies and markets of stricter regulation on capital, in which foreign penetration lies above 14% of the host banking industry.
D40|Selling Strategic Information in Digital Competitive Markets|This paper investigates the strategies of a data broker in selling information to one or to two competing firms that can price-discriminate consumers. The data broker can strategically choose any segment of the consumer demand (information structure) to sell to firms that implement third-degree price-discrimination. We show that the equilibrium profits of the data broker are maximized when (1) information identifies the consumers with the highest willingness to pay; (2) consumers with a low willingness to pay remain unidentified; (3) the data broker sells two symmetrical information structures. The data broker therefore strategically sells partial information on consumers in order to soften competition between firms. Extending the baseline model, we prove that these results hold under first-degree price-discrimination.
D40|Streaming Platform and Strategic Recommendation Bias|We consider a streaming platform which carries content from various upstream content providers. Participating customers face personalized recommendations from the platform and consume a mix of content originating from each provider. We analyze when the platform uses its personalized recommendation system to steer consumers from one content provider to another. We establish the conditions under which the recommendation system allows the platform to credibly threaten upstream providers to steer consumers away from their content in order to reduce their market power. We find that the streaming platform can increase its profit by reducing the royalty rate it pays to content providers through the use of a recommendation system which is strategically biased in favor of the cheaper content.
D40|Equilibrium wage rigidity in directed search|Matching frictions and downward wage rigidity emerge as equilibrium phenomena in a two-sided labor market where firms sustain variable wage adjustment costs. Firms post wages to attract workers and matches are endogenous. Reducing the wage relative to the wage previously posted is costly to the firm, where the cost is proportional to the size of the proposed cut. Shocks to the firm’s profitability may yield an equilibrium wage above what the firm would offer absent proportional adjustment costs. Wage cuts can be partial or full, immediate or delayed, and are non-linear in the shock size. Importantly, wages are sticky even if firms have negligible costs for cutting wages.
D40|Cadena Productiva de productos Hortofrutícolas Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran Productos Hortofrutícolas para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
D40|Cadena Productiva de Pinturas, Masillas, Pigmentos, Tintas y Removedores Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen Pinturas, Masillas, Pigmentos, Tintas y Removedores para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
D40|Cadena productiva de papel, cartón e industria gráfica Estructura, comercio internacional y protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran productos del papel y de la industria gráfica para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial (MIPSI), el documento identifica las principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y por eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos
D40|El sector de seguridad y vigilancia privada: evolución reciente y principales retos laborales, regulatorios y de supervisión|La última década ha sido testigo de una importante expansión de los servicios de seguridad y vigilancia en América Latina, con una tasa media de crecimiento anual del 8%, casi el doble de la tasa global de expansión de la seguridad privada. De acuerdo con la Superintendencia de Vigilancia y Seguridad Privada, en Colombia en 2016 el sector contaba con cerca de 900 empresas, la mayoría de ellas pequeñas y empleaba a más de 256 mil personas. Sin embargo, dado que en el sector existe una alta informalidad, estas cifras podrían estar subestimadas. En todo caso, se trata de un sector relevante para la economía y dado su objetivo, también para la seguridad ciudadana. La adecuada regulación de la seguridad privada es crítica, pues por su naturaleza, se trata de un sector que implica altos riesgos tanto para los prestadores como para los usuarios del servicio. Como se describe en el presente trabajo, uno de los principales problemas de los que adolece el sector es que el marco normativo que rige actualmente tiene más de 20 años de vigencia, aun cuando las necesidades y alcances se han trasformado con el tiempo y nuevos elementos como la tecnología han entrado a jugar un papel relevante en la gama de servicios que se ofrecen. En consecuencia, la adecuación de la regulación requiere de especial atención. El propósito del presente estudio, elaborado para Fedeseguridad, es hacer un diagnóstico de la situación del sector en Colombia, principalmente en los servicios de vigilancia privada y transporte de valores, reconociendo los principales retos que enfrenta hacia el futuro en materia de regulación, mercado laboral y sistema de contratación.
D40|Crime and Durable Goods|We develop a theoretical model to study how changes in the durability of the goods affects prices of stolen goods, the incentives to steal and the equilibrium crime rate. When studying the production of durable goods, we find that the presence of crime affects consumer and producer surplus and thus their behaviour, market equilibrium, and, in turn, the social optimum. Lower durability of goods reduces the incentive to steal those goods, thus reducing crime. When crime is included in the standard framework of durable goods, the socially optimal durability level is lower. When considering different stealing technologies, perfect competition either over-produces durability or produces zero (minimum) durability. The monopolist under-produces durability. The model has a clear policy implication: the durability of goods, and the market structure for those goods, can be an effective instrument to reduce crime. In particular, making the durability of a good contingent upon that good being stolen is likely to increase welfare. We also study the incentives to develop and use this optimal technology.
D40|Integrability and Generalized Separability|This paper examines demand systems where the demand for a good depends only on its own price, consumer income, and a single aggregator synthesizing information on all other prices. This generalizes directly-separable preferences where the Lagrange multiplier provides such an aggregator. As indicated by Gorman (1972), symmetry of the Slutsky substitution terms implies that such demand can take only one of two simple forms. Conversely, here we show that only weak conditions ensure that such demand systems are integrable, i.e. can be derived from the maximization of a well-behaved utility function. This paper further studies useful properties and applications of these demand systems.
D40|"Fast, ""robust"", and approximately correct: estimating mixed demand systems"|" Many econometric models used in applied work integrate over unobserved heterogeneity. We show that a class of these models that includes many random coefficients demand systems can be approximated by a ""small-sigma"" expansion that yields a straightforward 2SLS estimator. We study in detail the models of market shares popular in empirical IO (""macro BLP""). Our estimator is only approximately correct, but it performs very well in practice. It is extremely fast and easy to implement, and it accommodates to misspecifi cations in the higher moments of the distribution of the random coefficients. At the very least, it provides excellent starting values for more commonly used estimators of these models."
D40|Clear and Close Competitors? : On the Causes and Consequences of Bilateral Competition between Banks|We interview 361 European bank CEOs to identify their banks’ main competitors. We then provide evidence on the drivers of bilateral bank competition, construct a novel competition measure at the locality level, and assess how well it explains variation in firms’ credit constraints. We find that banks identify another bank as a main competitor in small-business lending when their branch networks overlap, when both are foreign owned or relationship oriented, or when the potential competitor has fewer hierarchical layers. Intense bilateral bank competition increases local credit constraints, especially for small firms, as competition may impede the formation of lending relationships.
D40|Airbnb in Paris : quel impact sur l'industrie hôtelière?|In many cities around the world short-term housing platforms have become an alternative in the eyes of tourists. These new players, led by Airbnb, are disrupting the market, raising concerns from the hotel industry and public authorities. Using data from hotels and Airbnb in Paris, this paper proposes a new methodology for measuring the competitive pressure exerted by Airbnb on the hotel industry. The results indicate that an increase in the number of Airbnb hosts close to a hotel leads the hotel to reduce its price. This effect is amplified on weekend evenings.
D40|The pricing of FX forward contracts: micro evidence from banks’ dollar hedging|We use transaction-level data on foreign exchange (FX) forward contracts for the period 2014 through 2016 in conjunction with supervisory balance sheet information to study the drivers of banks’ dollar hedging costs. Comparing contracts of the same maturity that are initiated during the same hour of the same day, we find large heterogeneity in banks’ hedging costs. We show that these costs (i) are higher for banks with a larger FX funding gap, (ii) depend on banks’ FX funding composition in terms of the source (interbank versus retail) and rollover structure (long-term versus short-term), (iii) are lower for banks with deeper internal dollar capital markets, and (iv) increase with banks’ shadow cost of capital. Our results are important for understanding how shocks are transmitted internationally through the FX hedging market.
D40|Attention-driven demand for bonus contracts|In many markets supply contracts include a series of small, regular payments made by consumers and a single, large bonus that consumers receive at some point during the contractual period. But, if for instance its production costs exceed its value to consumers, such a bonus creates inefficiencies. We offer a novel explanation for the frequent occurrence of bonus contracts, which builds on a model of attentional focusing. Our main result identifies market conditions under which bonus contracts should be observed: while a monopolist pays a bonus to consumers—if at all—only for low-value goods, firms standing in competition always—i.e., independent of the consumers’ valuation—offer bonus contracts. Thus, competition does not eliminate but rather exacerbates inefficiencies arising from contracting with focused agents. Common contract schemes in markets for electricity, telephony, and bank accounts are consistent with our model, but cannot be reconciled with alternative approaches such as models on consumption smoothing, (quasi-)hyperbolic discounting, or switching costs.
D40|Price Discrimination in Online Retail|Although newspapers and online blogs provide a variety of anecdotal evidence for price discrimination, they are mostly not based on a scientific and systematic approach. This survey gives a short overview of scientific price discrimination studies in online retail. At first, it contains a short methodological part which shows how price discrimination can be detected. Thereafter, the results of different price discrimination studies are presented, showing that the prevalence of price discrimination varies across studies. Studies who analyze only ‘popular’ websites find a higher rate of prevalence than studies focusing also on ‘unpopular’ websites. As far as scientific evidence is available, online prices hinge on user-based, technical, and location-based features. The dispersion of the price seems to be largest when firms discriminate between users from different countries. Finally, potential reasons why price discrimination is not applied by all retailers are given.
D40|Price regulations and price adjustment dynamics: Evidence from the Austrian retail fuel market|After controversial public debates, fuel price regulations were implemented in Austria prohibiting fuel retailers from raising their prices more than once per day. This paper investigates whether these policy measures affected the price transmission dynamics from crude oil prices to retail fuel prices. We estimate different specifications of nonlinear error correction models to quantify a potentially asymmetric adjustment behaviour and compare the results over three subsamples. Particularly, we estimate our models for a pre-regulation period, a between-regulations and a post-regulation period. At first glance, we obtain conflicting results on the efficacy of this policy measure. While the adjustment to the long-run equilibrium seems to be faster if crude oil prices are relatively low, transitory crude oil price decreases are passed through faster than price increases. Only if we consider the combined effect of a crude oil price shock, we can reveal that crude oil price changes are generally passed through faster in the postregulation period. Further, we find that crude oil price decreases are now passed through slightly faster than crude oil price increases. Hence, we conclude that the Austrian fuel price regulation seems to have fostered competition between fuel retailers.
D40|Dynamic pricing for inventories with reference price effects|This article presents a dynamic pricing model of a retailer selling an inventory, accounting for consumer behavior. The authors propose an optimal control model, maximizing the intertemporal profit with consumers sensitive to the selling price and to a reference price. The optimal dynamic pricing policy is solved with Pontryagin's maximum principle with a structural (general) demand function. They obtain an original pricing rule, which explicitly accounts for the impact of price and inventory on future profits. The dynamics of price do not have to imitate the dynamics of the reference price. Instead, the dynamics of price are tied to opposing effects linked to this reference price. The authors also discuss managerial implications with regards to behavioral pricing policies.
D40|Evaluierung über die in Deutschland erfolgte Umsetzung der Milchmengenverringerungsmaßnahme sowie der Milchsonderbeihilfe|Als Reaktion auf den starken Preisverfall auf den internationalen und nationalen Milchmärkten wurden von der EU-Kommission im September 2016 zwei Hilfsmaßnahmen beschlossen und umgesetzt. Im Rahmen des EU-Milchmengenverringerungsprogramms wurde Milcherzeugern eine Beihilfe für die Verringerung ihrer Milcherzeugung gewährt. In der zeitliche anschließenden Maßnahme, der Milchsonderbeihilfe, erhielten teilnehmende Milcherzeuger eine Beihilfe, wenn deren Milcherzeugung nicht gesteigert wurde. Dieser Bericht bewertet deren Umsetzung und die Teilnahmebereitschaft deutscher Milcherzeuger an beiden Hilfsmaßnahmen. Die wichtigste Erkenntnis dieser Evaluierung ist, dass der Milchmarkt und seine Kräfte prinzipiell auch ohne staatliche Eingriffe funktionieren. Wenn auch mit Verzögerung hatten die deutschen Milcherzeuger bereits vor dem In Kraft treten der Maßnahmen auf das niedrige Preisniveau reagiert und ihre Milcherzeugung eingeschränkt. Die Teilnahmebereitschaft deutscher Milcherzeuger an den Hilfsmaßnahmen war daher gering. Dies zeigt die Funktionsfähigkeit des Milchmarktes.
D40|Markov chain Monte Carlo estimation of spatial dynamic panel models for large samples|Focus is on efficient estimation of a dynamic space-time panel data model that incorporates spatial dependence, temporal dependence, as well as space-time covariance and can be implemented in large N and T situations, where N is the number of spatial units and T the number of time periods. Quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) estimation in cases involving large N and T poses computational challenges because optimizing the (log) likelihood requires: 1) evaluating the log-determinant of an NT x NT matrix that appears in the likelihood, 2) imposing stability restrictions on parameters reflecting space-time dynamics, as well as 3) simulations to produce an empirical distribution of the partial derivatives used to interpret model estimates that require numerous inversions of large matrices. We set forth a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) estimation procedure capable of handling large problems, which we illustrate using a sample of T = 487 daily fuel prices for N = 12, 435 German gas stations, resulting in N x T over 6 million. The procedure produces estimates equivalent to those from QML and has the additional advantage of producing a Monte Carlo integrated estimate of the log-marginal likelihood, useful for purposes of model comparison. Our MCMC estimation procedure uses: 1) a Taylor series approximation to the logdeterminant based on traces of matrix products calculated prior to MCMC sampling, 2) block sampling of the spatiotemporal parameters, which allows imposition of the stability restrictions, and 3) a Metropolis-Hastings guided Monte Carlo integration of the logmarginal likelihood. We also provide an efficient approach to simulations needed to produce the empirical distribution of the partial derivatives for model interpretation.
D40|The new media economics of video-on-demand markets: Lessons for competition policy|"The markets for audiovisual content are subject to dynamic change. Where once ""traditional"" (free-to-air, cable, satellite) television was dominating, i.e. linear audiovisual media services, markets display nowadays strong growth of different types of video-on-demand (VoD), i.e. nonlinear audiovisual media services, including both Paid-for VoD like Amazon Prime and Netflix and Advertised-financed VoD like YouTube. Competition policy decisions in such dynamic markets are always particularly challenging. The German competition authority was presented such a challenge when, at the beginning of the 2010s, German television providers sought to enter online VoD markets with the help of cooperative platforms. We review the antitrust concerns that were raised back then in an ex post analysis. In doing so, we first discuss the dynamic development of the German VoD markets during the last decade. In the second part of this paper, we derive four aspects, in which the previous antitrust analysis cannot be upheld from today's perspective. First, relevant implications of modern platform economics were neglected. Second, some inconsistencies in the assessment of the two projects appear to be inappropriate. Third, the emerging competitive pressure of international VoD providers was strongly underestimated. Fourth, the question of market power in online advertising markets looks very different at the end of the decade."
D40|Hotel rankings of online travel agents, channel pricing and consumer protection|We investigate whether online travel agents (OTAs) assign hotels worse positions in their search results if these set lower hotel prices at other OTAs or on their own websites. We formally characterize how an OTA can use such a strategy to reduce price differentiation across distribution channels. Our empirical analysis shows that the position of a hotel in the search results of OTAs is better when the prices charged by the hotel on other channels are higher. This is consistent with the hypothesis that OTAs alter their search results to discipline hotels for aggressive prices on competing channels, and by this reduce search quality for consumers.
D40|Is inequality harmful for innovation and growth? Price versus market size effects|Abstract We introduce non-homothetic preferences into an R&D based growth model to study how demand forces shape the impact of inequality on innovation and growth. Inequality affects the incentive to innovate via a price effect and a market size effect. When innovators have a large productivity advantage over traditional producers a higher extent of inequality tends to increase innovators’ prices and mark-ups. When this productivity gap is small, however, a redistribution from the rich to the poor increases market sizes and speeds up growth.
D40|Opportunity Cost Pass-through from Fossil Fuel Market Prices to Procurement Costs of the U.S. Power Producers|This paper investigates the transmission of fossil fuel commodity spot market price changes to procurement costs of U.S. power producers. We measure and compare the speed and magnitude with which spot prices predict procurement costs using restricted access fuel price data. Natural gas spot prices are quickly reflected in procurement costs. Coal spot prices offer very little predictive power to coal procurement costs. Although not causal, the empirical results also show differences across regulatory status. These findings may have implications for the electricity market deregulation literature that creates marginal cost curves as a competitive benchmark.
D40|Measuring Diverging House Prices|Real estate price indexes summarize the evolution of all property prices in a single number, while actual price movements often differ among market segments. We develop a methodology for measuring prices as a flexible function of a one-dimensional quality measure – housing services for residential real estate - and apply it to test for the common assumption of identical price movements in all parts of the market. Our approach is based on a generalization of the familiar (constant unit price) Muth model to a situation of in which the unit price of housing services may depend on the quality level. We apply the method to a rich set of transaction data referring to Amsterdam in the period 1985-2013. We estimate an indicator of housing services based only on the ranking of house prices in postcode areas during periods of three months and compare the results to conventional hedonic price equations that embody the assumption of a unit price for housing services that does not depend on quality. We develop a test for a constant price per unit of housing services and reject it on the basis of price differences occurring over time as well as over space.
D40|The Financial Crisis and Diverging House Prices: Evidence from the Copenhagen Metropolitan Area|This paper investigates the development of house prices in Copenhagen in the period 1994-2013, while paying special attention to the heterogeneous impact of the boom and bust periods along the dimensions of housing type (single vs multifamily housing), geography and quality. To allow for price developments that can differ by quality, we use a recently developed generalization of the conventional Muth model that assumes a constant unit price across the quality spectrum. It allows us to separately consider the development of house prices and quality in Copenhagen neighbourhoods. Moreover, we investigate the validity of the common assumption of a constant unit price and reject it decisively. We use detailed housing transaction data for the greater Copenhagen area. We show that the housing boom of the 2000’s and the bust that followed hit the lowest quality segments significantly harder than the high quality segments of the housing market.
D40|Working Hours and Productivity|This paper studies the link between working hours and productivity using daily information on working hours and performance of a sample of call centre agents. We exploit variation in the number of hours worked by the same employee across days and weeks due to central scheduling, enabling us to estimate the effect of working hours on productivity. We find that as the number of hours worked increases, the average handling time for a call increases, meaning that agents become less productive. This result suggests that fatigue can play an important role, even in jobs with mostly part-time workers.
D40|Building trust by qualification in a market for expert services|Markets for credence goods are classified by experts alone being able to identify consumers' problems and determine appropriate services for solution. Examining a market where experts have to invest in costly diagnosis to correctly identify problems and consumers being able to visit multiple experts for diagnosis, we introduce heterogeneously qualified experts. We assume that high skilled experts can identify problems with some probability even with low effort, e.g. due to education or experience. In a laboratory experiment we show that, against our theoretical predictions, this does not lead to a drop in experts' willingness for high diagnostic effort. However, consumers generally distrust experts' diagnosis effort as they buy less often after their first recommendation than it would be optimal and show frequently other non-optimal behavior patterns, e.g. receiving recommendations but do not buy service. Our results indicate that, at some level, introducing higher qualified experts increases the quality of diagnosis, as well as consumers' trust resulting in more and quicker service purchases.
D40|Effects of qualification in expert markets with price competition and endogenous verifiability|We investigate a market in which experts have a moral hazard problem because they need to invest in costly but unobservable effort to identify consumer problems. Experts have either high or low qualification and can invest either high or low effort in their diagnosis. High skilled experts are able to identify problems with some probability even with low effort while low skilled experts here always give false recommendations. Experts compete for consumers by setting prices for diagnosis and service. Consumers can visit multiple experts, which enables an endogenous verifiability of diagnosis. We show that with a sufficient number of high skilled experts, stable second-best and perfectly non-degenerate equilibria are possible even with flexible prices, although they depend on transactions costs being relatively low. By contrast, with a small share of high skilled experts in the market, setting fixed prices can be beneficial for society.
D40|End of 9-endings, price recall, and price perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
D40|End of 9-Endings, Price Recall, and Price Perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
D40|Die Bedeutung der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen in Deutschland|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht, wie sich der Anteilswert der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen an der Gesamtzahl aller Unternehmen seit dem Jahr 1998 verändert hat. Hierzu wurden rund 16.500 repräsentativ ausgewählte deutsche Unternehmen auf ihre Eigentums- und Leitungsstrukturen hin untersucht und die Ergebnisse auf die Gesamtheit aller deutschen Unternehmen hochgerechnet. Es zeigt sich, dass der Anteil der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen von 94,8 % (1998) auf 93,6 % (aktuelles Berichtsjahr 2014) zurückgegangen ist. Des Weiteren wurde untersucht, welche Bedeutung reinen Hilfseinheiten innerhalb komplexer Unternehmen aktuell zukommt. Rund 33.300 Unternehmen (1,0 % bezogen auf alle deutschen Unternehmen) sind als reine Hilfseinheiten anzusehen und müssten entsprechend der Vorgaben der EU an die Unternehmensstatistik konsolidiert werden.
D40|What drives performance in the speculative market of short-term exchange-traded retail products?|This paper considers the realized returns of individual investors in warrants and leverage certificates. First, we derive a general formula that analytically decomposes the return into several economically meaningful components that are related to investor's trading behavior and the issuers' price-setting strategy. Second, we use a large trade dataset to analyze returns along these components and also link them to investors' risk taking strategy. Our main findings are threefold: (i) The overall performance is poor. (ii) Investors show neutral timing skills, while the main performance driver is the issuers' price-setting. (iii) Higher risk taking by investors diminishes the performance further. Our results imply that retail investors do not achieve a pecuniary benefit from the considered financial innovations.
D40|Risk taking in the market of speculative exchange-traded retail products: Do socio-economic factors matter?|When purchasing a financial product, investors may actively decide upon the risk they take. This paper analyzes the impact of investors' personal characteristics, location-based demographic factors and transaction-specific trading surroundings on their risk taking in the market of speculative exchange-traded retail products. Using a large trade dataset of warrants and leverage certificates on an individual investor level, I find evidence that risk taking behavior is strongly determined by the characteristics examined here: (i) Inexperienced young males with little secure status in their lives take more risk than other traders. (ii) Living in socially less desirable environments or encountering less risky trading conditions also supports risk taking. (iii) Risk taking is highly persistent. (iv) Finally, higher risk taking leads to poorer performance.
D40|Evaluation of best price clauses in hotel booking|We analyze the best price clauses (BPCs) of online travel agents (OTAs) using meta-search price data of more than 45,000 hotels in different countries. Although OTAs apparently have not changed their standard commission rates following the partial ban of BPCs in Europe, we find that BPCs do influence the pricing and availability of hotel rooms across online sales channels. In particular, the abolition of Booking.com's narrow BPC is associated with the hotels' direct channel being the price leader more often. Moreover, hotels make rooms more often available at Booking.com when it does not use the narrow BPC.
D40|Trading Fees and Intermarket Competition|We model an order book with liquidity rebates (make fees) and trading fees (take fees) that faces intermarket competition, and use the model's insights to explain changes in market quality and market shares following changes in make-take fees. As predicted by our model, we document that fee changes by one venue affect market quality and market shares for all venues that compete for order flow. Furthermore, we document cross-sectional differences in changes in market quality and market shares following a simultaneous decrease in both make and take fees consistent with traders in large (small) capitalization stocks being more sensitive to the change in make (take) fees.
D40|Mutual Funds and Short-Sellers: Why Does Short-Sale Volume Predict Stock Returns?|"Daily directional trading by mutual funds (MFs) is highly-persistent and price-destabilizing, leading to return reversals lasting months. This effect is distinct from the ""flow-induced trading"" phenomenon in prior studies. At the same time, short-sale volume (SSV) reacts strongly in the opposite direction--when MFs buy (sell), SSV increases (decreases). Daily SSV is responsive to both the expected component of MF trades (based on prior-days' trading), and the unexpected component (based on same-day trading). We conclude some short-sellers provide liquidity strategically in response to price-destabilizing MF trades, and this activity largely accounts for SSV's ability to predict long-horizon returns."
D40|Competition and credit procyclicality in European banking|This paper empirically assesses how competition in the banking sector affects credit procyclicality by estimating both an interacted panel VAR model using macroeconomic data and a single-equation model with bank-level data. These two empirical approaches show that a deviation of actual GDP from potential GDP leads to greater credit fluctuations in economies where bank competition is weak. This suggests that increased market power for banks increases the financial accelerator mechanism, which is consistent with recent macroeconomic models showing that monopolistic banking tends to increase macroeconomic volatility by making credit cheaper during booms and more expensive during recessions.
D40|Product market competition, idiosyncratic and systematic volatility|This study finds that competition increases idiosyncratic volatility relative to systematic volatility. Market power facilitates passing on firm specific cost shocks to customers but is irrelevant to passing on market cost shocks. A firm's competitive advantage in an industry is also more affected by changes in firm specific costs when there are many rivals. The results are robust to significant reductions in import tariff rates that reduce market power and consistent with lower pairwise returns' correlations following such events.
D40|Market selection by boundedly-rational traders under constant returns to scale|We consider a dynamic, stochastic model of trading-institution selection with boundedly-rational traders where sellers produce with constant unit costs. Traders will in general fail to coordinate exclusively on market-clearing institutions. Rather, any institution biasing the price upwards is stochastically stable.
D40|Efficiency and stability of a financial architecture with too-interconnected-to-fail institutions|The regulation of large interconnected financial institutions has become a key policy issue. To improve financial stability, regulators have proposed limiting banks’ size and interconnectedness. I estimate a network-based model of the over-the-counter interbank lending market in the US and quantify the efficiency-stability implications of this policy. Trading efficiency decreases with limits on interconnectedness because the intermediation chains become longer. While restricting the interconnectedness of banks improves stability, the effect is non-monotonic. Stability also improves with higher liquidity requirements, when banks have access to liquidity during the crisis, and when failed banks’ depositors maintain confidence in the banking system.
D40|Estimating Mark-ups and the Effect of Product Market Regulations in Selected Professional Services Sectors: A Firm-level Analysis|In this paper we estimate mark-ups and their association with product market regulations (PMR) in professional services sectors using the Orbis firm-level database for 13 EU member states. We will concentrate on engineering and accounting. Results indicate a significant effect of PMR on mark-ups, which confirms findings based on sectoral data (cf. Thum-Thysen and Canton, 2015) but a more granular analysis on the firm level gives additional insights. Compared to estimates of mark-ups based on sectoral data, the mark-up levels in the two analysed sectors using firm-level data are found to be higher. This may be due to a more granular sectoral definition, only covering regulated professions, where firms can gain market power and charge higher mark-ups. The new empirical findings could be useful for the analytical work on estimating the impact of structural reforms.
D40|Wages and Nominal and Real Unit Labour Cost Differentials in EMU|This paper addresses the issue of current account imbalances of countries within a monetary union, now widely agreed to have been a major contributor to the persistent economic crisis in the EMU. In particular we focus on the role of wages for current account developments and a possible role for nominal incomes policies in limiting and correcting imbalances. We set out why national current accounts remain important in a monetary union and examine the forces driving the current account balance. We present empirical evidence on current account developments in the Euro Area, focusing on countries in which a correction has occurred. Detailed counter-factual model-based simulations for Germany show that “wage policy” on its own is scarcely able to make an impact on its huge and destabilising surplus; what is needed is a combined approach in which nominal wages follow a wage norm (productivity plus ECB target inflation rate) while aggregate demand is managed (in this case stimulated) to fully utilise productive potential. Against this analytical background we develop a proposal for institutional reform of the Euro Area, building on existing institutions. Key elements are: reinstating the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines as the conceptual framework guiding economic policy, expanding the remit of the Fiscal Council and the Productivity Boards to cover the entire policy mix, and substantially developing the EU Macroeconomic Dialogue in particular by setting up MEDs at Euro Area and Member State levels.
D40|Exploitation and Recycling of Exhaustible Resources: The Case of Rare Earths and Phosphorus|We study the exploitation of recyclable exhaustible resources such as rare earths and Phosphorus. We use a standard Hotelling model of resource exploitation that includes a primary sector and a recycling sector. We show that, when the primary sector is competitive, the price of the recyclable resource increases through time. This result stands in contrast to durable resources, for which the optimal price path is either decreasing or U-shaped. We then show a new reason why the price of an exhaustible resource may decrease: when the primary sector is monopolistic, the primary producer has incentives to delay its production activities in order to delay recycling. As a consequence, the price path of the recyclable resource may be U-shaped. We also show that a technological improvement in the recycling sector increases the price in the short term but decreases it later.
D40|Econometric tests to detect bid-rigging cartels: does it work?|This paper tests how well the method proposed by Bajari and Ye (2003) performs to detect bidrigging cartels. In the case investigated in this paper, the bid-rigging cartel rigged all contracts during the collusive period, and all firms participated to the bid-rigging cartel. The two econometric tests constructed by Bajari and Ye (2003) produce a high number of false negative results: the tests do not reject the null hypothesis of competition, although they should have rejected it. A robustness analysis replicates the econometric tests on two different sub-samples, composed solely by cover bids. On the first sub-sample, both tests produce again a high number of false negative results. However, on the second sub-sample, one test performs better to detect the bidrigging cartel. The paper interprets these results, discusses alternative methods, and concludes with recommendations for competition agencies.
D40|Simple Statistical Screens to Detect Bid Rigging|The paper applies simple statistical screens to a bid-rigging cartel in Switzerland, and shows how well the screens detect it by capturing the impact of collusion on the discrete distribution of the bids. In case of bid rigging, the support for the distribution of the bids decreases involving a lower variance, illustrated by the coefficient of variance and the kurtosis statistic. Furthermore, when firms rig bids without side-payment, the difference between the first and the second lowest bids increases whereas the difference between the losing bids decreases, involving a negatively skewed distribution of the bids, highlighted by the relative distance and the skewness statistic. Finally, the collusive interaction screen shows that the behaviour of firms changed radically between the cartel and post-cartel periods. Therefore, the simple statistical screens proposed in this paper purpose to screen large dataset and to detect bidrigging cartels by using only information on bids.
D40|Theoretical and Practical Aspects of Natural Gas Pricing in Domestic and Foreign Markets: The Case of Russia|The paper analyzes the need to change the approaches to Russia’s natural gas pricing in domestic and foreign markets. The authors conclude that changes are inevitable in the medium term because existing pricing practices are becoming obsolete in the rapidly transforming gas market. The development of the gas industry is severely hampered by inefficient domestic consumption due to distorted price incentives, lack of competition in the domestic market and the pegging of export gas prices to the oil product basket. The paper discusses possible development options for Russia’s gas industry and their potential macroeconomic effects.
D40|The Determinants of Consumer Price Dispersion: Evidence from French Supermarkets|We characterize the dispersion of grocery prices in France based on a large original data set of prices in more than 1500 supermarkets. On average across products, the 90th percentile of relative prices is 17 percentage points higher than the 10th and the mean absolute deviation from quarterly average product prices is 5%. We show that temporal price variations (including sales and promotions) explain only little of the observed price dispersion, while the spatial permanent component of price dispersion largely dominates. Price dispersion across stores in France essentially results from persistent heterogeneity in retail chains' pricing, while local conditions regarding demand or competition contribute to a much lower extent.
D40|How Increasing Supplier Search Cost Can Increase Welfare|Reductions in search costs are generally found to increase efficiency and welfare. Using a simple search model we show that when an upstream firm incurs a search cost to identify a potential trading partner and the two parties then negotiate the wholesale price, a reduction in search cost can actually reduce welfare. Furthermore, in a market driven by seller search, a search cost of zero is never socially optimal.
D40|How does the use of in-store discount coupons affect retail revenues?|Few studies have addressed how discount coupons placed in stores affect retailers. By conducting a field experiment in 16 grocery stores in Sweden, we investigate how in-store discount coupons for Wrigley’s chewing gums affect sales at the product, brand, product-category, and category-assortment levels. When calculating the impact of the coupon campaign on revenues, we find that there is an increase in revenues for the retailer of between 30 748 SEK and 39 691 SEK during a 30 day coupon campaign depending on if the face value of the coupon is 2 SEK or 3 SEK, respectively. The in-store coupon campaigns under study thus increased retailer revenues even after considering product-, brand- and category level cannibalization effects.
D40|Cournot Competition in Wholesale Electricity Markets: The Nordic Power Exchange, Nord Pool|Horizontal shifts in bid curves observed in wholesale electricity markets are consistent with Cournot competition. Quantity competition reduces the informational requirements associated with evaluating market performance because the markups of all producers then depend on the same inverse residual demand curve instead of one for each firm. We apply the model to the day-ahead market of the Nordic power exchange, Nord Pool, for the years 2011–2013. Results suggest that mark-ups were 8–11 percent. We find some support for the hypothesis that the division of Sweden into price areas in 2011 increased the exercise of market power.
D40|Price competition in pharmaceuticals – evidence from 1303 Swedish markets|We study the short- and long-term price effects of the number of competing firms, using panel-data on 1303 distinct pharmaceutical markets for 78 months. We use actual transaction prices in an institutional setting with little scope for non-price competition and where simultaneity problems can be addressed effectively. In the long term, the price of generics is found to decrease by 81% when the number of firms selling generics with the same strength, form and similar package size is increased from 1 to 10. Nearly only competition at this fine-grained level matters; the price effect of firms selling other products with the same active substance, but with different package size, form, or strength, is only a tenth as large. Half of the price reductions take place immediately and 70% within three months. Also, prices of originals are found to react to competition, but far less and much slower.
D40|Exit, Tweets and Loyalty|Hirschman’s Exit, Voice, and Loyalty highlights the role of “voice” in disciplining firms for low quality. We develop a formal model of voice as a relational contact between firms and consumers and show that voice is more likely to emerge in concentrated markets. We test this model using data on tweets to major U.S. airlines. We find that tweet volume increases when quality – measured by on-time performance – deteriorates, especially when the airline operates a large share of the flights in a market. We also find that airlines are more likely to respond to tweets from consumers in such markets.
D40|Trading Fees and Intermarket Competition|We model an order book with liquidity rebates (make fees) and trading fees (take fees) that faces intermarket competition, and use the model s insights to explain changes in market quality and market shares following changes in make-take fees. As predicted by our model, we document that fee changes by one venue a ect market quality and market shares for all venues that compete for order fl ow. Furthermore, we document cross-sectional differences in changes in market quality and market shares following a simultaneous decrease in both make and take fees consistent with traders in large (small) capitalization stocks being more sensitive to the change in make (take) fees. JEL Classifications: G10, G12, G14, G18, G20, D40, D47 Keywords: Trading Fees, Maker-Taker Pricing, Intermarket Competition, Limit Order Book
D40|Market Concentration and Sectoral Inflation under Imperfect Common Knowledge|We show empirical evidence that sectoral inflation persistence, measured by autocorrelation of monthly changes in US producer prices, is starkly dispersed and negatively correlated with market concentration across sectors. To account for such empirical observation, we develop a dynamic stochastic model of firms' pricing strategy in which monopolistically competitive firms set their prices while receiving private signals on cost shocks. In the model, an increase in the number of competing firms raises strategic complementarity among the firms in the same sector. Using the model, we analytically show that, under imperfect common knowledge, sectoral inflation persistence is monotonically decreasing in market concentration.
D40|Innovation Policy and Economic Actors: State, Market and Enterprise|The paper analyses the contemporary Russian innovation policy and innovation system, and posits that Russia needs to overcome considerable barriers in order for it to become a sound innovative society. After its transformation, Russia changed its innovation policy from government-led to market-led. In the midst of weakened international competitiveness and economic decline, however, its policy has spontaneously changed to one of ‘governmentalization’, showing path-dependent evolution. Throughout the 2000s, the government introduced a succession of innovation modernization programs, but the results appear limited, and the macroeconomic indicators explain how the country continues to be mired by its traditional backwardness, as evidenced by its heavy dependence on energy exports, poor high technology exports, outdated equipment, and other such factors. As a theoretical framework for understanding the innovative society, I apply the ‘market quality theory’, in that market quality determines the content of innovation institutions and barriers they face. Market quality can be measured by institutional arrangements (infrastructure, strength of the ‘rule of game’, and its enforcement), institutional complementarities, and transaction costs. The specificity of the Russian market indirectly characterizes its weakness in market quality, as seen in international rankings such as the Global Competitiveness Index, Corruption Index, and so on. Thus, Russia’s innovation institutions have their specificities and instabilities, and owing to the weak market quality, misuse of institutions, and government failure, its innovation policy has become ‘governmentalized’ instead of following the path of marketization with high quality. Market quality and state/government quality are one and the same. The quality of its state/government is poor owing to its present form of governance and social mistrust. In order to overcome these barriers, I stress on the need for social innovation as a key measure for enhancing the quality of the market/state.
D40|Delegating pricing power to customers|Pay What You Want (PWYW) and Name Your Own Price (NYOP) are customer-driven pricing mechanisms that give customers (some) pricing power. Both have been used in service industries with high fixed costs to price discriminate without setting a reference price. Their participatory and innovative nature gives rise to promotional benefits that do not accrue to posted-price sellers. We explore the nature and effects of these benefits and compare PWYW and NYOP using controlled lab experiments. We show that PWYW is a very aggressive strategy that achieves almost full market penetration. It can be profitable if there are promotional benefits and if marginal costs are low. In contrast, NYOP can be used profitably also if marginal costs are high and if there are no such benefits. It reduces price competition and segments the market. In a second experiment, we generate promotional benefits endogenously. We show that PWYW monopolizes the follow-up market but fails to be profitable. NYOP is less successful in penetrating the market but yields much higher profits.
D40|Are mergers among cooperative banks worth a dime? Evidence on post-M&A efficiency in Italy|In this paper we study the intense wave of mergers among Italian mutual cooperative banks (Banche di Credito Cooperativo, BCCs) and try to assess whether those mergers were efficiency-enhancing. For the purpose, we employ a two-step procedure: we first estimate bank-level cost efficiency scores for a large sample of Italian banks in the period 1993-2013 by means of a stochastic frontier approach, then we try to explain the estimated BCCs’ cost efficiency with a set of merger status dummy variables (never merged, before the first merger, merged once, merged twice, etc.) as well as with a vector of control variables. We find that mergers increase mutual banks’ cost efficiency only after a BCC has merged at least three successive times with other BCCs, hence after reaching a remarkably large size. However, we conjecture that this growth in size could harm especially marginal borrowers (i.e. those who are likely to be served by smaller banks but neglected by bigger ones), with a strong and adverse impact on development and inequality and in contrast with BCCs’ ethics and mission.
D40|Regional Competition in US Banking – Trends and Determinants|Competition in the US banking industry as measured by the Lerner Index has on average increased substantially during the last decade. At the same time, regional differences in competition on the state level have decreased considerably. Based on a dynamic panel framework we find that these developments are mainly driven by industry specific factors such as the costs to income ratio. The empirical evidence indicates that inefficiency and the Lerner index are significant negatively correlated. Macroeconomic conditions appear to have supported these trends in competition, however, to a somewhat lesser extent.
D40|The generic possibility of full surplus extraction in models with large type spaces|McAfee and Reny (1992) have given a necessary and sufficient condition for full surplus extraction in naive type spaces with a continuum of payoff types. We generalize their characterization to arbitrary abstract type spaces and to the universal type space and show that in each setting, full surplus extraction is generically possible. We interpret the McAfee–Reny condition as a much stronger version of injectiveness of belief functions and prove genericity by arguments similar to those used to prove the classical embedding theorem for continuous functions. Our results can be used to also establish the genericity of common priors that admit full surplus extraction.
D40|Economic importance of air transport and airport activities in Belgium – Report 2015|This study assesses the economic importance of air transport and airport activities in Belgium in terms of value added, employment and investment over the 2013-2015 period 1 . The sector considered embraces not only the activities directly connected with air transport, but also all those that take place on site at the six Belgian airports (Antwerp, Brussels,Charleroi, Kortrijk, Liège and Ostend). The study reviews the direct and indirect effects of the sector on the basis of microeconomic data (mainly obtained from the Central Balance Sheet Office) and mesoeconomic data (from the National Accounts Institute). It also includes a social balance sheet analysis and an indication of credit risk using statistical models from the NBB’s In-house Credit Assessment System (ICAS). In 2015, air transport and airport activities generated € 6 billion in direct and indirect value added (i.e. 1.5 % of Belgian GDP) and employed around 62 500 people in full-time equivalents (FTEs)either directly or indirectly (1.5 % of domestic employment including the self-employed). Brussels and Liège Airport remain the country’s biggest airports, respectively in terms of passenger and cargo traffic. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in March 2016, the regional airports received part of Brussels’ passenger traffic. All in all, Brussels recovered fairly quickly, especially freight traffic, but also passenger traffic resumed gradually to tie in with growth again since November 2016. Brussels and Liège are the fastest growing airports during the 2013-2015 period, respectively in terms of value added and employment. At Ostend Airport, these economic variables slumped in line with the evolution of freight traffic volumes. Antwerp’s growth rates went into the red as well, mainly under the influence of the difficulties faced by VLM Airlines. At Charleroi and Liège, the trend of value added is downward, while that is not the case for employment. The smallest changes are recorded in Kortrijk.
D40|Do Energy Efficiency Investments Deliver at the Right Time?|Electricity cannot be cost-effectively stored even for short periods of time. Consequently, wholesale electricity prices vary widely across hours of the day with peak prices frequently exceeding off-peak prices by a factor of ten or more. Most analyses of energy-efficiency policies ignore this variation, focusing on total energy savings without regard to when those savings occur. In this paper we demonstrate the importance of this distinction using novel evidence from a rebate program for air conditioners in Southern California. We estimate electricity savings using hourly smart-meter data and show that savings tend to occur during hours when the value of electricity is high. This significantly increases the overall value of the program, especially once we account for the large capacity payments received by generators to guarantee their availability in high-demand hours. We then compare this estimated savings profile with engineering-based estimates for this program as well as a variety of alternative energy-efficiency investments. The results illustrate a surprisingly large amount of variation in economic value across investments.
D40|Directed Search: A Guided Tour|This essay surveys the literature on directed/competitive search, covering theory and applications in, e.g., labor, housing and monetary economics. These models share features with traditional search theory, yet differ in important ways. They share features with general equilibrium theory, but with explicit frictions. Equilibria are typically efficient, in part because markets price goods plus the time required to get them. The approach is tractable and arguably realistic. Results are presented for finite and large economies. Private information and sorting with heterogeneity are analyzed. Some evidence is discussed. While emphasizing issues and applications, we also provide several hard-to-find technical results.
D40|Digital Innovation and the Distribution of Income|Income inequalities have increased in most OECD countries over the past decades; particularly the income share of the top 1%. In this paper we argue that the growing importance of digital innovation – new products and processes based on software code and data – has increased market rents, which benefit disproportionately the top income groups. In line with Schumpeter’s vision, digital innovation gives rise to ”winner-take-all” market structures, characterized by higher market power and risk than was the case in the previous economy of tangible products. The cause for these new market structures is digital non-rivalry, which allows for massive economies of scale and reduces costs of innovation. The latter stimulates higher rates of creative destruction, leading to higher risk as only marginally superior products can take over the entire market, hence rendering market shares unstable. Instability commands risk premia for investors. Market rents accrue mainly to investors and top managers and less to the average workers, hence increasing income inequality. Market rents are needed to incentivize innovation and compensate for its costs, but beyond a certain level they become detrimental. Public policy may stimulate innovation by reducing ex ante the market conditions which favor rent extraction from anti-competitive practices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D40|Intermediation as Rent Extraction|This paper develops a theory of asset intermediation as a pure rent extraction activity. Agents meet bilaterally in a random fashion. Agents differ with respect to their valuation of the asset's dividends and with respect to their ability to commit to take-it-or-leave-it offers. In equilibrium, agents with commitment behave as intermediaries, while agents without commitment behave as end users. Agents with commitment intermediate the asset market only because they can extract more of the gains from trade when reselling or repurchasing the asset. We study the extent of intermediation as a rent extraction activity by examining the agent's decision to invest in a technology that gives them commitment. We find that multiple equilibria may emerge, with different levels of intermediation and with lower welfare in equilibria with more intermediation. We find that a decline in trading frictions leads to more intermediation and typically lower welfare, and so does a decline in the opportunity cost of acquiring commitment. A transaction tax can restore efficiency.
D40|The dynamics of online hotel prices and the EU Booking.com case| This paper analyses the dynamics of hotel prices listed on Booking.com in the period 2014-16. This period is characterised by the most important antitrust decisions regarding the use of price parity clauses by online travel agencies (OTAs) in the EU. First, we document the dynamics of hotel prices on Booking.com in tourism regions of three EU member states: France, Italy, and Spain. The evidence suggests that prices decreased in 2015, the year in which the major antitrust decisions took place, whereas they bounced back in 2016. Second, we provide both a comprehensive explanation of the previous evidence and a rationalisation based on a theoretical model of the OTA sector. Overall, our overarching analysis of the price dynamics on Booking.com allows to explain both the impact of removing price parities and the possible response of the OTAs.
D40|Airport, airline and departure time choice and substitution patterns: An empirical analysis|This paper uses the random-coefficients logit methodology that controls for potential endogeneity of prices and allows for general substitution patterns to estimate various demand systems. The estimation takes advantage of an original ticket-level revealed preference data set on travels from the New York City area to Toronto that contains prices and characteristics of not only flight choices but also of all non-booked alternative flights. Consistent with having higher valuations, our results show that travelers buying closer to departure have a higher utility of flying. Moreover, consumers’ heterogeneity decreases as the flight date nears. At the carrier level, we identify which carriers have more price-sensitive consumers and which carriers face greater competition. In addition, the results suggest that our multi-airport metropolitan area can be considered as a single market and that JFK and Newark are relatively closer substitutes. Overall, consumers are more willing to switch to alternative carriers than between airports or departure times.
D40|A Decomposition of the Herfindahl Index of Concentration|The Herfindahl index is one of the most known indices used to measure the concentration of a variable distributed over a certain number of units, and tipically to measure the degree of concentration of business in a market. Its worth is the sensitivity both to the dimensional variability of these units and to their numerical consistency. In the this note a decomposition of the H-index into these two terms is offered.
D40|Концентрација И Конкуренција У Банковном Сектору Србије<BR>[Concentration and Competition in Serbian Banking Sector]|English. The paper analyzes the degree of concentration and competition in Serbian banking sector on the basis of bank financial statements for year 2016. It uses the traditional concentration indicators (CRn and HH indices), as well as the relatively rarely used Linda indices. The concentration degree is calculated based on three variables: total assets, capital and bank operating income. It was demonstrated that in the case of the relatively large number of banks in Serbia, the existing concentration degree is low, which provides suitable conditions for the development of healthy competition among them. Serbian. У чланку се анализирају степен концентрације и конкуренција у банковном сектору у Србији, на основу финансијских извештаја банака за 2016. годину. Коришћени су како традиционални показатељи концентрације (CRn и HH индекси), тако и релативно мало коришћени индекси Линда. Степен концентрације провераван је на основу три величине: укупни активи, капитал и оперативни приходи банака. Показано је да је међу релативно великим бројем банака у Србији постојећи степен концентрације низак, што ствара услове за развој здраве конкуренције међу њима.
D40|The Amazon Monopoly: Is Amazon’s Private Label Business the Tipping Point?|The purpose of this paper is to consider if Amazon’s increase in private label brands is the tipping point for transforming the e-commerce giant into a monopoly. To lay the foundation, we initially explore the culture, leadership, and business practices which are unique to Amazon that enabled the company to become one of the U.S.’s largest and fastest growing e-commerce websites. Introduced in 2009, Amazon’s private label business has further propelled Amazon’s growth while creating a competitive advantage for the company by offering high quality products to their customers at low cost options. In considering whether private label brands affect Amazon’s status as a monopoly, we first examine exactly what a monopoly is and if Amazon can be classified as one in its current state. We then take a deep dive into Amazon’s private label strategy, analyzing past performance to make educated assumptions about the future. Our research provided evidence indicating that Amazon’s actions are threatening the cooperative nature of its Marketplace by creating substantial barriers to entry and increasing Amazon’s market share. With this knowledge we make predictions about Amazon’s future and whether it will ever be seen as a monopoly under the economic, legal, and/or social definitions. While Amazon’s case is unprecedented, this paper sources leading economists, journalists, and other academic research to support our theory.
D40|Search and Information Costs|In many markets, consumers obtain price quotes before making purchases. In this paper, I consider a fixed-sample size model of search for price quotes when sellers must spend resources to learn the true cost of providing goods/services. I find that (1) even with ex ante identical and rational consumers and sellers, there is price dispersion in the equilibrium; (2) the expected equilibrium price can decrease with the search cost of consumers; (3) consumers may engage in excessive search that is detrimental to their own welfare; (4) a decline in the search cost can leave consumers worse off, due to their lack of commitment.
D40|The timing of choice-enhancing policies|Recent studies investigate policies motivating consumers to make an active choice as a way to protect unsophisticated consumers. We analyze the optimal timing of such choice-enhancing policies when a firm can strategically react to them. In the model, a firm provides a contract with automatic renewal. We show that a policy intending to enhance consumers’ choices when they choose a contract can be detrimental to welfare. By contrast, a choice-enhancing policy at the time of contract renewal increases welfare more robustly. Our results highlight that policies should be targeted in timing to the actual choice inefficiency.
D40|Delegating pricing power to customers: Pay What You Want or Name Your Own Price?|Pay What You Want (PWYW) and Name Your Own Price (NYOP) are customer-driven pricing mechanisms that give customers (some) pricing power. Both have been used in service industries with high fixed costs to price discriminate without setting a reference price. Their participatory and innovative nature gives rise to promotional benefits that do not accrue to posted-price sellers. We explore the nature and effects of these benefits and compare PWYW and NYOP using controlled lab experiments. We show that PWYW is a very aggressive strategy that achieves almost full market penetration. It can be profitable if there are promotional benefits and if marginal costs are low. In contrast, NYOP can be used profitably also if marginal costs are high and if there are no such benefits. It reduces price competition and segments the market. In a second experiment, we generate promotional benefits endogenously. We show that PWYW monopolizes the follow-up market but fails to be profitable. NYOP is less successful in penetrating the market but yields much higher profits.
D40|Competition, Banking Stability and Growth: Evidence from the dual banking system in OIC countries|This study tests the proposition that the Islamic banks are more stable and profitable, especially during the crisis period and tests the impact of competition on both the Islamic and conventional banks using array of measures including the recently developed Boone index in OIC countries. The results can be summarized as follows. First, increase in share of Islamic banks assets increases the overall stability of banking sector. Second, Islamic banks are more stable as compare to their conventional peers but the profitability measures shows that the both the banks are same. This finding is in sharp contradiction with the theoretical standing of Islamic banks being more profitable. This may be due to the significant divergence of Islamic banks from the theory as it is supposed to operate on the risk sharing arrangement. Third, competition has similar effects on stability and profitability on both the banks. Fourth, Islamic banks did better in terms of profitability during the crisis as compare to conventional banks. It also suggests that the Islamic banks were more stable during the crisis period. Finally, we provide evidence of complimentary effect of Islamic and conventional banks in influencing the income per capita suggesting that the co-existence of both the banking system is rewarding for the economies.
D40|“Chaos” In Energy And Commodity Markets: A Controversial Matter|We test whether the futures prices of some commodity and en- ergy markets are determined by stochastic rules or exhibit nonlinear deterministic endogenous uctuations. As for the methodologies, we use the maximal Lyapunov exponents (MLE) and a determinism test, both based on the reconstruction of the phase space of a dynamical sys- tem underlying a scalar time series. In particular, employing a recent methodology, we estimate a coecient that describes the determin- ism rate of the analyzed time series. The empirical evidence suggests that commodity and energy futures prices are the measured footprint of a nonlinear deterministic, rather than a stochastic, system.
D40|The Competitive Status of the South African Wheat Industry|This article investigates the competitiveness of the South African wheat industry and compares it to its major trade partners. Since 1997, the wheat-to-bread value chain has been characterised by concentration of ownership and regulation. This led to concerns that the local wheat market is losing international competitiveness. The competitive status of the wheat industry, and its sub-sectors, is determined through the estimation of the relative trade advantage (RTA). The results revealed declining competitiveness of local wheat producers. Compared to the major global wheat producers, such as Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany and the USA, South Africaâ€™s unprocessed wheat industry is uncompetitive. At the same time, South Africa has a competitive advantage in semi-processed wheat, especially wheat flour. The institutional environment enables the importation of raw wheat at lower prices and exports processed wheat flour competitively to the rest of Africa.
D40|An Empirical Evaluation of ‘Structure-Conduct-Performance’ and ‘Efficient-Structure’ Paradigms in the Banking Sector of Pakistan|Based upon the indicators of market structure, this paper tests the relevance of Structure-Conduct-Performance (SCP), Relative Market Power (RMP), and the Efficient Structure (ES) paradigms for banking industry of Pakistan. We use a (balanced) panel data from 24 commercial banks of Pakistan from the year 1996 to 2015. Descriptive statistics and the formal tests suggest that: (a) there is a weak association between the indicators of market structure and banks’ performance in case of Pakistan; (b) the empirical evaluation results do not provide meaningful support to SCP or RMP paradigms; and (c) the ES paradigm is more relevant in case of Pakistan. At policy level, the findings of this paper suggest that the focus of policymakers should be to improve the efficiency of banking sector, as the excessive focus on indicators of market structure like concentration ratio to improve competition in the banking sector could be counterproductive.
D40|A Formal Test of Competition in the Banking Sector of Pakistan: An Application of PR-H Statistic|This study explores competition in the banking sector of Pakistan in the context of transformation in its structure and business environment since the implementation of financial sector reforms in the country. Instead of relying on the changes in the market structure indicators (like concentration ratio), we employ widely used Panzar and Rosse H statistic as a formal test of competition. PR-H statistic is estimated by using a balanced panel data comprising 24 commercial banks operating in Pakistan from the year 1996 to 2015. The results suggest that the banking sector of Pakistan exhibits the characteristics of monopolistic and perfectly competitive market structures.
D40|Measuring Competition in the Banking Sector of Pakistan: An Application of Boone Indicator|The banking sector of Pakistan has witnessed a notable transformation in its structure and business activities following the implementation of financial sector reforms since the early 1990s. Specifically, the reforms helped transform a repressed financial sector into a market oriented and sound financial sector, predominantly owned and managed by the private sector. How these developments have impacted competition among the banks is still an open question. This study attempts to answer this question with the application of a new approach to measure competition: Boone Indicator of competitiveness. This measure postulates that inefficient firms (banks) in a competitive environment are punished harshly, and there is an output reallocation from inefficient to efficient firms/banks. We have estimated elasticity of market share to marginal costs for 24 banks in Pakistan, using a balanced panel of bank level (annual) data for the year 1996 to 2015. Marginal costs are obtained indirectly by first estimating a translog cost function using earning assets as an output, and cost of financial capital, physical capital and labor as inputs. The estimated Boone Indicator value of negative 0.31 is significant and suggests that inefficient banks have been losing their market share to efficient banks over the estimation period: a reflection of underlying competitive environment. Increasing value of Boone Indicator (in absolute terms) over the period of study suggests that competition among the banks in Pakistan has increased over time.
D40|The Value of Transparency in Dynamic Contracting with Entry|A manufacturer designs a dynamic contract with a retailer who is privately informed about demand and faces competition by an integrated entrant in a second period. Since the entrant only observes demand after entry and demand is correlated across periods, information about past demand affects the entrant’s production. We analyze the incentives of the incumbent players to share information with the entrant and show that the retailer benefits from transparency, but the manufacturer does not. Contrary to what intuition suggests, transparency with an integrated entrant harms consumers. When the entrant is not an integrated firm, whether transparency benefits consumers depends on the degree of demand persistency.
D40|Consumer Perception and Comparative Analysis of sport shoes brand|Indian economy has substantially changed in last 3 decades. The economic upliftment has given considerable purchasing power to Indian consumers. Now, Indian consumers are more inclined towards branded products. Specifically, youth is considerably influenced by the branding of the multinational companies in different product categories. This paper focuses on the comparison between marketing strategies of sports shoe brand i.e. Nike and Adidas in particular. Segmentation, Positioning and marketing mixes will be stated. Consumers perception while giving preferences to a particular brand will be told. Innovative market practices implemented by global brands as well as its influence on consumers will be stated. Consumers viewpoints will also be told. Lastly, conclusion and point of view from my side on comparative marketing strategy will be stated.
D40|Polish Sugar Sector After Abolishing Sugar Production Quotas|The sugar market was one of the most regulated markets in the agri-food sector in the EU, The basis of said regulation was an administrative restriction of supply (production quotas), protectionist foreign trade policies, a minimum procurement price for sugar beet and the reference price of sugar. The sugar sector in Poland has a long tradition and is of great economic social and environmental significance, as well as an important element of the food security policy. Sugar beets are characterized by the greatest productivity per area unit, and by-products are used as fodder or for energy production purposes. The sugar industry is a strategic part of the food economy. Sugar remains the main sweetener, despite the development of the starch syrup and low-calorific sweetener markets. The social importance of the sector results from the fact that sugar beet production remains the source of income for planters, and the sugar industry and numerous service providers create both national income and jobs. Sugar beet cultivations are a crucial element of the sustainable development of agriculture as they increase biodiversity and maintain agricultural land in good condition.Abolishing production quotas will result in big changes in the sugar sector, which in turn will have multiple economic, social and environmental effects. Accounting for international conditions, including competition from cane sugar and obligations resulting from trade contracts, it is assessed that the sugar balance may undergo significant changes. Under the changing external conditions, the foreign trade policies and international economic relations will have a very significant impact on the situation of the domestic sugar sector. Situational development in the sugar sector should include two basic elements: changes in the EU market after the market regulations reform and changes in the economic situation on the international market, and foreign trade conditions. The significant economic social and environmental importance indicates that future policy with regards to the sector should include solutions which will allow to maintain sugar beet cultivation and sugar production at least in the most effective and competitive regions of the country.
D40|Financial Contagion in Networks: A Market Experiment|We investigate how the network structure of ?nancial linkages and uncer- tainty about the location of a shock a?ect the likelihood of contagion and the formation of prices in a double auction market experiment. Core-periphery networks are highly susceptible to contagion and generate ?re sales of assets that exacerbate ?nancial contagion beyond the mechanical role of network structure. In contrast, contagion is minimal on circle networks and market prices remain stable. Uncertainty on the location of the shock has little in?uence. The traders¡¯ comprehension level of the network-driven risk is predictive of their behavior and the likelihood of bankruptcy.
D40|Hansen and Sargent's Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies: A Review Essay|Lars Peter Hansen and Thomas J. Sargent's book, Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies, exposits, extends, and applies methods for solution and analysis of dynamic stochastic linear quadratic models. The book, which can be used as a monograph or in a graduate course, integrates theory, econometrics, and computation. This essay provides a summary and offers some mild complaints about material not included in what is already a remarkably comprehensive book.
D40|A Partial Equilibrium Model of Grain Sorghum in the Markets of the United States, Japan, Mexico and Australia| The production of grain sorghum in the United States is the largest in the world. However, its domestic demand is not strong, and therefore, more than 50 % of US grain sorghum has been exported. Thus, the demand and supply of US grain sorghum may be affected by its foreign markets. Japan has been the second largest exporter of US grain sorghum from 1991 to 2010, but the demand for Australian grain sorghum has been growing in the Japanese market. For the identification of factors affecting the supply and demand of US grain sorghum, this research developed a partial equilibrium model that covers the markets in Mexico, the US, and Japan. Furthermore, we investigated how changes in Japanese demand for feeding grain and Australian poultry production affect the demand and supply of US grain sorghum. This investigation tells us that a change in Australian poultry production has little impact on the demand and supply of US grain sorghum. Furthermore, it was found out that the expansion of the demand for feeding grain in Japan may influence the production, price and domestic demand of US grain sorghum initially, but has no effect on these three variables in the end.
D40|Trading Fees and Intermarket Competition|We model an order book with liquidity rebates (make fees) and trading fees (take fees) that faces intermarket competition, and use the models insights to explain changes in market quality and market shares following changes in make-take fees. As predicted by our model, we document that fee changes by one venue a affect market quality and market shares for all venues that compete for order flow. Furthermore, we document cross-sectional differences in changes in market quality and market shares following a simultaneous decrease in both make and take fees consistent with traders in large (small) capitalization stocks being more sensitive to the change in make (take) fees.
D40|Pairwise trading in the money market during the European sovereign debt crisis|This paper studies over-the-counter (OTC) trading in the unsecured interbank market for euro funds. The goal of our analysis is to identify the determinants of the probability of trading, the bilateral rate and the quantity exchanged during the European sovereign debt crisis. We show how the specific features of this market bring to a non-standard estimation framework. A dyadic econometric model with shadow rates is proposed to control for possibly endogenous matching with the counterparty. A unique dataset containing banks characteristics and bilateral trades is built and used to study the evolution of trading patterns. The estimates bring mild evidence towards the existence of shadow rates. Active monitoring decreased market access to low equity and illiquid borrowers, while dispersion in rates and quantities is mainly driven by banks' nationality, especially during the peak of the crisis.
D40|The Determinants of Consumer Price Dispersion: Evidence from French Supermarkets|In this chapter, we characterize the dispersion of grocery prices in France based on a large original data set of prices in more than 1500 supermarkets across the country. On average across products, the 90 th percentile of relative prices is 17 percentage points higher than the 10 th . The mean absolute deviation from quarterly average product prices is 5% on average in the French retail sector, and the standard deviation of relative prices is 7%.We show that temporary sales and promotions offer a limited explanation of the observed price dispersion, while the permanent component of price dispersion largely dominates. We find that in France price dispersion across stores essentially results from persistent heterogeneity in retail chains' national pricing. Indeed, consumer prices are largely determined at a national level by retail groups' bargaining power with producers and by retail chains' positioning. We also show, however, that local conditions regarding demand and local competition between supermarkets do explain prices observed in local markets, though to a much lower extent.
D40|Wage and Price Setting. New Evidence from Uruguayan Firms|This paper presents new evidence on wage and price setting based on a survey of more than 300 Uruguayan firms in 2013. Most of the firms set prices considering costs and adding a profit margin; therefore, they have some degree of market power. The evidence indicates that price increases appear quite flexible in Uruguay (prices are downward rigid). Most of the firms adjust their prices without following a regular frequency which suggests that price changes in Uruguay are state-dependent, although wage changes are concentrated in January and July. Interestingly, the cost of credit is seen by companies as an irrelevant factor in explaining price increases. We also find that cost reduction is the principal strategy to a negative demand shock. Finally, the adjustment of prices to changes in wages is relatively fast
D40|Monopoly Without a Monopolist: An Economic Analysis of the Bitcoin Payment System|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
D40|Logit, CES, and Rational Inattention|We study fundamental links between two popular approaches to consumer choice: the multinomial logit model of individual discrete choice and the CES utility function, which describes a multiple choice of a representative consumer. We base our analysis on the rational inattention (RI) model and show that the demand system of RI agents, each of which chooses a single option, coincides with the demand system of a fictitious representative agent with CES utility function. Thus, the multiple choice of the representative agent may be explained by the heterogeneity in signals received by the RI agents. We obtain a new interpretation for the elasticity of substitution and the weighting coeficients of the CES utility function. Specifically, we provide a correspondence between parameters of the CES utility function, prior knowledge and marginal cost of information.
D40|Apparent Competition in Two-Sided Platforms|We study a platform’s design of membership and transaction fees when sellers compete and buyers cannot observe the prices and features of goods without incurring search costs. The platform alleviates sellers’ competition by charging them transaction fees that increase with sales revenue, and extracts surplus via membership fees. It prices consumers’ membership below its cost to encourage their search. Examples include malls and online marketplaces. Most malls do not charge for parking while most lease contracts include percentage rents as well as fixed rents. Online marketplaces charge sellers for membership and per transaction while letting consumers access website for free.
D40|Vertical Market Power in Interconnected Natural Gas and Electricity Markets|New England is at the leading edge of an energy transition in which natural gas is playing an increasingly important role in the US electricity generation mix. In recent years, the region’s wholesale natural gas and electricity markets have experienced severe, simultaneous price spikes. While frequently attributed to limited pipeline capacity serving the region, we demonstrate that such price spikes have been exacerbated by some gas distribution firms scheduling deliveries without actually owing gas. This behavior blocks other firms from utilizing pipeline capacity, which artificially limits gas supply to the region and drives up gas and electricity prices. The firms observed to withhold pipeline capacity also own non-gas electricity generation assets in New England that benefit from their gas-fired competitors paying higher fuel input costs. We estimate that capacity withholding increased average gas and electricity prices by 38% and 20%, respectively, over the three-year period we study. As a result, customers paid $3.6 billion more for electricity. While the studied behavior may have been within the firms’ contractual rights, the significant impacts in both the gas and electricity markets show the need to consider improvements to market design and regulation as these two energy markets become increasingly interlinked.
D40|Aktuelle Verbraucherpreisentwicklung im Euroraum|Das Statistische Amt der Europäischen Union veröffentlicht jeden Monat die Inflationsrate für das Euro-Währungsgebiet: Maßgeblich für die in den vergangenen Jahren zu beobachtende disinflationäre Entwicklung in der EWU waren eine negative Output-Lücke und ein Rückgang der Rohölnotierungen. Zudem ist der Preisdruck, der ehedem von administrierten Preisanhebungen in der EWU ausging, stark gesunken. Schließlich hat auch der Einfluss von indirekten Steuern auf das Verbraucherpreisniveau deutlich nachgelassen. Im Januar 2017 lag die Inflationsrate im Euroraum mit 1,8% erstmals wieder knapp unter der Zielmarke der EZB. Hierzu trugen primär die gestiegenen Rohölpreise und die Abwertung des Euro gegenüber dem US-Dollar bei. Zudem sind die Preise für Industriewaren (ohne Energie) und für verarbeitete Nahrungsmittel spürbar gestiegen, die Preise für unverarbeitete Lebensmittel sogar um 3,5%.
D40|Cadena de Farmacéuticos y Apósitos Quirúrgicos. Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando la metáfora de la cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen farmacéuticos y apósitos quirúrgicos para el período 2002 – 2012. Para ello el documento presenta el número de empresas que pertenecen a la cadena, la forma como ellas se distribuyen geográficamente, y por tamaño empresarial, e identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo. El flujograma de la cadena productiva es construido a partir del proceso productivo identificado y de la Matriz Insumo – Producto del sector industrial. En las secciones finales se presentan diferentes indicadores: producción y ventas; concentración empresarial de la producción y las ventas, consumo intermedio; exportaciones e importaciones; índice HERFINDAHL-HIRSCHMAN (IHH); índice de BALASSA; índice de especialización de KRUGMAN; comercio intraindustrial; y tasa de protección efectiva
D40|Cadena de Productos Lácteos Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando la metáfora de la cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología que permite describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran Productos Lácteos para el período 2002 – 2015. Para ello el documento presenta el número de empresas que pertenecen a la cadena, la forma como ellas se distribuyen geográficamente y por tamaño empresarial, e identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo. El flujograma de la cadena productiva es construido a partir del proceso productivo identificado y de la Matriz Insumo – Producto del sector industrial. En las secciones finales se presentan diferentes indicadores: producción y ventas; concentración empresarial de la producción y las ventas, consumo intermedio; exportaciones e importaciones; índice HERFINDAHL-HIRSCHMAN (IHH); índice de BALASSA; índice de especialización de KRUGMAN; comercio intraindustrial; y tasa de protección efectiva.
D40|Monopoly without a monopolist : An economic analysis of the bitcoin payment system|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
D40|Screening for Bid-rigging – Does it Work?|This paper proposes a method to detect bid-rigging by applying mutually reinforcing screens to a road construction procurement data set from Switzerland in which no prior information about collusion was available. The screening method is particularly suited to deal with the problem of partial collusion, i.e. collusion which does not involve all firms and/or all contracts in a specific data set, implying that many of the classical markers discussed in the corresponding literature will fail to identify bid-rigging. In addition to presenting new screens for collusion, it is shown how benchmarks and the combination of different screens may be used to identify subsets of suspicious contracts and firms. The discussed screening method succeeds in isolating a group of “suspicious” firms exhibiting the characteristics of a local bid-rigging cartel with cover bids and a – more or less pronounced – bid rotation scheme. Based on these findings the Swiss Competition Commission (COMCO) opened an investigation and sanctioned the identified “suspicious” firms for bid-rigging in 2016.
D40|Changing prices ... changing times: evidence for Italy|This paper examines the process of adjustment of prices in Italy to determine whether nominal flexibility, measured by the frequency of price changes, has increased in the recent years of protracted stagnation and double-dip recession. The analysis is based on a large micro-level dataset of individual prices collected monthly by Istat from 2006 to 2013 for the Consumer Price Index. We find that both the percentage of prices adjusted monthly and the average size of the adjustment have risen significantly since the 1996-2001 period, in particular for downward changes. This greater flexibility is related in part to the spread of modern distribution structures. Our estimates further indicate that the recession has affected the price adjustment mechanism: for manufactures, price cuts have become larger and more frequent, while increases are more moderate; for services, both the frequency and the size of price increases have diminished.
D40|Does a nutritious diet cost more in food deserts?|Food deserts and their potential effects on diet and nutrition have received much attention from policymakers. While some research has found a correlation between food deserts and consumer outcomes, it is unclear whether food deserts truly affect consumer choices. In this article, we compare food prices in food deserts, defined as low‐income, low‐access census tracts, and nonfood deserts to observe whether and to what extent consumers face higher prices for a complete diet in food deserts. If a nutritionally complete diet costs significantly more in food deserts, resident consumers may be constrained from consuming healthier foods. We use store‐level scanner data from a nationally representative sample and calculate a census‐tract level Exact Price Index (EPI) based on a food basket defined by the Thrifty Food Plan (TFP). The EPI addresses potential biases from both product heterogeneity and variety availability. We find that the overall price impact of living in a food desert is small; low‐access areas have only 3.5% higher EPI than high‐access counterparts. However, consumers who are constrained to shop within their own census tracts face a much higher EPI than high‐access counterparts (9.2%). The higher EPI primarily comes from lower variety availability in food deserts.
D40|Does competition aggravate moral hazard? A Multi-Principal-Agent experiment|We conduct an experiment to determine whether market structure affects financial intermediary behavior. The intermediaries (Agents) are perfectly informed regarding project types and can recommend that their clients (Principals) either proceed or discontinue a project. Intermediaries earn revenues only when they recommend proceeding with the transaction. Thus, our design captures some of the incentives faced by financial advisers in commercial banks, where compensation depends on sales performance, and also by money-managers, whose income depends on the size of their portfolios. We find that a monopolist intermediary protects the interest of clients better than when intermediaries compete. Our results are robust to a significant fee increase and provide additional evidence on the impact of market structure on individual incentives and equilibrium outcomes.
D40|Estimating the money market microstructure with negative and zero interest rates|Money market microstructure is fundamental to studying bank behaviour, to evaluating monetary policy and to assessing the financial stability of the system. Given the lack of granular data on interbank loans, Furfine (1999) proposed an algorithm to estimate the microstructure using data from the payment system. We propose an econometric methodology to assess and improve the quality of the money market microstructure estimated by the Furfine algorithm in the presence of zero and negative rates, exploiting information coming from market regularities. We first extend the standard Furfine algorithm to include negative rates and verify the presence of significant noise at a specific rate. Secondly, we propose an inferential procedure that enriches and corrects the standard algorithm based on the economic likelihood of loans. Market regularities observed in this decentralized market are used to increase the reliability of the estimated interbank network. Thirdly, the methodology is applied to TARGET2, the European wholesale payment system. The main impacts of recent monetary policy decisions on key interest rates are studied, comparing the standard algorithm with the new econometric procedure.
D40|Determinantes de la morosidad de la cartera de microcrédito en Colombia|El microcrédito es una modalidad de préstamos orientada a financiar microempresas, hogares y personas que tienen acceso limitado al mercado de crédito formal. Teniendo en cuenta que desde 2002 la cartera de microcrédito ha crecido en la mayoría del tiempo a un ritmo mayor que la cartera total del sistema financiero y que esta modalidad de préstamos presenta un deterioro en los indicadores de riesgo de crédito desde finales de 2011, el objetivo de este trabajo es identificar los principales determinantes de la morosidad de los deudores en el pago de los microcréditos. Con tal fin, se hace uso del concepto de Información Suave, que incluye variables socioeconómicas de los deudores y características de las microempresas para determinar su impacto sobre la probabilidad de mora. Usando las metodologías Probit y Logit multinomial se encuentra que entre 2002 y mediados de 2014, existe evidencia estadística a favor de la hipótesis de que variables tales como la edad del deudor, el género, el número de personas que tiene a su cargo, el tipo de vivienda en que vive, los años de experiencia en la actividad que desarrolla, entre otras, clasificadas dentro de la categoría de Información Suave, tienen una relación significativa con dicha morosidad.
D40|Does Competition Solve the Hold-up Problem?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecca12170-abs-0001""> In an environment in which heterogeneous buyers and sellers undertake ex ante investments, the presence of market competition for matches provides incentives for investment but may leave inefficiencies, namely hold-up and coordination problems. This paper shows, using an explicitly non-cooperative model, that when matching is assortative and investments precede market competition, buyers' investments are constrained efficient while sellers marginally underinvest with respect to what would be constrained efficient. However, the overall extent of this inefficiency may be large. Multiple equilibria may arise; one equilibrium is characterized by efficient matches, but there can be additional equilibria with coordination failures."
D40|Price competition and reputation in markets for experience goods: an experimental study|We experimentally examine the effects of price competition in markets for expe-rience goods where sellers can build up reputations for quality. We compare price competition to monopolistic markets and markets where prices are exogenously fixed (somewhere between the endogenous oligopoly and monopoly prices). While oligopolies benefit consumers regardless of whether prices are fixed or endoge-nously chosen, we find that price competition lowers efficiency as consumers pay too little attention to reputation for quality. This provides empirical support to recent models in behavioral industrial organization that assume that consumers may with increasing complexity of the market place focus on selected dimensions of products. We also find that consumers' attention to quality and, hence, provided quality drops when regulated prices are set at levels that are too low.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D40|Le Mexique à l’heure des réformes structurelles|In 2013, Mexico implemented a comprehensive set of structural reforms aimed at removing the obstacles hindering the economy to renew with growth, in fields as diverse as education, public finance, financial sector, energy and telecommunication. It became therefore one of the few countries to have succeeded in voting such a large number of structural reforms in such a short period of time and accompanied by a broad political support. The reduction of monopolies and oligopolistic organizations that generated inefficiencies and the increase in low-cost access to credit for households and businesses could lead to a rise in Mexico?s potential growth by almost one percentage point. If some of the reforms begin to show their effectiveness, the global positive effects on growth are taking time to appear. This delay is especially long given that reforms did not deal with several roots of the fragility of the Mexican growth model. Paradoxically, the Mexican economy shows strong and sound macroeconomic fundamentals, resilience, and great trade openness but remains poorly inclusive, largely informal with endemic corruption and generates strong geographical and income inequalities. Classification JEL: D40, L16, O54.
D40|The Duverger-Demsetz Perspective on Electoral Competitiveness and Fragmentation: With Application to the Canadian Parliamentary System, 1867-2011|We combine Duverger’s Law (1954) with Demsetz’s (1968) theory of natural monopoly to provide a novel perspective on electoral competitiveness in a single member district, plurality rule system. In the framework we develop, competitiveness depends on the contestability of elections, which declines as party fragmentation exceeds the long run level predicted by Duverger’s Law. We provide support for this Duverger-Demsetz perspective by studying the relationship between the concentration of vote shares and a new index of electoral contestability over the history of the Canadian parliamentary system from 1867. Extension of the argument to proportional electoral systems is also considered.
D40|Marketmaking Middlemen|This paper develops a model in which market structure is determined endogenously by the choice of intermediation mode. We consider two representative business modes of intermediation that are widely used in real-life markets: one is a middleman mode where an intermediary holds inventories which he stocks from sellers for the purpose of reselling to buyers; the other is a market-making mode where an intermediary offers a platform for buyers and sellers to trade with each other. In our model, buyers and sellers can simultaneously search in an outside market and use the intermediation service. We show that a marketmaking middleman, who adopts the mixture of these two intermediation modes, can emerge in a directed search equilibrium.
D40|A Leverage Theory of Tying in Two-Sided Markets|Partly motivated by the recent antitrust investigations concerning Google, we develop a leverage theory of tying in two-sided markets. We analyze incentives for a monopolist to tie its monopolized product with another product in a two-sided market. Tying provides a mechanism to circumvent the non-negative price constraint in the tied product market without inviting an aggressive response as the rival firm faces the non-negative price constraint. We identify conditions under which tying in two-sided markets is profitable and explore its welfare implications. Our mechanism can be more widely applied to any markets in which sales to consumers in one market can generate additional revenues that cannot be competed away due to non-negative price constraints.
D40|Results Through Transparency: Does Publicity Lead to Better Procurement? - Working Paper 437|Governments buy about $9 trillion worth of goods and services a year, and their procurement policies are increasingly subject to international standards and institutional regulation including the WTO Plurilateral Agreement on Government Procurement, Open Government Partnership commitments and International Financial Institution procurement rules. These standards focus on transparency and open competition as key tools to improve outcomes. While there is some evidence on the impact of competition on prices in government procurement, there is less on the impact of specific procurement rules including transparency on competition or procurement outcomes. Using a database of World Bank financed contracts, we explore the impact of a relatively minor procurement rule governing advertising on competition using regression discontinuity design and matching methods.
D40|Rockets and feathers meet markup margins: Applications to the oil and gasoline industry|This article investigates the existence of asymmetric price transmission between crude oil, rack (wholesale) and retail gasoline prices. A threshold cointegration technique is used, with regime switches being triggered by the size of the markup margin. There is consistent evidence of band-TAR in which the crude, rack and retail prices are free to diverge until the markup margin is squeezed or stretched beyond a lower or upper critical threshold. This finding indicates that abnormally high markup margins cannot be sustained, which provides evidence against market power exertion. The threshold error correction models indicate that there is no systematic relationship between the speed of adjustment back to the long-run relationship and the markup margin, which rules out the existence of rockets and feathers.
D40|Analysis of the Relationship between Market Volatility and Firms Volatility on the Polish Capital Market|In this paper we investigate if the strength of firm-market volatility relationship has changed after subprime crisis on the Polish Capital Market. The empirical study concern the selected companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) from the construction and IT sectors in the 2004-2011 period. The volatility measures were computed on the basis of daily low and high prices for companies shares and WIG index. For each company ARFIMAX-FIGARCH model with additional exogenous variables, which represented market volatility, was estimated in the stable and the turbulent period. Conducted empirical studies have not shown that the negative shocks flowing from the American stock market through investors\' behavior channel contributed to the increase in the fraction of firms of the construction and IT sectors listed on the WSE whose volatility is shaped by market volatility.
