D42|Bayesian Comparative Statics|We study how information affects equilibria and welfare in games. For an agent, more precise information about an unknown state of the world leads to a mean-preserving spread of beliefs. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions to obtain either a non-increasing mean or a non-decreasing-mean spread of actions whenever information precision increases for at least one agent. We apply our Bayesian comparative statics framework to study informational externalities in strategic environments. In persuasion games, we derive sufficient conditions that lead to extremal disclosure of information. In oligopolistic markets, we characterize the incentives of firms to share information. In macroeconomic models, we show that information not only drives the amplitude of business cycles but also affects aggregate output.
D42|Pre-Trade Private Investments|This paper investigates the welfare effects of private investments prior to trade. A seller of a durable good can privately invest on changing its quality. After the investment, she receives a take-it-or-leave-it offer from a buyer. Both the seller and the buyer value more goods of higher quality. We obtain that, in equilibrium, the seller mixes the investment choice, adding adverse selection to the exchange. The nonobservability of the investment lowers the buyerâ€™s payoff without giving the seller additional rents. Notably, adding buyer competition exacerbates the adverse selection and completely eliminates the trade surplus. Partial observability increases the equilibrium investment, makes the seller better off, and lowers the payoff of the buyer.
D42|Optimal Non-Linear Pricing Scheme when Consumers are Habit Forming|This article analyses how consumers' habit formation affects firms' pricing policies. We consider both sophisticated consumers, who realize that their current consumption will affect future consumption, and naive consumers, who do not. The optimal contract for sophisticated consumers is a two-part tariff. The main result is that under naive habit formation, the optimal pricing pattern is a three-part tariff; namely a fixed fee, with some units priced below cost --- and after their end --- pricing above marginal cost. This holds both under symmetric and asymmetric information.
D42|Does competition increase pass-through?|How does market power affect the rate of pass-through from marginal cost to the market price? A standard intuition is that more competition makes prices more “cost-reflective” and thus raises cost pass-through. This paper shows that this intuition is sensitive to the common assumption in the literature that firms’ marginal costs are constant. If firms have even modestly increasing marginal costs, more intense competition actually reduces pass through. These results apply to the “normal” case where pass-through is less than 100%. They have implications for competition policy and environmental regulation.
D42|Firm Heterogeneity and the Aggregate Labour Share|Using a static model of firm behaviour with imperfect competition on the product and labour markets, we quantify the effect of firm heterogeneity in total factor productivity, market power, capital, wages and prices on the aggregate labour share. In particular, we suggest a new decomposition of the aggregate labour share in terms of the first moments of the joint distribution of these variables across firms, providing a bridge between the micro and the macro approach to functional distribution. We provide an application of our method to the UK manufacturing sector, using firm-level data for the period 1998-2014. The analysis confirms that heterogeneity matters: in an economy populated only by representative firms, the labour share would be 10 percentage points lower. Among all the dimensions studied, heterogeneity in total factor productivity and labour market power are the most relevant ones, whereas heterogeneity in product market power matters the least, with wages and prices in between. However, the observed fall in the aggregate labour share over the period is mostly explained by a widening of the disconnect between average productivity and real wages, with a smaller role for an increase in the average product and labour market power of firms after the Great Recession, while changes in the dispersion of these variables mostly offset each other.
D42|Soda tax incidence and design under monopoly|We consider an unhealthy good, such as a sugar-sweetened beverage, the health damages of which are misperceived by consumers. The sugar content is endogenous. We first study the solution under “pseudo” perfect competition. In that case a simple Pigouvian tax levied per unit of output but proportional to the sugar content is sufficient to achieve a first best solution. Then we consider a monopoly. Market power affects both output and sugar content, possibly in opposite directions, and these effects have to be balanced against Pigouvian considerations. We show that, nevertheless, a tax per unit of output achieves an efficient solution, but it must be an affine function of the sugar content; taxing “grams of sugar” is no longer sufficient. Interestingly, both the total tax as well as its sugar component can be positive as well as negative.
D42|Multi-Part Tariffs and Differentiated Commodity Taxation|We study commodity taxation in markets where firms, such as Internet Service Providers, energy suppliers and payment card platforms, adopt multi-part tariffs. We show that ad valorem taxes can correct underprovision and hence increase welfare, provided the government applies differentiated tax rates to the usage and access parts of the tariff. We obtain this result in different settings, including vertically interlinked markets, markets where firms adopt menus of tariffs to screen consumers and where they compete with multi-part tariffs. Our results suggest that exempting these markets from taxation may be inefficient.
D42|China vs. U.S.: IMS Meets IPS|Currently both the International Monetary System (IMS) and the International Price Systems (IPS) are dominated by the U.S. The emergence of China, both as reserve currency and as a currency of invoicing, is likely to disrupt this status quo. We provide a framework to understand the forces that will shape this transition and identify sources of instability. We highlight the risk of an abrupt shift triggered by a run on the dollar.
D42|Beating Coase at Monopoly|We study how a buyer unable to price discriminate should satisfy his demand in the presence of diseconomies of scale in production. Defying the Coase Conjecture, we show that auctioning contracts for lots (block sourcing) followed by setting a price to realize (part of) the residual gains from trade a ways leads to higher buyer surplus than simply setting a price.
D42|Emission Taxes, Feed-in Subsidies and the Investment in a Clean Technology by a Polluting Monopoly|The paper studies the use of emission taxes and feed-in subsidies for the regulation of a monopoly that can produce the same good with a technology that employs a polluting input and a clean technology. The second-best tax and subsidy are calculated solving a two-stage policy game between the regulator and the monopoly with the regulator acting as the leader of the game. We find that the second-best tax rate is the Pigouvian tax. The tax implements the efficient level of the dirty output but does not affect the total output. On the other hand, the subsidy leads to the monopoly to reduce the dirty output but also to increase the total output. This increase in total output may yield a larger net social welfare when the subsidy is used provided that the marginal cost of clean output is not very high, as a linear-quadratic specification of the model confirms. Finally, it is showed that the combination of an emission tax with a feed-in subsidy induces the firm to choose the efficient outputs, but in this case the first-best tax must be lower than the Pigouvian tax. Thus, the findings of this paper support the idea that feed-in subsidies open the possibility for improving the regulation of a polluting firm with market power.
D42|Nonlinear Pricing in Village Economies|This paper examines the price of basic staples in rural Mexico. We document that nonlinear pricing in the form of quantity discounts is common, that quantity discounts are sizable for typical staples, and that the well-known conditional cash transfer program Progresa has significantly increased quantity discounts, although the program, as documented in previous studies, has not affected on average unit prices. To account for these patterns, we propose a model of price discrimination that nests those of Maskin and Riley (1984) and Jullien (2000), in which consumers differ in their tastes and, because of subsistence constraints, in their ability to pay for a good. We show that under mild conditions, a model in which consumers face heterogeneous subsistence or budget constraints is equivalent to one in which consumers have access to heterogeneous outside options. We rely on known results (Jullien (2000)) to characterize the equilibrium price schedule, which is nonlinear in quantity. We analyze the effect of nonlinear pricing on market participation as well as the impact of a market-wide transfer, analogous to the Progresa one, when consumers are differentially constrained. We show that the model is structurally identified from data on prices and quantities from a single market under common assumptions. We estimate the model using data from municipalities and localities in Mexico on three commonly consumed commodities. Interestingly, we find that nonlinear pricing is beneficial to a large number of households, including those consuming small quantities, relative to linear pricing mostly because of the higher degree of market participation that nonlinear pricing induces. We also show that the Progresa transfer has affected the slopes of the price schedules of the three commodities we study, which have become steeper as consistent with our model, leading to an increase in the intensity of price discrimination. Finally, we show that a reduced form of our model, in which the size of quantity discounts depends on the hazard rate of the distribution of quantities purchased in a village, accounts for the shift in price schedules induced by the program.
D42|A Model of Market Making with Heterogeneous Speculators|I introduce an optimizing monopolistic market maker in an otherwise standard setting a la Brock and Hommes (1998) (BH98). The market maker manages her inventory of a zero yielding asset, such as foreign currency, and can earn profits from trading, taking advantage of her knowledge of speculators' demand. The resulting dynamic behavior is qualitatively identical to the one described in BH98, showing that the results of the latter are independent from the institutional framework of the market. At the same time I show that the market maker has conflicting effects. She acts as a stabilizer when she allows for market imbalances, while she acts as a destabilizer when she manages aggressively her inventories and when she trades actively, both if she acts as fundamentalist or if she is a strong extrapolator. Indeed the more stable institutional framework is one in which market makers are inventory neutral and don't trade actively but, even in this case, the typical complex behavior of BH98 occurs.
D42|China vs. U.S.: IMS Meets IPS|Currently both the International Monetary System (IMS) and the International Price Systems (IPS) are dominated by the U.S. The emergence of China, both as reserve currency and as a currency of invoicing, is likely to disrupt this status quo. We provide a framework to understand the forces that will shape this transition and identify sources of instability. We highlight the risk of an abrupt shift triggered by a run on the dollar.
D42|Market Power and Income Taxation|Does significant market power or the presence of large rents affect optimal income taxation, calling for greater redistribution due to tainted gains? Or perhaps less because of an additional wedge that distorts labor effort? Do concerns about inequality have implications for antitrust, regulation, trade, and other policies that influence market power, which contributes to inequality? This article addresses these questions in a model with heterogeneous abilities and hence a concern for distribution, markups, multiple sectors, ownership that is a function of income, allowance for any share of profits to be recoveries of investments (including rent-seeking efforts), endogenous labor supply, and a nonlinear income tax. In this model, proportional markups with no profit dissipation have no effect on the economy, and a policy that reduces a nonproportional markup raises (lowers) welfare when it is higher (lower) than a weighted average of other markups. With proportional (partial or full) profit dissipation, proportional markups are equivalent to a downward shift of the distribution of abilities, and the welfare effect of correcting nonproportional markups associated with nonproportional profit dissipation now depends also on the degree of dissipation and how that is affected by the policy. In all cases, optimal policies maximize consumer plus producer surplus, without regard to a policy’s distributive effects on consumers and profits or how markups and income taxation distort labor effort.
D42|Deceptive Products on Platforms| On many online platforms, sellers offer products with additional fees and features. Platforms often deliberately shroud these fees from consumers. Examples are shipping fees, luggage fees on flight-aggregator websites, or resort fees and upgrades on hotel booking platforms. We explore the incentives of two-sided platforms to disclose additional fees and design a transparent marketplace when consumers might naively ignore shrouded additional fees. First, we find that platforms have stronger incentives to shroud additional fees than sellers in the absence of platforms. This result holds for monopoly platforms and in some competitive settings. Second, competition might induce platforms to regulate additional fees, which benefits consumers. We discuss connections to frequent practices like drip pricing, and platforms like Amazon or eBay regulating shipping fees.
D42|Selling Data|I study how a monopolist data broker (seller), who wants to maximize profits, should present and sell consumer data to a firm (buyer). The buyer has an interest in forecasting a particular consumer characteristic, but the seller is uncertain about which characteristic the buyer wants to forecast and how much the buyer values information. I assume that the joint distribution of both the unknown characteristics and the data is elliptical. This information environment reduces to a multidimensional, multi-product mechanism design problem in which the buyer’s payoffs are nonlinear. Hence, I cannot use the common differential approach to solve for the optimal mechanism. I obtain two main results. First, I show that the seller should optimally offer statistics that are linear combinations of the data and independent noise. Second, by using a direct approach, I show that in the optimal mechanism the seller might want to offer a continuum of different statistics, and these statistics, without containing independent noise, are less correlated than they would be if the seller could perfectly price discriminate. Thus this distortion affects the mimicking type more than the mimicked type.
D42|Why Is Executive Compensation So High? A Model of Executive Compensation|In this paper, I examine the mechanism of extremely high executive compensation based on the concept of ranking value and preference, and show that the origin of such extremely high compensation is economic rents. Ranking value and preference provide monopoly powers, profits, and rents to producers and generate “superstars” who are not only absolutely but, more importantly, are relatively superior to other executives. Furthermore, ranking value and preference enable a firm’s product to be differentiated and provide the firm monopoly rents (profits). Executives who contribute to differentiating the product can obtain economic rents and be compensated similar to superstars on professional sports teams. The monopoly rents owing to ranking values can be socially justified, but they may not be socially justifiable if they are solely distributed to executives.
D42|Firm Heterogeneity and the Aggregate Labour Share|Using a static model of firm behaviour with imperfect competition on the product and labour markets, we quantify the effect of firm heterogeneity in total factor productivity, market power, capital, wages and prices on the aggregate labour share. In particular, we suggest a new decomposition of the aggregate labour share in terms of the first moments of the joint distribution of these variables across firms, providing a bridge between the micro and the macro approach to functional distribution. We provide an application of our method to the UK manufacturing sector, using firm-level data for the period 1998-2014. The analysis confirms that heterogeneity matters: in an economy populated only by representative firms, the labour share would be 10 percentage points lower. Among all the dimensions studied, heterogeneity in total factor productivity and labour market power are the most relevant ones, whereas heterogeneity in product market power matters the least, with wages and prices in between. However, the observed fall in the aggregate labour share over the period is mostly explained by a widening of the disconnect between average productivity and real wages, with a smaller role for an increase in the average product and labour market power of firms after the Great Recession, while changes in the dispersion of these variables mostly offset each other.
D42|Preventing Widening Inequality: Economic Rents and Sustainable Heterogeneity|There has long been a deep-rooted view that economic rents are foremost among the origins of high levels of economic inequality. In this paper, economic rents generated by ranking preference are examined as an important source of widening inequality based on the concept of sustainable heterogeneity. Ranking preference generates widespread and large monopoly rents across an economy because they can be obtained through firms’ product differentiations, but this topic has not been studied as a source of economic inequality. This paper shows that these monopoly rents can greatly accelerate economic inequality because access to these rents is intrinsically heterogeneous among households and are unevenly distributed and persistent. Nevertheless, if a government appropriately intervenes, the acceleration of inequality can be prevented.
D42|Multi-part Tariffs and Differentiated Commodity Taxation|We study commodity taxation in markets where firms, such as Internet Service Providers, energy suppliers and payment card platforms, adopt multi-part tariffs. We show that ad valorem taxes can correct underprovision and hence increase welfare, provided the government applies differentiated tax rates to the usage and access parts of the tariff. We obtain this result in different settings, including vertically interlinked markets, markets where firms adopt menus of tariffs to screen consumers and where they compete with multi-part tariffs. Our results suggest that exempting these markets from taxation may be inefficient.
D42|Uncertain Commitment Power in a Durable Good Monopoly|This paper considers dynamic pricing strategies in a durable good monopoly model with uncertain commitment power to set price paths. The type of the monopolist is private information of the firm and not observable to consumers. If commitment to future prices is not possible, the initial price is high in equilibrium, but the firm falls prey to the Coase conjecture later to capture the residual demand. The relative price cut is increasing in the probability of commitment as buyers anticipate that a steady price is likely and purchase early. Pooling in prices may occur for perpetuity if commitment is suciently weak. Polling for innity is also preserved if committing to a high price is endogenously chosen by the firm.
D42|Uncertain Commitment Power in a Durable Good Monopoly|This paper considers dynamic pricing strategies in a durable good monopoly model with uncertain commitment power to set price paths. The type of the monopolist is private information of the firm and not observable to consumers. If commitment to future prices is not possible, the initial price is high in equilibrium, but the firm falls prey to the Coase conjecture later to capture the residual demand. The relative price cut is increasing in the probability of commitment as buyers anticipate that a steady price is likely and purchase early. Pooling in prices may occur for perpetuity if commitment is suciently weak. Polling for innity is also preserved if committing to a high price is endogenously chosen by the firm.
D42|Soda tax incidence and design under monopoly|We consider an unhealthy good, such as a sugar-sweetened beverage, the health damages of which are misperceived by consumers. The sugar content is endogenous. We first study the solution under “pseudo” perfect competition. In that case a simple Pigouvian tax levied per unit of output but proportional to the sugar content is sufficient to achieve a first best solution. Then we consider a monopoly. Market power affects both output and sugar content, possibly in opposite directions, and these effects have to be balanced against Pigouvian considerations. We show that, nevertheless, a tax per unit of output achieves an efficient solution, but it must be an affine function of the sugar content; taxing “grams of sugar” is no longer sufficient. Interestingly, both the total tax as well as its sugar component can be positive as well as negative.
D42|Price Discrimination and Salient Thinking|This paper generalizes the price discrimination framework of Mussa and Rosen (1978) by considering salience-driven consumer preferences in the sense of Bordalo et al. (2013b). Consumers with salience-driven preferences give a higher weight to attributes that vary more. This reduces the monopolist's propensity to treat different types of consumers differently. The paper's main result characterizes the conditions under which the monopolist induces consumers to focus on price rather than on quality.
D42|Controlling Monopoly Power in a Classroom Double-Auction Market Experiment|There is robust evidence in the experimental economics literature studying decentralized forms to control monopoly power via trading institutions. This strand provides evidence showing that double-auction trading institutions do affect monopoly power. In addition, recent experimental evidence shows that trading institutions themselves can shape agents' market behaviour through the formation of anchors and reference points. We recreate experimentally five different double-auction market structures (perfect competition,perfect competition with quotas, cartel on price, cartel on price with quotas, and monopoly) in a within-subject experimental design, varying the order of markets implementation. We investigate whether monopoly power endures the formation of reference prices emerged in previously implemented market structures. Results from our classroom experiments suggest that i) prevailing prices in the first implemented market work as reference points in subsequent market structures, ii) the formation of reference points negatively impacts on monopolists' power in later market structures..
D42|Environmental Quality and Monopoly Pricing|This paper investigates various aspects of a monopolist’s pricing and environmental quality choice, as two simultaneous decisions and with each as a separate decision, the other variable being exogenously fixed. Green quality is modeled as in Spence (1975), and the present analysis builds on his pioneering work. We contrast the private and the first-best socially optimal solutions. While the latter follows the intuitive property of assigning a higher price to higher quality, the former solution does so under a natural condition of log-supermodular demand. This condition is studied in some detail, and related to properties of an underlying utility function. We complete this characterization of optimal pricing by providing a counter-intuitive example where the two-dimensional interaction is such that the monopolist ends up charging a lower optimal price than the social planner, as well as producing a lower quality. Finally, we investigate respective sufficient conditions under which (i) the private and first-best solutions coincide, and (ii) either one is larger than the other.
D42|Systemic usury and the European Consumer Credit Directive|Usury is a frequent occurrence in consumer credit markets and particularly affects low-income households. Systemic usury exploits poverty by shifting usury into additional products and leveraging usury gains by stringing together individual loan agreements. This paper reviews the economic rationale for usury legislation and on this basis evaluates the European Consumer Credit Directive 2008/48/EC. Systemic usury is a market failure. The most powerful explanations for such failure in consumer credit markets are monopoly power, where the consumer is locked in a bilateral credit relationship, discrimination through risk-based pricing, and negative externalities, where the least solvent borrowers are cross-subsidized by the more solvent ones. Incomplete information of consumers cannot explain systemic usury in credit markets, because even fully informed consumers would be discriminated and trapped into a situation of bilateral monopoly. However, the European Consumer Credit Directive is primarily based on the model of incomplete information, which it seeks to correct by informational duties. As a consequence, usurious practices and products are implicitly acknowledged as legal, which has eroded the national combat against usury. Therefore, this Directive is not effective and must be reformed.
D42|Strategic Inattention in Product Search|Online platforms provide search tools that help consumers to get better-fitting product offers. But this technology makes consumer search behavior also easily traceable and allows for real-time price discrimination. Consumers face a trade-off: Search intensely and receive a better fit at a potentially higher price or restrict search behavior – be strategically inattentive – and receive a worse fit, but maybe a better deal. We study the resulting strategic buyer-seller interaction theoretically as well as experimentally. Our experimental results show that it is the sellers and not the buyers who profit from these search tools.
D42|Recovering the Principle of Minimum Differentiation. An Iceberg Approach|The clustering of competitor outlets is a pervasive phenomenon in our cities. However, Hotelling’s principle of minimum differentiation is well-known not to hold. The attempts to modify Hotelling’s model are numerous in the literature on spatial competition, but mostly unsuccessful. We provide a new approach by endogenizing the transportation cost. In particular, we inherit a modeling technique from the literature of international trade. This is the iceberg formulation. With it, we are able to give a rationale to the agglomeration of firms in the middle of a Hotelling linear market.
D42|Price Discrimination in International Airline Markets|We develop a model of inter-temporal and intra-temporal price discrimination by airlines to study the ability of different discriminatory mechanisms to remove sources of inefficiency and the associated distributional implications. To estimate the model’s multi-dimensional distribution of preference heterogeneity, we use unique data from international airline markets with flight-level variation in prices across time and cabins, and information on passengers’ reason for travel. We find that current pricing practices grant late-arriving business passengers substantial informational rents and yield 81% of first-best welfare, with stochastic demand and asymmetric information accounting for 65% and 35% of the gap, respectively.
D42|Buyer-Optimal Robust Information Structures|We study buyer-optimal information structures under monopoly pricing. The information structure determines how well the buyer learns his valuation and affects, via the induced distribution of posterior valuations, the price charged by the seller. Motivated by the regulation of product information, we assume that the seller can disclose more if the learning is imperfect. Robust information structures prevent such disclosure, which is a constraint in the design problem. Our main result identifies a two-parameter class of information structures that implements every implementable buyer payoff. An upper bound on the buyer payoff where the social surplus is maximized and the seller obtains just her perfect-information payoff is attainable with some, but not all priors. When this bound is not attainable, optimal information structures can result in an inefficient allocation.
D42|Parallel Imports and Repair Services|This study investigates the effect of parallel imports when the producer of a durable good may refuse to provide repair and maintenance services for parallel imported units, or charge higher prices for those services. By doing so, the producer is able to weaken intra-brand competition and reduce the degree of market integration, thereby mitigating the negative effect of parallel imports on profits. Although the lower degree of market integration increases the producer's profit, it does not always mean that the producer wants to improve the durability of the product. If the producer invests in improving the durability of the good, the service discrimination against the parallel imported units could lower the durability of the product. In this case, consumers in the importing country may suffer by permitting parallel imports, and the negative effect is amplified by trade liberalization.
D42|Inequality and Market Concentration, When Shareholding is More Skewed than Consumption|Economic theory suggests that monopoly prices hurt consumers but benefit shareholders. But in a world where individuals or households can be both consumers and shareholders, the impact of market power on inequality depends in part on the relative distribution of consumption and corporate equity ownership across individuals or households. The paper calculates this distribution for the United States, using data from the Survey of Consumer Finances and the Consumer Expenditure Survey, spanning nearly three decades from 1989 to 2016. In 2016, the top 20 percent consumed approximately as much as the bottom 60 percent, but had 13 times as much corporate equity. Because ownership is more skewed than consumption, increased mark-ups increase inequality. Moreover, over time, corporate equity has become even more skewed relative to consumption.
D42|Optimal fund menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the beliefs of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to offer funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset that is not subject to the information friction.
D42|Random Encounters and Information Diffusion about Markets|International openness enhances social interactions between citizens of different countries or regions, and vice versa. Social exchanges in turn increase the trade flows between coun- tries. Accordingly, these meetings influence markets and prices. We analyze the interaction between the increased mobility following openness between two different countries and the corresponding effects on market outcomes. The main result of our analysis consists in show- ing that market prices tend at the limit to align with the duopoly solution. Nonetheless, this convergence can take two different paths depending on the size asymmetry between the countries.
D42|Price-cost tests and loyalty discounts|We analyze, by means of a formal economic model, the use of price-cost tests to assess the competitive effects of loyalty discounts. In the model, a dominant firm enjoys a competitive advantage over its rivals and uses loyalty discounts as a means to boost the demand for its product. We show that in this framework price-cost tests are misleading or, at best, completely uninformative. Our results cast doubts on the applicability of price-tests to loyalty discount cases.
D42|How EU Markets Became More Competitive Than US Markets: A Study of Institutional Drift|Many European markets today appear more competitive than their American counterparts. We document this surprising reversal of history and propose an explanation. Our model of political support predicts that a supranational regulator enforces free markets beyond the preferences of any individual country. We find that European institutions are indeed more independent and enforce competition more strongly than any individual country ever did. Countries with ex-ante weaker institutions benefit more from the delegation of competition policy to the EU level. Our model also explains why political and lobbying expenditures have increased more in America than in Europe.
D42|Optimal Fund Menus|We study the optimal design of a menu of funds by a manager who is required to use linear pricing and does not observe the preferences of investors regarding one of the risky assets. The optimal menu involves bundling of assets and can be explicitly constructed from the solution to a calculus of variations problem that optimizes over the indirect utility that each type of investor receives. We provide a complete characterization of the optimal fund menu and show that the need to maintain incentive compatibility leads the manager to behave as a closet indexer by offering funds that are inefficiently tilted towards the asset which is not subject to the information friction.
D42|Markets for Information: An Introduction|We survey a recent and growing literature on markets for information. We offer a comprehensive view of information markets through an integrated model of consumers, information intermediaries, and firms. The model embeds a large set of applications ranging from sponsored search advertising to credit scores to information sharing among competitors. We then review a mechanism design approach to selling information in greater detail. We distinguish between ex ante sales of information (the buyer acquires an information structure) and ex post sales (the buyer pays for specific realizations). We relate this distinction to the different products that brokers, advertisers, and publishers use to trade consumer information online. We discuss the endogenous limits to the trade of information that derive from its potential adverse use for consumers. Finally, we revisit the role of recommender systems and artificial intelligence systems as markets for indirect information.
D42|Worst-Case Bounds on R&D and Pricing Distortions: Theory and Disturbing Conclusions if Consumer Values Follow the World Income Distribution|We prove that, for general demand and cost conditions and market structures, the fraction of first best surplus that a monopolist is unable to extract in a market provides a tight upper bound on the relative distortions arising from firms' equilibrium decisions at all margins (entry and pricing). Continuing with this worst-case perspective, we show that a symmetrically truncated Zipf (STRZ) distribution of consumer values generates the lowest producer surplus among those with a given mean and maximum value. This allows us to relate potential deadweight loss from all margins in a market to the Zipf-similarity of its demand curve. The STRZ distribution also bounds deadweight loss at just the pricing margin. We leverage existing results from industrial organization (e.g., on demand curvature) and statistics (e.g., on the relation between means and medians) to bound producer surplus in an array of important special cases. Calibrations based on the world distribution of income generate extremely Zipf-similar demand curves, with disturbing consequences for potential deadweight loss in global markets. We gauge the extent to which various policies-such as progressive taxation or price discrimination-can ameliorate potential deadweight loss.
D42|Markets for Information: An Introduction|We survey a recent and growing literature on markets for information. We offer a comprehensive view of information markets through an integrated model of consumers, information intermediaries, and firms. The model embeds a large set of applications ranging from sponsored search advertising to credit scores to information sharing among competitors. We then review a mechanism design approach to selling information in greater detail. We distinguish between ex ante sales of information (the buyer acquires an information structure) and ex post sales (the buyer pays for specific realizations). We relate this distinction to the different products that brokers, advertisers, and publishers use to trade consumer information online. We discuss the endogenous limits to the trade of information that derive from its potential adverse use for consumers. Finally we revisit the role of recommender systems and artificial intelligence systems as markets for indirect information.
D42|Inequality and Market Concentration, when Shareholding is more Skewed than Consumption|Economic theory suggests that monopoly prices hurt consumers but benefit shareholders. But in a world where individuals or households can be both consumers and shareholders, the impact of market power on inequality depends in part on the relative distribution of consumption and corporate equity ownership across individuals or households. The paper calculates this distribution for the United States, using data from the Survey of Consumer Finances and the Consumer Expenditure Survey, spanning nearly three decades from 1989 to 2016. In 2016, the top 20 percent consumed approximately as much as the bottom 60 percent, but had 13 times as much corporate equity. Because ownership is more skewed than consumption, increased mark-ups increase inequality. Moreover, over time, corporate equity has become even more skewed relative to consumption.
D42|Vertical Structure and the Risk of Rent Extraction in the Electricity Industry|This paper studies how competition and vertical structure jointly determine generating capacities, retail prices, and welfare in the electricity industry. Analyzing a model in which demand is uncertain and retailers must commit to retail prices before they buy electricity in the wholesale market, we show that welfare is highest if competition in generation and retailing is combined with vertical separation. Vertically integrated generators choose excessively high retail prices and capacities to avoid rent extraction in the wholesale market when their retail demand exceeds their capacity. Vertical separation eliminates the risk of rent extraction and yields lower retail prices.
D42|Green firm, brown production|"In a theoretical model of an environmentally conscious (""green"") monopolist, we show that increasing greenness does not always mean lower output and environmental damages. We assume that a green firm can internalize environmental externalities in its decision making process and/or invest in cleaner production technology and management practices. We also find that our results hold regardless of whether consumers value the firm's pro-environmental actions or not."
D42|Surfing Incognito: Welfare Effects of Anonymous Shopping|This paper studies consumers’ incentives to hide their purchase histories when the seller’s prices depend on previous behavior. Through distinct channels, hiding both hinders and facilitates trade. Indeed, the social optimum involves hiding to some extent, yet not fully. Two opposing effects determine whether a consumer hides too much or too little: the first-period social gains are only partially internalized, and there is a private (socially irrelevant) second-period gain due to price differences. If time discounting is small, the second effect dominates and there is socially excessive hiding. This result is reversed if discounting is large.
D42|Product Proliferation and Pricing in a Market with Positional Effects|We provide an explanation for product versioning that is not driven by differential costs or consumer preference heterogeneity, and investigate its implications. Consumers care whether a product they own is better than that owned by others, and whether others own a better product than them. These positional effects can induce a firm to offer products of different quality, with the high quality product becoming more exclusive as these effects strengthen. Consumers with no positional preferences become worse off when the broader market acquires them, except following the introduction of the second product, when some such consumers become better off. Positional preference also reduce total consumer surplus holding the number of products fixed; however, they increase consumer surplus if they lead the firm to introduce a second product of sufficiently high quality. We discuss empirical implications of the theory.
D42|How EU Markets Became More Competitive Than US Markets: A Study of Institutional Drift|Until the 1990's, US markets were more competitive than European markets. Today, European markets have lower concentration, lower excess profits and lower regulatory barriers to entry. We document this surprising outcome and propose an explanation using a model of political support. Politicians care about consumer welfare but also enjoy retaining control over industrial policy. We show that politicians from different countries who set up a common regulator will make it more independent and more pro-competition than the national ones it replaces. Our comparative analysis of antitrust policy reveals strong support for this and other predictions of the model.
D42|Market Failure in Kidney Exchange|We show that kidney exchange markets suffer from market failures whose remedy could increase transplants by 30%–63%. First, we document that the market is fragmented and inefficient: most transplants are arranged by hospitals instead of national platforms. Second, we propose a model to show two sources of inefficiency: hospitals only partly internalize their patients' benefits from exchange, and current platforms suboptimally reward hospitals for submitting patients and donors. Third, we calibrate a production function and show that individual hospitals operate below efficient scale. Eliminating this inefficiency requires either a mandate or a combination of new mechanisms and reimbursement reforms.
D42|Worst-Case Bounds on R&D and Pricing Distortions: Theory with an Application Assuming Consumer Values Follow the World Income Distribution|We prove that, for general demand and cost conditions and market structures, the fraction of first-best surplus that a monopolist is unable to extract in a market provides a tight upper bound on the relative distortions arising from firms' equilibrium decisions at all margins (entry and pricing). Continuing with this worst-case perspective, we show that a symmetrically truncated Zipf (STRZ) distribution of consumer values generates the lowest producer surplus among those with a given mean and maximum value. This allows us to relate potential deadweight loss from all margins in a market to the Zipf-similarity of its demand curve. The STRZ distribution also bounds deadweight loss at just the pricing margin. We leverage existing results from industrial organization (e.g., on demand curvature) and statistics (e.g., on the relation between means and medians) to bound producer surplus in an array of important special cases. Calibrations based on the world distribution of income generate extremely Zipf-similar demand curves, suggesting a large potential for deadweight loss in global markets. We gauge the extent to which various policies—such as progressive taxation or price discrimination—might ameliorate this potential deadweight loss.
D42|Strategic inventories under limited commitment|In a dynamic storable good market where demand changes over time, we investigate the producer's strategic incentives to hold inventories in response to the possibility of buyer stockpiling. The literature on storable goods has demonstrated that buyer stockpiling in anticipation of higher future prices harms the producer's profitability, particularly when the producer cannot commit to future prices. We show that the producer's inventories act as a strategic device to mitigate the loss from the lack of commitment. Our results provide a rationale for the producer's inventory behavior that sheds new light on the well‐documented empirical evidence about inventories.
D42|Pricing and Diffusion of Durables with Network Externalities|This paper considers the optimal pricing and diffusion of a durable good that exhibits positive network externalities, when consumers are heterogeneous with respect to their expectations about future network sizes. We consider the existence of naive consumers, as well as of sophisticated consumers who have fulfilled expectations about future network sizes. At the time of purchase, naive consumers presume that the current network size will continue over future periods. We find that the firm charges the sequential-diffusion pricing that makes sophisticated consumers function as early adopters, unless consumers quickly become bored with using the goods and/or unless the firm heavily discounts its future profits. In addition, we show that naive consumers may enjoy a greater surplus than do sophisticated consumers, implying that the firm benefits when more consumers are sophisticated. We also compare the profitability of three possible pricing strategies with different commitment powers: fixed, responsive, and pre-announced pricing.
D42|Superstars in Team Sports: An Economic Model|In professional sports, superstars can earn extremely high incomes compared with those of other players. The existence of superstars in team sports is interesting because, unlike in individual sports, it is the teams that compete, not the individual players. This paper examines the mechanism of how an individual player can be a superstar even in the context of team sports. The key to the mechanism is that the probability of winning differs tremendously depending on whether or not a team has top-ranked players (i.e., those with relatively high abilities). This factor, combined with the effect of ranking preference, means that the salaries of players increase exponentially from the bottom- to the top-ranked player. As a result, a top-ranked player can be a superstar even in team sports.
D42|Self-Regulation Under Asymmetric Cost Information|In this paper, we study how a monopolistic firm with unknown costs may behave under the threat of regulation. To this aim, we integrate the self-regulation model of Glazer and McMillan (1992) with the optimal regulatory mechanism devised by Baron and Myerson (1982) for the case of asymmetric information. Simulating the equilibrium outcome of our integrated model for a wide range of parameter values, we show that the firm threatened with regulation always constrains its price; moreover, it does so more stringently if it is less efficient. If the marginal cost of the firm is sufficiently close to the highest possible value according to the beliefs of the legislators and the regulator, the price the firm charges under the threat of regulation can be even lower than the price it has to charge when it is regulated. Our simulations also reveal how the welfares of consumers and the threatened firm may be affected in the short-run and long-run by possible variations in several attributes of our model, involving the marginal cost of production, the number of legislators, each legislator's cost of proposing a regulatory bill, the size of the market, and the weight of the firm's welfare in the social welfare function.
D42|Heterogeneous Consumer Expectations and Monopoly Pricing for Durables with Network Externalities|This paper studies the optimal pricing and diffusion of durable goods that exhibit positive network externalities, when consumers are heterogeneous in their expectations about future network sizes. We consider the existence of naive consumers, as well as of sophisticated consumers having fulfilled expectations. We find that the firm charges the sequential-diffusion pricing that makes sophisticated consumers function as early adopters, unless consumers quickly become bored with using the goods and/or unless the firm heavily discounts its future profits. We also compare the profitability of three possible pricing strategies with different commitment powers: fixed, responsive, and pre-announced pricing.
D42|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide a general non-parametric formula for aggregating microeconomic shocks in general equilibrium economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, and nominal rigidities. We show that the macroeconomic impact of a shock can be boiled down into two components: its “pure” technology effect; and its effect on allocative efficiency arising from the associated reallocation of resources, which can be measured via changes in factor income shares. We also derive a formula showing how these two components are determined by structural microeconomic parameters such as elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and network linkages. Overall, our results generalize those of Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to economies with distortions. To demonstrate their empirical relevance, we pursue different applications, focusing on markup distortions. For example, we operationalize our non-parametric results and show that improvements in allocative efficiency account for about 50% of measured TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also implement our structural results and conclude that eliminating markups would raise TFP by about 40%, increasing the economywide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimates of Harberger (1954).
D42|One Markup to Rule Them All: Taxation by Liquor Pricing Regulation|Government often chooses simple rules to regulate industry even when firms and consumers are heterogeneous. We evaluate the implications of this practice in the context of alcohol pricing where the regulator uses a single markup rule that does not vary across products. We estimate an equilibrium model of wholesale pricing and retail demand for horizontally differentiated spirits that allows for heterogeneity in consumer preferences based on observable demographics. We show that the single markup increases market power among upstream firms, particularly small firms whose portfolios are better positioned to take advantage of the policy. For consumers, the single markup acts as a progressive tax by overpricing products favored by the rich. It also decreases aggregate consumer welfare though 16.7% of consumers are better off under the policy. These consumers tend to be older, less wealthy or educated, and minorities. Simple policies therefore generate significant cross-subsidies and may be an effective tool for government to garner favor of key constituencies.
D42|Fixed Costs Matter|According to standard economic wisdom, fixed costs should not matter for pricing decisions. However, outside economics, it is widely accepted that firms need to increase their prices after a fixed cost rise. In this note, we show that a liquidity-constrained firm that maximizes lifetime profits should increase its price after a fixed cost increase, if future profits depend positively on current sales. The reason is that then the optimal price is lower than the one that maximizes the current profit. Because the higher cost necessitates higher current profits to avoid bankruptcy, the firm needs to increase its price.
D42|Auctions with Limited Commitment|We study the role of limited commitment in a standard auction environment. In each period, the seller can commit to an auction with a reserve price but not to future reserve prices. We characterize the set of equilibrium profits attainable for the seller as the period length vanishes. An immediate sale by efficient auction is optimal when there are at least three buyers. For many natural distributions two buyers is enough. Otherwise, we give conditions under which the maximal profit is attained through continuously declining reserve prices.
D42|Duality in Production|The paper reviews the application of duality theory in production theory. Duality theory turns out to be a useful tool for two reasons: (i) it leads to relatively easy characterizations of the properties of systems of producer derived demand functions for inputs and producer supply functions for outputs and (ii) it facilitates the generation of flexible functional forms for producer demand and supply functions that can be estimated using econometrics. The paper focuses on describing the properties of five functional forms that have been used in the production literature: (i) the Constant Elasticity of Substitution (CES), (ii) the Generalized Leontief, (iii) the translog, (iv) the Normalized Quadratic and (v) the KonÃ¼s Byushgens Fisher functional forms. The applications of GDP functions and joint cost functions to various areas of applied economics is explained.
D42|Explaining Escalating Fines and Prices: The Curse of Positive Selection|This paper shows that escalating fines emerge in a generalized version of the canonical Becker (1968) model if the authority (i) does not fully credit offender gains to social welfare, and (ii) lacks commitment ability. We demonstrate that the authority has no incentive to increase the fine for repeat offenders because of their positive selection. Instead, escalation is driven by the authority's incentive to reduce the fine for low-value offenders in the future and redistribute additional offender gains to society. Our analysis nests optimal law enforcement with uncertain detection and behavior-based monopoly pricing with imperfect customer recognition.
D42|Good intentions and unintended evil? Adverse effects of criminalizing clients in paid sex markets with voluntary and involuntary prostitution|"Internationally, there is no consensus concerning the legal and moral judgment of prostitution. Nevertheless, there is an overwhelming agreement on the need to fight sexual slavery. We analyze how a law - introduced to punish clients of commercial sex services - affects market outcomes. More specifically, we examine how the so-called ""neo-abolitionism"" or ""Nordic"" prostitution regime impacts sexual slavery. The theoretical analysis reveals that this effect is ambiguous and crucially depends on the size of the deterrence effect and on local properties of the market demand. In addition, we highlight the conditions under which the composition of clients changes towards more risk-seeking individuals. Policy implications that arise are identified and discussed."
D42|Pricing Strategies with Costly Customer Arbitrage|Abstract A monopolist’s ability to conduct non-linear pricing is limited because customers can, at a cost, unbundle bundled output. Three pricing strategies are available to a firm: (1) a separating strategy; (2) a pooling strategy; and (3) an exclusion strategy. Each is optimal for some set of unbundling cost and distribution of customer types. The optimal pricing strategies are contrasted with the well-studied benchmark cases, in which unbundling costs are either zero or arbitrarily high. It is shown that it is not always possible to extrapolate the conclusions from the benchmark cases with respect to pricing, profitability, consumer surplus or efficiency.
D42|Price Discrimination in Input Markets and Quality Differentiation|Abstract This paper examines the welfare implications of input price discrimination in a vertically-related market, which is composed of a monopolistic upstream market and a duopolistic downstream market. The downstream duopolists produce quality-differentiated products at different marginal costs. We show that the equilibrium input prices are closely related to the downstream quality gap and cost difference. When the monopolist simply charges a unit wholesale price for its input product, discriminatory pricing could be socially desirable even though the aggregate output remains unchanged. Nevertheless, if a two-part tariff is feasible, then banning price discrimination could increase the aggregate output and social welfare.
D42|Experimentation in Two-Sided Markets|We study optimal experimentation by a monopolistic platform in a two-sided market. The platform provider is uncertain about the strength of the externality each side is exerting on the other. Setting participation fees on both sides, it gradually learns about these externalities by observing actual participation levels. This provides an informational rationale for introductory pricing, with the platform provider charging a fee below the myopically optimal level on at least one side of the market. If the externality that the other side exerts is sufficiently well known and weaker than the externality it experiences, the platform provider extracts surplus from that side by charging it a fee above the myopically optimal level. This interplay between learning and surplus extraction is crucial to the market outcome and its dynamics.
D42|Wholesale Pricing with Incomplete Information about Private Label Products|This article provides a theoretical model analyzing wholesale pricing tariffs set by a monopolistic manufacturer for its branded product that is sold to final customers by a monopolistic retailer. The bargaining power of the downstream retailer is strengthened by offering also a vertically differentiated private label product whose production costs are known only incompletely to the upstream manufacturer. The model shows that the manufacturer can avoid double marginalization and implement the full information outcome by combining a quantity discount with a market-share discount where only a retailer with a strong private label retroactively receives an allowance. Under these circumstances it is unprofitable for the manufacturer to impose exclusive dealing on the retailer.
D42|Strategic Inattention in Product Search|Rapid technological developments in online markets fundamentally change the relationship between consumers and sellers. Online platforms can now easily gather data about the consumer and his search behavior, that allow for price discrimination. Therefore the consumers’ product search becomes a strategic choice. Consumers face a trade-off: Search intensely and receive a better fit at a potentially higher price or restrict search behavior – be strategically inattentive – and receive a worse fit, but maybe a better deal. We study the resulting strategic buyer-seller interaction theoretically as well as experimentally. Our experimental results shed a critical light on the added value for consumers through the rise of online platforms.
D42|Pricing when Customers Care about Fairness but Misinfer Markups|This paper proposes a theory of price rigidity consistent with survey evidence that firms stabilize prices out of fairness to their consumers. The theory relies on two psychological assumptions. First, customers care about the fairness of prices: fixing the price of a good, consumers enjoy it more at a low markup than at a high markup. Second, customers underinfer marginal costs from prices: when prices rise due to an increase in marginal costs, customers underappreciate the increase in marginal costs and partially misattribute higher prices to higher markups. Firms anticipate customers’ reaction and trim their price increases. Hence, the passthrough of marginal costs into prices falls short of one—prices are somewhat rigid. Embedded in a simple macroeconomic model, our pricing theory produces nonneutral monetary policy, a short-run Phillips curve that involves both past and future inflation rates, a hump-shaped impulse response of output to monetary policy, and a nonvertical long-run Phillips curve.
D42|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide a general non-parametric formula for aggregating microeconomic shocks in general equilibrium economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, and nominal rigidities. We show that the macroeconomic impact of a shock can be boiled down into two components: its ``pure'' technology effect; and its effect on allocative efficiency arising from the associated reallocation of resources, which can be measured via changes in factor income shares. We also derive a formula showing how these two components are determined by structural microeconomic parameters such as elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and network linkages. Overall, our results generalize those of Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to economies with distortions. To demonstrate their empirical relevance, we pursue different applications, focusing on markup distortions. For example, we operationalize our non-parametric results and show that improvements in allocative efficiency account for about 50% of measured TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also implement our structural results and conclude that eliminating markups would raise TFP by about 40%, increasing the economywide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimates of Harberger (1954).
D42|Direct welfare analysis of relative price regulation| Abstract The paper synthesizes and develops the welfare analysis of regulating relative prices, for example price differences, of which banning price discrimination is a special case. Welfare results are derived directly by convexity arguments using functions of welfare levels. The method is also used to obtain results about e¤ects on consumer surplus.
D42|A Model of Third-Degree Price Discrimination with Positive Welfare Effects| Abstract Monopoly third-degree price discrimination raises social welfare above the level with a uniform price when direct demand functions have constant curvatures that differ across markets and are below 1, and the maximum willingness to pay is identical across markets.
D42|Discount pricing|"This paper investigates ""discount pricing"", the common marketing practice whereby a price is listed as a discount from an earlier, or regular, price. We discuss two reasons why a discounted price---as opposed to a merely low price---can make a rational consumer more willing to purchase the item. First, the information that the product was initially sold at a high price can indicate the product is high quality. Second, a discounted price can signal that the product is an unusual bargain, and there is little point searching for lower prices. We also discuss a behavioral model in which consumers have an intrinsic preference for paying a below-average price. Here, a seller has an incentive to offer different prices to identical consumers, so that a proportion of its consumers enjoy a bargain. We discuss in each framework when a seller has an incentive to offer false discounts, in which the reference price is exaggerated."
D42|Public Investment, Taxation and Transfer of Technology|A low wage developing economy (South) is interested in accessing and attracting superior technology from a high wage developed economy (North) with firms having heterogeneous quality of technology. To improve upon the initial market equilibrium, which shows that relatively inefficient technologies will move to the South, the host government invests in infrastructure financed through taxing the foreign firms. We discuss the problem of existence of such a tax-transfer mechanism within a balanced budget framework. We argue that such a policy can increase tax revenue as well as instigate the transfer of better quality technology. It turns out that this policy is more likely to be successful when the production concerns high value, high price products in low wage economies. Our results improve upon the conventional strategy of a tax break.
D42|The Mechanism behind Product Differentiation An Economic Model|The strategy of product differentiation has been viewed as very important in the field of business administration but it has not necessarily been viewed as an important source of large differences in firms profits in the field of economics In this paper this apparent contradiction is examined based on the concepts of ranking preference and value In the proposed model if a product s implicit rank is higher households will purchase the product far more often than competing products even if their qualities are almost identical and the tastes of households are uniformly distributed Even a slight difference in quality can result in a clear difference in implicit ranks and consequently large differences in firms profits Therefore the effects of differentiation are amplified by ranking preference and product differentiation efforts are truly very important for firms
D42|Freemium as optimal menu pricing|In online contents markets, content providers collect revenues from both consumers and advertisers by segmenting consumers who are willing to avoid advertisements and who are not. To analyze such situations, I construct a model of menu pricing by advertising platforms in two-sided markets. I find that, under certain condition, although a monopolistic platform can choose any menu of price-advertisement pairs, the optimal menu consists of only two services: ad-supported basic service and ad-free premium service. In addition, if the willingness to pay of advertisers is sufficiently high, the basic service is offered for free. This menu pricing is well known as freemium. Furthermore, this binary structure remains to hold under several extensions including duopoly platform competition.
D42|The Amazon Monopoly: Is Amazon’s Private Label Business the Tipping Point?|The purpose of this paper is to consider if Amazon’s increase in private label brands is the tipping point for transforming the e-commerce giant into a monopoly. To lay the foundation, we initially explore the culture, leadership, and business practices which are unique to Amazon that enabled the company to become one of the U.S.’s largest and fastest growing e-commerce websites. Introduced in 2009, Amazon’s private label business has further propelled Amazon’s growth while creating a competitive advantage for the company by offering high quality products to their customers at low cost options. In considering whether private label brands affect Amazon’s status as a monopoly, we first examine exactly what a monopoly is and if Amazon can be classified as one in its current state. We then take a deep dive into Amazon’s private label strategy, analyzing past performance to make educated assumptions about the future. Our research provided evidence indicating that Amazon’s actions are threatening the cooperative nature of its Marketplace by creating substantial barriers to entry and increasing Amazon’s market share. With this knowledge we make predictions about Amazon’s future and whether it will ever be seen as a monopoly under the economic, legal, and/or social definitions. While Amazon’s case is unprecedented, this paper sources leading economists, journalists, and other academic research to support our theory.
D42|Disclosure and Pricing of Attributes|A monopolist seller owns an object that has several attributes. A buyer is privately informed about his tastes and uncertain about the attributes. The seller can disclose attribute information to the buyer in a form of a statistical experiment. The seller offers a menu of call options varying in upfront payments, experiments, and strike prices. I study revenue-maximizing menus and show that optimal experiments belong to a simple class of linear disclosures. I fully characterize an optimal menu for a class of single-minded buyers. Surprisingly, the menu is nondiscriminatory and can be implemented by a single partial disclosure followed by a posted price.
D42|Trading under Market Impact|We use a model with agency frictions to analyze the structure of a dealer market that faces competition from a crossing network. Traders are privately informed about their types (e.g. their portfolios), which is something the dealer must take into account when engaging his counterparties. Instead of participating in the dealer market, the traders may take their business to a crossing network. We show that the presence of such a network results in more trader types being serviced by the dealer and that, under certain conditions, the book\'s spread shrinks. We allow for the pricing on the dealer market to determine the structure of the crossing network and show that the same conditions that lead to a reduction of the spread imply the existence of an equilibrium book or crossing network pair.
D42|Durable goods monopoly with stochastic costs|I study the problem of a durable goods monopolist who lacks commitment power and whose marginal cost of production varies stochastically over time. I show that a monopolist with stochastic costs usually serves the different types of consumers at different times and charges them different prices. When the distribution of consumer valuations is discrete, the monopolist exercises market power and there is inefficient delay. When there is a continuum of types, the monopolist cannot extract rents and the market outcome is efficient.
D42|Discriminatory Information Disclosure|A seller designs a mechanism to sell a single object to a potential buyer whose private type is his incomplete information about his valuation. The seller can disclose additional information to the buyer about his valuation without observing its realization. In both discrete-type and continuous-type settings, we show that discriminatory disclosure—releasing different amounts of additional information to different buyer types—dominates full disclosure in terms of seller revenue. An implication is that the orthogonal decomposition technique, while an important tool in dynamic mechanism design, is generally invalid when information disclosure is part of the design.
D42|Strategic corporate social responsibility|We examine the strategic use of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in imperfectly competitive markets. The level of CSR determines the weight a firm puts on consumer surplus in its objective function before it decides upon supply. First, we consider symmetric Cournot competition and show that the endogenous level of CSR is positive for any given number of firms. However, positive CSR levels imply smaller equilibrium profits. Second, we find that an incumbent monopolist can use CSR as an entry deterrent. Both results indicate that CSR may increase market concentration. Third, we consider heterogeneous firms and show that asymmetric costs imply asymmetric CSR levels.
D42|Die Medienökonomik personalisierter Daten und der Facebook-Fall|Im Internet erfreut sich ein Geschäftsmodell erheblicher Beliebtheit, bei welchem den Nut-zern Dienstleistungen oder Inhalte (in traditionellen Geldeinheiten) unentgeltlich zur Verfügung gestellt werden und stattdessen die auf dem Wege der Nutzung durch die Nutzer (bewusst oder unbewusst) bereitgestellten persönlichen Daten profitabel verwertet werden, sei es für gezielte Werbung, die Personalisierung und Individualisierung von Produkten und Dienstleistungen oder für datenbasierte Preisdiskriminierung. Im Kontext dieser innovativen Unternehmensstrategien können beim Vorliegen von Marktmacht auch neuartige Formen des Missbrauchs dieser Marktmacht zu Lasten der Nutzer auftreten. So geht beispielsweise derzeit das Bundeskartellamt dem Verdacht nach, dass der dominierende Anbieter von Soziale-Medien-Dienstleistungen, Facebook, seine Marktmacht missbrauche, indem er den Nutzern zu weit reichende Nutzungsrechte an persönlichen Daten abverlangt. Der vorliegende Beitrag nimmt diesen aktuellen Fall zum Anlass, die neuere ökonomische Forschung zur Rolle personalisierter Daten auf Onlinemärkten fallbezogen zusammenzufassen und exemplarisch auf Facebook anzuwenden. Dabei werden mögliche Missbrauchsstrategien auf ihre Plausibilität untersucht. Dabei wird deutlich, dass auch auf Märkten bzw. Plattformseiten, auf denen kein Geld im Sinne der gesetzlichen Währung fließt, dennoch Ausbeutungsmissbrauch möglich und vorstellbar ist. Dies wäre auch im Falle Facebook denkbar, wobei hierzu ohne eine empirische Analyse interner Daten (welche den Autoren nicht vorliegen) keine endgültige Aussage möglich ist.
D42|Resale Price Maintenance with Secret Contracts and Retail Service Externalities|We analyze a setting where a monopolist sells through retailers that set prices and provide valuable but non-contractible services to customers. We assume that contracts are private. We find that purely bilateral price restraints have no effect on the equilibrium outcome and that the standard Bertrand prices and service levels prevail. We also show that if manufacturers can commit to industry-wide resale prices, they can obtain higher prices and service levels but will generally not be able to achieve the fully integrated outcome. Using a specific linear demand system, we find that industry-wide price floors are harmful to consumers.
D42|Collusive agreements in vertically differentiated markets|This survey introduces a number of game-theoretic tools to model collusive agreements among firms in vertically differentiated markets. I first review some classical literature on collusion between two firms producing goods of exogenous different qualities. I then extend the analysis to an n-firm vertically differentiated market to study the incentive to form either a whole market alliance or partial alliances made of subsets of consecutive firms in order to collude in prices. Within this framework I explore the price behaviour of groups of colluding firms and their incentive to either prune or proliferate their products. It is shown that a selective pruning within the cartel always occurs. Moreover, by associating a partition function game to the n-firm vertically differentiated market, it can be shown that a sufficient condition for the cooperative (or coalitional) stability of the whole industry cartel is the equidistance of firms’ products along the quality spectrum. Without this property, and in presence of large quality differences, collusive agreements easily lose their stability. In addition, introducing a standard infinitely repeated game approach, I show that an increase in the number of firms in the market may have contradictory effects on the incentive of firms to collude: it can make collusion easier for bottom and intermediate firms and harder for the top-quality firm. Finally, by means of a three-firm example, I consider the case in which alliances can set endogenously qualities, prices and number of variants on sale. I show that, in every formed coalition, (i) market pruning dominates product proliferation and (ii) partial cartelization always arises in equilibrium, with the bottom-quality firm always belonging to the alliance.
D42|A Theory of Crowdfunding -A Mechanism Design Approach with Demand Uncertainty and Moral Hazard: Comment|Strausz (2017) claims that crowdfunding implements the optimal mechanism design outcome in an environment with entrepreneurial moral hazard and private cost information. Unfortunately, his analysis, solution and claim depend critically on imposing an untenable condition (29) that he had explicitly discarded from his weak feasibility concept.1 This condition is essentially equivalent to ex post participation. We explain why it is inconsistent to assume consumers can opt out after learning the entrepreneur's cost structure in a model of fraud. We then study weak feasibility without the corresponding ex post participation constraint. We provide a simple example of a crowdfunding design that raises profit and welfare by tolerating some fraud risk. This shows how cross-subsidizing between cost states relaxes the most restrictive moral hazard constraints and generates better outcomes. We then characterize the optimal mechanism in the case of one consumer and two cost states. In general, this must hide information, including prices, from consumers. So crowdfunding cannot implement these optima.
D42|Manipulation of Cursed Beliefs in Online Reviews|Consumer reviews may have perverse effects, including delays of adoption in new products of unknown quality when consumers are boundedly rational. When consumers fail to take into account that past reviewers self-select to purchases, a monopolist may manipulate the posterior beliefs of consumers who observe the reviews, because the product price determines the self-selection bias. The monopolist will charge a relatively high price because the positive selection of the early adopters increases the quality reported in the reviews.
D42|Informative Advertising in a Monopoly with Network Externalities|This paper studies the incentives for a monopolistic firm producing a good with network externalities to advertise when consumers face imperfect infor- mation and therefore must search to realize their actual willingness to pay for the good. A firm may disclose market information through advertising if it finds it beneficial. The results suggest that advertising is more likely in the case of a negative network effect and less likely with a positive network effect. When a monopolist faces a strong network externality, it chooses to support the maximum possible network and charge a price equal to the value of the externality. Finally, depending on the value of the search cost and type of network externality, a monopolist may use different advertising content: no information, price information only, product characteristics, or both price and product characteristics. Specifically, if all consumers have the same search cost, as the search cost grows the firm must include more informa- tion in the advertising content, while as the network externality changes from negative to positive, the firm reduces the content. In contrast, if consumers di¤er in their search costs, the firm tends to provide more information as the externality changes from negative to positive.
D42|Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility|We examine the strategic use of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in imperfectly competitive markets. The level of CSR determines the weight a firm puts on consumer surplus in its objective function before it decides upon supply. First, we consider symmetric Cournot competition and show that the endogenous level of CSR is positive for any given number of firms. However, positive CSR levels imply smaller equilibrium profits. Second, we find that an incumbent monopolist can use CSR as an entry deterrent. Both results indicate that CSR may increase market concentration. Third, we consider heterogeneous firms and show that asymmetric costs imply asymmetric CSR levels.
D42|Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten|"Die Initiative Neue Soziale Marktwirtschaft (INSM) hat das ifo Institut mit der Erstellung einer Studie zum sogenannten Mittelstandsbauch im deutschen Einkommensteuertarif beauftragt. Der Mittelstandsbauch führt bei geringen und mittleren Einkommen zu einem schnell steigenden Grenzsteuersatz, weshalb der Mittelstand in der öffentlichen Debatte oft als derjenige Teil der Gesellschaft angesehen wird, welcher einen besonders großen Teil der staatlichen Abgaben trägt. Das Gutachten „Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten"" – erstellt im ifo Zentrum für öffentliche Finanzen und politische Ökonomie – zeigt konkrete Reformoptionen auf und quantifiziert die Auswirkungen auf Steuerzahler und öffentliche Haushalte mithilfe des ifo-Einkommensteuer-Simulationsmodells (ifo-ESM)."
D42|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide non-parametric formulas for aggregating microeconomic shocks in economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, financial frictions, and nominal rigidities. We allow for arbitrary elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and input-output network linkages. We show how to separately measure changes in technical and allocative efficiency, thereby generalizing Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to inefficient economies. We also show how to compute the social cost of distortions. We pursue applications focusing on firm-level markups in the US. We find that improvement in allocative efficiency, due to the reallocation over time of market share to high-markup firms, accounts for about half of aggregate TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also find that eliminating the misallocation resulting from the large and dispersed markups estimated in the data would raise aggregate TFP by about 15%, increasing the economy-wide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimate by Harberger (1954). These exact numbers should be interpreted with care since the data is imperfect and requires substantial imputation.
D42|Cálculo de un WACC diferenciado por región para proyectos de generación de electricidad con fuentes renovables en Colombia|Resumen: En este trabajo estamos interesados en proponer una metodología para estimar la tasa de descuento para proyectos de generación de electricidad divididos en renovables y norenovables (convencionales) y diferenciado por región. Esto requiere estimar adicionalmente un parámetro riesgo para cada región, en este caso para cada departamento del país, que tendría el efecto inmediato de regionalizar directamente la tasa de descuento o el WACC para ambos tipos de tecnologías. En la medición del riesgo-región se consideraron variables asociadas al riesgo de corrupción y a la violencia en cada departamento. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los departamentos de Antioquia y Valle del Cauca son las regiones con más riesgo de violencia y en consecuencia donde debe exigirse una rentabilidad mínima mayor. / Abstract : In this paper we are interested in proposing a methodology to estimate the discount rate for electricity generation projects divided into renewable and non-renewable (conventional) and differentiated by region. This requires estimating a risk parameter for each region, in this case for each department of the country, which would have the immediate effect of directly regionalizing the discount rate or the WACC for both types of technologies. In the region risk measurement, variables associated with the risk of corruption and violence in each department were considered. Our results suggest that departments of Antioquia and Valle del Cauca are the regions with the highest risk of violence and consequently where a higher minimum profitability should be demanded.
D42|Competencia vs. Monopolio: un análisis insumo-producto de las tasas de ganancia y markups en la economía de los EE.UU.: 1958-1977|No abstract is available for this item.
D42|Screening procrastinators with automatiic-renewal contracts|Automatic contract renewals are a common feature in consumer markets and a frequent concern among policy makers. They can be used to exploit consumer inertia when consumers forgo beneﬁts from switching to better alternatives. I consider two sources for th
D42|Vertical differentiation and collusion: Pruning or proliferation?|In this paper, we tackle the dilemma of pruning versus proliferation in a vertically differentiated oligopoly under the assumption that some firms collude and control both the range of variants for sale and their corresponding prices, likewise a multiproduct firm. We analyse whether pruning emerges and, if so, a fighting brand is marketed. We find that it is always more profitable for colluding firms to adopt a pricing strategy such that some variants are withdrawn from the market. Under pruning, these firms commercialize a fighting brand only when facing competitors in a low-end market.
D42|Intertemporal Price Discrimination with Multiple Products|We study the multiproduct monopoly profit maximisation problem for a seller who can commit to a dynamic pricing strategy. We show that if consumers' valuations are not strongly-ordered then optimality for the seller requires intertemporal price discrimination and it can be implemented by dynamic pricing on the cross-sell to the bundle. If consumers are perfectly negatively correlated, reducing the cross-sell price at a single point in time is optimal. For general valuations we show that if the cross-partial derivative of the profit function is negative then dynamic pricing on the cross-sell is more profitable than fixing prices. So we show that the celebrated Stokey (1979) no-discrimination-across-time result does not extend to multiple good sellers when consumers' valuations are drawn from the tilted uniform, the shifted uniform, the exponential, or the normal distribution. We extend our results to welfare, to complementarities in demand, and to the determination of optimal discount schedules.
D42|Monetary Neutrality with Sticky Prices and Free Entry|Monetary policy is neutral even with fixed prices, if there is free entry and variety is determined optimally as in Dixit and Stiglitz (1977). When individual prices are sticky, entry substitutes for price flexibility in the welfare-based price index. In response to aggregate demand expansions, the intensive (quantity produced of each good) and extensive (number of goods being produced) margins move in offsetting ways, leaving aggregate production unchanged. Deviations from neutrality thus occur only when variety is not optimally determined (preferences are not Dixit-Stiglitz) or when entry is subject to frictions.
D42|The Design and Price of Information|A data buyer faces a decision problem under uncertainty. He can augment his initial private information with supplemental data from a data seller. His willingness to pay for supplemental data is determined by the quality of his initial private information. The data seller optimally offers a menu of statistical experiments. We establish the properties that any revenue-maximizing menu of experiments must satisfy. Every experiment is a non-dispersed stochastic matrix, and every menu contains a fully informative experiment. In the cases of binary states and actions, or binary types, we provide an explicit construction of the optimal menu of experiments.
D42|Monopoly pricing and diffusion of social network goods|I present a model of dynamic pricing and diffusion of a network good sold by a monopolist. In the model, the network good is a subscription social network good. This means that in each period, each consumer has to pay a subscription price to use the good, and the utility derived from subscribing to the good increases as more of her neighboring consumers subscribe. Consumers myopically optimize their subscription decisions, and the monopolist chooses a sequence of subscription prices that maximizes his discounted sum of per-period profits. Three main results emerge. First, I characterize a unique steady state of the monopoly market. Second, I find that optimal sequences of subscription prices oscillate around the subscription price at the steady state. Third, I analyze how changes in the monopolist's discount factor and the density of the social network affect the subscription price, subscription rate, and deadweight loss at the steady state.
D42|The effects of revenue diversification and cross border banking on risk and return of banks in Africa|The paper analyses the implications of revenue diversification and cross-border banking for risk and return. We sample 320 banks across 29 African countries and employ System GMM estimator as a methodological approach to shed further light on the diversification-stability nexus by examining the complex interaction between three key variables: cross-border banking, diversification and bank stability. The results suggest that exploration risk reduces diversification as the level of capital increases when banks cross border to diversify across revenue generating activities. Our analyses further show that, banks in Africa derive absolute benefits from diversification if they cross border and diversify their revenue base concurrently. These results are robust to a range of controls including alternative variable specifications, regulatory environment that bank operate and methodology.
D42|Screening and Adverse Selection in Frictional Markets|We incorporate a search-theoretic model of imperfect competition into a standard model of asymmetric information with unrestricted contracts. We characterize the unique equilibrium and use our characterization to explore the interaction between adverse selection, screening, and imperfect competition. We show that the relationship between an agent’s type, the quantity he trades, and the price he pays is jointly determined by the severity of adverse selection and the concentration of market power. Therefore, quantifying the effects of adverse selection requires controlling for market structure. We also show that increasing competition and reducing informational asymmetries can decrease welfare.
D42|Videotex in Sweden 1977-1993|A monopolist may be more restricted than a company subject to competition and also be less profitable – e.g. due to demands that it provide certain services at a loss. In this paper the Swedish Telecom monopoly, Televerket’s, Videotex projects are used to analyze this phenomenon. From the late 1970: and until the early 1990s, telecom operators across the world developed and deployed Videotex-systems; new public information services usually based on dumb terminals, of which the most well-known was the French Minitel. The systems were at the time of deployment regarded as the technology of the future but they almost universally failed commercially. In this paper, using a case study based on extensive archival sources from the Swedish Telecom monopoly Televerket, and using novel digital research methods, the origins and the introduction of Videotex systems are analyzed. It is also argued that the systems initially made sense in the context of contemporary computer development and market organization, but also that most of them would rapidly have been discontinued had it not been for the monopolist logic of telecom operators. Finally, I introduce the concept of the monopolist’s curse, to explain why this was the case.
D42|Det offentliga som konkurrent på kommersiella marknader - En samhällsekonomisk analys med exemplet konferensmarknaden|I den här rapporten analyseras samhällsekonomiska effekter av att det offentliga konkurrerar med privata företag på kommersiella marknader. Den innehåller även en pilotstudie av marknaden för en – och tvådagarskonferenser tillämpad på Umeåregionen. Svensk konkurrenslagstiftning inkluderar regler om konkurrensbegränsande offentlig säljverksamhet. Reglerna gäller för den offentliga sektorn i sin helhet, dvs stat, primärkommuner (kommun) eller landstingskommuner (landsting) och juridiska personer vars verksamhet den offentliga sektorn har ett dominerande inflytande över. Inflytandet kan ta sig formen av ägande, finansieringsvillkor, styrelse, lag och avtal. Frågan om det offentliga som konkurrent är även samhällsekonomiskt relevant då snedvridning av konkurrens i form av exempelvis underprissättning till följd av stöd, kan innebära en samhällsekonomisk förlust. Sammantaget visar den samhällsekonomiska analysen att det inte går att dra några generella slutsatser om att konkurrens från den offentliga sektorn på marknader med en etablerad kommersiell verksamhet alltid är problematisk. Även i situationer där konkurrensen sker på olika villkor kan fördelarna med den offentliga aktörens medverkan överväga nackdelarna. Baserat på pilotstudien och olika scenarios avseende konferensmarknaden i Umeå, är det möjligt att dra slutsatsen att fördelarna med offentliga aktörer kan dominera nackdelarna under förutsättning att den offentliga aktörens produktionskostnad maximalt är en procent högre än en privat aktörs produktionskostnad för motsvarande konferens. Analysen visar att subventioner till offentliga aktörer överskridande 1,3 miljoner kronor inte kan motiveras utifrån ett samhällsekonomiskt perspektiv i något scenario. I scenariot där den offentliga aktören ägnar sig åt underprissättning överväger nackdelarna även om verksamheten klarar sig utan subvention.
D42|Intertemporal Price Discrimination: Dynamic Arrivals and Changing Values|We study the profit-maximizing price path of a monopolist selling a durable good to buyers who arrive over time and whose values for the good evolve stochastically. The setting is completely stationary with an infinite horizon. Contrary to the case with constant values, optimal prices fluctuate with time. We argue that consumers' randomly changing values offer an explanation for temporary price reductions that are often observed in practice.
D42|Sequential Markets, Market Power, and Arbitrage|We develop a framework to characterize strategic behavior in sequential markets under imperfect competition and restricted entry in arbitrage. Our theory predicts that these two elements can generate a systematic price premium. We test the model predictions using microdata from the Iberian electricity market. We show that the observed price differences and firm behavior are consistent with the model. Finally, we quantify the welfare effects of arbitrage using a structural model. In the presence of market power, we show that full arbitrage is not necessarily welfare-enhancing, reducing consumer costs but increasing deadweight loss.
D42|Asymmetric Information and Intermediation Chains|We propose a parsimonious model of bilateral trade under asymmetric information to shed light on the prevalence of intermediation chains that stand between buyers and sellers in many decentralized markets. Our model features a classic problem in economics where an agent uses his market power to inefficiently screen a privately informed counterparty. Paradoxically, involving moderately informed intermediaries also endowed with market power can improve trade efficiency. Long intermediation chains in which each trader's information set is similar to those of his direct counterparties limit traders' incentives to post prices that reduce trade volume and jeopardize gains to trade.
D42|"Either or Both Competition: A ""Two-Sided"" Theory of Advertising with Overlapping Viewerships"|In media markets, consumers spread their attention to several outlets, increasingly so as consumption migrates online. The traditional framework for competition among media outlets rules out this behavior by assumption. We propose a new model that allows consumers to choose multiple outlets and use it to study the effects on advertising levels and the impact of entry and mergers. We identify novel forces which reflect outlets' incentives to control the composition of their customer base. We link consumer preferences and advertising technologies to market outcomes. The model can explain several empirical regularities that are difficult to reconcile with existing models.
D42|Delegating Multiple Decisions|This paper shows how to extend the heuristic of capping an agent against her bias to delegation problems over multiple decisions. Caps may be exactly optimal when the agent has constant biases, in which case a cap corresponds to a ceiling on the weighted average of actions. More generally caps give approximately first-best payoffs when there are many independent decisions. The shape of the cap translates into economic intuition on how to let an agent trade off increases on one action for decreases on other actions. I discuss applications to political delegation, capital investments, monopoly price regulation, and tariff policy.
D42|Core existence in vertically differentiated markets|We prove that a sufficient condition for the core existence in a n-firm vertically differentiated market is that the qualities of firms’ products are equispaced along the quality spectrum. This result contributes to see that a fully collusive agreement among firms in such markets is more easily reachable when product qualities are not distributed too asymmetrically along the quality ladder.
D42|Vertical Differentiation and Collusion: Cannibalization or Proliferation?|In this paper, we tackle the dilemma of pruning versus proliferation in a vertically differentiated oligopoly under the assumption that some firms collude and control both the range of variants for sale and their corresponding prices, likewise a multiproduct firm. We analyse whether pruning emerges and, if so, a fighting brand is marketed. We find that it is always more profitable for colluding firms to adopt a pricing strategy such that some variants are withdrawn from the market. Under pruning, these firms commercialize a fighting brand only when facing competitors in a low-end market. The same findings do not hold when firms are horizontally differentiated along a circle.
D42|Nonlinear Pricing|I examine the use of nonlinear pricing as a method of price discrimination, both with monopoly and oligopoly supply. Topics covered include an analysis of when it is profitable to offer quantity discounts and bundle discounts, connections between second- and third-degree price discrimination, the use of market demand functions to calculate nonlinear tariffs, the impact of consumers with bounded rationality, bundling arrangements between separate sellers, and the choice of prices for quality upgrades and add-on products.
D42|Commercial platforms with heterogeneous participants|We study two-sided markets where there are buyers and sellers, with heterogeneous participants on each side. Buyers care about the quality of the good purchased, but sellers care only about the price they get. When there is informational asymmetry about types between the sides, the role of a platform as a certifier that guarantees a minimum quality becomes central to the transactions. We analyze first-best (perfect information) and pooling equilibria without platforms and a monopolist platform that coexists with an external pooling. We also show there is no equilibrium in a simultaneous game with two platforms.
D42|Optimal Crowdfunding Design| This paper investigates the optimal design of crowdfunding where crowdfunders are potential consumers with standard motivations and entrepreneurs are profit-maximizing agents. We characterize the typical crowdfunding mechanism where the entrepreneur commits to produce only if aggregate funding exceeds a defined threshold. We study how the entrepreneur uses this threshold, in conjunction with a minimal price, for rent extraction. Compared to a standard posted-price mechanism, total welfare may rise because the entrepreneur can adapt the production decision to demand conditions, but may fall because rent-seeking can worsen. Crowdfunding platforms can raise threshold credibility. So we also compare outcomes when the entrepreneur commits to a threshold against those where the entrepreneur simply decides on production after observing crowdfunder bids. Finally, we contrast crowdfunding with the optimal mechanism where production is contingent on a general function of all bids, rather than the simple sum of bids obliged by the aggregate threshold rule. Crowdfunding is very different, for instance, never committing to produce the good when aggregate bids fall short of the fixed cost (even absent credit constraints).
D42|Buying Decision Coordination and Monopoly Pricing of Network Goods|We analyse how consumer heterogeneity affects buying behaviour and the monopoly pricing of a network good and its usage. Under perfect information, sufficiently high heterogeneity yields a unique equilibrium, and the unit price is increasing in heterogeneity. Under incomplete information, we have a global game. The unit price is independent of heterogeneity, and it tends to be higher than the perfect information price, because the monopoly biases its tariff structure to incorporate the uncertainty over usage revenues. Under incomplete information, profits are decreasing in uncertainty. Consumer surplus increases in uncertainty, only if the level of uncertainty is high initially.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D42|Prices and Deadweight Loss in Multiproduct Monopoly|This paper provides a thorough analysis of oligopolistic markets with positive demand-side network externalities and perfect compatibility. The minimal structure imposed on the model primitives is such that industry output increases in a firm's rivals' total output as well as in the expected network size. This leads to a generalized equilibrium existence treatment that includes guarantees for a nontrivial equilibrium, and some insight into possible multiplicity of equilibria. We formalize the concept of industry viability and show that it is always enhanced by having more firms in the market and/or by technological improvements. We also characterize the e¤ects of market structure on industry performance, with an emphasis on departures from standard markets. The approach relies on lattice-theoretic methods, which allow for a unified treatment of various general results in the literature on network goods. Several illustrative examples with closed-form solutions are also provided.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D42|Strategic Capacity Investment under Hold-up Threats: The Role of Contract Length and Width|This article analyzes the impact of incomplete contracts’ length on investment in a bilateral relationship. The seller has the power to set the contract terms whereas the buyer decides on the investment level, which acts as a cap on future demand. Two-part tariffs succeed at implementing the optimal investment and consumption even if commitment is limited, and the contract’s duration is irrelevant. Interestingly, this efficient solution is rendered possible by subsidies on consumption during the contract. In other terms, duration matters hugely for the contract details (the timing of transfers), not for its performance. Under certain circumstances that we discuss, linear pricing may have to be used, which leads to suboptimal investment. We show that longer contracts are less efficient, meaning that a degree of completeness (pricing width) may be strictly complementary to another one (contract length). The buyer’s surplus increases with respect to the contract duration, whereas the seller loses more in profit than the social surplus decreases. A longer contract actually protects expropriable investors rather than investment itself.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D42|Welfare-increasing third-degree price discrimination|The welfare and output effects of monopoly third-degree price discrimination are analyzed when inverse demand functions are parallel. Welfare is higher with discrimination than with a uniform price when demand functions are derived from the logistic distribution, and from a more general class of distributions. The sufficient condition in Varian (1985) for a welfare increase holds for these demand functions. Total output is higher with discrimination for a large set of demand functions including those derived from strictly log-concave distributions with increasing cost pass-through, such as the normal, logistic and extreme value, and standard log-convex demands.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D42|Selling substitute goods to loss-averse consumers: limited availability, bargains, and rip-offs|Why are some sale items subject to limited availability while other substitute items are available in large quantities and are priced relatively high at the same point in time? Can such a retail strategy lure consumers into purchasing the more expensive item? This paper characterizes the profit-maximizing pricing and product-availability strategies for a retailer selling two substitute goods to loss-averse consumers and shows that limited-availability sales can manipulate consumers into an ex-ante unfavorable purchase. Consumers have unit demand, are interested in buying only one good, and their reference point is given by their recent rational expectations about what consumption value they would receive and what price they would pay. The seller maximizes profits by raising the consumers' reference point through a tempting discount on a good available only in limited supply (the bargain) and cashing in with a high price on the other good (the rip-off), which the consumers buy if the bargain is not available to minimize their disappointment. The seller might prefer to offer a deal on the more valuable product, using it as a bait, because consumers feel a larger loss, in terms of forgone consumption, if this item is not available. I also show that the bargain item can be a loss leader, that the seller's product line is not welfare-maximizing and that she might supply a socially wasteful product. The model suggests that the current FTC Guides Against Bait Advertising, by allowing retailers to employ limited-availability sales, could reduce consumer and social welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D42|On the Economics of the “Meeting Competition Defense” Under the Robinson–Patman Act|This paper studies the welfare effects of third-degree price discrimination when competitive pressure varies across markets. In particular, we study the economic aspects of the Robinson–Patman Act associated with the “meeting competition defense.” Using equilibrium models, the main result we find is that this defense might be used successfully in cases of primary line injury precisely when it should not be used, namely when price discrimination reduces social welfare. This result obtains both when discrimination appears in the final good market and when it is used in the intermediate goods market. We also find that these results may maintain under secondary line injury.
D42|Oligopolistic competition and welfare|This chapter provides a selective survey of recent developments in the study of social welfare under oligopoly. The main topics covered are (i) the rate of cost pass-through as a tool to analyze market performance; (ii) the quantification of welfare losses due to market power in Cournot-style models; and (iii) new results from models with endogenous entry. The chapter highlights common themes across these topics and identifies areas for future research.
D42|Exclusive dealing with costly rent extraction|We analyze the impact of exclusive contracts on the intensity of competition among firms that supply substitute products. Exclusive contracts would be neutral if firms priced at marginal cost and extracted buyers' rent by means of non distortionary fixed fees. We focus instead on the case in which rent extraction is costly, and hence firms distort marginal prices upwards. We show that in this case exclusive contracts are anti-competitive when the dominant firm enjoys a large enough competitive advantage over its rivals, and are pro-competitive, or neutral, when the competitive advantage is small. These effects appear as soon as marginal prices are distorted upwards, irrespective of which specific factors impede perfect rent extraction.
D42|Monopoly Power and Endogenous Product Variety: Distortions and Remedies|The inefficiencies related to endogenous product creation and variety under monopolistic competition are two-fold: one static—the misalignment between consumers and producers regarding the value of a new variety; and one dynamic—time variation in markups. Quantitatively, the welfare costs of the former are potentially very large relative to the latter. For a calibrated version of our model with these distortions, their total cost amounts to 2 percent of consumption. Appropriate taxation schemes can implement the optimum amount of entry and variety. Elastic labor introduces a further distortion that should be corrected by subsidizing labor at a rate equal to the markup for goods, in order to preserve profit margins and hence entry incentives.
D42|Multiproduct Pricing Made Simple|We study multiproduct firms in the contexts of unregulated monopoly, regulated monopoly, and Cournot oligopoly. Using the concept of consumer surplus as a function of quantities (rather than prices), we present simple formulas for optimal prices and show that Cournot equilibrium exists and corresponds to a Ramsey optimum. We then discuss a tractable class of preferences that involve a generalized form of homotheticity. Profit-maximizing quantities are proportional to efficient quantities. We discuss optimal monopoly regulation when the firm has private information about its cost vector and find situations in which optimal regulation leaves relative price decisions to the firm.
D42|Firm pricing with consumer search|Economists could not properly capture the impact of the Internet on markets without a proper theory of consumer search. As a result, this theory has been rediscovered and developed further since the early 2000s. It can address such critical questions as the impact of reduced search cost on prices, variety, and product choice as well as advertising practices (such as search advertising). This theoretical development has also fed into a rich empirical literature exploiting the wealth of data that is now available regarding both consumers’ and firms’ online activity. The goal of this chapter is to present the basic concepts underpinning the theory of imperfectly competitive markets with consumer search. We stress that appropriate theoretical frameworks should involve sufficient heterogeneity among agents on both sides of the market. We also explain why the analysis of ordered search constitutes an essential ingredient for modeling recent search environments.
D42|Obfuscation Incentives of a Monopoly in a Dynamic Framework|Obfuscation is a well-known strategy developed by ?rms to lower the intensity of competition. We develop here a theoretical framework extending this result to a monopoly controlling consumer’s search costs. In a dynamic structure where the future of the monopoly is today’s competitor, as phrased by Coase’s conjecture, obfuscating some products today turns clients into myopic consumers. This myopia generates higher pro?t through an optimal price discrimination. Introducing some correlation between the valuations of the goods, we are able to describe more complex but realistic equilibria. Interestingly, there exists a correlation value above which obfuscation is no longer pro?table.
D42|Insurance Contracts with Adverse Selection When the Insurer Has Ambiguity about the Composition of the Consumers|In this paper, we consider the optimal contract in a monopolistic insurance market when the insurer has ambiguity about the composition of the con-sumers. When there are only two types of consumers, we find that high-risk consumers are fully insured, whereas low-risk consumers are only partially in-sured. For an ambiguity averse insurer, as ambiguity increases, the optimal menu of contracts moves toward the one that equalizes the profits earned by the insurer from the two types of consumers. The insurer may offer the same menu of contracts even if her prior belief changes. For an ambiguity seeking insurer, when the degree of ambiguity increases, the optimal menu moves away from the menu that equalizes the profits earned from the two types of consumers.
D42|Consumers on a Leash: Advertised Sales and Intertemporal Price Discrimination|The Internet allows sellers to track “window shoppers,” consumers who look but do not buy, and to lure them back later by targeting them with an advertised sale. This new technology thus facilitates intertemporal price discrimination, but simultaneously makes it too easy for a seller to undercut her regular price. Because buyers know they could be lured back, the seller is forced to set a lower regular price. Advertising costs can, therefore, serve as a form of commitment: a seller can actually benefit from higher costs of advertising. Based on this framework, the impact of commitment on prices, profits, and welfare are analyzed using a dynamic pricing model. Furthermore, it is demonstrated how buyers’ time preferences give rise to price fluctuation or an everyday-low-price in equilibrium.
D42|Policy Spillovers and Synergies in a Monetary Union|We provide a general equilibrium framework for analyzing the effects of supply- and demand-side policies, and the potential synergies between them, in an asymmetric monetary union that faces a liquidity trap and a slow deleveraging process in its “periphery.” We find that the joint implementation of pro-competition structural reforms in the periphery, a fiscal expansion in the “core,” and forward guidance about the future path of nominal interest rates produces positive synergies between the three policies: forward guidance reinforces the expansionary effects of country-specific policies, and the latter in turn improve the effectiveness of forward guidance. Our results provide a case for complementing current unconventional monetary stimuli in the euro area with national efforts on the structural reform and fiscal fronts.
D42|Joint stochastic dynamic pricing and advertising with time-dependent demand|This paper examines the sale of a finite number of items in a class of stochastic dynamic pricing and advertising models with time-dependent demand elasticities. We prove structural properties of the optimal expected profits with respect to time, inventory level, price impact, advertising impact and different model parameters, such as discount rate, marginal unit costs, and holding costs. We find that the value of an additional item (opportunity costs) is decreasing in the unit costs, the discount rate, the holding cost rate and the number of items left to sell. We also derive structural properties of optimal joint pricing and advertising strategies. This way, we obtain general qualitative insights in the complex interplay and the mutual dependence of optimal pricing and advertising decisions. Among other properties, we show that a higher advertising impact leads to higher optimal prices and lower advertising rates, which in turn implies a lower speed of sale. The results obtained help practitioners to respond to changes in market conditions by adjusting price and advertising accordingly. Our results allow speeding up numerical computations of decisions as the set of possible actions can be reduced significantly. Our analysis implies general results for pure pricing as well as pure advertising models with time-dependent demand elasticities.
D42|Platform optimal capacity sharing: Willing to pay more does not guarantee a larger capacity share|In this paper, we study how a mediating business organization or platform allocates a fixed capacity (such as space, infrastructure, or bandwidth) between two distinct but interdependent groups of consumers (sides) that suffer from congestion. The analysis highlights that the platform's capacity sharing management depends not only on the participation levels of both sides but also on the externalities running between them. It is not true that a group's capacity share uniquely depends on its size. Besides, we argue that the platform may not assign the smallest capacity share to the least congestion-sensitive group. Finally, we establish a management rule that a platform's decision maker, e.g. trade fair manager, clinic owner, airport planner, or Internet Service Provider, should adopt when she is confronted with a capacity sharing trade-off between interdependent parties.
D42|Generalized coarse matching|This paper analyzes the problem of matching two heterogeneous populations, such as men and women. If the payoff from a match exhibits complementarities, it is well known that, absent any friction, positive assortative matching is optimal. Coarse matching refers to a situation in which the populations are sorted into a finite number of classes and then randomly matched within these classes. We derive upper bounds on the fraction of the total efficiency loss of n-class coarse matching, which is proportional to 1/n2. Our result substantially enlarges the scope of matching problems in which the performance of coarse matching can be assessed.
D42|Market making with asymmetric information and inventory risk|Market makers in some financial markets often make offsetting trades and have significant market power. We develop a market making model that captures these market features as well as other important characteristics such as information asymmetry and inventory risk. In contrast to the existing literature, a market maker in our model can optimally shift some trades with some investors to other investors by adjusting bid or ask. As a result, we find that consistent with empirical evidence, expected bid–ask spreads may decrease with information asymmetry and bid–ask spreads can be positively correlated with trading volume.
D42|Autonomous cars and dynamic bottleneck congestion: The effects on capacity, value of time and preference heterogeneity|‘Autonomous cars’ are cars that can drive themselves without human control. Autonomous cars can safely drive closer together than cars driven by humans, thereby possibly increasing road capacity. By allowing drivers to perform other activities in the vehicle, they may reduce the value of travel time losses (VOT). We investigate the effects of autonomous cars using a dynamic equilibrium model of congestion that captures three main elements: the resulting increase in capacity, the decrease in the VOT for those who acquire one and the implications of the resulting changes in the heterogeneity of VOTs. We do so for three market organizations: private monopoly, perfect competition and public supply. Even though an increased share of autonomous cars raises average capacity, it may hurt existing autonomous car users as those who switch to an autonomous car will impose increased congestion externalities due to their altered departure time behaviour. Depending on which effect dominates, switching to an autonomous vehicle may impose a net negative or positive externality. Often public supply leads to 100% autonomous cars, but it may be optimal to have a mix of car types, especially when there is a net negative externality. With a positive (negative) externality, perfect competition leads to an undersupply (oversupply) of autonomous cars, and a public supplier needs to subsidise (tax) autonomous cars to maximise welfare. A monopolist supplier ignores the capacity effect and adds a mark-up to its price.
D42|Reconsiderando la evaluación de los efectos distributivos del ejercicio de poder de mercado en México|In 2008, Mexico’s Federal Competition Commission (CFC) commissioned a study of the distributive effects of market power which has influenced the national discussion on competition policy. In this paper, we attempt to replicate its results, we extend them to future years, identify and correct deficiencies in the analysis, and evaluate the conceptual and methodological framework employed. We conclude that the method used does not produce reliable results. Furthermore, using the same method, we estimate a welfare loss between 0.8 and 2.1% of total spending, depending on the income decile. While the conclusion that lower income households are more severely affected by the exercise of market power holds, we find that this effect is greater in urban areas than in rural areas for the lowest income households.// En 2008, la Comisión Federal de Competencia (CFC) comisionó un estudio de los efectos distributivos del poder de mercado que ha influenciado la discusión nacional respecto a la política de competencia. En este artículo, intentamos reproducir sus resultados, los extendemos a años posteriores, identificamos y corregimos deficiencias en su análisis, y evaluamos su marco conceptual y metodológico. Documentamos que el método utilizado no produce resultados confiables. Además, usando el mismo método, estimamos una pérdida en bienestar de entre 0.8 y 2.1% del gasto total, dependiendo del decil de ingreso. Aunque se sostiene la conclusión de que los hogares de menores ingresos se ven más afectados por el ejercicio de poder de mercado, encontramos que, para los hogares de ingresos más bajos, este efecto es mayor en zonas urbanas que en zonas rurales
D42|Vertical Differentiation and Collusion: Cannibalization or Proliferation?| In this paper, we tackle the dilemma of pruning versus proliferation in a vertically differentiated oligopoly under the assumption that some firms collude and control both the range of variants for sale and their corresponding prices, likewise a multiproduct firm. We analyse whether pruning emerges and, if so, a fighting brand is marketed. We find that it is always more profitable for colluding firms to adopt a pricing strategy such that some variants are withdrawn from the market. Under pruning, these firms commercialize a fighting brand only when facing competitors in a low-end market. The same findings do not hold when firms are horizontally differentiated along a circle.
D42|Price Discrimination Through Group Buying|This paper argues that when consumers are heterogeneous in group-buying costs, a monopolist seller may practice price discrimination through inducing certain consumers to participate in group buying. In contrast to the standard model, the optimal quantity/quality level for low valuation consumers without group buying is further distorted downward, whereas the levels for other consumers are socially optimal. Inducing group buying is more favorable when the proportion of high valuation consumers is higher, or the valuation differential is larger. We also discuss two extensions: one allowing for consumersʼ arbitrage behavior and the other one allowing for more potential group buying consumers.
D42|A Tax Can Increase Profit of a Monopolist or a Monopoly-like Firm: A Fiction or Distinct Possibility?|The purpose of this paper is to reexamine the long-held theory that a tax reduces profit under monop¬oly or monopoly-like market structure. To present the paradox, we expand the switching price elastic¬ity theory developed by Greenhut-Hwang-Ohta to show that the after-tax profit may very well increase in a monopoly or a tight-knit cartel. The result show that after-tax profit can actually increase in a monopoly or monopoly-like market without resorting to conjectural variation or product quality often used in oligopoly. To verify the paradox, simple numerical examples and commonly-used mathemati¬cal demand functions are employed.
D42|Loss Modification Incentives for Insurers Under Expected Utility and Loss Aversion|We investigate whether a profit-maximizing insurer with the opportunity to modify the loss probability will engage in loss prevention or instead spend effort to increase the loss probability. First we study this question within a traditional expected utility framework; then we apply Kőszegi and Rabin’s ( 2006 , 2007 ) loss aversion model to account for reference-dependence in consumer preferences. Largely independent of the adopted framework, we find that the profit-maximizing loss probability for many commonly used parameterizations is close to 1/2. So in cases where the initial loss probability is low, insurers will have an incentive to increase it. This qualifies appeals to grant insurers market power to incentivize them to engage in loss prevention. Copyright The Author(s) 2016
D42|Examples of unit tax superiority for a price-discriminating monopolist|This paper compares the welfare effects of per-unit and ad valorem taxes in four pervasive price discrimination schemes: quantity discounts, two-part tariffs, bundling, and package size price discrimination. The paper shows by example that per-unit taxes may welfare dominate ad valorem tariffs in a market with a monopoly that maximizes profits by engaging in second-degree price discrimination. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
D42|Fairness constraints on profit-seeking: evidence from the German club concert industry|Abstract Unlike Kahneman et al. (Am Econ Rev 76(4):728–741, 1986) iconic snow shovel, live music is a performance good that fans attach a particular value to. Hence, an artist’s pricing decision might differ from standard rent-seeking behavior. In this paper, I propose a model that incorporates fairness concerns into the pricing decision for concert tickets. The hypotheses derived from this model are tested on data from the German club concert industry. The results are consistent with the model: Although (1) price dispersion is the dominant pricing strategy in the club concert industry and artists prefer to perform on a Friday or Saturday night, (2) artists do not set higher prices on the weekend. These results are consistent with fairness constraints, but are difficult to explain within a standard profit maximization framework. As a third result, (3) the data reveal that ticket prices are positively correlated with a city’s number of inhabitants .
D42|A model of advance selling with consumer heterogeneity and limited capacity|We study advance selling in a model with a capacity constraint for the seller and in the presence of both consumer heterogeneity and demand uncertainty. Buyers face different levels of uncertainty about their valuations in the advance selling period: one group of buyers (called informed buyers) know their individual valuations while the other group (called uninformed buyers) only know the distribution of their valuations. We find that the seller’s optimal pricing strategy depends on his capacity size as well as the size of informed buyers. For a small capacity size, the Constant Price strategy with the highest possible price is adopted. For sufficiently large capacity sizes, both Advance Purchase Discount and Advance Purchase Premium strategies may be optimal. In general, the larger the size of informed buyers the more likely an Advance Purchase Premium strategy is adopted. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2016
D42|Weak versus strong net neutrality: correction and clarification|Abstract We correct and clarify the results of Gans (J Regul Econ 47:183–200, 2015) regarding the effects of net neutrality regulation on equilibrium outcomes in settings where a content provider sells its services to consumers for a fee. We examine both pricing and investment effects. We extend the earlier paper’s result that weak forms of net neutrality are ineffective and also show that even a strong form of net neutrality may be ineffective. In addition, we demonstrate that, when strong net neutrality does affect the equilibrium outcome, it may harm efficiency by distorting both ISP and content provider investment and service-quality choices.
D42|Pricing Strategies in Advance Selling: Should a Retailer Offer a Pre-order Price Guarantee?|Abstract I consider a retailer who sells a new product over two periods: advance and regular selling seasons. Experienced consumers learn their valuations for the product in the advance selling season, while inexperienced consumers learn only when the product becomes available in the regular selling season. The retailer is uncertain about the number of inexperienced consumers. Production takes place between the periods. Unsold units are scrapped at a price that is below the retailer’s marginal cost, which makes it costly to produce and not sell. I show that when consumers are less heterogeneous in their valuations, the retailer should implement advance selling and offer a pre-order price guarantee. For some parameter configurations a pre-order price guarantee acts as a commitment device not to decrease the price in the regular selling season. In other situations, it enables the seller to react to the information that is obtained from pre-orders by increasing or decreasing the price. When consumers are more heterogeneous in their valuations, the market size uncertainty is small, or the scrap value is high, the retailer should not implement advance selling.
D42|The persistence of profits of banks in Africa|Abstract This paper analyses the profit persistence of African banking sector, focusing on the role of the level of competition and banks earnings management. We apply Markov chain to analyse the extent and mobility of profit persistence, dynamic auto regressive model to assess the speed of convergence and the quantile regression technique to examine the determinants of profit persistence of banks in Africa. The results show a high level of profit persistence and relatively low speed of convergence. There is also evidence that regulation and banks earnings management affect both the level and persistence of banks profitability. We also find that competition as well as 2007/2008 financial crisis reduce the level and the speed of profit persistence.
D42|Contracting with Type-Dependent Naïveté|I analyse the optimal contracting behaviour of an employer who faces workers with different, incorrect beliefs about their own productivity. While the literature has focused mostly on the exploitative (when the principal knows agents’ types, Eliaz and Spiegler, 2006) and speculative (when the principal has priors on agents’ types, Eliaz and Spiegler, 2008) aspects of contracts, I introduce the assumption that workers’ naïveté depends on their actual productivity level. The employer uses this information to form posteriors on agents’productivity and design more efficient contracts. In particular, I highlight the employer’s trade-off between exploiting strongly naïve workers and designing efficient contracts for the most widespread type of worker, according to her posteriors.
D42|Temptation in Markets with no Commitment: Give-aways, Scare-aways and Reversals|I study a two period model where the buyer suffers from self-control problems and his level of temptation is private information. I derive the optimal behaviour of a seller that offers her product to a buyer. In period 1, the latter decides whether or not to “enter the store” based on the prices posted by the seller. In period 2 he decides how much of the product to buy, if any. Differently from the existing literature, I assume that the seller cannot commit to the prices posted in period 1. I show how, under this framework, the presence of tempted consumers and symmetric information can explain the existence of free vouchers offered by the seller to the consumer in exchange for entering the store. In contrast with classical contract theory, I show that the relatively untempted consumer (the “low type”) can be better off when information about his type is private than when the seller is fully informed. Moreover, the presence of self-control may induce the seller to exclude the relatively strongly tempted consumer (the “high type”) from the market.
D42|Buy Here, or Keep Driving? The Effect of Geographic Market Density on Retail Gas Prices|This paper examines whether the presence of local competitors affects the retail price of gasoline in mid-sized American cities. Spatial regression analysis permits an answer that is clear of potentially confounding statistical problems. Results continue to show small impacts of local competition, especially compared to other factors.
D42|A model of monopoly with lags in the planning and production activity|In this note, departing from the traditional static and fully rational economic agent setting, I study a dynamic model of a boundedly rational monopolist who, in a partially known environment, follows a rule of thumb learning process. Instead of considering the classical differential model with smooth argument, the proposed dynamic model consists of a piecewise constant argument differential equation, in order to take into account the more realistic assumption of a lag between the learning activity and the output production activity. It is shown how this simple first order differential equation can be rephrased into a nonlinear difference equation which, differently from the classical model with smooth argument, can exhibit complex behaviors. The aim of the paper is to illustrate, from a methodological point of view, the potential applications and the dynamical effects of piecewise constant argument differential equations in economics.
D42|Net Neutrality, Pricing Instruments and Incentives|We correct and extend the results of Gans (2015) regarding the effects of net neutrality regulation on equilibrium outcomes in settings where a content provider sells its services to consumers for a fee. We examine both pricing and investment effects. We extend the earlier paper’s result that weak forms of net neutrality are ineffective and also show that even a strong form of net neutrality may be ineffective. In addition, we demonstrate that, when strong net neutrality does affect the equilibrium outcome, it may harm efficiency by distorting both ISP and content provider investment and service-quality choices.
D42|Price Regulation and Environmental Externalities: Evidence from Methane Leaks|We estimate expenditures by US natural gas distribution firms to reduce natural gas leaks. Reducing leaks averts commodity losses (valued at around $5/Mcf [thousand cubic feet]), but also climate damages ($27/Mcf) because the primary component of natural gas is methane, a potent greenhouse gas. In addition to this private/social wedge, incentives to abate are weakened by this industry’s status as a regulated natural monopoly: current price regulations allow many distribution firms to pass the cost of any leaked gas on to their customers. Our estimates imply that too little is spent repairing leaks—we estimate expenditures substantially below $5/Mcf, that is, less than the commodity value of the leaked gas. In contrast, expenditures on accelerated pipeline replacement are in general higher than the combination of gas costs and climate benefits (we estimate expenditures ranging from $48/Mcf to $211/Mcf). We conclude by relating these findings to regulatory-induced incentives in the industry.
D42|Technological Progress and Sectoral Shares|This paper studies the effect of differences in the rate of technological progress between sectors on their relative sizes. There are two sectors: a stagnant sector, where productivity does not change over time, and a progressive sector, where costs decrease over time. We consider a conjectural variation approach which encompasses perfect competition, oligopoly and monopoly. The evolution of the relative shares of the stagnant and progressive sectors over time depends on the type of competition, cost levels and the price elasticity of demand. The relationship with the cost disease literature is discussed.
D42|Product Design in Selection Markets|"In selection markets, where the cost of serving consumers is heterogeneous and noncontractible, nonprice product features allow a firm to sort profitable from unprofitable consumers. An example of this ""sorting by quality"" is the use of down payments to dissuade borrowers who are unlikely to repay. We study a model in which consumers have multidimensional types and a firm offers a single product of endogenous quality, as in Spence (1975). These two ingredients generate a novel sorting incentive in a firm’s first-order condition for quality, which is a simple ratio. The denominator is marginal consumer surplus, a measure of market power. The numerator is the covariance, among marginal consumers, between marginal willingness to pay for quality and cost to the firm. We provide conditions under which this term is signed and contrast the sorting incentives of a profit-maximizer and a social planner. We then use this characterization to quantify the importance of sorting empirically in subprime auto lending, analytically sign its impact in a model of add-on pricing, and calibrate optimal competition policy in health insurance markets. JEL Codes: D41, D42, D43, D86, G21, I13."
D42|On the effect of taxation in the online sports betting market|Abstract We analyze the effect of taxation in the online sport betting market. A relevant characteristic of this market is its negligible marginal cost on bet volume. Taxation can be on gross profit (Gross Profit Tax) or on volume (General Betting Duty). We model the two most popular online sport betting bets: fixed-odds and spread, as compared with another traditional sport betting: parimutuel. We characterize the odds and the bookmaker’s payoff in (strong) subgame perfect equilibrium for each of the three types of bets under both taxation schemes. The results show that taxation on gross profit maximizes the utilitarian social welfare. Moreover, the three types of bets are equivalent when the market is symmetric.
D42|Ranking Value and Preference: A Model of Superstardom|Superstars earn extremely high incomes as compared with those of ordinary people, but why? In this paper, I present a model of superstardom that explains the mechanism of extremely high incomes based on the concepts of ranking value and ranking preference. I propose that goods and services possess not only practical values but also ranking values because people derive utility through various types of rankings. This emotional response (i.e., ranking preference) gives monopolistic powers to the producers of some types of goods or services. For some goods and services (e.g., professional sports), the ranking preference is very strong and therefore so is the level of monopolistic power. This strong monopolistic power is the origin of the extremely high incomes of superstars.
D42|Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization: An Introduction|We introduce here the volume Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, by L. C. Corchón and M. A. Marini (ed.), Edward Elgar, Cheltenam, UK and Northampton, MA, by describing its main aim and its basic structure.
D42|L’audizione di Paolo Sylos Labini dinanzi alla Commissione parlamentare sui problemi del monopolio: quali insegnamenti per il presente. (Paolo Sylos Labini's testimony at the Italian parliamentary inquiry commission on competition: Lessons for the present)|"The author underlines the contributions of Sylos Labini's testimony at the Italian Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on Competition, held in 1962. He focuses on issues of antitrust enforcement, in terms of: accountability, prioritization of Antitrust interventions and checks on market power. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Paolo Sylos Labini e la politica delle riforme"", held at Sapienza University of Rome on 04 December 2015, organized by the Accademia dei Lincei and Economia civile."
D42|Evaluation of Monopoly Neighborhood and its Relation with Monopoly Power: Case Study of Iran’s Electricity Market|More than three decades passes from start of a procedure called structure renewal in electricity industry of different countries. Moving to the competitive prices instead of adjusted rates has enabled some institutions to increase prices and experience market power. This issue can significantly endanger benefits caused by releases for consumers. Various indexes is presented for measurement of capability of applying market power up to now but issue of differentiation of electricity from other products due to its features is not considered in any of these indexes. As we Know, Iran has formed in the electricity market since 2003, and important structural changes have occurred in the electricity market. In this regard, this study by introducing a new index in market power (monopoly neighborhood index) tries to evaluate level of potential of monopoly power with regard to some features of electricity market for seventeen powerhouses in period of 2012 in Iran. In order to testing competence of this index in comparison to other indexes which are available for measuring potential of monopoly power, correlation of results obtained from each of indexes are investigated with increase of market price toward base competitive level. Results show that monopoly neighborhood index has more competence in comparison to the other structural indexes in estimation of potential of monopoly power in Iran's electricity market.
D42|Commercial Platforms With Heterogeneous Participants|We study two-sided markets where there are buyers and sellers, with heterogeneous participants on each side. Buyers care about the quality of the good purchased, but sellers care only about the price they get. When there is informational asymmetry about types between the sides, the role of a platform as a certifier that guarantees a minimum quality becomes central to the transactions. We analyze first-best (perfect information) and pooling equilibria without platforms and a monopolist platform that coexists with an external pooling. We also show there is no equilibrium in a simultaneous game with two platforms
D42|The Impact of Price Discrimination on Major League Baseball Team’s Revenue|The empirical evidence supporting the impact that second degree price discrimination has on a firm’s revenue has received little attention. The present research examines ticket data from Major League Baseball from 1990 through 2010. Estimating a two-staged least squares model, we find neither price discrimination variable has an impact on team revenues. However, we find that both of these price discrimination variables impact revenues when examining different facility types. We discuss the impact on the role that price behavior and venues have on price dispersion.
D42|The High Profitability of Big Chinese State-Owned Banks and China’s Growth Model|Abstract A striking feature of China’s amazing growth in the last 35 years or so is the declining share of labor income as a share of the overall national income of China. This article makes a contribution to the ongoing discussion of how to explain this empirical finding by analyzing the sources of the high profitability of big Chinese state-owned banks. Using the methodology of an international peer group financial indicator analysis combined with a simple regression model it can be shown that the comparatively high profitability of Chinese banks depends on their ability to wield some monopoly power on both the product as well as the labor market. Other than stressed in the relevant financial literature the high profitability is not merely the result of an artificially high interest rate margin. The empirical findings indicate that it is above all the result of comparatively low staff expenses, which in turn explains why the share of labor income is declining.
D42|Fuel Efficiency Improvements: Feedback Mechanisms and Distributional Effects in the Oil Market|Abstract We study the interactions between fuel efficiency improvements in the transport sector and the oil market, where the efficiency improvements are policy-induced in certain regions of the world. We are especially interested in feedback mechanisms of fuel efficiency such as the rebound effect, carbon leakage and the “green paradox”, but also the distributional effects for oil producers. An intertemporal numerical model of the international oil market is introduced, where OPEC-Core producers have market power. We find that the rebound effect has a noticeable effect on the transport sector, with the magnitude depending on the oil demand elasticity. In the benchmark simulations, we calculate that almost half of the energy savings may be lost to a direct rebound effect and an additional 10% to oil price adjustments. In addition, there is substantial intersectoral leakage to other sectors through lower oil prices in the regions that introduce the policy. There is a small green paradox effect in the sense that oil consumption increases initially when the fuel efficiency measures are gradually implemented. Finally, international carbon leakage will be significant if policies are not implemented in all regions; we estimate leakage rates of 35% or higher when only major consuming regions implement fuel economy policies. Non-OPEC producers will to a larger degree than OPEC producers cut back on its oil supply as a response to fuel efficiency policies due to high production costs.
D42|Oil consumption subsidy removal in OPEC and other Non-OECD countries: Oil market impacts and welfare effects|This paper studies the oil market effects of phasing out oil consumption subsidies in the transport sector. Welfare effects in different countries are also examined. The paper further investigates potential feedback mechanisms of oil subsidy removal via lower oil prices in the global oil market, which may stimulate oil consumption in other regions. An intertemporal numerical model of the international oil market is applied, where OPEC-Core producers have market power. The major subsidisers of oil are OPEC countries, and the effects of subsidy removal here are quite pronounced. Consumption of oil in the transport sector of OPEC countries declines significantly. As a result, the global oil price falls slightly, and other regions increase their oil consumption to some degree. Although OPEC consumers are worse off by the subsidy removal, total welfare in OPEC increases due to higher profits from oil production.
D42|The welfare impacts of discriminatory price tariffs|This paper looks at the use of asymmetric tariffs as a regulatory instrument. We use a monopolistic market setup with two markets and we introduce price controls in one of the two. The purpose of the regulator is to maximise consumer welfare through this price discriminatory practice. We consider cases where the welfare of the consumers in the two markets is weighted equally and cases where it is not. In some cases we allow for the two markets to be linked through a monopsonistic input market. The paper focuses on the welfare implications of this regulatory approach, with the firm operating under a profit restriction. Results suggest that having only one price-controlled market is in certain cases a good option from a welfare perspective.
D42|From Bottom of the Barrel to Cream of the Crop: Sequential Screening With Positive Selection| In a number of interesting environments, dynamic screening involves positive selection: in contrast with Coasian dynamics, only the most motivated remain over time. The paper provides conditions under which the principal's commitment optimum is time consistent and uses this result to derive testable predictions under permanent or transient shocks. It also identifies environments in which time consistency does not hold despite positive selection, and yet simple equilibrium characterizations can be obtained.
D42|Overbooking|We consider optimal pricing policies for airlines when passengers are uncertain at the time of ticketing of their eventual willingness to pay for air travel. Auctions at the time of departure efficiently allocate space and a profit maximizing airline can capitalize on these gains by overbooking flights and repurchasing excess tickets from those passengers whose realized value is low. Nevertheless profit maximization entails distortions away from the efficient allocation. Under regularity conditions, we show that the optimal mechanism can be implemented by a modified double auction. In order to encourage early booking, passengers who purchase late are disadvantaged. In order to capture the information rents of passengers with high expected values, ticket repurchases at the time of departure are at a subsidized price, sometimes leading to unused capacity.
D42|Relaxing Occupational Licensing Requirements: Analyzing Wages and Prices for a Medical Service|Occupational licensing laws have been relaxed in a large number of US states to give nurse practitioners the ability to perform more tasks without the supervision of medical doctors. We investigate how these regulations affect wages, hours worked, and the prevailing transaction prices and quality levels associated with certain types of medical services. We find that when nurse practitioners have more independence in their scope of practice, their wages are higher but physicians' wages are lower, which suggests some substitution between the occupations. Our analysis of insurance claims data shows that more rigid regulations increase the price of a well-child visit by 3-16 percent. However, we find no evidence that the changes in regulatory policy are reflected in outcomes that might be connected to the quality and safety of health services.
D42|Advance Selling, Competition, and Brand Substitutability|This paper studies the impact of competition on the benefits of advance selling. I construct a two-period price-setting game with two firms that produce different brands serving heterogeneous consumers. Some consumers prefer one brand, others prefer the other brand. Consumers derive common value from their preferred brand, but they differ in how strongly they dislike their less preferred brand. One of the firms can offer consumers the opportunity to pre-order its product in advance of the regular selling season. I calculate the benefits of advance selling when this firm faces competition from the other firm in the regular selling season and when it does not. Competition is shown to enhance the benefits of advance selling when in the advance selling season consumers are uncertain about which brand they will prefer. Comparative statics analysis with respect to brand substitutability reveal some interesting results.
D42|Advance Selling, Competition, and Brand Substitutability|WP 16-15 has been revised and is now WP 18-12.
D42|Hard Labour in the lab: Are monetary and non-monetary sanctions really substitutable?|The theory of optimal deterrence suggests the substitution of mon- etary sanctions over non-monetary sanctions whenever this is possible because non-monetary sanctions are more socially costly. This pre- scription is based on the assumption that monetary and non-monetary sanctions are perfect substitutes: there exists a monetary equivalent of a non-monetary sanction that, if used as a ne, produces the same level of deterrence. We test this assumption with an experiment. In our stealing game potential thieves face the possibility of punishment. Our non-monetary sanction treatments mimic hard labour: we require convicted individuals to carry out a tedious real e ort task. In the monetary treatments sanctions are insteadones, which are based on individuals' willingness to pay to avoid the effort task to ensure com- parability to the non-monetary treatment. A second manipulation of our experiment concerns the balance of errors in the adjudication pro- cedure (convictions of innocents and acquittal of guilty individuals). We and that stealing is reduced most e ectively by a sanction regime that combines non-monetary sanctions with a severe procedure. Our data is consistent with the notion that both monetary punishment and pro-defendant sanction regimes are less effective in communicat- ing moral condemnation of an act.
D42|Price discrimination with loss averse consumers|Abstract This paper proposes a theory of price discrimination based on consumer loss aversion. A seller offers a menu of bundles before a consumer learns his willingness to pay, and the consumer experiences gain–loss utility with reference to his prior (rational) expectations about contingent consumption. With binary consumer types, the seller finds it optimal to abandon screening under an intermediate range of loss aversion if the low willingness-to-pay consumer is sufficiently likely. We also identify sufficient conditions under which partial or full pooling dominates screening with a continuum of types. Our predictions are consistent with several observed practices of price discrimination.
D42|Advance-purchase financing of projects with few buyers|I investigate a simple model of advance-purchase contracts as a mode of financing costly projects. An entrepreneur has to meet some capital requirement in order to start production and sell the related good to a limited number of potential buyers who are privately informed about their willingness to pay. I find that advance-purchase arrangements enable more costly projects to be financed than traditional funding sources. The entrepreneur uses advance-purchase surcharges as a price discrimination device. However, the discriminatory power is limited by the problem of free-riding, which is exacerbated as the number of potential buyers increases.
D42|Oil Market Power in General Equilibrium|We analyze monopoly power in a market for a complementary fossil resource like oil in a two country/two period model with international trade in general equilibrium. Focusing on the complex interplay of capital and resource market, we elaborate how these effects feed back into the resource monopolist's extraction decision. His level of knowledge about the economic structure thereby plays a key role. The accumulation of own capital assets over time, together with a recognized influence of extraction on the interest rate, can lead the monopolist to accelerate or postpone extraction. Considering the interaction of resource market and global capital accumulation poses an incentive for the monopolist to accelerate extraction and to exploit the importers' increased resource addiction in the future. The conservationist bias of resource market power can be increased, dampened or reversed through the general equilibrium effects.
D42|Contest success functions: the common-pool perspective|The axiomatic route to the foundation of contest success functions (CSF) has proved to be both useful and prolific. The standard approach in the literature is based on the decision-theoretic notion that choice probabilities should be independent of irrelevant alternatives (Skaperdas, Economic Theory 1996). The present paper develops an alternative approach that suggests itself once the contest is re-interpreted as a common-pool resource problem. Proceeding along these lines, new axiomatizations are obtained for a variety of popular classes of CSFs, including the logit, Tullock, and difference-form CSFs. The axiomatizations provided are particularly parsimonious in the important special case of two contestants.
D42|Advance-Purchase Financing of Projects with Few Buyers|I investigate a simple model of advance-purchase contracts as a mode of financing costly projects. The analysis can easily be reinterpreted as a model of monopolistic provision of excludable public goods under private information. An entrepreneur has to meet some capital requirement in order to start production and sell the related good to a limited number of potential buyers who are privately informed about their willingness to pay. I find that advance-purchase arrangements allow to finance more costly projects than traditional funding sources. The entrepreneur is able to use advance-purchase surcharges as a price discrimination device. However, the discriminatory power is limited by the problem of free-riding which aggravates for an increasing number of potential buyers. I apply the model to research and development activities in the health industry discussing the availability of new drugs and vaccines in poor countries.
D42|The Limits of Price Discrimination|"We analyze the welfare consequences of a monopolist having additional information about consumers' tastes, beyond the prior distribution; the additional information can be used to charge different prices to different segments of the market, i.e., carry out ""third degree price discrimination."" We show that the segmentation and pricing induced by the additional information can achieve every combination of consumer and producer surplus such that: (i) consumer surplus is nonnegative, (ii) producer surplus is at least as high as profits under the uniform monopoly price, and (iii) total surplus does not exceed the surplus generated by efficient trade. (JEL D42, D83, L12)"
D42|Consumer Search and Double Marginalization|The well-known double marginalization problem understates the inefficiencies arising from vertical relations in consumer search markets where consumers are uninformed about the wholesale prices charged by manufacturers to retailers. Consumer search provides a monopoly manufacturer with an additional incentive to increase its price, worsening the double marginalization problem and lowering the manufacturer's profits. Nevertheless, manufacturers in more competitive wholesale markets may not have an incentive to reveal their prices to consumers. We show that retail prices decrease in search cost, and so both industry profits and consumer surplus increase in search cost. (JEL D11, D42, D83, L12, L25, L60, L81)
D42|Net Neutrality, Business Models, and Internet Interconnection|We analyze the effect of net neutrality regulation in a two-sided market framework when content is heterogeneous in its sensitivity to delivery quality. We characterize the equilibrium in a neutral network constrained to offer the same quality vis-à-vis a non neutral network where Internet service providers are allowed to engage in second degree price discrimination with a menu of quality-price pairs. We find that the merit of net neutrality regulation depends crucially on content providers' business models. More generally, our analysis can be considered a contribution to the literature on second-degree price discrimination in two-sided platform markets. (JEL D42, D43, D85, L51, L86, L88)
D42|Alliance Formation in a Vertically Differentiated Market|This paper studies how the possibility for firms to sign collusive agreements (as for instance being part of alliances, cartels and mergers) may affect their quality and price choice in a market with vertically differentiated goods. For this purpose we model the firm decisions as a three-stage game in which, at the first stage, firms can form an alliance via a sequential game of coalition formation and, at the second and third stage, they decide simultaneously their product qualities and prices, respectively. In such a setting we study whether there exist circumstances under which either full or partial collusion can be sustained as a subgame perfect Nash equilibrium of the coalition formation game. Also, we analyse the effects of different coalition structures on equilibrium qualities, prices and profits accruing to firms. It is shown that only intermediate coalition structures arise at the equilibrium, with the bottom quality firm always included. Moreover, all equilibrium price and quality configurations always coincide with that observed in the duopoly case, with only two quality variants on sale.
D42|Optimal Taxation Rule Reversal in the Presence of Gentle Polluters and Greedy Cleaners|The literature on the micro-economics of the eco-industry often assumed interiority of pollutant net emissions. In a perfectly competitive final good market vertically integrated with an upstream monopoly supply this assumption implies that an optimal tax is always greater than its associated marginal social damage. In this short note we will relax this assumption and challenge that result. The market structure generates a unique threshold on the scale of the marginal social damage, whereby for any value above the threshold an optimal tax is strictly lower and net emissions are zero.
D42|El papel de la estructura del sistema financiero en la transmisión de la política monetaria|El canal de crédito es uno de los principales mecanismos a través del cual se transmiten los estímulos de la política monetaria a la economía, por lo que identificar las condiciones que afectan su eficiencia es un tema de alta importancia. En este documento se evalúa el grado de rigidez de las tasas de interés activas y se identifican algunos factores de estructura del sistema financiero que afectan la eficiencia del canal de transmisión. Los resultados muestran que en el corto plazo la transmisión es incompleta, mientras que en el largo plazo las tasas se ajustan por completo. En términos de los efectos de la estructura del sistema financiero, se encontró que incrementos en el poder de mercado influyen negativamente sobre la transmisión de política monetaria. Asimismo, los intermediarios más grandes y más apalancados transmiten los cambios en la tasa de intervención en una menor proporción que los medianos y pequeños. ****** Credit channel efficiency is of high importance for monetary policy pass-through. Literature has shown that certain market structure characteristics have a negative effect on policy transmission. In this paper we aim to measure credit interest rate rigidities as a measure of monetary policy transmission, as well as to identify the effect that market structure has on policy pass-through. The results suggest that policy transmission is incomplete in the short run; while in the long run interest rates fully adjust to changes in the intervention rate. Also, we find that market power increases interest rate rigidities and that the largest and more leveraged banks transfer changes in the intervention rate in a less degree.
D42|El papel de la estructura del sistema financiero en la transmisión de la política monetaria|El canal de crédito es uno de los principales mecanismos a través del cual se transmiten los estímulos de la política monetaria a la economía, por lo que identificar las condiciones que afectan su eficiencia es un tema de alta importancia. En este documento se evalúa el grado de rigidez de las tasas de interés activas y se identifican algunos factores de estructura del sistema financiero que afectan la eficiencia del canal de transmisión. Los resultados muestran que en el corto plazo la transmisión es incompleta, mientras que en el largo plazo las tasas se ajustan por completo. En términos de los efectos de la estructura del sistema financiero, se encontró que incrementos en el poder de mercado influyen negativamente sobre la transmisión de política monetaria. Asimismo, los intermediarios más grandes y más apalancados transmiten los cambios en la tasa de intervención en una menor proporción que los medianos y pequeños.
D42|Pricing Strategy In The Context Of Durable Goods Monopoly With Discrete Demand|Considering a model of discrete demand with two consumers, this article shows that irrespective of the difference between the willingness to pay of consumers with high and low incomes, if interest rates are low, a durable goods monopolist has an advantage in discriminating prices over time. If the difference in willingness to pay is limited and interest rates high, the monopolist has an advantage in setting a price equal to the low-income consumer’s willingness to pay. Finally, in the case of great difference in willingness to pay and high interest rates, the monopolist has an advantage in setting a price equal to the high-income consumer’s willingness to pay, and not selling the durable good to the low-income consumer. The results show that the Coase conjecture can fail if the difference in willingness to pay is great, and interest rates are high.
D42|The strategic use of download limits by a monopoly platform|" type=""main""> We offer a new explanation for why platforms, such as Internet service providers and mobile-phone networks, offer plans with download limits: through one of two mechanisms, doing so causes content providers to reduce prices or improve quality. This generates greater surplus for consumers, which a platform captures via higher consumer access fees. Even accounting for congestion externalities, a platform limits downloads more than would be welfare maximizing; indeed, by so much, that barring such practices can be welfare superior to what a platform would do. Paradoxically, a platform will install more bandwidth when it can restrict downloads than when it cannot."
D42|Overconfident Consumers in the Marketplace|The term overconfidence is used broadly in the psychology literature, referring to both overoptimism and overprecision. Overoptimistic individuals overestimate their own abilities or prospects. In contrast, overprecise individuals place overly narrow confidence intervals around forecasts, thereby underestimating uncertainty. These biases can lead consumers to misforecast their future product usage, or to overestimate their abilities to navigate contract terms. In consequence, consumer overconfidence causes consumers to systematically misweight different dimensions of product quality and price. Poor choices based on biased estimates of a product's expected costs or benefits are the result. For instance, overoptimism about self-control is a leading explanation for why individuals overpay for gym memberships that they underutilize. Similarly, overprecision is a leading explanation for why individuals systematically choose the wrong calling plans, racking up large overage charges for exceeding usage allowances in the process. Beyond these market effects of overconfidence, this paper addresses three additional questions: What will firms do to exploit consumer overconfidence? What are the equilibrium welfare consequences of consumer overconfidence for consumers, firms, and society? And what are the implications of consumer overconfidence for public policy?
D42|Behavioral Consumers in Industrial Organization|This paper succinctly overviews three primary branches of the industrial organization literature with behavioral consumers. The literature is organized according to whether consumers: (1) have non-standard preferences, (2) are overconfident or otherwise biased such that they systematically misweight different dimensions of price and other product attributes, or (3) fail to choose the best price due to suboptimal search, confusion comparing prices, or excessive inertia. The importance of consumer heterogeneity and equilibrium effects are also highlighted along with recent empirical work.
D42|Advance-Purchase Financing of Projects with Few Buyers|I investigate a simple model of advance-purchase contracts as a mode of financing costly projects. An entrepreneur has to meet some capital requirement in order to start production and sell the related good to a limited number of potential buyers who are privately informed about their willingness to pay. I find that advance-purchase arrangements enable more costly projects to be financed than traditional funding sources. The entrepreneur uses advance-purchase sur-charges as a price discrimination device. However, the discriminatory power is limited by the problem of free-riding, which is exacerbated as the number of potential buyers increases.
D42|Resource Market Power and Levels of Knowledge in General Equilibrium|We analyze monopoly power in a market for a complementary fossil resource like oil in a two country/two period model with international trade in general equilibrium. Focusing on the complex interplay of capital and resource market, we elaborate how these effects feed back into the resource monopolist's extraction decision. His level of knowledge about the economic structure thereby plays a key role. The accumulation of own capital assets over time, together with a recognized influence of extraction on the interest rate, can lead the monopolist to accelerate or postpone extraction. Considering the interaction of resource market and global capital accumulation poses an incentive for the monopolist to accelerate extraction and to exploit the importers' increased resource addiction in the future. The conservationist bias of resource market power can be increased, dampened or reversed through the general equilibrium effects.
D42|Third-degree price discrimination in the presence of congestion externality|This paper analyzes third-degree price discrimination of a monopoly airline in the presence of congestion externality when all markets are served. The model features the business-passenger and leisure-passenger markets where business passengers exhibit a higher time valuation, and a less price-elastic demand, than leisure passengers. Our main result is the identification of the time-valuation effect of price discrimination, which can work in the opposite direction as the well-known output effect on welfare. This time-valuation effect clearly explains why discriminating prices can improve welfare even when this is associated with a reduction in aggregate output.
D42|Alliance Formation in a Vertically Differentiated Market|This paper studies how the possibility for firms to sign collusive agreements (as for instance being part of alliances, cartels and mergers) may affect their quality and price choice in a market with vertically differentiated goods. For this purpose we model the firm decisions as a three-stage game in which, at the first stage, firms can form an alliance via a sequential game of coalition formation and, at the second and third stage, they decide simultaneously their product qualities and prices, respectively. In such a setting we study whether there exist circumstances under which either full or partial collusion can be sustained as a subgame perfect Nash equilibrium of the coalition formation game. Also, we analyse the effects of different coalition structures on equilibrium qualities, prices and profits accruing to firms. It is shown that only intermediate coalition structures arise at the equilibrium, with the bottom quality firm always included. Moreover, all equilibrium price and quality configurations always coincide with that observed in the duopoly case, with only two quality variants on sale.
D42|Vaccines vs. Preventives|Preventives are sold ex ante, before disease status is realized, while treatments are sold ex post. Even if the mean of the ex ante distribution of consumer values is the same as that ex post, the shape of the distributions may differ, generating a difference between the surplus each product can extract. If, for example, consumers differ only in ex ante disease risk, then a monpolist would have more difficulty extracting surplus with a preventive than with a treatment because treatment consumers, having contracted the disease, no longer differ in disease risk. We show that the ratio of preventive to treatment producer surplus can be arbitrarily small, in particular when the distribution of consumer values has a Zipf shape and the disease is rare. The firm's bias toward treatments can be reversed, for example, if the source of private information is disease severity learned ex post. The difference between the producer surplus earned from the products can result in distorted R&D incentives; the deadweight loss from this distortion can be as large as the entire producer-surplus difference. Calibrations for HIV and heart attacks based on risk factors in the U.S. population suggest that the distribution of disease risk is sufficiently Zipf-similar to generate substantial differences between producer surplus from preventives and treatments. Empirically, we find that proxies for the Zipf-similarity of the disease-risk distribution are associated a significantly lower likelihood of vaccine development but not drug development.
D42|Pre-negotiation commitment and internalization in public good provision through bilateral negotiations|A profit-maximizing public good supplier endogenously determines the level of the public good and simultaneously negotiates with beneficiaries of the good one by one. A pre-negotiation commitment on the production level of the public good by the supplier enhances the internalization of beneficiaries' preferences. With the commitment, the supplier produces the public good at an efficient level in equilibrium if and only if its bargaining power is sufficiently weak. In addition, the public good is produced excessively as a result of the commitment when the supplier's bargaining power is sufficiently strong.
D42|Dynamic pricing and advertising of perishable products with inventory holding costs|We examine a special class of dynamic pricing and advertising models for the sale of perishable goods, including marginal unit costs and inventory holding costs. The time horizon is assumed to be finite and we allow several model parameters to be dependent on time. For the stochastic version of the model, we derive closed-form expressions of the value function as well as of the optimal pricing and advertising policy in feedback form. Moreover, we show that for small unit shares, the model converges to a deterministic version of the problem, whose explicit solution is characterized by an overage and an underage case. We quantify the close relationship between the open-loop solution of the deterministic model and the expected evolution of optimally controlled stochastic sales processes. For both models, we derive sensitivity results. We find that in the case of positive holding costs, on average, optimal prices increase in time and advertising rates decrease. Furthermore, we analytically verify the excellent quality of optimal feedback policies of deterministic models applied in stochastic models.
D42|Output adjusting cartels facing dynamic, convex demand under uncertainty: The case of OPEC|This paper analyzes the optimal strategy of a monopoly facing stochastic and dynamic demand and choosing a Cournot-type strategy, more precisely, adjusting its output. This investigation is motivated by the decisions of OPEC to adjust its output and by the again high and volatile oil prices. The oil market characteristics – uncertainty, dynamic and convex demand, and a quantity adjusting cartel – provide in turn an explanation for two different kinds of volatility for oil prices, small and large. Moreover, it makes a difference in such a setting whether OPEC plays in prices (as it did up to 1985) or in quantities (its current policy) and the model implications are compatible with the observed pattern. The numerical example, even accounting for all necessary caveats, suggests that OPEC may not be a perfect cartel but even assuming that OPEC behaves like a duopoly would lead to much larger supplies.
D42|Word of mouth model of sales|In this paper, I develop a model of the dynamic pricing of a monopolist while information about its product is diffusing through word of mouth. Individuals who purchase the product engage in word of mouth with their friends. The main result establishes that prices optimally fluctuate over time. A monopolist sets prices over time to balance extracting profits in the short term with increasing information diffusion through word of mouth and thereby the population of potential consumers in the future. The key state variable for determining this tradeoff is the distribution of valuations of the individuals on the edge of the diffusion. This distribution of valuations is determined by the history of prices and changes over time. Our analysis reveals that prices must move up and down infinitely often.
D42|The degree of distortions under second-degree price discrimination|Under second-degree price discrimination, both types of consumers get efficient quantities when the net-of-cost valuation functions intersect at least once at some positive quantity and the point of intersection lies between the two peaks. Distortions can be upward or downward.
D42|Energy efficiency subsidies with price-quality discrimination|We compare various designs of energy efficiency subsidies in a market subject to both energy-use externalities and price-quality discrimination by a monopolist. We find that differentiated subsidies can establish the social optimum. Unlike per-quality regimes, ad valorem regimes generate downstream interferences: Subsidising of the high-end good leads the monopolist to reduce the quality of the low-end good. For this reason, ad valorem differentiated rates should always decrease with energy efficiency, a result seemingly at odds with actual practice. In contrast, with per-quality differentiated subsidies, the rates can increase if the externality is large enough relative to the market share of “low” type consumers. Contrary to differentiated subsidies, what we shall call single-instrument subsidies only achieve second-best outcomes. A uniform ad valorem subsidy should have a rate higher than that needed to specifically internalise energy-use externalities. Lastly, if, as is often observed in practice, only the high-end good is to be incentivised, a per-quality regime should be preferred to an ad valorem one. An ad valorem tax on the high-end good may even be preferred to an ad valorem subsidy if the externality is small enough and low-end consumers dominate the market.
D42|The power of randomness in Bayesian optimal mechanism design|We investigate the power of randomness in the context of a fundamental Bayesian optimal mechanism design problem—a single seller aims to maximize expected revenue by allocating multiple kinds of resources to “unit-demand” agents with preferences drawn from a known distribution. When the agents' preferences are single-dimensional Myerson's seminal work (1981) shows that randomness offers no benefit—the optimal mechanism is always deterministic. In the multi-dimensional case, when agents' preferences are arbitrarily correlated, Briest et al. (2010) showed that the gap between the expected revenue obtained by an optimal randomized mechanism and an optimal deterministic mechanism can be unbounded even when a single agent is offered only 4 services. We show that when the agents' values involve no correlation or a specific kind of positive correlation, the benefit of randomness is only a small constant factor.
D42|Pricing the razor: A note on two-part tariffs|The “razor-and-blades” pricing strategy involves setting a low price for a durable basic product (razors) and a high price for a complementary consumable (blades). In a timeless model, Oi (1971) showed that if consumers' demand curves differ and do not cross and unit costs are constant, a monopolist should always price blades above cost. This note studies the optimal razor price. With a uniform distribution of parallel linear demand curves it is never optimal to sell the razor below cost, while with two types of consumers and non-crossing linear demands it is optimal to do so for some parameter values.
