D46|Bilateral Defaultable Financial Derivatives Pricing and Credit Valuation Adjustment|The one-side defaultable financial derivatives valuation problems have been studied extensively, but the valuation of bilateral derivatives with asymmetric credit qualities is still lacking convincing mechanism. This paper presents an analytical model for valuing derivatives subject to default by both counterparties. The default-free interest rates are modeled by the Market Models, while the default time is modeled by the reduced-form model as the first jump of a time-inhomogeneous Poisson process. All quantities modeled are market-observable. The closed-form solution gives us a better understanding of the impact of the credit asymmetry on swap value, credit value adjustment, swap rate and swap spread.
D46|Theories of value and ultimate standards in Sraffa's notes of summer 1927|The group of manuscripts titled 'Notes/London, Summer 1927/Physical real costs, etc.' (D3/12/3) is recognized as extremely important for the reconstruction of the evolution of Sraffa's thought after the articles published in 1925 and 1926. The present paper is aimed at analysing some relevant passages and ideas expressed by Sraffa in those manuscripts. We shall focus, in particular, on Sraffa's arguments about the existence of two different theories of value, with different aims: one aimed at determining the value of large aggregates of commodities, such as the national product, the necessary consumption and the social surplus, and the other aimed at determining the price of a single commodity, separately from the others. In Sraffa's view, if the values of many commodities are to be determined simultaneously, then the theory cannot dispense with an ultimate standard of value. That idea led Sraffa toward the conception (or the rediscovery) of the physical real cost.
D46|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
D46|Endowment effect and the gap between WTP and WTA|I used an auction experiment in China and confirmed that there is a WTP-WTA gap. I used the solemn oath commitment device and found that it reduces the gap in the long possession treatment. However, the gap still exists in the short possession treatment. The evidence suggests that taking an oath to tell the truth with an incentive-compatible mechanism could mitigate the WTP-WTA gap.
D46|Social Value of Time for Investment Appraisal in Mozambique|This study aims to estimate social value of time for investment appraisal in Mozambique. In doing so, we estimate the social value of time for three categories of project that result in time savings. These include transportation sector (road), water supply and sanitation projects and social value of time for people using public services. The estimated social value of time savings in this study, reflects the average magnitude of the welfare improvement of passengers travelling by type of vehicles, welfare improvement of women and children hauling for water and sanitation project and welfare improvement of visiting public offices for commercial and non-commercial purposes in Mozambique. This welfare improvement comes about either through increased productivity of the individuals or through the increase in utility an individual would enjoy if waiting time is reduced by an hour in the Mozambique for immediate or future projects.
D46|The European economic crisis from 2007 onwards in the context of a global crisis of over-production of capital - a Marxian monetary theory of value interpretation|This paper attempts to clarify how the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards can be understood from the perspective of a Marxian monetary theory of value that emphasizes in-trinsic, structural flaws regarding capitalist reproduction. Chapter two provides an empirical description of the European economic crisis, which to some extent already reflects the struc-tural theoretical framework presented in chapter three. Regarding the theoretical framework Michael Heinrich's interpretation of 'the' Marxian monetary theory of value will be presented. Heinrich identifies connections between production and realization, between profit and inter-est rate as well as between industrial and fictitious capital, which represent contradictory tendencies for which capitalism does not have simple balancing processes. In the context of a discussion of 'structural logical aspects' of Marx's Critique of the Political Economy, explana-tory deficits of Heinrich's approach are analyzed. In the following, it is argued that Fred Mose-ley's view of these 'structural logical aspects' allows empirical 'applications' of Marxian mon-etary theories of value. It is concluded that a Marxian monetary theory of value, with the characteristics of expansive capital accumulation and its limitations, facilitates a structural analysis of the European economic crisis from 2007 onwards. In this line of argument, expan-sive production patterns are expressed, among other things, in global restructuring processes, while consumption limitations are mitigated by expansive financial markets and shifts in ex-port destinations.
D46|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
D46|What drives markups? Evolutionary pricing in an agent-based stock-flow consistent macroeconomic model|This article studies coordination between firms in a multi-sectoral macroeconomic model with endogenous business cycles. Firms are both in competition and interdependent, and set their prices with a markup over unit costs. Markups are heterogeneous and evolve under market pressure. We observe a systematic coordination between firms of each sector, and between each sector. The resulting pattern of relative prices is fairly consistent with the labor theory of value. These emerging features are robust to technology shocks.
D46|Real estate and land property automated valuations systems: a taxonomy and conceptual model|Purpose - Automated valuation models have been in use at least for the last fifty years in both academia and practice, while a proper definition was coined only in the last decade. Automated valuation models is a very mature topic that has recently reemerged as very important with the rise of digital infrastructure. Therefore, this paper provides needed analysis and synthesis of the accumulated body of knowledge, and proposes a conceptual framework adapted to reemerging trend.Design/methodology/approach - This imply two-sided contribution of this paper, a taxonomy and a conceptual framework. In order to address properly a broad notion of automated valuation models’ use, this paper introduces automated valuation system as a term and its taxonomy based on key facets, properties and measurements. Proposed taxonomy is non-hierarchical because all automated valuation systems have the same importance and each one has these facets. Furthermore, conceptual model represents the relationships between the facets. The conceptual model for automated valuation system is based on the visualized decision support system consisting of decision, end user, interface data and model. Both taxonomy and conceptual model came into being after literature review that included a bit more than one hundred references.Findings - The overview of facets, their properties and their dummy measurement is discussed only with examples that would be sufficient to illustrate their regularities. Examples are selected as the most cited articles for each of the newly introduced automated valuation approaches. As mentioned, all indicated facets are visualized in a conceptual model that is again an adapted version of the most visuals example of a decision support systems.Research limitations/implications – As mentioned, taxonomy and conceptual model are built upon although relatively broad but selective choice on more than one hundred references. Perhaps a systematic literature review process could additional validate the proposed taxonomy and conceptual model.Practical implications - Assuring the credibility of an automated valuation model that is based purely on comparing the predictive accuracy of method ‘a’ versus method ‘b’ has become a common practice. Therefore, discussion of the use of the proposed automated valuation has been push forward. In addition, as a domain of price estimates has been far surpassed any unique discipline, term that is more generic would be appropriate to accommodate future research coming from multitude of disciplines.Originality/value – By knowledge of the authors this is the first paper that develops taxonomy and conceptual model of automated valuation systems.
D46|Eigenvalue distribution, matrix size and the linearity of wage-profit curves|Brody (1997), while experimenting with random matrices, conjectured that the relative size of the second eigenvalue with respect to the first tended to fall as a random matrix got larger. Bidard and Schatteman (2001) proved that in a random matrix with independently and identically distributed entries the speed of convergence increases with the size of the matrix because the relative size of all subdominant eigenvalues tends to zero as the matrix size approaches infinity. Schefold (2010) then showed that zero subdominant eigenvalues imply linear wage-profit curves for any given numeraire. Our concern is with actual input-output matrices. We successively aggregate the US 2002 matrix from 403 to 10 industries and observe the distribution of the moduli of eigenvalues at each level of aggregation. The random matrix hypothesis predicts that both the size of ratio of the modulus of second eigenvalue to the first and the average size of all moduli will fall toward zero as matrix size increases. At an empirical level, we find that the eigenvalue ratio rises while the average size of eigenvalue moduli falls towards a positive constant. These findings do not support the applicability of Brody’s conjecture for real input-output tables, and by implication do not support the hypothesis that wage-profit curves will become strictly linear in the limit. It is still possible to reconcile our findings with empirically observed near-linear wage-profit curves.
D46|Business Value Created By Management Accounting|Porter stated in his value chain concept that business support activities are contributing to the value creation process of a business organization. In the “classical view” business support activities are considered as indirect productive and not having a clear and direct contribution to the business organization value chain. The information age has enabled and leveraged business support activities to become decisive contributors to the value creation process of any business. Can this value contribution be somehow determined or quantified? Management accounting is a classical business support activity that contributes to the business organization value chain. Through usage of value management and value driven performance indicators, the value contribution can be determined and quantified. The present paper is highlighting one possible alternative to determine the value contribution by using indicators like economic value added and economic profit. The value-based approach is putting indirect productive business activities into a new position, the one of a clear and important business value creator that cannot be ignored in the 21st century, a century driven by data, a nd information and knowledge that can sustain a decisive sustainable competitive advantage.
D46|Less Is More: Capital Theory And Almost Irregular-Uncontrollable Actual Economies|Capital theory and the price effects consequent upon changes in the distributive variables hold center stage when it comes to the internal consistency of both classical and neoclassical theories of value. This paper briefly reviews the literature and then focuses on the detected skew eigenvalue distribution of the vertically integrated technical coefficients matrices of actual economies. The findings prompt the use of the Schur triangularization theorem for the construction even of a single industry from the input–output structure of the entire economy. Such a hyper-basic industry, in combination with hyper-non-basic industries, embodies properties that may capture the behavior of the entire economic system. Thus, we can derive some meaningful results consistent with the available empirical evidence, which finally suggest that actual economies tend to respond as ‘irregular-uncontrollable’ systems.
D46|Парите Като Координация На Стоковото Стопанство. Стари И Нови Прочити На Теорията На Маркс<BR>[Money as coordination, new and old readings of Marx]|В икономическата теория на Маркс съществуват редица проблеми, един от които е за интегрирането, и за логическата връзка между теорията за парите и теорията за трудовата теория за ценността. Това засяга по-широкия въпрос за мястото на парите изобщо в системата на Маркс. Задачата на настоящата статия е да реконструираме в сравнителна перспектива походите на двама френски икономисти, Ж. Картелие и А. Орлеан, като ги съпостави с тези на И. Рубин и П. Струве. Всеки от четиримата предлага свое методи на решение за интегрирането на парите и ценността. Въпреки, че идеите на четиримата автори се преплитат, то могат да се обособят две двойки, а именно И. Рубин – А. Орлеан, и П. Струве – Ж. Картелие. Това отговаря на радикалността на техните аналитични решения. Докато първите съхраняват теорията за ценността (всеки по свои начин), то вторите практически я елиминират (също всеки по свой начин).
D46|Pricing Credit Default Swap Subject to Counterparty Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by multiple credit risks of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
D46|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Counterparty Risk and Credit Value Adjustment|This article presents a generic model for pricing financial derivatives subject to counterparty credit risk. Both unilateral and bilateral types of credit risks are considered. Our study shows that credit risk should be modeled as American style options in most cases, which require a backward induction valuation. To correct a common mistake in the literature, we emphasize that the market value of a defaultable derivative is actually a risky value rather than a risk-free value. Credit value adjustment (CVA) is also elaborated. A practical framework is developed for pricing defaultable derivatives and calculating their CVAs at a portfolio level.
D46|Ricardo’s Theory of Value is Still Alive and Well in Contemporary Capitalism|The purpose of this article is, on the one hand, to shed light on some significant aspects of Ricardo's theory of value and on the other hand to show that Ricardo's insights about the explanatory power of the relative labour times on the movement of relative prices were in the right direction. For this purpose, Ricardo's theory of value is cast rigorously and in modern terms such that by using detailed intertemporal data from input-output tables of two major economies to show that Ricardo's insights are absolutely consistent with the facts.
D46|Stigler on Ricardo|The paper scrutinises George Stigler’s interpretation of Ricardo's theory. Like many marginalists, he assesses Ricardo’s contribution in terms of marginalist theory. This confirms Piero Sraffa’s observation that by the end of the nineteenth century the analytical structure, content and genuine significance of the classical theory had been “submerged and forgotten”. However, Stigler's textual acuteness makes him see important elements of Ricardo’s analysis that resist the marginalist interpretation. His irritation can only have been increased by Sraffa’s exposition of Ricardo’s sur-plus-based theory of profits in volume I of the Ricardo edition. This contradicted mar-ginal productivity theory of profits. Stigler praises Sraffa’s edition beyond all measure, refrains however from discussing his interpretation. Things do not change after Sraffa in 1960 publishes a logically consistent formulation of the classical theory of value and distribution. Sraffa's interpretation challenged Stigler's ideological position, which, however, he did not feel the need, or possibility, to defend.
D46|Value-Added Analysis Of Selected Branches Of Food Industry In Poland|Value-added is understood as an increase of the value of goods as a result of a specific production process. It means the difference between the retail selling price of a product and the material cost. It is calculated on the basis of financial statements. The objective of this paper is to assess the level and structure of value--added on an example of the selected branches of the food industry in Poland. The authors carry out comparative analysis of these branches and also indirectly refer to the assessment of the level of their modernity. The results show that remuneration plays a significant role in the value-added structure. Remunerations represent approx-imately 50 percent of the value. Structure of the value creation depicts the level of innovation of the sector.
D46|Cooperation and competititon in international business negotiations|The purpose of the study is to examine the intercultural aspect in business negotiations. In doing so, it first outlines the theoretical background to distributive and integrative business negotiations as well as competition-related values and practices established by two pieces of large-scale dimension-based cross-cultural research. Then it moves on to discuss an empirical investigation which ? through the observation of twenty business negotiations between German and Turkish delegations ? aimed to find out whether and if yes, to what extent and how members of the two cultures demonstrate competition-related cultural norms. The results of the investigation indicate that failure to take national cultural differences into account may result in misunderstandings, loss of trust or even failure to conclude a deal even in integrative business negotiations.
D46|A Puzzle about the Monetary Expression of Labor Time : An Equilibrating Mechanism or Just A Coincidence?|In this paper, we report a puzzling result about the monetary expressions of labor time (MELTs) of the productive and unproductive sectors. Since part of the aggregate value produced in productive sectors is transferred to unproductive sectors, the productive sector’s MELT is a measure of value realized in productive sectors while the unproductive sector’s MELT is a measure of value transferred to unproductive sectors. Using the national income data for the U.S. economy during 1987-2016 and for the Korean economy during 1993-2016, it is found that the MELT of the aggregate productive sector and the MELT of the aggregate unproductive sector have been moving in a very close lockstep in both countries during the entire sample periods. We build a model which explicitly formalizes the unproductive sector as not producing any value but making the value production process efficient, and find that the co–movement of the two MELTs is not an optimal condition. We also suggest some ex post implications of it, including what the puzzling result implies on the relation between unproductive sector and capital accumulation.
D46|Omnimetrics and Awards|The digital revolution has led to a quantification of ever more areas of human life and society. At the same time, there is an explosion of the number of awards , which by their very nature are based on non- quantified performance. Will quantification take over completely, leading to “omnimetrics”? The paper argues that this will not be the case. An economic explanation for the paradoxical existence of two totally different developments is offered: The value of awards is the higher, the stronger is the effort to quantify. The two developments depend on each other. The more digitalized the world is, the more non-quantified and non-quantifiable aspects of life are cherished. The quantification mania not only raises the value of awards but also the importance of personal relationships, of friendship, love and admiration. While digitalization will proceed and will determine increasingly larger parts of our lives, it is hypothesized that the non-quantified aspects of life will not disappear but flourish.
D46|Competencia vs. Monopolio: un análisis insumo-producto de las tasas de ganancia y markups en la economía de los EE.UU.: 1958-1977|No abstract is available for this item.
D46|Omnimetrics and Awards|The digital revolution has led to a quantification of ever more areas of human life and society. At the same time, there is an explosion of the number of awards, which by their very nature are based on non-quantified performance. Will quantification take over completely, leading to “omnimetrics”? The paper argues that this will not be the case. An economic explanation for the paradoxical existence of two totally different developments is offered: The value of awards is the higher, the stronger is the effort to quantify. The two developments depend on each other. The more digitalized the world is, the more non-quantified and non-quantifiable aspects of life are cherished. The quantification mania not only raises the value of awards but also the importance of personal relationships, of friendship, love and admiration. While digitalization will proceed and will determine increasingly larger parts of our lives, it is hypothesized that the non-quantified aspects of life will not disappear but flourish.
D46|Complete discounted cash flow valuation|This paper concerns discounted cash flow valuation of a company. When the company is in trouble, the owners have an option to provide it with a new capital; otherwise it is liquidated. In the absence of capital outflows and inflows, the company’s own funds are modelled by a spectrally negative Lévy process. Within this framework, we look for a strategy of dividend payments and capital injections which maximizes the firm’s value. We provide an optimal strategy as well as the corresponding valuation formula. Illustrative examples are given.
D46|¿Dinero o trascendencia? La frivolidad del arte durante el Rococó|Background. During the 18th century, a distinctive art style emerged, the Rococo, expression of frivolity and connoisseur taste, where little advances were made in the visual realm. The main objective of this paper is to present a theoretical model that relates royal patronage with artist’s creativity. Methods. This paper presents a theoretical model on the interaction between artists and gallerists of the 18th century, and it allows to study the optimal level of creativity applied by artists to their works. Results. The model predicts a positive relationship between royal patronage and creativity. Conclusions. The death of King Louis XIV and the consequent reduction in royal patronage could explain the decline, documented by art historians, in the level of complexity of art works produced during the Rococo period.// Antecedentes. Durante el siglo XVIII surgió un estilo distintivo de arte, el Rococó, expresión de frivolidad y juicio “conocedor”, donde hubo pocos avances en materia visual. El principal objetivo de este trabajo es establecer un modelo teórico que relacione la caída en el mecenazgo real para las artes con una disminución en la creatividad impregnada a las obras. Métodos. Se presenta un modelo teórico sobre la interacción entre artistas plásticos y galeristas del siglo XVIII, el cual permite estudiar el nivel de creatividad óptimo que los artistas impregnaban a sus obras de arte. Resultado. El modelo predice una relación positiva entre patronazgo real y nivel de creatividad. Conclusiones. La muerte del Rey Luis XIV y la consecuente reducción en el mecenazgo real podrían explicar la caída, documentada por los historiadores del arte, en el nivel de complejidad de las obras producidas durante el periodo Rococó.
D46|Are There Infinite Welfare Differences among Living Things?|Suppose, as biocentrists do, that even microorganisms have a good of their own - that is, some objective form of welfare. Still, human welfare is vastly greater and more valuable. If it were infinitely greater, individualistic biocentrism would be pointless. But consideration of the facts of evolutionary history and of the conceptual relations between infinity and incommensurability reveals that there are no infinite welfare differences among living things. It follows, in particular, that there is some very large number of bacteria whose aggregate overall welfare is not less than the welfare of a human being.
D46|The Problem of Inclusion in Deliberative Environmental Valuation|The idea of inclusive collective decision-making is important in establishing democratic legitimacy, but it fails when citizens are excluded. Stated-preference methods of valuation, which are commonly used in economics, have been criticised because the principle of willingness to pay may exclude low-income earners who do not have the capacity to pay. Deliberative valuation has been advocated as a way to overcome this problem, but deliberation may also be exclusive. In this review, two deliberative valuation frameworks are compared. The first is grounded on the idea of rational discourse that emphasises argument at the expense of other communicative strategies. It seeks to secure inclusion through procedural rules and prerequisites, but fails to address the underlying democratic limitation of argumentation. The second does not rely on the distinction between rational and rhetorical speech, and therefore admits alternative forms of communication. This approach recognises differences in the communicative capacities and practices of those who take part in deliberation, and so is better equipped to improve, though not to guarantee, inclusion.
D46|The Relationship between Value Types and Environmental Behaviour in Four Countries: Universalism, Benevolence, Conformity and Biospheric Values Revisited|Using the social-psychological literature on the antecedents of environmental behaviour and comparative data from Germany, India, Israel and South Korea, we test four value types that correspond with environmental behaviour. Our cross-national context represents varying social, economic, cultural and environmental configurations, giving credence to the effects of values. The authors collected survey data among students on a variety of environmental behaviours and on questions that comprise Schwartz's value scale. The results show similarities between the countries in the effect of biospheric values and differences in the effects of the other values tested. We also find that biospheric value is the most important value type for explaining environmental behaviour, and that biospheric values, universalism and benevolence - three key values that we analyse - have different effects on environmental behaviour, and therefore should be treated separately rather than in a unified self-transcendence value orientation. We finally demonstrate the importance of conformity in the analysis of environmental behaviour. Our conclusions point to the importance of further exploring the mechanism that links values and environmental behaviour while contextualising it in different national and cultural settings.
D46|Disequilibrium as the origin, originality, and challenges of Clower's microfoundations of monetary theory| Robert W. Clower's article “A Reconsideration of the Microfoundations of Monetary Theory” (1967) deeply influenced the course of modern monetary economics. On the one hand, it questioned Don Patinkin's (1956) project to integrate monetary and Walrasian value theory. On the other hand, it was the fountainhead of the cash-in-advance models à la Robert J. Lucas (1980), one of the most widely used approaches to monetary theory since the 1980s. Despite this influence, Clower's project to integrate monetary and value theory remains an enigma. My paper intends to resolve it. This is a difficult task since Clower never completed the monetary theory outlined in his 1967 article. To overcome this difficulty, I characterise the intellectual context from which Clower's contribution emerged and have recourse to a reconstruction of his project. This reconstruction is based on the analysis of published and unpublished materials, written by Clower before and after the 1967 article. It is argued that Clower sought to elaborate a disequilibrium monetary theory whilst retaining the two pillars of Patinkin's integration, i.e., the introduction of money into utility functions and the real-balance effect. I trace the origins, account for the originality, and discuss the challenges of this project.
D46|A New Model for Pricing Collateralized Financial Derivatives|This paper presents a new model for pricing financial derivatives subject to collateralization. It allows for collateral arrangements adhering to bankruptcy laws. As such, the model can back out the market price of a collateralized contract. This framework is very useful for valuing outstanding derivatives. Using a unique dataset, we find empirical evidence that credit risk alone is not overly important in determining credit-related spreads. Only accounting for both collateral posting and credit risk can sufficiently explain unsecured credit costs. This finding suggests that failure to properly account for collateralization may result in significant mispricing of derivatives. We also empirically gauge the impact of collateral agreements on risk measurements. Our findings indicate that there are important interactions between market and credit risk.
D46|The Measurement of Labour Content: A General Approach|This paper analyses the theoretical issues related to the measurement of labour content in the context of general technologies with heterogeneous labour. A novel axiomatic framework is used in order to formulate the key properties of the notion of labour content and analyse its theoretical foundations. Then, a simple measure of labour content is uniquely characterised, which is consistent with common practice in input-output analysis and with a number of recent approaches in value theory.
D46|Diversification by the audit offices in the US and its impact on audit quality|Abstract Audit offices in the US exhibit a wide variation in the number of industries they service. Strategic management theory suggests that diversification can affect the quality of output, depending on the nature and circumstances of diversification. This paper examines the effect of diversification at the audit office level on audit quality. Five proxies of audit quality are examined, mainly, absolute discretionary accruals, propensity to meet-or-beat earnings expectations by a cent, propensity to restate financial statements, propensity to receive a comment letter after an SEC review and propensity to issue a going concern opinion. Results suggest that diversification has detrimental effects on audit quality. On the other hand, when the diversification is part of the audit firm level strategy, the detrimental effects on audit quality are dampened. Moreover, when the diversification at the office level is part of a revenue expansion strategy, the audit quality is adversely affected. However, there is no detrimental effect on the audit quality when revenue expansion is not the objective. Also, diversification across dissimilar industries leads to more adverse effect on audit quality than diversification to similar industries. Results also suggest that when the audit office is located in a market with more (less) diversified client base, the adverse effects of diversification on audit quality are weaker (stronger). Finally, the offices of big-4 audit firms handle diversification better with less adverse effect on audit quality. The findings are important since they identify additional factors that explain audit quality at the audit office level.
D46|Optimal Initial Capital Induced by the Optimized Certainty Equivalent|This paper proposes the notion of optimal initial capital (OIC) induced by the optimized certainty equivalent (OCE) discussed in Ben-Tal and Teboulle (1986) and Ben-Tal and Teboulle (2007), and investigates the properties of the OIC with various types of utility functions. By providing its several properties with different utility functions or other assumptions, we successfully present the OIC as a monetary utility function (negative value of risk measure) for future payoffs with the decisionmaker's concrete criteria in the background.
D46|Regularities in Prices of Production and the Concentration of Compositions of Capitals|Recent developments in price of production models have proposed a hypothesis on the structure of the input coefficient matrices to explain the empirical near-linearity and monotonicity found in prices as a function of income distribution - the tendency towards zero of subdominant eigenvalues. The objective of this paper is twofold: First, based on the behavior of observed eigenvalues, the paper shows that they cannot explain by their own the regularities found in prices of production. Second, it is shown theoretically and empirically the existence and relevance of an additional force acting on the input matrix and the labor coefficient vector: the concentration of industries' vertically integrated compositions of capital around their average. It is argued that the combined effect of these two factors produces the empirical regularities in relative prices. The tendency of the vertically integrated labor to means of production proportions to cluster around their average reveals the existence of an economic force acting on the structure of technology of observable economies and calls for an explanation. The paper relies on the US 1987- 2007 Input-Output accounts, at the highest disaggregation level (between 370-466 sectors), for the empirical evidence in this paper.
D46|Economic Diplomacy in the Innovation Global Value Chains as the National Security Providing Strategy Component|The article deals with the analyzes of economic diplomacy application in the area of innovations. The strategy of economic diplomacy by improving the efficiency in global value chain participation was considered. The main effects of commercial diplomacy using in the innovation area were identified. The world experience using economic diplomacy in the innovation sphere was considered.
D46|Disequilibrium as the origin, originality, and challenges of Clower's microfoundations of monetary theory|Robert W. Clower’s article “A Reconsideration of the Microfoundations of Monetary Theory” (1967) deeply influenced the course of modern monetary economics. On the one hand, it questioned Don Patinkin’s (1956) project to integrate monetary and Walrasian value theory. On the other hand, it was the fountainhead of the cash-in-advance models à la Robert J. Lucas (1980), one of the most widely used approaches to monetary theory since the 1980s. Despite this influence, Clower’s (1967) project to integrate monetary and value theory remains an enigma. My paper intends to resolve it. This is a difficult task since Clower never completed the monetary theory outlined in his 1967 article. To overcome this difficulty, I characterize the intellectual context from which Clower’s (1967) contribution emerged and have recourse to a reconstruction of his project. This reconstruction is based on the analysis of published and unpublished materials, written by Clower before and after the 1967 article. It is argued that Clower (1967) sought to elaborate a disequilibrium monetary theory whilst retaining the two pillars of Patinkin’s integration, i.e., the introduction of money into utility functions and the real-balance effect. I trace the origins, account for the originality, and discuss the challenges of this project.
D46|A Just Price: Objections and Suggested Solutions|This paper examines the concept of a just price not as a historical but as theoretical problem. After a detailed exposition of the scholastic theory of value, price and commutative justice, the author identifies four main subjective-value-based objections to the concept of a just price and settles them one after another. These objections are 1) an apparent self-contradiction consisting in stating a subjective nature of utility and, at the same time, equality of value in exchange; 2) how can a voluntary exchange be unjust; 3) how can a just price be found in an isolated exchange of a unique good; 4) a missing satisfactory definition of a just price. The author suggests to settle the first objection by identifying the ontological status of the objective value. Leaning on a distinction of an objective value in use (virtuositas) and subjective desirability (complacibilitas) made by Saint Bernardino of Sienna and Saint Antonino of Florence, the author asserts that while complacibilitas is a potentiality of subjective desirability resting in an individual, virtuositas is a potentiality of usefulness resting in a thing. On account of this, a following solution is suggested: a particular usefulness is not purely subjective because it does not depend on a subjective perception of an individual; it is a metaphysical accident of a thing, not a metaphysical accident of an individual; a particular usefulness is not purely objective, either, because it is a relation to an individua; thus, equality in exchange means equality of potentiality of usefulness which is not a particular usefulness but a set of all usefulnesses concealed in the potentiality of the thing, even though they have not yet been actuated. The author suggests to settle the second objection by providing a logical proof for the assertion that an exchange in which one party suffers an unjust price is not a voluntary exchange and, on the grounds of this, the author demonstrates that an unjust exchange cannot be a voluntary exchange. Finally, the author suggests a definition of a just price which is applicable to any exchange, whether a competitive price exists or not.
D46|Evaluating Investments in Portability and Interoperability between Software Service Platforms|Within a closed ecosystem, end-users cannot interoperate with other platforms or port their software and data easily without a cost for interface integration or data re-formatting. The customers of these closed software service platforms are locked-in. Potential customers, who are aware of this lock-in issue, are hesitant to adopt a closed software service platform, slowing down the wide deployment of the software service platform. This paper applies an economic perspective to investigate the value creation for providers and users at different levels of interoperability. For the analysis, a value creation model for software service platforms within a software service ecosystem has been developed. Simulations of the value creation model show that, even if investments in interoperability and portability are aimed at addressing user requirements, their impact also drives the providers’ profitability. Furthermore, emerging providers require investing more than market leading providers, as they have less power to set de facto standards. The simulation results also show that there is an optimal level of investments, with respect to profit and return on investments. Overall, from these results, platform providers cannot only obtain an understanding on how investments in interoperability and portability impact cost, enable cost-effective service integration, and create value, but also design new strategies for optimizing investments.
D46|General economic equilibrium with financial markets and retainability|Abstract A theory of economic equilibrium for incomplete financial markets in general real assets is developed in a new formulation with currency-denominated prices. The “goods” are not only commodities, and they can influence utility through retention as an alternative to consumption. Perfect foresight is relinquished in a rolling horizon approach to markets which lets agents pursue long-term interests without being sure of future prices. The framework is that of an economy operating in a fiat currency that agents find attractive to retain, in balance with other needs. The attractiveness comes from Keynesian considerations about uncertainty which until now have not been brought in. The existence of equilibrium is established directly—not just generically—and moreover under weaker assumptions on endowments than before, except that utility functions are taken to be concave. Agents do not need to start out with, or end up with, positive amounts of everything. With a single currency denominating the units of account in all states, price indeterminacy is avoided and all contracts issued in the financial markets can be interpreted as “real contracts.” Derivative instruments and collateralized contracts based on money prices are thereby encompassed for the first time. Transaction costs on sales of contracts, generated endogenously, lead to bid–ask spreads and in particular to a gap between interest rates for lending and borrowing money.
D46|Examining The Influence Of Some Macroeconomic Factors On Foreign Direct Investments|The current real average selling price of a thoroughbred broodmare is nearly half its peak value in 2000. While annual price changes are influenced by economic performance, different prices at an auction are influenced by physical and genetic characteristics of broodmares. We use auction data from the 2013 November Keeneland Breeding Stock Sales to estimate a hedonic pricing model. We find prices are positively influenced by earnings of the covering sire, earnings of the broodmare, pedigree, and the racing performance of broodmare progeny. Conversely, the age of a broodmare and the day on which the horse sold have dampening effects on broodmare prices.
D46|Hedonic Price Analysis Of Non-Barren Broodmares|The current real average selling price of a thoroughbred broodmare is nearly half its peak value in 2000. While annual price changes are influenced by economic performance, different prices at an auction are influenced by physical and genetic characteristics of broodmares. We use auction data from the 2013 November Keeneland Breeding Stock Sales to estimate a hedonic pricing model. We find prices are positively influenced by earnings of the covering sire, earnings of the broodmare, pedigree, and the racing performance of broodmare progeny. Conversely, the age of a broodmare and the day on which the horse sold have dampening effects on broodmare prices.
D46|The Gravitation of Market Prices as A Stochastic Process|The theory of value has been based ever since Adam Smith on the idea that the market prices of commodities, those at which actual trade takes place, gravitate around a central position known as natural prices. This paper seeks to develop a statistical idea of the process in question and suggests in particular that market prices can be said to gravitate around natural prices if the probability of their means being very close to natural prices after t observations tends to 1 as t tends to infinity. A set of possible conditions leading to that result is also presented.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D46|La Ley de la tendencia descendente de la tasa de ganancia y su validez explicativa de las crisis económicas. La nueva interpretación temporalista|Este trabajo es una revisión de los debates clásicos y actuales sobre la Ley de la tendencia descendente de la tasa de ganancia y su validez como teoría explicativa de las dinámicas del capitalismo. El texto trata de responder a la consistencia o no de la Ley, puesta en duda durante décadas, a través de la presentación de la nueva interpretación temporalista (TSSI) y la adecuación de esta nueva interpretación marxista para explicar las crisis económicas en el capitalismo.
D46|The Determinants of Investment Rewards: Evidence for Selected Developed and Developing Countries|The empirical studies on investors’ investment reward rarely focus on the performance of excess returns across the developing and developed countries: Investment in the developing countries has higher risk thus requires higher return compared to developed countries. Therefore, study on investors’ investment reward cannot rule out the role of the performance of excess returns simply because of data mining, complex data collection process and misspecification of the model. The objective of this study is to examine the underlying determinants of investors’ investment reward on excess stock return such that provide better understanding on the fact that the developing countries has more risk compared to developed countries and the internal factors are important for investors in the investment decision making process. The findings of this study indicate that there is an equilibrium relationship between investors’ investment reward and its determinants, namely, risk premium of market, firm size and book-to-market value. In addition, the internal factors are important to the investors in making investment decisions and the relationships of the underlying determinants are prevalent in the developing countries. This study suggests that risk premium of market, firm size and book-to-market value can serve as indicators of the investors’ investment reward that provide better understanding that developing countries has more risk than developed countries. This study also suggests that the investors and policy makers should consider the role of the underlying determinants in the investors’ investment decision making process.
D46|The Trouble with Environmental Values|If we are to assess whether our attitudes towards nature are morally, aesthetically or in any other way appropriate or inappropriate, then we will need to know what those attitudes are. Drawing on the works of Katie McShane, Alan Holland and Christine Swanton, I challenge the common assumption that to love, respect, honour, cherish or adopt any other sort of pro-attitude towards any natural X simply is to value X in some way and to some degree. Depending on how one interprets 'value', that assumption is, I contend, either false or vacuous. I argue that to assess the appropriateness of a person's pro-attitudes towards a natural entity one must in some cases appeal to the concepts of status and/or bond, and not just that of value. To develop my argument, I appeal to the works of two nature writers - Robert Macfarlane and J. A. Baker.
D46|Coping with the Horizontal Hitch: The 'Con-Formism' of the Degrowth Alternative|Normally, during modernity, critical thinking and anti-systemic movements have countered the ruling institutions by envisaging not only new values and ideals, but mainly new 'forms' of social regulation. The current crisis reveals that, contrary to this tradition, the institutions in office and the antagonistic way of thinking now share the same basic 'horizontal' form. The degrowth project represents a paradigmatic example of this structural homology. The ecological and social crises, standing at the origins of the political engagement for degrowth, are not the outcome of execrable 'values' but mainly of the 'horizontal' form adopted by current institutions. In fact, the horizontal regime is uninterested in the promotion of specific values or ideas of justice. It only ensures that each singularity (the citizen and their networks) can freely play their game on the basis of their own values. This indifference is the basic reason for ecological, social and economic deregulation. The paradox of degrowth is that, on the one hand, it evokes the necessity of a return to 'vertical' regulation (i.e. collective sovereignty), while on the other, it is deeply subaltern to the paradigm of horizontalism (the same that frames the growth regime).
D46|Benchmarketing - Fashionable Term Concerning Traditional Processes|Marketing is a major factor to boost the competitiveness of the firm in an environment which is more and more turbulent. It centers the company’s management as being the ideal satisfaction of the current and potential consumer. This is why, in our conception, the marketing’s management represents a subsystem of the company’s’ general management by which shall be administered to specific activities, and also designed to contour the company’s’ activity object. In this article, the intent is to highlight the fact that the benchmarketing has come loose from cultivating the traditional process to the innovative organizational culture product. In this paper, the authors consider benchmarketing as a process of qualitative organizational culture adaptation to market requirements, depending on the context, so as to ensure the improvement of the economic criteria of appreciation of the business lucrative activities. Based on direct observations concerning small firms, followed by analysis, comparison and synthesis, the authors suggest taking into consideration the theoretical and practical benchmarketings’ approach, as being the current strategy of acquiring and cultivating excellence, as initiation philosophy and business development.
D46|Price expectations in neo-Walrasian equilibrium models: an overview|Since the late 1960s, the efforts of general equilibrium theorists have been directed towards overcoming the evident limitation of the Arrow-Debreu model, i.e. the assumption that the transactions associated with the future activities of agents are all regulated at the initial date on a complete system of forward markets. Research has thus focused on ‘sequential economies’, in which spot markets are active in each period, and has developed along two paths, both inspired by Hicks’s Value and Capital and stressing the dependence of agents’ choices on their expectations of future prices. The first is temporary equilibrium theory, in which expectations are assumed to be subjective. The second postulates that all agents exactly predict the future prices (sequential economies with perfect foresight). This paper examines the analytical problems that the inclusion of expectations among the determinants of equilibrium originates within each approach. In the light of the studies of the 1970s and 1980s, it first illustrates the difficulties that arise in temporary equilibrium theory due to the subjective nature of individual forecasts. Then it moves on to examine sequential economies with perfect foresight. After illustrating the equilibrium notion on which the analysis of those economies relies, i.e. the ‘equilibrium of plans, prices and price expectations’ introduced by Radner (1972), it indicates, on the basis of recent contributions, that for plausible configurations of the economy the perfect foresight associated with Radner equilibria proves not only unrealistic but also theoretically dubious.
D46|Capital theory: Less is more|Capital theory and the associated with it price effects resulting from changes in the distributive variables hold centre stage when it comes to the internal consistency of both classical and neoclassical theories of value. The article briefly reviews the literature and then focuses on the detected skew eigenvalue distribution of the vertically integrated technical coefficients matrices of actual economies. The findings prompt the use of the Schur triangularization theorem for the construction even of a single industry from the input-output structure of the entire economy. Such a hyper-basic industry, in combination with hyper-non-basic industries, embodies properties that may capture the behaviour of the entire economic system. Thus, we can derive some meaningful results consistent with the available empirical evidence.
D46|What is a Fair Value of Your Recommendation List?|We propose a new quality metric for recommender systems. The main feature of our approach is the fact, that we take into account the set of requirements, which are important for business application of a recommender. Thus, we construct a general criterion, named “audience satisfaction”, which thoroughly describe the result of interaction between users and recommendation service. During the criterion construction we had to deal with a number of common recommenders’ problems: a) Most of users rate only a random part of the objects they consume and a part of the objects that were recommended to them; b) Attention of users is distributed very unevenly over the list of recommendations and it requires a special behavioral model; c) The value of the user’s rate measures the level of his/her satisfaction, hence these values should be naturally incorporated in the criterion intrinsically; d) Different elements may often dramatically differ from each other by popularity (long tail – short head problem) and this effect prevents accurate measuring of user’s satisfaction. The final metric takes into account all these issues, leaving opportunity to adjust the metric performance based on proper behavioral models and parameters of short head problem treatment.
D46|The New Concept of Money: From Record-Of-Value (RoV) To Record-Of-Entropy (RoE)|In this paper, we shall analyse the concept of Money. Presently money is viewed as Record-of-Value i.e. money is used to capture value created in any activity. We start by defining money. Then we discuss the way energy is spent in creating value is measured using money. We also assess the uses of money by viewing it as a Record-of-Value entity. We discuss about the parallel economy which impacts mainstream economy in various ways. Economic Entropy is then defined and discussed. An equation that relates Economic Entropy, value based money and other economic parameters is proposed. The various advantages of viewing money as a Record-of-Entropy are debated. Finally, the paper concludes as to which concept is best suited to present day and future economic scenarios.
D46|The effect of one-on-one assistance on the compliance with labor regulation. A field experiment in extremely vulnerable settings|This is the first paper to analyze the effects of intense personal assistance on the compliance with labor regulation, within a population of deeply disadvantaged informal workers, using a field experiment. We randomly assign one-on-one assistance to these workers, and, within this treatment group, we randomly assign money to cover the cost of fulfilling the legal requirements to get a permit to work on the streets. One month after the intervention, we find that a worker who receives one-on-one assistance is three times more likely to comply with the legal documentation required by the government than a worker in the control group. We also find that a worker who receives both one-on-one assistance and cost coverage is four times more likely to comply with the legal requirements. The findings of this study shed light on strategies to help highly vulnerable workers to comply with labor regulations.
D46|Introducción al Estudio de la Economía del Sector Energético|Debido a la importancia del funcionamiento y desarrollo del sector energético para el desempeño y estabilidad de la economía, su análisis se ha convertido en una rama de las ciencias económicas. Para este estudio deben examinarse las características de cada una de las industrias que lo conforman, así como también hacer uso de instrumentos de análisis, conceptos y teorías que parten tanto de la teoría económica clásica de maximización de beneficios, como de la teoría de la mina interesada en determinar el comportamiento óptimo de las empresas extractivas. El manejo y comprensión de estos instrumentos y herramientas constituye el primer y principal paso para realizar trabajos de investigación interesados en comprender la relación económico-energética, motivo por el cual serán abordados a lo largo de este documento introductorio de la Economía del Sector Energético, junto a los aspectos generales más importantes e individuales de cada una de las industrias del sector.
D46|Absolute Advantage and International Trade|The purpose of this paper is to give empirical content to the approach of international trade based on the principle of absolute advantage and to show that differences in productivity may give rise to transfers of value towards the units of capital with an absolute advantage in production. Our approach is based on the classical/Marxian theories of value and competition and it is operationalized using input-output data for the years 1995, 2000, and 2005 of four euro-zone countries (Greece, Spain, Finland, and the Netherlands). The derived results are consistent with the view that productivity differences persist over the years, which is equivalent to saying that the absolute advantage in production does not change into comparative advantage.
D46|Spiritual Support During The Active Aging|The main purpose of the study is to investigate the contribution of spiritual support in order to increase old people's life quality and help them take active roles during active aging period. In the study, data was analyzed by reviewing the litrature on what to be done to ensure old people's participation in the active ageing period and the literature about why they should be provided with spiritual support during this period. When the related literature was reviewed scanned, it was found that there have been many studies on active ageing while there are few studies on spiritual support/care during old age. The most distictive feature of this study is that this is the first study aiming at analyzing the spiritual care during active ageing. Conclusion; In order for the old to take part in the active ageing life and this participation to be continuous, there is a need to offer the old who demand spiritual support services besides providing proper accomodation, working, health, solving psychological and economical problems and establishing solidarity environment. Considering the fact that the difficulties the elderly people experience including physical, mental or health collapse and that they feel densely that they have one foot in the grave, it's an indispensible need to satisfy their mind, logic and soul. Spiritual support service is the only solution for such psychological difficultis as well as physical ones. Spiritual support services should be used and provided for the old in order to help them involved in active ageing,to take part in the active ageing process continuously so that they feel the need for an active life and stay motivated for an active life.
D46|Structural analysis of value creation in software service platforms|Abstract As software service platforms grow in number of users and variety of service offerings, it raises the question of how this phenomenon impacts the value obtained by users. This paper identifies system usability, service variety, and personal connectivity to be the major determinants that contribute to the value offered to users on mobile software service platforms. A structural equation model, which is based on utility theory, technology acceptance theory, and the theory of network externalities, has been constructed from seven observed constructs, reflecting the three determinants and the user value. The lower bound of user value is estimated through the user’s willingness-to-pay for services and the user’s willingness to spend time on using services. For the validation, a co-variance-based structural equation analysis has been conducted on online survey data of 210 users of mobile service platforms (e.g., Android, iOS). The results show that the number of services used and the number of active user connections were found to be the strongest constructs explaining user value. Perceived usefulness did not explain user value as much. In total, they can explain 49 % of the value that the user receives from the platform. The implication of this result is that users’ value from a software service platform cannot be explained by the technology acceptance model itself. Instead, an approach that, as used in this research, of integrating network externality theory, utility theory, and technology acceptance theory is necessary.
D46|Note on Sustainability Prices When Sectoral Growth Rates Differ|Abstract A dynamic Leontief-type model is considered. The sectoral growth rates differ. This note shows that the dual of the (vector) equation connecting sectoral products and sectoral consumptions is a (vector) price equation representing sustainability prices, i.e. prices assuring profits that are consistent with the cost of sectoral capital adjustments. In this economy the sectoral price levels depend on the sectoral growth rates and the sectoral profit-capital rates differ.
D46|Equilibrium with mutual organizations in adverse selection economies|Abstract We develop an equilibrium concept in the Debreu (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 40(7):588–592, 1954) theory of value tradition for a class of adverse selection economies which includes the Spence (Q J Econ 87(3):355–374, 1973) signaling and Rothschild–Stiglitz (Q J Econ 90(4):629–649, 1976) insurance environments. The equilibrium exists and is optimal. Further, all equilibria have the same individual type utility vector. The economies are large with a finite number of types that maximize expected utility on an underlying commodity space. An implication of the analysis is that the invisible hand works for this class of adverse selection economies.
D46|Marketing and Business Development between Idea, Scientific Discovery and Innovation|Starting from the emergence of the basic ideas, scientific development of them to successive innovations derived from, the paper develops around the way in which marketing science contributes to the business development. It is presented the vision of marketing from a historical perspective that characterized feudalism, communism, capitalism and knowledge based society. Based on documentary research is discussed the necessity of adopting innovations and the multidisciplinary nature of innovation as a process. European policies are presented for the development of innovation and regional development programs already implemented. The paper concludes by highlighting new facets of the innovation concept in economic theory, the legal framework for the marketing of innovative technologies and the limits of intellectual property rights of those who innovate.
D46|Nota sobre valor, coste y renta del agua de riego| El propósito de esta nota es rendir homenaje al profesor Ballestero mediante un breve repaso a conceptos económicos estrechamente relacionados con su contribución a la ciencia económica en general y a la economía agraria en particular. En esta nota se repasan conceptos clave en la economía del agua que están en el centro del debate público y político y a los que el profesor Ballestero ha contribuido de manera fundamental.
D46|About Ethics In Plant,Machinery And Equipment Valuation Domain|In this paper we put in discussion some ethical aspects of plant, machinery and equipment valuation. After a presentation of the general issues of ethics in valuation domain, we analyze the application of the fundamental ethical principles in plant, machinery and equipment valuation domain. To support our conclusions we use some findings of a study that we conducted to identify the particularities of the plant, machinery and equipment valuation activity in Romania.
D46|Can Be Used The Income Approach In Plant,Machinery And Equipment Valuation|In this paper we put in discussion some cases “when it can” or “when it can’t” be used the income approach in plant, machinery and equipment valuation. After a presentation of the particularities of the plant, machinery and equipment valuation we describe the income approach and we present some case studies about when it can or it can’t be use the income approach in this field. To support our conclusions we use some findings of a study that we conducted to identify the particularities of the plant, machinery and equipment valuation activity in Romania.
D46|Mergers and acquisitions transactions strategies in diffusion - type financial systems in highly volatile global capital markets with nonlinearities|The M&A transactions represent a wide range of unique business optimization opportunities in the corporate transformation deals, which are usually characterized by the high level of total risk. The M&A transactions can be successfully implemented by taking to an account the size of investments, purchase price, direction of transaction, type of transaction, and using the modern comparable transactions analysis and the business valuation techniques in the diffusion – type financial systems in the finances. We analyzed the M&A transactions in Switzerland in 2012 in various industrial segments. We think that the globalization has a strong influence on the successful M&A deals completion in Switzerland. We believe that the fluctuating dependence of M&A transactions number over the certain time period is quasi-periodic. We think that there are many factors, which can generate the quasi periodic oscillations of the M&A transactions number in the time domain, for example: the stock market bubble effects. We performed the research of the nonlinearities in the M&A transactions number quasi-periodic oscillations in Matlab, including the ideal, linear, quadratic, and exponential dependences. We discovered that the average of a sum of random numbers in the M&A transactions time series represents a time series with the quasi periodic systematic oscillations, which can be finely approximated by the polynomial numbers. We think that, in the course of the M&A transaction implementation, the ability by the companies to absorb the newly acquired knowledge and to create the new innovative knowledge bases, is a key pre-determinant of the M&A deal completion success. In our opinion, the integrative collateral creative design thinking has a direct impact on the new innovative knowledge bases formation by companies in the highly competitive global markets. We would like to state that the winning virtuous mergers and acquisitions transactions strategies in the diffusion - type financial systems in the highly volatile global capital markets with the nonlinearities can only be selected through the decision making process on the various available M&A choices, applying the econophysical econometrical analysis with the use of the inductive, deductive and abductive logics.
D46|Values for Cooperative Games over Graphs and Games With Inadmissible Coalitions|We suppose that players in a cooperative game are located within a graph structure, such as a social network or supply route, that limits coalition formation to coalitions along connected subsets within the graph. This in turn leads to a more general study of coalitional games in which there are arbitrary limitations on the collections of coalitions that may be formed. Within this context we define a generalisation of the Shapley value that is studied from an axiomatic perspective. The resulting ‘graph value’ (and ‘S-value’ in the general case) is endogenously asymmetric, with the automorphism group of the graph playing a crucial role in determining the relative values of players.
D46|The impact of fixed and variable cost on automobile demand: Evidence from Denmark|Many car characteristics, for instance cabin space and engine power, have a positive impact on fixed and variable costs. We extend the hedonic model, that considers only one type of cost, to the situation in which fixed as well as variable costs depend on the characteristics of the durable and derive an expression for the full willingness to pay for characteristics that takes into account the impact on fixed as well as variable costs. We apply the model to the demand for automobiles using rich Danish register data. Estimation reveals considerable heterogeneity and a non-negligible contribution of the variable costs in total willingness to pay. Next we show that under suitable assumptions a structural interpretation of our estimates is possible. We show that the willingness to pay per kilometer driven can be interpreted as a parameter of the utility function and study how it is related to household characteristics. Finally, we illustrate the model by computing how consumers change car quality in response to an increase in the fuel price.
D46|Exchange asymmetry in experimental settings|We review past trading experiments and present 11 new experiments designed to show how the trading rate responds to alterations of the experimental procedure. In agreement with earlier studies, results show that if the trade decision is converted to one resembling a choice between goods the exchange asymmetry disappears, but otherwise the asymmetry is remarkably robust. Results also indicate that when trading is public herding can occur, which may have caused some of the more extreme examples of the exchange asymmetry, and that some of the lack of trade may result from preference indifference. Nevertheless, some form of status quo bias, which may consist of a combination of loss aversion, gain attraction, regret avoidance, and dislike of trading, and which may be enhanced by indifference between the goods offered, probably remains as an important influence on the trading rate.
D46|Payoffs in exact TU economies|We prove that a single-valued solution of perfectly competitive TU economies underlying nonatomic exact market games is uniquely determined as the Mertens [23] value by four plausible value-related axioms. Since the Mertens value is always a core element, this result provides an axiomatization of the Mertens value as a core-selection. Previous works in this direction assumed the economies to be either differentiable (e.g., Dubey and Neyman [11]) or of uniform finite-type (e.g., Haimanko [16]). Our work does not assume that, thus it contributes to the axiomatic study of payoffs in perfectly competitive economies (or values of their derived market games) in general. In fact, this is the first contribution in this direction.
D46|Can a path-dependent strategy outperform a path-independent strategy?|The question of whether a path-independent strategy can outperform a path-dependent one has given rise to an interesting debate within the finance literature. This paper uses a protective put as an example and shows that by embedding a cost-down method into our approach, a path-dependent strategy may well outperform a path-independent one. The simulation results illustrate that our proposed protective put outperforms a classical protective put, exhibiting superior capabilities in terms of capturing upside potential, leading to higher Sharpe ratios and Sortino ratios, and avoiding insolvency. The results obtained from our sensitivity analysis provide further confirmation of the robustness of our simulation findings.
D46|Tratantes de arte y los grandes maestros de la pintura|This paper presents a model on the relationship born during the Renaissance, between artists and dealers. It establishes the conditions that made possible such an arrangement. The model explains why this contract functioned properly among minor painters, and why the Great Masters did not got involved on it. Finally, the model studies the relationship between the number of artists signed under one single dealer and the marketing and promotional cost of the works of art.
D46|Should Biodiversity be Useful? Scope and Limits of Ecosystem Services as an Argument for Biodiversity Conservation|This article examines the argument that biodiversity is crucial for well-functioning ecosystems and that such ecosystems provide important goods and services to our human societies, in short the ecosystem services argument (ESA). While the ESA can be a powerful argument for nature preservation, we argue that its dominant functionalist interpretation is confronted with three significant problems. First, the ESA seems unable to preserve the nature it claims to preserve. Second, the ESA cannot explain why those caring about nature want to preserve it. Third, the ESA might undermine its own goal because it potentially decreases environmental motivations.
D46|Landscape Democracy, Three Sets of Values, and the Connoisseur Method|The European Landscape Convention has brought up the question of democracy in relation to landscape transformation, but without a clear definition of democracy. This paper conceptualises democracy in relation to three main sets of values related to self-determination, co-determination and respect for argument. It examines various methods that have been used to try to make landscape decisions more democratic. In the last part of the paper the connoisseur method is introduced. This method emphasises stakeholder participation in deliberative processes with a particular focus on place-based knowledge. It has been used in Sweden as a means of involving local stakeholders in the democratic process of defining goals and objectives of their landscapes. In the conclusion, this method is recommended despite its dependence on favourable conditions, particularly continuity and commitment, and a few suggestions about possible improvements are presented.
D46|Reframing Problems of Incommensurability in Environmental Conflicts Through Pragmatic Sociology: From Value Pluralism to the Plurality of Modes of Engagement with the Environment|This paper presents the contribution of the pragmatic sociology of critical capacities to the understanding of environmental conflicts. In the field of 'environmental valuation', nowadays colonised by economics, the approach of plural modes (or 'regimes') of engagement provides a sociological understanding of the unequal power of conflicting 'languages of valuation'. This frame entails a shift from 'values' to 'modes of valuation', and links modes of valuation to modes of practical engagement and coordination with the surrounding environment. Different social sources of incommensurability are thus detected and reframed as critical tension within and among modes of human coordination with the environment.
D46|The Capabilities Approach and Environmental Sustainability: The Case for Functioning Constraints|The capabilities approach of Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum has become an influential viewpoint for addressing issues of social justice and human development. It has not yet, however, given adequate theoretical consideration to the requirements of environmental sustainability. Sen has focussed on the instrumental importance of human development for achieving sustainability, but has failed to consider the limits of this account, especially with respect to consumption-reduction. Nussbaum has criticised constraining material consumption for its paternalistic prescription of one particular conception of the good life, without considering it as an imperative of justice. We discuss two possible extensions of the capabilities approach. First, the concept of capability ceilings contains several attractive elements, but it also suffers from some shortcomings. Therefore, second, we advocate constraining people's combinations of functionings in accordance with a personal budget which consists of a fair share of environmental resources.
D46|Representing Global Public Concern: A Critical Analysis of the Danish Participatory Experiment on Climate Change|Drawing on the recognition that questions of discourse and power are vital components in analysing the public participation in environmental governance, this paper examines the ways in which dominant scientific discourses about the Earth's climate inform the types of public talk facilitated in and by mini-publics, particularly when they are 'scaled up' to address environmental issues such as climate change. World Wide Views on Global Warming (WWViews) serves as a case study. Conceived and organised by the Danish Board of Technology, WWViews was a historically unprecedented public forum in which participants, invited from a range of nations, were given the opportunity to deliberate on key themes addressed in the negotiations taking place during the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen (COP 15). The overarching purpose of this analysis is to invite reflection on the practices and assumptions that serve to make up publics in relation to issues that have been framed, predominantly, as scientific, universal and global.
D46|Policy Decisions on Shale Gas Development ('Fracking'): The Insufficiency of Science and Necessity of Moral Thought|A constant refrain in both public discourse and academic research on shale gas development has been the necessity for 'sound science' to govern policy decisions. Rare, however, is the recommendation that effective policy on this topic also include 'sound moral thought'. I argue that: (1) philosophy (particularly moral thought and ethical reasoning) and science must work in tandem for making good policy decisions related to shale gas development, and (2) this realisation is essential for policy-makers, journalists, researchers, educators and the public. By examining the range of normative claims offered within academic and public discourse, the variation in claims across contexts and the degree to which the normative arguments are well-supported, I illustrate the important role increased attention to moral thought could play in forwarding policy construction on shale gas development. Finally, I offer recommendations for how policy-makers, journalists, researchers and educators can more actively acknowledge the importance of both science and moral thought in policy-making related to shale gas development.
D46|Carbon Leakage and the Argument from No Difference|Critics of carbon mitigation often appeal to what Jonathan Glover has called 'the argument from no difference': that is, 'if I don't do it, someone else will'. Yet even if this justifies continued high emissions by the industrialised countries, it cannot excuse business as usual. The North's emissions might not harm the victims of climate change in the sense of making them worse off than they would otherwise be. Nevertheless, it receives benefits produced at the latter's expense. This enrichment is unjust; unjustly-enriched agents ought to make compensation. The best form of compensation is vigorous action against climate change.
D46|Are autographs integrating the global art market? The case of hedonic prices for French autographs (1960-2005)|The market for autographs has become more open to international buyers since 1990. Our data set features a large sample of store and auction sales for selected authors every five years from 1960 to 2005. The estimation of a hedonic price function shows that page count, type of author, date and type of the document, together with consumer and assets price indices explain more than one half of the price differences. Authors whho are more often sold at auctions (hence more likely to attract international demand) carry a 28% premium when sold in stores. The autographs (real) price increased by 222% during the period, while the hedonic price increased by 190%. With growing correlation between French autograph prices and art market index, as well as a supply function responsive to market valuation and trends, the French autograph market has become more integrated in the global art market since the 1990's
D46|Orientation to Value in Substantiation of Price Strategy - A New Approach of the Modern Enterprise|Price can be considered a source of messages, set up in clues relating to the characteristics of the product it targets. How these messages are received, coded and interpreted by consumers should be a major preoccupation for decision-makers. If it knows the perception of the price, the enterprise can harness its psychological potential. In justification of the decisions, the enterprise should adopt a proactive vision enabling anticipation of competition or customers at the prices charged by it. Strategic marketing planning must act in such a way to effectively manage the uncertainty that governs decisions concerning the price. The provider should focus on the value offered to consumers, the concept around which should gravitate the marketing strategy of the enterprise. Priority orientation towards costs at the expense of focus on the market does not allow for proactive price management. In this context, the need to consider the concept of value before anything else.
D46|Localisation as an Attribute of Competitiveness on the Economic Class Hotel Market|The article presents the results of the authors’ research into the influence of localisation factors on price behaviours (approval) of customers of economy class hotels in Wroclaw, with the identical purpose of stay. The factors affecting the price level of the hotel service were checked. A customer opinion poll with 43 premises was conducted. With the use of the factor analysis, substantial conditions were appointed. Out of seven formulated localisation premises (value attributes), three were included in the set of significant ones. Such preferences were affected by the tourist purpose of the stay. This purpose determines the preference of the localisation assessed according to the purpose of stay over standard localisation dimensions (distance from the station, airports, centre, roads). Creating competitiveness via localisation has solid bases but requires the examination of detailed conditions, which is shown in this article.
D46|"Panel Data Hedonics: Rosen's First Stage as a ""Sufficient Statistic"""|Traditional cross-sectional estimates of hedonic price functions can recover marginal willingness to pay for characteristics, but face endogeneity problems for estimating non-marginal welfare measures. I show that when panel data on household demands are available, one can construct a second-order approximation to non-marginal welfare measures using only the first-stage marginal prices. With repeated cross sections of product prices, the measure can be set identified or, under a single-crossing restriction, point identified. Bounds also can be constructed when there are mobility costs. Finally, a variant remains valid when individual preferences shift over time.
D46|An activity choice approach towards pricing of 1:1 personal services – on the omnipresence of interpersonal utility comparisons|Currently, microeconomic theory is only of very limited use to understand price levels in the service sector. After a brief review of the literature on service pricing, this paper claims that price levels in the service sector are not only dependent on qualification levels, but also on the difference between the levels of non-monetary utility which customers on the one hand and providers on the other experience. An activity choice model shows why the ratio between utility differentials and prices should converge within a service segment. Theoretically, the approach finds a pragmatic alternative to the alleged impossibility of interpersonal utility comparisons in economic mainstream theory. Practically, it is able to explain the high price level for sex services compared with other service segments.
D46|On the Samuelson-Etula Master Function and Marginal Productivity: some old and new critical remarks|The paper addresses the ambiguity that surrounds the conception of capital and its role in neoclassical price-and-distribution theory. The difficulties encountered in the various attempts to define the marginal product either of capital or of a capital good are recalled and the conclusion is drawn that neither concept appears theoretically sound. This is combined with critical discussion of the recent attempt by Samuelson and Etula to determine income distribution by means of their ‘Master Function’ and its ‘non-neoclassical’ marginal products. Rather than the existence of a continuum of alternative technical possibilities, Samuelson and Etula assume the simultaneous coexistence of a discrete number of methods of production for the same commodity. Even though each technique employs the inputs in fixed proportions, the coexistence of various techniques permits the full employment of an arbitrarily given vector of input endowments. As is shown here, however, the coexistence of methods required for the differentiability of the Samuelson-Etula Master Function can take place, if capital goods are used in production, neither in the case with stationary relative prices nor in the non-stationary Arrow-Debreu framework.
D46|К Вопросу Об Основах Ценообразования Во Внешнеторговой Деятельности<BR>[To the question of pricing bacics in foreign trade]|"In the beginning of the article the author clarifies the situations in which it is necessary to use the term ""price."" After that the analysis of the etymology of the word ""price"" is conducted. The particular attention is paid to the differences of value and price, to determination of value species, including the context of foreign trade. The author tries to give answers to the following questions. What can be assessed? What factors affect the valuation and the price? In a market economy is impossible without the formation of price competition and the existing market models. Therefore familiarity with the peculiarities of the mechanism of competition also is given."
D46|Annotating Sales to Price Panel: An Economic Theory of Volume to Value Relation with Technology Assisted Education in Afghanistan|Computer Assisted Education skills have opened a new era in the system of education around the globe and one of the building blocks in its adaptation in Afghanistan is the economic aspect of its acquisition and utilization which has weakened the process. In this paper, we test the significance of value to volume of the laptops being sold to and utilized by the students and lecturers at school and university levels throughout the period 2002 to 2014 paneling in five laptop retailing companies in Afghanistan. Using Pooled OLS Regression and Fixed Effect Models to test the impact of the panel data, the result shows a significant impact of the sales value on the sale volume of the laptops during the stated period of time. It is also found that the drop in price had increased the sale volume in the stated entities, while cash discount did not reflect a significant value to affect the sales volume overtime.
D46|H. H. Gossen - Half-Forgotten Personalities of Economic Though|H. H. Gossen was a Prussian court clerk, autodidact. He for the first time detected the marginal utility principles (three Gossen principles). At the time of his life he was unacknowledged,although he is the most important predecessor of neoclasic economic thought and marginalistict revolution.
D46|Factors Determining Callbacks to Job Applications by the Unemployed: An Audit Study|"We use an audit study approach to investigate how unemployment duration, age, and holding a low-level ""interim"" job affect the likelihood that experienced college- educated females applying for an administrative support job receive a callback from a potential employer. First, the results show no relationship between callback rates and the duration of unemployment. Second, workers age 50 and older are significantly less likely to receive a callback. Third, taking an interim job significantly reduces the likelihood of receiving a callback. Finally, employers who have higher callback rates respond less to observable differences across workers in determining whom to call back. We interpret these results in the context of a model of employer learning about applicant quality."
D46|Ethics in Relation to Islamic Finance Activities|Ethics has been fundamental in organizations and in specific, Islamic financial institutions have selected ethics as their core competencies. Islam accepts ethics as a good value in enhancing company performance since ethics is grounded by Shariah rules. The ethical issues have been raised steadily in business and they do not seem to settle as a lot of companies have not been aware of its importance. There are a lot of theories of ethics that have been introduced but the number of unethical business activities does not seem to be reduced. This paper seeks to explain the conventional ethical theory and how Islamic ethical philosophy generates the ethical business activities. Later on, the study will produce an ethical model which is in accordance to the Islamic intellectual discourse , that will explain the relationship between ethics and Islamic finance activities and also discuss the screening criteria of financial activities . This study has the intention to contribute to the current knowledge of the business ethic’s field and to contribute its findings for further research in business ethics. This study will also bridge the gaps about how ethics can be a corporate identity to the Islamic financial institutions.
D46|Art Critic Index: A Proxy for Cultural Value in the Context of the South Africa Art Market|This study creates a proxy for cultural value by constructing an Art Critic Index (ACI). Cultural value is a distinct and alternative concept of value that is used to understand the art market. The ACI is formed by analysing survey books on South African art. Using a hedonic regression model a positive relationship is found between the ACI and art prices. Further, certain outliers in the ACI against price relation are in line with the understanding of the relationship between cultural and economic value. The paper concludes that the ACI is a suitable proxy for cultural value but it is not without significant criticisms. The lack of variability in the index between artists and between artworks by the same artist is the major area of concern.
D46|Why is the American Workplace Racially Segregated by Occupation?|Arrow (1998) asks, “What has economics to say about racial discrimination?” He replies – entirely correctly – that racial “segregation within an industry – that is, firms with either all black or all white labor forces” – may be explained by economic theory, but “the hypothesis of employer discrimination does not at all explain segregation by occupation, [and] discriminatory tastes of other employees … may explain segregation [by firms] within industries but not segregation by occupation[s]” that are filled by racially distinct persons within firms. Becker (1957) and Akerlof and Kranton (2000 and 2010) offer economic theories that deal with social identity differentiation, but these lack rational choice theory foundations, insofar as they impose a utility indicator function as a primitive concept via persuasion, rather than such a function being entailed by derivation from a preference ranking relation defined on a set of outcomes, with restrictions imposed both on the set and the relation. This is a methodological weakness of their work relative to that of Arrow and Debreu (1954). A more serious difficulty with these contributions is that they ascribe a utility function to each individual in an economy, but I prove that assigning to individuals binary preferences, with or without their numerical representation as utility indicator functions, entails the impossibility of interpersonal social-identity diversification, rendering all persons in society indistinguishable by identity. The information necessary to identify a person’s social identity is stripped off the model by the binariness restriction. A person in a binariness-salient model would simply not know against whom to discriminate. Economic theory is, therefore, endogenously color-blind, race-blind, gender-blind, ethnicity-blind, and in general, social-identity-blind. Everybody in the economy is White, or all persons are Black, or all female, or all Hispanics, and so on, but no two persons can endogenously have distinct social identities. This is also true of every player in a game, as in Nash (1951). However, if preferences are non-binary, interpersonal social identity diversification is possible, though their real-valued utility function representation is impossible. This begs the question as to what exact form preferences must take to support the specific utility function of Akerlof and Kranton, which also is non-traditional relative to the utility indicator function in Arrow and Debreu. As it happens, to exhibit diversity of persons by social identity, ascribing a utility function to a person is conceptually too restrictive. By substituting non-binary for binary preferences in the model of Arrow and Debreu, I extend their economic theory. The more general model I thus formulate has the following features: (i) there exists a social state in which all persons maximize their preferences on their feasible sets, (ii) endogenous interpersonal social-identity diversification characterizes this state of the economy, (iii) it is a free-market equilibrium without any state intervention, (iv) it is a Pareto optimal social state, and (v) a sizable proportion of Black workers are segregated into low-rank, low income jobs, whereas White workers in the same observable proficiency domain are placed in high-ranking, high-income jobs, thereby explaining occupational segregation within firms along a racial divide, which entails that (vi) income and wealth distributions vary by social identity. Thus free markets deliver a Pareto optimal state but it is fraught with remediable injustices. Further, my explanation meets standards Arrow sets for such a theory (see p. 20).
D46|Value Creation in Software Service Platforms|In order to benefit from operating an IT service platform (e.g., SaaS platform), platform providers need to find a way to keep their existing users and application services active sources of value. However, the understanding of how to achieve that is limited due to the newness of this kind of business. This paper investigates whether all stakeholders of the platform ecosystem can generate sufficient value when participating in the platform. As stakeholders, we consider application service users, service developers, and service platform providers. We also analyze the interrelationship between these stakeholders. The analysis outcome is a value creation model that allows the calculation of the stakeholders’ values. The model also helps inferring the relative impact of different factors on the evolution of values of the software service platform stakeholders. Our simulation results confirm that all stakeholders of a service platform mainly benefit from a growing installed base of application users. However, in a mature market, a large service variety mainly benefits the service platform provider, while the other stakeholders obtain a reduced increase in their benefits. In particular, the utility growth of application users becomes constrained as the benefit from new connections with other users decreases and the number of new services used decreases. Similarly, the revenue of service developer decreases, making service development less profitable. Therefore, we can state that not only a large fraction of the value creation goes to the platform provider but also that the software service ecosystem can collapse, if no mutually beneficial pricing of services is implemented.
D46|The distribution of the maximum of a variance gamma process and path-dependent option pricing|Although numerical procedures often supply a required accuracy, closed-form expressions allow one to escape any accumulation of errors. In this paper, we discuss the possibility of obtaining explicit results for a variance gamma process. We derive the exact distribution of the maximum of the variance gamma process over a finite interval of time and establish the prices of path-dependent options including digital barrier, fixed-strike lookback, and lookback options. The obtained formulas are based on values of hypergeometric functions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
D46|The capital asset pricing model in economic perspective| The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is theoretically incomplete in its demand-side focus, risk-averse investors and internally inconsistent homogeneous beliefs; is not conclusively supported empirically; and yet it legitimizes a notion that investors can earn higher returns by bearing undiversifiable risk. Our article does not merely extend the CAPM with more realistic assumptions, it completes its original framework by including (1) risk-taking investors in the investor population, (2) investors who can have heterogeneous expectations or beliefs - an overlooked but required condition for the CAPM to be an internally consistent and meaningful model of competitive financial asset pricing under uncertainty and (3) a positive-sloped short-run supply curve based on a reasonable interpretation of the nature of financial asset trade. Upon a complete economic interpretation, it is shown that the equilibrium (systematic) risk-rate of return relationship depends on whose aggregate trading activity dominates, risk-averse or risk-taking investors'. There is no universal, or even general, positive relationship between systematic risk and rate of return. This has far-reaching implications for investors and investment advisors who serve them.
D46|A Note on Reswitching and Intertemporal Prices| Bliss ( Capital Theory and Distribution of Income , Amsterdam/New York: North-Holland/Elsevier) claims that reswitching is nothing but an 'optical illusion' due to the exclusion of non-stationary price sequences from the analysis. This note develops this point. The standard case for choice of techniques and reswitching is reformulated in terms of Arrow-Debreu intertemporal prices and the conditions making these prices stationary are highlighted separately. It is then shown that the analysis of the choice of techniques in terms of 'switch points' requires stationary conditions.
D46|Are innovations relevant for consumers in the hospitality industry? A hedonic approach for Cuban hotels|This paper evaluates the impact of innovative activity in the hotel industry on the willingness to pay by consumers. To this end, we estimate a hedonic price function where innovation is identified indirectly through certain attributes that previous literature has linked with hotel innovativeness. The test is performed on a representative sample of Cuban hotels, considering a large number of attributes of hotels and rooms. To solve the usual problems of collinearity, a million alternative models are estimated by choosing the variables included in a random manner and obtaining the final coefficients by means of an internal meta-analysis. The results are completed with a variance decomposition analysis. The results highlight the importance of the attributes linked to innovation and internationalization on the determination of room prices in Cuban hotels: membership of international hotel chains, high quality offers, diversified rooms, and adaptability to specific needs of each client.
D46|Global Value Chains in Africa|This paper provides evidence on the extent of Global Value Chain (GVC) participation by Africa as a region and for individual African countries. We find that Africa as a whole is heavily involved in GVCs, being more engaged in GVCs than many developing country regions as well as developed countries such as the USA. This overall finding hides the fact that much of Africa's participation in GVCs is in upstream production, with African firms providing primary inputs to firms in countries further down the value chain. The possibility of upgrading within GVCs in Africa is likely to be limited therefore, something which the current analysis suggests. Despite this, we observe a great deal of heterogeneity in terms of GVC participation and upgrading across African countries, with a number of African countries participating in GVCs to a relatively large extent.
D46|Again on the relevance of reverse capital deepening and reswitching|Among the recent interventions in the capital controversy, the debate between Paola Potestio and Kurz&Salvadori has raised important issues. We agree with Potestio’s rejection of the legitimacy of a value endowment of capital but we disagree with her dismissal of the relevance of reswitching and reverse capital deepening: these phenomena are very important because they undermine the demand-side role of the conception of capital as a single factor. For the marginal approach to be plausible, this demand-side role had to imply the stability of the savings-investment market even in shorter time frames than those required by a complete adaptation of the ‘form’ of capital; this was taken by Marshall to authorize doing without a given endowment of value capital, which opened the door to the shift to the modern neo-Walrasian versions of the marginal approach. With proof from Hayek, Hicks, Malinvaud and Lucas we argue that a continuing belief in traditional time-consuming marginalist disequilibrium adjustments based on capital-labour substitution is the hidden reason why the claim, often made by contemporary marginalist economists, that the economy can be assumed to be all the time on the equilibrium-growth path is not found patently unacceptable. The true microfoundation of DSGE macromodels is not intertemporal equilibrium theory, but the adjustment mechanisms on whose basis the marginal approach was born and accepted, and on whose basis monetarism was then able to re-assert a pre-Keynesian view of the working of the economy.
D46|CP ALL and the Case of Value Web Creation|"The two-dimensional value chain model has served business theorists for decades. Yet, we know that integrated companies in emerging markets combine many dimensions of service and product to generate customer value. What does CP All teach us about the new ""value web"" concept? Using a simple model, we derive implications for returns on capital, wages and other variables which interest managers."
D46|The Relation Between Cost, Market Value And Transaction Price, In The Current Context Of The Residential Real Estate Market|The material approaches the complex relation between cost, value and price in case of real estate properties, analyzed in the context of evaluation mission exercised by a specialist in the field. Therewith, this material illustrates the influence of particularities of the real estate market on the establishment of the market value of residential properties and also the specific elements which the evaluation shall consider within the professional approach in order to formulate an opinion. This shall consider, in addition to the previsions of evaluation standards, the selfregulating mechanism of the market by means of the report between demand and offer, and the inter-relation, in this context, between the three concepts mentioned.
D46|Claims Run-Off Uncertainty: The Full Picture|The aim of this contribution is to revisit, clarify and complete the picture of uncertainty estimates in the chain-ladder (CL) claims reserving method. Therefore, we consider the conditional mean square error of prediction (MSEP) of the total prediction uncertainty (using Mack’s formula) and the one of the one-year prediction uncertainty (using the Merz-Wüthrich formula). We discuss and compare these two formulas and we derive the missing pieces that close the gap between the one-year and total run-off uncertainty view.
D46|Computational Complexity of the Walrasian Equilibrium Inequalities|Recently Cherchye et al. (2011) reformulated the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities, introduced by Brown and Matzkin (1996), as an integer programming problem and proved that solving the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities is NP-hard. Following Brown and Shannon (2000), we reformulate the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities as the Hicksian equilibrium inequalities. Brown and Shannon proved that the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities are solvable iff the Hicksian equilibrium inequalities are solvable. We show that solving the Hicksian equilibrium inequalities is equivalent to solving an NP-hard minimization problem. Approximation theorems are polynomial time algorithms for computing approximate solutions of NP-hard minimization problems. The contribution of this paper is an approximation theorem for the NP-hard minimization, over indirect utility functions of consumers, of the maximum distance, over observations, between social endowments and aggregate Marshallian demands. In this theorem, we propose a polynomial time algorithm for computing an approximate solution to the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities, where explicit bounds on the degree of approximation are determined by observable market data.
D46|Approximate Solutions of the Walrasian Equilibrium Inequalities with Bounded Marginal Utilities of Income|Recently Cherchye et al. (2011) reformulated the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities, introduced by Brown and Matzkin (1996), as an integer programming problem and proved that solving the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities is NP-hard. Brown and Shannon (2002) derived an equivalent system of equilibrium inequalities, i.e., the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities. That is, the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities are solvable iff the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities are solvable. We show that solving the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities is equivalent to solving a NP-hard minimization problem. Approximation theorems are polynomial time algorithms for computing approximate solutions of NP-hard minimization problems. The primary contribution of this paper is an approximation theorem for the equivalent NP-hard minimization problem. In this theorem, we derive explicit bounds, where the degree of approximation is determined by observable market data.
D46|Approximate Solutions of the Walrasian Equilibrium Inequalities with Bounded Marginal Utilities of Income|Recently Cherchye et al. (2011) reformulated the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities, introduced by Brown and Matzkin (1996), as an integer programming problem and proved that solving the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities is NP-hard. Brown and Shannon (2002) derived an equivalent system of equilibrium inequalities, i.e., the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities. That is, the Walrasian equilibrium inequalities are solvable iff the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities are solvable. We show that solving the dual Walrasian equilibrium inequalities is equivalent to solving a NP-hard minimization problem. Approximation theorems are polynomial time algorithms for computing approximate solutions of NP-hard minimization problems. The primary contribution of this paper is an approximation theorem for the equivalent NP-hard minimization problem. In this theorem, we derive explicit bounds, where the degree of approximation is determined by observable market data.
D46|Endogenous community formation and collective provision – A procedurally fair mechanism|A group of actors, individuals or firms, can engage in collectively providing projects which may be costly or generating revenues and which may benefit some and harm others. Based on requirements of procedural fairness, we derive a bidding mechanism determining endogenously who participates in collective provision, which projects are implemented, and the positive or negative payments due to the members as well as outsiders. The mechanism allows only for one community with more or less outsiders but not forming multiple communities. We justify procedural fairness but acknowledge that the outsider problem questions some of its desirable properties. Furthermore, we compare procedurally fair with optimal, e.g., welfaristic mechanism design (e.g. Myerson, 1979).
D46|Bidding behavior given point and interval values in a second-price auction|Although rational choice theory presumes people have a point estimate of their willingness to pay (WTP) for a good or service, the idea of coherent arbitrariness suggests they have an interval of values. Herein we explore bidding behavior in a second-price auction in which bidders have point or interval values and point or interval bidding. We find bidders bid rationally: (i) when bidders have a point value but are asked to state an interval bid, they choose to bid as an interval with the point value as the mean of the interval; (ii) bidders who had a value interval but are asked to bid as a point estimate bid the expected value from the interval; and (iii) bidders with an interval value and who bid an interval such that expected bids equate expected values.
D46|Seeking Sustainability|What does sustainability research do to help the environment? One might well wonder when observing the annual conference season with various academics and professors in sustainability science, ecological economics or environmental ethics driving to the airport to fly off to international meetings to discuss how bad things are getting, what should been done about it, and how time is running out for action. In fact, singling out a few academic groups is highly unfair because the link between practice and profession seems absent for many if not most. In the age of the environment and sustainability as a business opportunity or international agency career the room for simple precautionary practices, like not flying and not driving a car, seems increasingly small. You might even be liable to branding as unprofessional, or worse an eco-fundamentalist.
D46|Sustainability and Sustainable Development: Philosophical Distinctions and Practical Implications|The terms 'sustainability' and 'sustainable development' have become established in the popular vernacular in the 25 years or so since the publication of the report of the Brundtland Commission. Often, 'sustainability' is thought to represent some long-term goal and 'sustainable development' a means or process by which to achieve it. Two fundamental and conflicting philosophical positions underlying these terms are identified. In particular, the commonly held notion that sustainable development can be a pathway to sustainability is challenged, and the expedient view that both terms ultimately serve holistic development is questioned. Furthermore, it is argued that perpetuating the unclear and misleading distinction between the two positions will limit the development of efficacious policy, as it will not resonate with the broadest possible gamut of beliefs and value systems.
D46|More or Less Pluralistic? A Typology of Remedial and Alternative Perspectives on the Monetary Valuation of the Environment|Maintaining plural values is important when there is no conclusive principle by which the relative priority of normative positions can be determined. Value-articulating institutions predicated upon such principles have a low pluralistic potential. In response to the failures of stated-preference approaches to economic valuation, new perspectives have been developed to capture plural values. Three broad approaches are identified. The first, functional diversification, seeks to encompass the multiple qualities of the object of valuation, whereas positional modification enforces a particular mode of thinking on the subject. Both entail a prior judgement of values and benefit from a reduction in the range of values. Eventually, therefore, both approaches collapse pluralism to a problem that can be tackled. The third approach, structural reconstruction, has greater pluralistic potential, recognising that the more diverse and uncertain the object of valuation, the more compelling it is.
D46|Reframing the Value of Nature: Biological Value and Institutional Homeostasis|The importance of the economic valuation of nature is frequently emphasised in the argument that more and better economic valuation will prevent the undervaluation and thereby the degradation of nature. The proponents of this 'economic' approach assume that rationality, human interaction and the nature of the good remain unchanged. However, the relationship between humans and nature necessarily undergoes change, and the biological and neurophysiological aspects of human nature must be considered to ensure the well-being and survival of humankind. In this paper, I discuss the shortcomings of economic valuation with reference to the above objections, and present scenarios that illustrate the changing relationships between socio-ecological interconnectedness and the integrative capacity of institutions.
D46|Exploring the Relationship Between Values and Pro-Environmental Behaviour: The Influence of Locus of Control|This study explores the relationship between people's values, loci of control and pro-environmental behaviours. 'Locus of control' refers to the extent to which people attribute control over events in life either to themselves or to external sources beyond their influence: in the former case, the individual is described as having an internal locus of control, and in the latter, an external one. The study hypothesised, and subsequently concluded, that self-transcendent values and internal loci of control were positively related to pro-environmental behaviours, and also that loci of control moderate the link between people's values and behaviour; people with a low degree of self-transcendence values behave pro-environmentally if they have an internal locus of control.
D46|Alien Invasive Species Management: Stakeholder Perceptions of the Barents Sea King Crab|The alien invasive Red King Crab in the Barents Sea represents both a threat, via ecosystem impacts, and a gain as a revenue source from food sales. Uncertainties exist regarding the ecological impacts but debate in Norway has also emphasised the economic benefits to marginalised fisher communities. This paper reports on a Q-methodology study involving key stakeholders to probe the extent to which divisions exist between different groups. While divisions are indeed found and two groupings identified, these are not as clear as suggested by the lines typically portrayed in the media and elsewhere -, i.e. economic gains versus ecological preservation. Stakeholder groups reported here generally agreed that biodiversity concerns should be central and that further invasion was undesirable due to potential impacts on ecosystem services.
D46|Marine Fisheries and Mariculture in Croatia: Economic and Trade Analysis|The aim of this paper is to identify the state and trends in Croatian marine resource sector which determine the trade balance with Italy. Firstly, size and the structure of the marine fisheries in Croatia are investigated taking into account time trends and the effects of the EU common market policy. Furthermore, we compared the size of export and import of the fishery products. In particular, we look at the relevant indicator of trade with Italy. Since the wholesale market places are established with difficulties in Croatia, the trade channels of the marine fishery products are rather heterogeneous. Next, the market size and structure are analyzed for the specific markets, together with the analysis of the information asymmetry problems. The analysis results with several findings including that the total fish catch volume is accompanied by a decrease in fish catch value. Furthermore, the gap between Italian and Croatian catches in the Mediterranean Sea shrink, and more fish products are exported from Croatia to Italy than imported from Italy to Croatia. The average size of Croatian fishing fleet vessel is still much lower than the average fishing vessel size arriving at Croatian ports. Finally, fish market is underdeveloped in Croatia with low value added created along the trading chains.
D46|Value Concept and Economic Growth Model|This paper approaches the value added method for Gross Domestic Product (GDP) measurement that explains the interrelationship between the expenditure approach and the income approach. The economic growth model is also proposed with three key elements of capital accumulation, technological innovation, and institutional reform. Although capital accumulation and technological innovation are two integrated elements in driving economic growth, institutional reforms play a key role in creating incentives that effect the transitional and steady state growth rate in the real world economy. The paper provides a theoretical insight on economic growth to understand incentives and driving forces in economic growth model.
D46|Are autographs integrating the global art market? The case of hedonic prices for French autographs (1960-2005)|The market for autographs has become more open to international buyers since 1990. Our data set features a large sample of store and auction sales for selected authors every five years from 1960 to 2005. The estimation of a hedonic price function shows that page count, type of author, date and type of the document, together with consumer and assets price indices explain more than one half of the price differences. Authors whho are more often sold at auctions (hence more likely to attract international demand) carry a 28% premium when sold in stores. The autographs (real) price increased by 222% during the period, while the hedonic price increased by 190%. With growing correlation between French autograph prices and art market index, as well as a supply function responsive to market valuation and trends, the French autograph market has become more integrated in the global art market since the 1990's.
D46|Overhaul Policy Optimization and Equipment Valuation Concerning Its Reliability|Valuation of used machinery and equipment items and optimization of the overhaul policy are considered as interrelated problems. Non-traditional version of the discounted cash flow method is applied to their decision. The model uses available market and technical information and takes into account both the planned overhauls and the ones due to random failures. The model allows to find the dependence of the value of equipment item on its age and working time in the current overhaul interval and also operatively to make a well-grounded choice between overhaul and decommissioning of an item.
D46|Economic value added and competitive position of enterprises: Case research|The principal goal of this study is to provide economic analysis of value added in the context of problems of competitive position in enterprises. A relationship presented in the literature that occurs between competitive position in the enterprise and its ability to generate value added. The selected tools for measurement of competitive position in the enterprise were presented, among which the authors included enterprise concentration rate and economic value added. EVA concept was also characterized. The empirical investigations focused on the companies listed in the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Based on the empirical analysis, the study found a significant difference between the place in the ranking of the value added and the degree of enterprise's participation in the market.
D46|Exchange in the Monetary Economy|It is clear by now that pure exchange models are useless. For two reasons. First, because exchange is the other side of specialization in production, and, second, because a direct exchange of goods does not take place in the monetary economy. The decisive drawback of conventional exchange models, though, is that they cannot explain profit. Standard economics rests on behavioral assumptions that are expressed as axioms. The ultimate reason for the failure of conventional exchange theory is that human behavior and axiomatization are disjunct. Notable progress can be made by replacing the subjective-behavioral axioms by objective-structural axioms.
D46|Towards an integrated theory of value, capital and money|This is an analysis of the present state of the theory of capital. The paper contains a proposal to reformulate this theory in an ‘late-Marxian’ up-to-dated perspective. The central problem discussed is the integration of the theories of value and capital with those of money and finance. An augmented cost-of-production theory of value is advocated. Special attention is focused on the role of Marx’s ‘monetary expression of labour value’ (MEV), rediscovered and unduly modified by neo-Marxists with the purpose to make it compatible with Marx’s labour theory of value. JEL Codes: B12, D46, E11.
D46|A Critical Marxist Simple Approach to Capital Theory|This essay provides a simple, non-technical reformulation of Marx’s theoretical treatment of value and capital. It implies the abandonment of the ‘pure’ labour theory of value and of the ‘new value’ equality between the net product of the economy and the living labour employed in production of gross output, and a development of the different theoretical perspective outlined by the mature Marx. A correct method for converting quantities of labour-time in terms of money, which accounts for both explicit and implicit costs, is proposed.
D46|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Часть 2. Стоимость<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Part 2. Value]|A new theory of value is suggested. Its key moments and general logic are presented. The theory has all-purpose nature (is applicable to any commodities, any markets and any market situations). Value is considered as a multicomponent notion which characterizes commodity's internal behaviour (i.e. behaviour independent of market conjuncture). Labour and use values as well as supply and demand ones are interpreted as different components of total value. The role of these components in pricing on balanced and unbalanced markets is investigated. The fundamental conclusion about relationship between value and social psychology and culture is made. Comparison with alternative theories is made.
D46|Thorstein Veblen on value, market and socioeconomic progress|The article aims at identifying and linking together the main insights of Thorstein Veblen regarding the theory of economic value. First of all, Veblen develops powerful arguments against the two main traditions of thought, which have attempted to justify the ability of the market to provide an objective measure of economic value, since the midnineteenth century, namely the marginalist or « neoclassical » paradigm and the liberal evolutionary thinking inspired by Herbert Spencer. Having put forward the autonomous and irreducible nature of the market values, Veblen lays the foundations of a theory of social value and socioeconomic progress, which is mainly focused on institutional issues. In this regard, Veblen’s approach prefigures some theses of another major institutionalist economist, Karl Polanyi. Taken together, both critical and positive Veblen’s insights remain thoughtprovoking, in order to readdress the issues of socioeconomic value and progress.
D46|Innovative strategies as a determinant of achievement of the goals of enterprise activity|The theoretical and empirical investigations presented in the study are focused on the analysis of cause-and-effect relationships between innovative strategies and achievement of the goals of enterprise's activity. The importance of the problems discussed results mainly from the role performed by the innovative activities of enterprises in achievement and reinforcing the competitive advantage and position in a specific entity. Maintaining of the competitive position achieved by the enterprise necessitates not only adequate adjustment to changes that occur in the market but also having the ability to create these changes. Therefore, innovativeness is becoming necessary for competing under contemporary market conditions. With regard to variety and complexity of the problems of the goal of enterprise's activity, the study emphasizes the importance of the concept of value creation, which represents a strategic tool for managing enterprises. However, the empirical studies have demonstrated a dominant role of revenues on sales as a principal aim of enterprise's activity. The study verified the research hypothesis which assumed that the increase of innovativeness of enterprises leads to the increase in revenues on sales. Empirical investigations were carried out based on the data contained in statistical yearbooks of the Central Statistical Office for the years 2005-2012. A logit model was used in order to examine the relationships between the percentage of enterprises which implemented innovations and revenues on all the activities of enterprises.
D46|Hungarian societal values through business negotiators? practices|The purpose of this paper is to contribute to research on Hungarian societal values, namely the debate on whether Hungary is a masculine or a feminine culture. First, it introduces dimension-based cross-cultural research and then it reviews the controversial results of large- and smaller-scale investigations concerning masculinity and femininity in the Hungarian culture and, relating to these cultural values, it outlines the concept of distributive and integrative negotiations. Next, the findings of a questionnaire survey with a sample of 241 Hungarian respondents from the Northern Transdanubian region, who routinely take part in business negotiations, are presented, discussed and related to previous results. The findings appear to confirm that the masculine approach is preferred and also that employees of smaller companies tend to be more feminine than those working for large organisations. At the same time, they also show that the level of masculinity is not as high as some previous pieces of research suggest and further, there does not seem to be a significant difference between the values of the younger and older generation or male and female negotiators. The paper concludes that although there may be a slight preference for assertive qualities, Hungarian business negotiators appear to try to balance competition and cooperation and aim for a win-win outcome.
D46|A panel data approach to price–value correlations|Resorting to stationary and nonstationary panel data econometrics, we offer tests for “Ricardo’s 93% theory of value” for ten OECD countries over different time ranges. The theory does not find empirical support. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
D46|Efficiency Measurement via Revealed Thresholds, Without Knowing Valuations|Laboratory experiments employing an induced-values methodology often report on allocative efficiencies observed. That methodology requires experimenters know subjects’ motivations precisely, questionable in labs, impossible in field experiments. Allocative efficiency implies a hypothetical costless aftermarket would be inactive. An allocation mechanism’s outcome is defined to be behaviorally efficient if an appropriate aftermarket is actually appended to the mechanism and measures at most a negligible size of remaining mutually beneficial gains. Methodological requirements for an appropriate aftermarket are specified. A first demonstration observes more frequent and ex-ante larger behavioral inefficiencies in second- than in first-price auctions. A simple field demonstration indicates when a public-good increase can be observed to cover marginal cost to subjects’ mutual benefit, without knowing valuations. A wide variety of empirical economic-policy studies can utilize this methodology to observe comparative evidence of alternative policies’ allocativeefficiency shortfalls.
D46|Efficiency Measurement via Revealed Thresholds, Without Knowing Valuations|Laboratory experiments employing an induced-values methodology often report on allocative efficiencies observed. That methodology requires experimenters know subjects’ motivations precisely, questionable in labs, impossible in field experiments. Allocative efficiency implies a hypothetical costless aftermarket would be inactive. An allocation mechanism’s outcome is defined to be behaviorally efficient if an appropriate aftermarket is actually appended to the mechanism and measures at most a negligible size of remaining mutually beneficial gains. Methodological requirements for an appropriate aftermarket are specified. A first demonstration observes more frequent and ex-ante larger behavioral inefficiencies in second- than in first-price auctions. A simple field demonstration indicates when a public-good increase can be observed to cover marginal cost to subjects’ mutual benefit, without knowing valuations. A wide variety of empirical economic-policy studies can utilize this methodology to observe comparative evidence of alternative policies’ allocativeefficiency shortfalls.
D46|The Appraisal of Power Plants|Power plants, also called electricity generating stations, often present unique and interesting appraisal problems. Power plants can range in value from being worth billions of dollars to having substantial liabilities. Their various technologies differ as much as those of motorcycles, cars, and trucks. Their markets are peculiar, with a mix of market forces and regulated affairs. The uses of the appraisals are also varied, ranging from acquisitions, financing, regulation, litigation, or property tax purposes, to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting. The following discussion will address the issues and methodologies involved in power plant appraisal.
D46|Necessary prices and necessary income distribution in classical political economy. A bridge with the notions ‘just’ prices and ‘just’ wage|Production prices are those exchange-values which, if adopted, put each industry in the conditions to repeat its production process. In this sense they appear as necessary prices. This notion is here compared with that of ‘just’ price, studied by the older moral philosophers (more so than by economists). Production prices appear thus as that concept that comes closer to the notion of just price. On similar grounds, some recent results, which have emerged within the classical and post-Keynesian approaches, have been employed here to envisage the elements that characterize a ‘necessary’ income distribution configuration and a ‘necessary’ level of the rate of interest.
D46|An Agricultural Land Value Assessment Model| The aim of this article is to establish and present a model which is possible and necessary to apply when assessing the value of an agricultural land in the existing economic, legal and market framework of the Republic of Serbia. This article is a preliminary and integral component of a broader research project titled Value Assessment for Various Types of Real Estate in the Republic of Serbia and the Possibility of Their Expression in Accounting, realized at the Faculty of Real Estate Management, Union Nikola Tesla University, Belgrade. The article presents only those preliminary results and the model related to the specified topic, and uses the methods which are successfully employed, in this domain, in the developed countries, primarily in the USA, Germany and France and which are modified with respect to the legal framework and market conditions in the Republic of Serbia. The topic is significant and relevant in light of the announced privatization of 10,000 ha of agricultural land. It is also possible to use this model to re-examine the validity of earlier agricultural land value assessments within the process of privatization of certain agricultural properties.
D46|On the Foundations of Well-Being Economics and Policy|When one wishes to implement public policies, there is a previous need of comparing different actions and valuating and evaluating them to assess their social attractiveness. Recently the concept of well-being has been proposed as a multidimensional proxy for measuring societal prosperity and progress; a key research topic is then on how we can measure and evaluate this plurality of dimensions for policy decisions. This paper defends the thesis articulated in the following points: 1. Different metrics are linked to different objectives and values. To use only one measurement unit (on the grounds of the so-called commensurability principle) for incorporating a plurality of dimensions, objectives and values, implies reductionism necessarily. 2. Point 1) can be proven as a matter of formal logic by drawing on the work of Geach about moral philosophy. This theoretical demonstration is an original contribution of this article. Here the distinction between predicative and attributive adjectives is formalised and definitions are provided. Predicative adjectives are further distinguished into absolute and relative ones. The new concepts of set commensurability and rod commensurability are introduced too. 3. The existence of a plurality of social actors, with interest in the policy being assessed, causes that social decisions involve multiple types of values, of which economic efficiency is only one. Therefore it is misleading to make social decisions based only on that one value. 4. Weak comparability of values, which is grounded on incommensurability, is proved to be the main methodological foundation of policy evaluation in the framework of well-being economics. Incommensurability does not imply incomparability; on the contrary incommensurability is the only rational way to compare societal options under a plurality of policy objectives. 5. Weak comparability can be implemented by using multi-criteria evaluation, which is a formal framework for applied consequentialism under incommensurability. Social Multi-Criteria Evaluation, in particular, allows considering both technical and social incommensurabilities simultaneously.
D46|Coherent Price Systems and Uncertainty-Neutral Valuation|We consider fundamental questions of arbitrage pricing arising when the uncertainty model incorporates volatility uncertainty. With a standard probabilistic model, essential equivalence between the absence of arbitrage and the existence of an equivalent martingale measure is a folk theorem, see Harrison and Kreps (1979). We establish a microeconomic foundation of sublinear price systems and present an extension result. In this context we introduce a prior dependent notion of marketed spaces and viable price systems. We associate this extension with a canonically altered concept of equivalent symmetric martingale measure sets, in a dynamic trading framework under absence of prior depending arbitrage. We prove the existence of such sets when volatility uncertainty is modeled by a stochastic di erential equation, driven by Peng's G-Brownian motion.
D46|Data Games: Sharing Public Goods with Exclusion|A group of agents considers collaborating on a project which requires putting together elements owned by some of them. These elements are pure public goods with exclusion i.e. nonrival but excludable goods like for instance knowledge, data or information, patents or copyrights. The present paper addresses the question of how should agents be compensated for the goods they own. It is shown that this problem can be framed as a cost sharing game - called ‘data game’ - to which standard cost sharing rules like the Shapley value or the nucleolus can then be applied and compared.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D46|Royalty Rate Determination|Courts require royalty rate calculations based on rigorous economic foundations. The licensing literature provides limited guidance for royalty rate determination, leaving appraisal report readers wanting a more tangible and objective lens through which to judge the credibility of royalty rate analyses. This article develops the standard, core model for calculating market royalty rates for intangible asset licenses where royalty rates are determined ex ante in the actual market, or ex post in a hypothetical market under a Market Value Standard. The model forms a consistent basis for performing and evaluating licensing royalty appraisals. Not being distracted with the question of how to combine the input values when calculating a royalty rate, the court can focus on understanding and verifying an appraiser’s calculations of the input variable values.
D46|Una Revisión Moderna de las Teorías de Precios de Ricardo y Jevons|Este artículo revisa las teorías de precios de Ricardo y Jevons. El argumentoprincipal es que la diferencia entre estas teorías proviene de motivaciones y nalidades teóricas diferentes. Mientras Ricardo tenía interés en encontrarun estándar de valor que sirviera para homogeneizar la heterogeniedad debienes y servicios que compone el producto o excedente de una naciónen una medida común, y cómo ese producto homogeneizado se distribuyeentre terratenientes, trabajadores y capitalistas, Jevons pretendía explicarel consumo de la riqueza en una economía que proviene de la maximizacióndel placer o utilidad a través del intercambio que determina el valor de losbienes en el mercado, tomando como dada la producción de la economía.Argumento que esta diferencia de enfoque surgen debido a la diferencia enlo que cada uno de ne como el objeto de la Economía Política. Sin embargo,muestro que ambas teorías se pueden racionalizar dentro de un modelo deequilibrio competitivo walrasiano.
D46|Monopolización del trabajo complejo especializado, precio de producción y la “marca” como agente de centralización de capital|Resumen: Desde la teoría del valor se analizan los efectos de la innovación (productos y procesos productivos) en la competencia monopólica. Donde el control y apropiación del trabajo complejo–el conocimiento- como principal forma actual de capital expresado en derechos de propiedad,permite apropiarse de un excedente de plusvalor que en la superficie se expresa mediante el precio, diferenciación del producto y concentración del mercado. Se recuperan las categorías necesarias para explicar la naturaleza dinámica de los monopolios, en la cual la existencia de intangibles, como las marcas, redimensiona el análisis objetivo del valor en la determinación del precio de producción.
D46|Relación entre valor de marca y las ventas. Un estudio aplicado en compañías agroquímicas. Correlación entre valor de marca y valor de ventas|El valor de marca es un constructo de estudio complejo y multidimensional, siendo uno de los conceptos de marketing más populares y, potencialmente, importante desde los años ochenta (Keller, 1998), sin embargo, definir el concepto de valor de marca es un problema que sigue ocupando a los especialistas en marketing (Martínez, 2005), debido a que existe un conjunto de puntos de vista, generalmente, divergentes acerca de cuáles son las dimensiones del valor de marca, qué factores influyen en él, desde qué perspectiva se debe estudiar y cómo medirlo (Oliveira-Castro et al., 2008). Con base en estas consideraciones, esta investigación tuvo como objetivo, evaluar el valor de marca a partir de atributos claves percibidos por el mercado de compañías agroquímicas, y demostrar su relación con el valor de las ventas. Se utilizó un tipo de estudio descriptivo mediante el diseño e implementación de una encuesta estandarizada a 356 participantes en diferentes ciudades de Colombia. Los hallazgos demostraron, tanto una convergencia unifactorial de los atributos del valor de marca, como una correlación positiva con indicadores de ventas de las empresas estudiadas.
D46|An Introduction to Appropriating the Returns from Industrial Research and Development|An introduction to Appropriating the Returns from Industrial Research and Development, the classic that describes the results of an inquiry into appropriability conditions in more than one hundred manufacturing industries, and includes informed opinions about an industryÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s technological and economic environment rather than quantitative measures of inputs and outputs. David S. Evans (University of Chicago Law).
D46|Asset pricing with skewed-normal return|Despite the fact that it is easy to see intuitively why skewness and coskewness should matter for asset pricing, it is difficult to build a model that links analytically skewness premia to deep structural parameters governing preferences and the distribution of shocks. This paper takes up the challenge and studies the effect of skewness and coskewness on asset valuation. To reach this important goal, asset returns skewness is modeled with promising Azzalini’s [1985. Scandinavian Journal of Statistics 12, 171–178] skew-normal distribution. With this assumption, we are now able to derive explicit expressions of assets skewness premiums and to shed a new light on asset valuation.
D46|Spectrum value for coalitional games|Assuming a ‘spectrum’ or ordering of the players of a coalitional game, as in a political spectrum in a parliamentary situation, we consider a variation of the Shapley value in which coalitions may only be formed if they are connected with respect to the spectrum. This results in a naturally asymmetric power index in which positioning along the spectrum is critical. We present both a characterization of this value by means of properties and combinatoric formulae for calculating it. In simple majority games, the greatest power accrues to ‘moderate’ players who are located neither at the extremes of the spectrum nor in its center. In supermajority games, power increasingly accrues towards the extremes, and in unanimity games all power is held by the players at the extreme of the spectrum.
D46|Marshall and Walras, disequilibrium trades and the dynamics of equilibration in the continuous double auction market|Prices and quantities converge to the theoretical competitive equilibria in continuous, double auction markets. The double auction is not a tatonnement mechanism. Disequilibrium trades take place. The absence of any influence of disequilibrium trades, which have the capacity to change the theoretical equilibrium, appears to be due to a property found in the Marshallian model of single market adjustments. The Marshallian model incorporates a principle of self-organizing, coordination that mysteriously determines the sequence in which specific pairs of agents trade in an environment in which market identities and agent preferences are not public. Disequilibrium trades along the Marshallian path of trades do not change the theoretical equilibrium. The substance of this paper is to demonstrate that the Marshallian principle captures a natural tendency of the adjustment in single, continuous, double auction markets and to suggest how it takes place. The Marshallian model of quantity adjustment and the Walrasian model of market price adjustment can be seen as companion theories that explain the allocation and price processes of a market. The Marshallian model explains the evolution of the allocation, who will meet and trade, and the Walrasian excess demand explains the evolution of prices when they do.
D46|Graph value for cooperative games|We suppose that players in a cooperative game are located within a graph structure, such as a social network or supply route, that limits coalition formation to coalitions along connected paths within the graph. This leads to a generalisation of the Shapley value that is studied here from an axiomatic perspective. The resulting ‘graph value’ is endogenously asymmetric, with the automorphism group of the graph playing a crucial role in determining the relative values of players.
D46|Changes Needed|This volume sees the expansion of Environmental Values from four to six issues per year. The journal has undergone a sustained increase in submissions over the last few years. This has allowed editors to raise standards and increase rejection rates, but despite this we have found a backlog of articles building-up. As a result we decided to expand the number of issues. This will reduce waiting time from final acceptance to publication down to around twelve months, and clear the backlog. I will take the occasion of this expansion to start by reporting to readers on the state of the journal... Overall this issue of Environmental Values shows how the prevention of ongoing environmental degradation confronts some common and seemingly universal problems. There is a strong realist aspect to concerns over human replacement and invasion of Nature and the devastation caused by ever-increasing appropriation of resources and ecosystems functions. The conclusion is that humanity cannot continue to act in this way, but the recommendations for how change can be achieved remain far weaker than the arguments for why things must change.
D46|Deliberation on GMOs: A Study of How a Citizens' Jury Affects the Citizens' Attitudes|Deliberative processes provide an important alternative input to environmental politics as they may, in contrast to often used market simulations, provide an arena for 1) discussion of lay participants' values, 2) articulating arguments grounded in other values than consequentialistic, and 3) capturing weakly comparable values. A case study of a Citizens' Jury (CJ) on genetically modified plants was used to investigate how the framing of the process affected the attitude formation among the citizens. The formal set up of this specific CJ made value discussions less relevant. While it opened for value plurality, it failed to facilitate the articulation of weakly comparable values.
D46|The Role of Values in a Community-Based Conservation Initiative in Northern Ghana|In this paper we demonstrate the importance of non-economic values to community-based conservation by presenting findings from research into Kunlog Community Resource Management Area (CREMA) in northern Ghana. One of the central motivations for creating the CREMA was to reinforce a traditional taboo on bushbuck, and while some respondents mentioned the possibility of eventually attracting tourists, the primary desire behind the CREMA is to protect bushbuck and other wildlife for future generations. Several respondents emphasised wanting children and grandchildren to be able to grow up seeing the wildlife. Material benefits should not be the sole focus of those involved in promoting and legislating frameworks for community-based conservation - frameworks such as Ghana's CREMA policy. Government frameworks for the creation, registration and regulation of conservation initiatives should be flexible and able to accommodate diverse community-based conservation initiatives driven from a variety of mixes of motivations, including motivations deriving from non-material values.
D46|Sharing the Earth: Sustainability and the Currency of Inter-Generational Environmental Justice|Philosophers often understand environmental sustainability as a duty of distributive justice between the generations of the earth. Since every generation is equally entitled to the bounty of the natural environment (the thinking goes) every generation should have a fair share of that bounty. But since generations precede each other in time, it is the duty of earlier generations to ensure that later generations receive their fair share. Acting sustainably is the way of meeting this duty, since sustainable practices are those that (ideally) preserve the environment for the future. But what is a 'fair' share of something as complex, varied and dynamic as 'the environment'? How are we to value nature for the purposes of measuring 'shares' of it? I think the answer to these questions lies in the difference between sharing something by parts, like a pie, and sharing something by turns, like a bicycle. The generations share the earth by turns, not by parts, and so questions about fairness of shares are questions about turns, not parts. We need to ask what constitutes a 'fair turn' with the earth, and for that question we don't necessarily need to be able to commensurate the various parts of nature, just as we don't need to know the relative value of the parts of a bicycle to say what constitutes a fair turn with it.
D46|The Measurement of Labour Content: A General Approach| This paper analyses the theoretical issues related to the measurement of labour content in the context of general technologies with heterogeneous labour. A novel axiomatic framework is used in order to formulate the key properties of the notion of labour content and analyse its theoretical foundations. Then, a simple measure of labour content is uniquely characterised, which is consistent with common practice in input-output analysis and with a number of recent approaches in value theory.
D46|Testing Böhm-Bawerk’s theory of capital: Some evidence from the Finnish economy|This paper considers the pure labour theory of value and Böhm-Bawerk’s theory of capital as approximations of Sraffa’s model of single production, and tests them with data from the Symmetric Input-output Tables of the Finnish economy. The results show that (i) in comparison with the labour values, the actual Böhm-Bawerkian production prices are ‘equally’ good or even better approximations of the actual Sraffian production prices and market prices; and (ii) the Sraffian production price-profit rate relationship is, by and large, governed by the differences in the Böhm-Bawerkian average periods of production. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
D46|Marketing and Remodelling Businesses in Digital Economy|In the current information society, the implementation of information technology and communication is an essential requirement, not only for increasing business competitiveness, but also for maintaining it on the market. Digital economy is based on electronic business support, and businesses are beginning to have an increasingly digital dimension. At the level of the enterprise/organization, new technologies remodel not only the production/services system, but also decision-making mechanisms. Marketing is undergoing significant transformations in digital economy, which require a thorough re-conceptualization. New information technologies and their globalization enable a business remodeling, including in the field of marketing instruments.
D46|Experimental Evidence on Valuation and Learning with Multiple Priors|Abstract Popular models for decision making under ambiguity assume that people use not one but multiple priors. This paper is a first attempt to experimentally elicit multiple priors. In an ambiguous scenario with two underlying states we measure a subject’s single prior, her other potential priors (multiple priors), her confidence in these priors valuation of an ambiguous asset with the same underlying states. We also investigate subjects' updating of (multiple) priors after receiving signals about the true states. We find that single priors are best understood as a confidence-weighted average of multiple priors. Single priors also predict the valuation of ambiguous assets best, while both the minimum and maximum of subjects' multiple priors add explanatory power. This provides some but no exclusive support for the maxmin (Gilboa and Schmeidler, 1989) and the alpha maxmin model (Ghirardato et al., 2004). With regard to updating of priors, we do not observe strong deviations from Bayesian learning, although subjects overadjust/underadjust their priors and their confidence in multiple priors after a contradictory/confirming signal. Subjects also react to neutral information with more confidence in their priors. This holds under ambiguity, but not in a comparison treatment under risk.
D46|Market value of the firms and R&D investment: Theoretical overview and empirical estimation for the panel of countries|The aim of this paper is to investigate the issue of R&D investment and the market value of the firm. This idea dating back from Arrow paper, later developed by Paul Romer but in the area of economic growth. Zvi Griliches (1979), first introduced the production function, which later would be used in a vast literature from this area (Market value of the firms and R&D investment). In the theoretical section of this paper we are describing Tobin’s original model, and Abel’s (1984) model, this models relates Tobin’s quotient with intangible assets of the company. In the empirical part we develop cross-section time series model (Feasible Generalized Least Squares Model), for a panel of countries in Europe including UK and Turkey, in total of 11 panels. Later we test that model by estimating the marginal effects of R&D investment with Tobin’s q on a small economy such as R. Macedonia. The results exert positive and statistically significant relationship between market value of the firms and R&D investment.
D46|The Calculating Auctioneer, Enlightened Wage Setters, and the Fingers of the Invisible Hand|The formal foundations of theoretical economics must be nonbehavioral and epitomize the interdependence of real and nominal variables that constitutes the monetary economy. This is a cogent conclusion from the persistent collapse of behavioral and real models. Conceptual rigor demands, first, to take objective-structural axioms as a formal point of departure and, secondly, to clarify the interrelations of the fundamental concepts income and profit. The present paper reconstructs the characteristic properties of a Walrasian economy in structural axiomatic terms, generalizes them and explores the consequences for our understanding of the working of the economy we happen to live in.
D46|Towards a revision of the theory of capital|This is a proposal to restate the theory of capital along critical Marxian lines aimed at providing a better integration of the theory of capital with the theory of money and finance. The time value of money must be properly accounted for. An analytical method is proposed to accomplish this task. The fundamental Marxian problem of the origin of profit is treated with reference to a specific price index, the monetary expression of labour value (MEV), which accounts for both explicit and implicit cost components, including the financial cost of capital. MEV should not be confused with MELT, the ‘New Interpretation’ money expression of living labour time, which does not consider the opportunity-cost of capital and, following the erroneous net value equality, focuses on the money value of the living labour time commanded by commodities at a given wage rate, rather than on the money value of total abstract labour time embodied in commodities, inclusive of both living and past labour.
D46|A Critical Marxist Approach to Capital Theory|This essay provides a critical Marxist reformulation, internal to the cultural tradition of Western Marxism, of Marx’s theoretical treatment of value and capital. It implies the abandonment of the ‘pure’ labour theory of value of the young Marx in favour of a ‘mixed’ labour-and capital theory of value reflecting the different theoretical perspective shown by the mature Marx, after his epistemological break described by Althusser. The accounting practice of defining and measuring income and capital is criticized, for its disregard of the financial cost of invested capital. Foley’s ‘New Interpretation’ of Marx’s theoretical system and its main variants are refused for their acritical endorsement of Marx’s assumption of a ‘new-value equality’ between the net product of the economy and the living labour employed in the production of gross output. A different method for converting quantities of labour-time in terms of money, which accounts for explicit and implicit costs, is proposed.
D46|The Structural Price Mechanism|Standard economics rests on behavioral assumptions that are formally expressed as axioms. With the help of additional assumptions like perfect competition and equilibrium a price vector is established that displays a host of desired properties. This approach is tightly stuck in a cul-de-sac. Conceptual rigor demands to discard the subjective-behavioral axioms and to take objective-structural axioms as the point of departure. The present paper reconstructs the price system in structural axiomatic terms for the most elementary economic configuration. The generalization of the structural price mechanism supplants the collapsed Walrasian and Keynesian attempts to formulate a consistent price and value theory.
D46|Income distribution in a monetary economy|In a monetary economy capital is a fund. This idea is captured by the circuit of capital. We define a circuit for fixed capital and argue that it is closed when the fund that initiates it is recovered in a present value sense. The circuit of newly invested fixed capital must be equivalent to the comparable direct circuit of money. This is the condition for monetary equilibrium in the sense of Keynes. From this equivalence it is possible to determine what the imputation for fixed capital must be, implying a definitive income distribution. The solution implies that capital assets that last longerthan the period of the circuit earn pure rent.
D46|Exploitation of Labor and Exploitation of Commodities|In the standard Okishio-Morishima approach, the existence of profits is proved to be equivalent to the exploitation of labor. Yet, it can also be proved that the existence of profits is equivalent to the â€œexploitationâ€ of any good. Labor and commodity exploitation are just different numerical representations of the productiveness of the economy. This paper presents an alternative approach to exploitation theory which is related to the â€œNew Interpretationâ€ (DumÃ©nil 1980; Foley 1982). In this approach, labor exploitation captures unequal social relations among producers. The equivalence between the existence of profits and labor exploitation holds, whereas it is proved that there is no relation between profits and commodity â€œexploitation.â€
D46|Estimating the Value Obtained from Using a Software Service Platform|Service markets allow users to discover, purchase, and utilize services offered on a specific platform. As service platforms grow in number of users and variety of offerings, it raises the question of whether this phenomenon continues to benefit users. Based on a literature review, the paper identifies usability, service variety, and the number of personal connections accessible over the service platform as major determinants that contribute to the value to users. Based on survey data on the behavior of mobile service users, the relationship between user value and the determinants is analyzed and estimated. The results show positive correlations between all three determinants and the value. Using regressions, we estimate how much these determinates contribute to the user value. Mobile service users are satisfied with the usability of services of their chosen platforms, although the impact on the user value is the lowest. Users benefit the most from an increase in the number of their personal connections and the number of services they use.
D46|Diversification By The Audit Office And Its Impact On Audit Quality|Prior research documents a positive association between audit office size and audit quality (Francis and Yu 2009; Choi et al. 2010; Francis et al. 2012). Since firms diversify with the intention of revenue expansion (Palepu 1985), large audit offices are likely to be more diversified. Moreover, strategic management theory suggests that diversification may have positive / negative effect on the quality of output, depending on the nature of diversification. Thus, the interrelationship of diversification, audit office size, and audit quality is an interesting yet unexplored research issue. This paper examines the impact of four different diversification strategies: industry diversification, client diversification, geographic diversification, and service diversification on two proxies of audit quality, mainly, discretionary accruals and propensity to meet-or-beat earnings expectations by a cent. Results suggest that, holding audit office and auditee attributes constant, industry diversification, client diversification, and geographic diversification have detrimental effects on audit quality, possibly because such diverse audit engagements strain the resources of the audit office. On the other hand, service diversification, results in improvement of audit quality, possibly due to knowledge spill-over effect from providing multiple services to the same client, such as, tax compliance and planning, auditing employee benefit plans, acquisition related consultancy services, internal control reviews, and attest services. The pecking order of various strategies available for revenue expansion is also studied. The results suggest that the more effective a diversification strategy, the greater the detrimental effect on audit quality. Audit offices with more reputation in the local audit market manage diversification better, probably due to higher visibility costs and greater potential for loss of quasi-rents. Finally, consistent with theory, increase (decrease) in diversification levels over time has negative (positive) impact on audit quality. These results are robust to various controls from extant research. The findings of this paper are important since they identify additional factors that explain audit quality at the audit office level.
D46|General equilibrium, markets, macroeconomics and money in a laboratory experimental environment|This paper reports on the use of laboratory experimental techniques to create relatively complete economic systems. The creation of these market systems reflects a first attempt to explore the nature of inherently interdependent environments and to assess the ability of simultaneous equations equilibrium models like the classical static general competitive equilibrium model, to predict aspects of system behaviors. In addition, the impact of the quantity of a fiat money was studied. The economies were successfully created. Classical models capture much of what was observed.
D46|General equilibrium, markets, macroeconomics and money in a laboratory experimental environment|This paper reports on the use of laboratory experimental techniques to create relatively complete economic systems. The creation of these market systems reflects a first attempt to explore the nature of inherently interdependent environments and to assess the ability of simultaneous equations equilibrium models like the classical static general competitive equilibrium model, to predict aspects of system behaviors. In addition, the impact of the quantity of a fiat money was studied. The economies were successfully created. Classical models capture much of what was observed.
