D50|Understanding Preferences: “Demand Types”, and the Existence of Equilibrium With Indivisibilities|An Equivalence Theorem between geometric structures and utility functions allows new methods for understanding preferences. Our classification of valuations into “Demand Types” incorporates existing definitions (substitutes, complements, “strong substitutes,” etc.) and permits new ones. Our Unimodularity Theorem generalizes previous results about when competitive equilibrium exists for any set of agents whose valuations are all of a “demand type.” Contrary to popular belief, equilibrium is guaranteed for more classes of purely‐complements than of purely‐substitutes, preferences. Our Intersection Count Theorem checks equilibrium existence for combinations of agents with specific valuations by counting the intersection points of geometric objects. Applications include matching and coalition‐formation, and the “Product‐Mix Auction” introduced by the Bank of England in response to the financial crisis.
D50|The Indeterminacy Agenda in Macroeconomics|This article surveys a subset of literature in macroeconomics which embraces the existence of multiple equilibria. This indeterminacy agenda in macroeconomics uses multiple-equilibrium models to integrate economics with psychology. Economists have long argued that business cycles are driven by shocks to the productivity of labour and capital. According to the indeterminacy agenda, the self-fulfilling beliefs of financial market participants are additional fundamental factors that drive periods of prosperity and depression. The indeterminacy agenda provides a microeconomic foundation to Keynes’ General Theory that does not rely on the assumption that prices and wages are costly to change.
D50|Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Determinacy of Asymptotically Stationary Equilibria in Olg Models|We propose a criterion for determining whether a local policy analysis can be made in a given equilibrium in an overlapping generations model. The criterion can be applied to models with infinite past and future as well as those with a truncated past. The equilibrium is not necessarily a steady state; for example, demographic and type composition of the population or individuals’ endowments can change over time. However, asymptotically, the equilibrium should be stationary. The two limiting stationary paths at either end of the timeline do not have to be the same. If they are, conditions for local uniqueness are far more stringent for an economy with a truncated past as compared to its counterpart with an infinite past. In addition, we illustrate our main result using a textbook model with a single physical good, a two-period life-cycle and a single type of consumer. In this model we show how to calculate a response to a policy change using the implicit function theorem.
D50|Aggregation of Diverse Information with Double Auction Trading among Minimally-Intelligent Algorithmic Agents|Information dissemination and aggregation are key economic functions of financial markets. How intelligent do traders have to be for the complex task of aggregating diverse information (i.e., approximate the predictions of the rational expectations equilibrium) in a competitive double auction market? An apparent ex-ante answer is: intelligent enough to perform the bootstrap operation necessary for the task—to somehow arrive at prices that are needed to generate those very prices. Constructing a path to such equilibrium through rational behavior has remained beyond what we know of human cognitive abilities. Yet, laboratory experiments report that profit motivated human traders are able to aggregate information in some, but not all, market environments (Plott and Sunder 1988, Forsythe and Lundholm 1990). Algorithmic agents have the potential to yield insights into how simple individual behavior may perform this complex market function as an emergent phenomenon. We report on a computational experiment with markets populated by algorithmic traders who follow cognitively simple heuristics humans are known to use. These markets, too, converge to rational expectations equilibria in environments in which human markets converge, albeit slowly and noisily. The results suggest that high level of individual intelligence or rationality is not necessary for efficient outcomes to emerge at the market level; the structure of the market itself is a source of rationality observed in the outcomes.
D50|Market Selection With Differential Financial Constraints|We analyze financial markets in which agents face differential constraints on the set of assets in which they can trade. In particular, the assets available to each agent span a partition of the state space that can be strictly coarser than the partition spanned by the assets available in the market. We first show that the existence of differential constraints has an impact on prices and allocations as compared to a complete financial market with unconstrained agents. We consider the implications for survival, taking the work of Blume and Easley (2006) as a starting point. We show that whenever agents have identical correct beliefs and equal discount factors, and their partitions are nested, all agents survive. When agents have heterogeneous beliefs, differential constraints may allow agents with wrong beliefs to survive. Provided constraints are relevant (in a sense we define more precisely), the condition for an agent to survive is that his survival index is at least as large as that of the agents with finer partitions. We also study the impact of deregulation (an increase in the set of assets available to some agents). Unless the agent can adopt beliefs that are closer to the truth on the newly refined partition than those of less constrained agents, increasing his opportunities for trade might harm his chances for survival.
D50|Market selection with differential financial constraints|We analyze financial markets in which agents face differential constraints on the set of assets in which they can trade. In particular, the assets available to each agent span a partition of the state space, which can be strictly coarser than the partition spanned by the assets available in the market. We first show that the existence of differential constraints has an impact on prices and allocations as compared to a complete financial market with unconstrained agents. We consider the implications for survival, taking the work of Blume and Easley (2006) as a starting point. We show that whenever agents have identical correct beliefs and equal discount factors, and their partitions are nested, all agents survive. When agents have heterogeneous beliefs, differential constraints may allow agents with wrong beliefs to survive. Provided constraints are relevant (in a sense we define more precisely), the condition for an agent to survive is that his survival index is at least as large as that of the agents with finer partitions. We also study the impact of deregulation (an increase in the set of assets available to some agents). Unless the agent can adopt beliefs that are closer to the truth on the newly refined partition than those of less constrained agents, increasing his opportunities for trade might harm his chances for survival.
D50|Sraffian Indeterminacy in General Equilibrium Revisited|In contrast to Mandler's (1999a; Theorem 6) impossibility result about the Sraffian indeterminacy of the steady-state equilibrium, we first show that any regular Sraffian steady-state equilibrium is indeterminate in terms of Sraffa (1960) under the simple overlapping generation economy. Moreover, we also check that this indeterminacy is generic. These results are obtained by explicitly defining a simple model of overlapping generation economies with Leontief production techniques, in which we also explain the main source of the difference between our results and Mandler (1999a; section 6).
D50|Sraffa, saggio di interesse, sistema fiscale|This paper covers three closely interrelated stages. The first regards Sraffa’s theory. It is argued in particular that: a) Sraffa’s 1925 and 1926 articles are closely linked to Production of Commodities by means of Commodities, inasmuch they state the minimal cost, which informs indirectly the 1960 book; b) minimum costs are linear and parallel to the x axis in competition, so they are independent of the quantity produced; c) any deviation from this situation entails rents; d) rents can derive from decreasing returns (agriculture, mines) or from increasing returns (oligopoly, monopoly). Sraffa’s system solutions are discussed in depth. Particular attention is attached to the determination of the rate of interest. This leads to interconnections with the Keynesian system, which are developed in the second stage. Here the necessity emerges of rendering structural what it now conjunctural, pushing the rate of interest towards zero. This target can be reached by a fiscal instrument, i.e. by levying a tax on gross interest, close to 100%. Thus public debt ceases to be a risk, and the public deficit may increase, as happens in the majority of countries worldwide. The third stage regards the fiscal system. To obtain a similar treatment of interest, and also to try to hit oligopolies effectively, we need to render the fiscal system global. The problem arises with the remaining fiscal structure, now dominated by the principle of a worldwide basis. It is shown that this circumstance has to cease, and that internal revenue must be collected on bases which are exclusively internal. Therefore primarily the direct taxation, and then the indirect, must be reshaped. It is most interesting that a consonance is found with the taxation in vigour up the Seventies, and with De Viti theory of fiscal systems, which is national and based on the benefit principle.
D50|Teoría del valor en Valenzuela Feijóo: Una representación walrasiana de Marx<BR>[Value theory in Valenzuela Feijóo: A Walrasian representation of Marx]|This paper examines the conceptual framework upon which José Valenzuela Feijóo unfolds a theory of value. The elementary form of value gives way to pairs of commodities which in spite of being ordinary, each is to function as money. The general economic equilibrium becomes a means to replace the total or expanded value form. The unit of account, after being reduced to a numeraire, is eliminated. Previously, in an isolated approach to Bortkiewicz, values and prices are to become, each, a self-contained system. The non-dogmatic version of Marx which he claims to provide is shown to be rooted in Walrasian precepts. To expose these precepts, he makes use of Marxian terminology. In an apparent antagonism with Walras, he disqualifies him harshly. The considerable resort to algebraic expressions by Valenzuela Feijóo is kept at a strict minimum.
D50|Sraffian Indeterminacy in General Equilibrium Revisited|In contrast to Mandler’s (1999a; Theorem 6) impossibility result about the Sraffian indeterminacy of the steady-state equilibrium, we first show that any regular Sraffian steady-state equilibrium is indeterminate in terms of Sraffa (1960) under the simple overlapping generation economy. Moreover, we also check that this indeterminacy is generic. These results are obtained by explicitly defining a simple model of overlapping gener- ation economies with Leontief production techniques, in which we also explain the main source of the difference between our results and Mandler (1999a; section 6).
D50|Quantifying the Gap between Equilibrium and Optimum Under Monopolistic Competition|Equilibria and optima generally differ in imperfectly competitive markets. While this is well understood theoretically, it is unclear how large the welfare distortions are in the aggregate economy. Do they matter quantitatively? To answer this question, we develop a multi-sector monopolistic competition model with endogenous firm entry and selection, productivity, and markups. Using French and British data, we quantify the gap between the equilibrium and optimal allocations. In our preferred specification, inefficiencies in the labor allocation and entry between sectors, as well as inefficient selection and output per firm within sectors, generate welfare losses of about 6–10% of GDP.
D50|Recursive Utility and Thompson Aggregators, I: Constructive Existence Theory for the Koopmans Equation|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Marinacci and Montrucchio [34]. We prove a variant of their Recovery Theorem establishing the existence of extremal solutions to the Koopmans equation. We apply the constructive Tarski-Kantorovich Fixed Point Theorem rather than the nonconstructive Tarski Theorem employed in [34]. We also obtain additional properties of the extremal solutions. The Koopmans operator possesses two distinct order continuity properties. Each is sufficient for the application of the Tarski-Kantorovich Theorem. One version builds on the order properties of the underlying vector spaces for utility functions and commodities. The second form is topological. The Koopmans operator is continuous in Scott's [40] induced topology. The least fixed point is constructed with either continuity hypothesis by the partial sum method. This solution is a concave function whenever the Thompson aggregator is concave and also norm continuous on the interior of its effective domain.
D50|Recursive Utility and Thompson Aggregators, II: Uniqueness of the Recursive Utility Representation|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Mari-nacci and Montrucchio [30]. We demonstrate the Koopmans equation has a unique utility function solution given a Thompson aggregator. Uniqueness holds only on the interior of the commodity spaces positive cone. Our proof veries the Koopmans operator is a u0 concave operator. We verify this using general sufficient conditions due to Liang, et al [28]. Previous published results apply variants of the contraction mapping theorem to the space of possibly utility functions endowed with the Thompson metric. Concave operator methods work on the possible utility function space with its norm topology. Our approach combines order and metric structures to demonstrate uniqueness differently than in the existing literature.
D50|A General Equilibrium Theory of Occupational Choice under Optimistic Beliefs about Entrepreneurial Ability|This paper studies the impact of optimism on occupational choice using a general equilibrium framework. The model shows that optimism has four main qualitative effects: it leads to a misallocation of talent, drives up input prices, raises the number of entrepreneurs, and makes entrepreneurs worse off. We calibrate the model to match U.S. manufacturing data. This allows us to make quantitative predictions regarding the impact of optimism on occupational choice, input prices, the returns to entrepreneurship, and output. The calibration shows that optimism can explain the empirical puzzle of the low mean returns to entrepreneurship compared to average wages.
D50|A Pigouvian Approach to Congestion in Matching Markets|"Recruiting agents, or ""programs"" costly screen “applicants” in matching processes, and congestion in a market increases with the number of applicants to be screened. To combat this externality that applicants impose on programs, application costs can be used as a Pigouvian tax. Higher costs reduce congestion by discouraging applicants from applying to certain programs; however, they may harm match quality. In a multiple-elicitation experiment conducted in a real-life matching market, we implement variants of the Gale-Shapley Deferred-Acceptance mechanism with different application costs. Our experimental and structural estimates show that a (low) application cost effectively reduces congestion without harming match quality."
D50|Labor market institutions in a shopping economy|Modeling labor markets in a search and matching framework became a standard approach in DSGE studies. However, there is an expanding strand of literature arguing that similar frictions characterize the product market. When households are required to exert costly shopping effort in order to enjoy consumption, shifts in households preferences tend do have a larger impact on product and employment than in otherwise standard RBC model. We construct a general equilibrium model with frictions both in the labor and the product markets and confirm that in case of the US, preference shocks are the main driver of the business cycle. Moreover, we verify if presence of shopping frictions affects the relation between labor market institutions and unemployment, both in terms of its steady-state level and volatility. However, we find that most results are qualitatively in line with studies treating the product market as frictionless. Higher unemployment benefits and wage rigidity tend to increase variance of unemployment, while benefits also promote higher unemployment in the long run. Firing taxes contribute to lower level and volatility of unemployment. Surprisingly, while effects of recruitment cost on steady state allocation are comparable to the impact of firing cost, the former rises the volatility of unemployment in our simulations for the US.
D50|Measuring the Equilibrium Impacts of Credit: Evidence from the Indian Microfinance Crisis|In October 2010, the state government of Andhra Pradesh, India issued an emergency ordinance, bringing microfinance activities in the state to a complete halt and causing a nation-wide shock to the liquidity of lenders, especially those with loans in the affected state. The paper used the massive dislocation in the microfinance market to identify the causal impacts of a reduction in credit supply on consumption, earnings, and employment in general equilibrium. Using a proprietary, hand-collected district-level data set from 25 separate, for-profit microlenders matched with household data from the National Sample Survey, It was found that district-level reductions in credit supply are associated with significant decreases in casual daily wages, household wage earnings and consumption. It was also found that wages in the non-tradable sector fall more than in the tradable sector (agriculture), suggesting that one important impact of the microfinance contraction was transmitted through its effect on aggregate demand. The paper presents a simple two period, two-sector model of the rural economy illustrating this channel and show that our wage results are consistent with a simple calibration of the model.
D50|Some simple Bitcoin Economics|How do Bitcoin prices evolve? What are the consequences for monetary policy? We answer these questions in a novel, yet simple endowment economy. There are two types of money, both useful for transactions: Bitcoins and Dollars. A central bank keeps the real value of Dollars constant, while Bitcoin production is decentralized via proof-of-work. We obtain a ``fundamental condition'', which is a version of the exchange-rate indeterminacy result in Kareken-Wallace (1981), and a ``speculative'' condition. Under some conditions, we show that Bitcoin prices form convergent supermartingales or submartingales and derive implications for monetary policy.
D50|Equilibrium Analysis in the Behavioral Neoclassical Growth Model|Rich behavioral biases, mistakes and limits on rational decision-making are often thought to make equilibrium analysis much more intractable. We show that this is not the case in the context of the neoclassical growth model (potentially incorporating incomplete markets and distortions). We break down the response of the economy to a change in the environment or policy into two parts: a direct response at a given vector of prices, and an equilibrium response that plays out as prices change. We refer to a change as a “local positive shock” if the direct response, when averaged across households, increases aggregate savings. Our main result shows that under weak regularity conditions, regardless of the details of behavioral preferences, mistakes and constraints on decision-making, the long-run equilibrium will involve a greater capital-labor ratio if and only if we start with a local positive shock. One implication of this result is that, from a qualitative point of view, behavioral biases matter for long-run equilibrium if and only if they change the direction of the direct response. We show that these aggregate predictions are coupled with individual-level “indeterminacy”: nothing much can be said about individual behavior.
D50|Stability and Universal Implementability of the Price Mechanism|An axiomatic characterization of price or market mechanisms is one of the most important problems in general equilibrium theory. Based on the general equilibrium framework and the characterization of the price mechanism, this paper provides a new perspective or a uni ed viewpoint on some axioms in social choice theory and a setting for the informational efficiency problem of the allocation mechanisms. Our arguments focus on a contemporary reconsideration and generalization of the category theoretic method in Sonnenschein (1974) and the replica stability arguments in social choice theory like Thom- son (1988) and Nagahisa (1994). Sonnenschein's axiomatic characterization of the price mechanism is extended to an economy-dependent welfare form of a universal implementability theorem. The frame- work provides new methods and general settings in treating mechanisms with messages or information, and many social choice axioms. Our result also has an important economic interpretation that the price mechanism can be characterized as a universal rule that is stable in assuring sufficiently high utility levels for each member of a small economy relative to its large expansions.
D50|Financial bubbles and capital accumulation in altruistic economies|We consider an overlapping generations model à la Diamond (1965) with two additional ingredients: altruism and an asset (or land) bringing non-stationary positive dividends (or fruits). We study the global dynamics of capital stocks and asset values as well as the interplay between them. Asset price bubbles are also investigated.
D50|The frame of reference for new economic thinking|After the crisis of 2018-2010, which led to the complete discrediting of neoclassical theory, the demand for new scientific ideas and an alternative vision of the most fundamental economic problems has sharply increased in economic science. At the same time, the discrediting of the neoclassical theory led to a critical attitude to the very idea of a general economic equilibrium, which is the central idea of neoclassical paradigm. The emphasis is increasingly shifting to the creation of disequilibrium models of economy. This book argues that this approach is incorrect. The wrong is not the very idea of equilibrium, but its neoclassical understanding and its concepts and equilibrium models, which are caused by false methodologies of neoclassicists. Without a preliminary dialectic analysis of economic categories and the operationally closed model of commodity-money flows of a market economy created on its basis, it is impossible to find out feedbacks that ensure the self-regulation of the economic system. The “Symmetrical model” of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy. It is shown that the evolution of market economy, which due to the immanent logic of intrasystem processes generates extreme inequality in income distribution, leads to a disruption in the harmony and symmetry of counter flows of commodity and money, thus destroying the system of positive and negative feedbacks that provide the homeostasis of economic system. This book is a collection of articles. Since each of them is a complete whole, the reader can get acquainted with the articles in any sequence, but after reading all of the articles, he will get a new non-standard understanding of functioning of a market economy. Although each article gives a complete analysis of a specific topic, nevertheless, all of them are arranged in such a sequence that they serve as different stages in the development of a single original concept, beginning with a methodology and ending with a mathematical model of a general economic equilibrium.
D50|Inflow of Educational Capital, Intermediation and Informal Sector|Informal sector comprising of unrecorded, unregistered activities in developing economies of the world is a common feature at present scenario. Existence of such sectors in an economy clearly reflects the weakness of government to provide employment opportunities for all. Such informal activities are again facilitated through the extortionists who are bribed by the informal producers. Under such an economic structure the paper investigates into the effect of inflow of educational capital on endogenously determined factor prices and output of formal and informal sectors of an economy.Though there is no change in the factor earnings, an inflow of educational capital gives a boost to the output of skilled sector irrespective of any factor intensity assumption. Output of formal sector also expands depending on the factor intensity assumption but quite interestingly no change is seen in the output of informal sector. Inflow of educational capital leads to dampening of intermediation activities in an economy which is a positive result and this can help the policy makers to choose the right path of development.
D50|Рождение Макроэкономического Порядка Из Микроэкономического Хаоса<BR>[The birth of a macroeconomic order from microeconomic chaos]|В данной статье рассмотрена проблема самоорганизации экономических процессов в условиях совершенной конкуренции, основанной на взаимодействии индивидуальных и общественных экономических ценностей и рыночных цен. На основе диалектического анализа показано глубокое внутреннее единство проиозводства и потребления, спроса и предложения, полезности и затрат и др. категорий, которые обуславливают функциональную замкнутость и целостность экономической системы, как необходимое условие для понимания процесса формирования макроэкономического порядка из микроэкономического хаоса. На методологической основе диалектики дается новое понимание механизма саморегулирования рыночных процессов и экономической оптимизации. Предлагаемое теоретическое объяснение экономических процессов позволит создать более адекватные прикладные экономические модели и выработать эффективную экономическую политику. In this article, the problem of self-organization of economic processes in conditions of perfect competition, based on the interaction of individual and public economic values and market prices, is considered. On the basis of dialectical analysis, the deep internal unity of production and consumption, supply and demand, utility and costs, and other categories that determine the functional closeness and integrity of economic system as a necessary condition for to understand the formation process of a macroeconomic order from microeconomic chaos is shown. A new understanding of market processes' self-regulation mechanism and economic optimization on the methodological basis of dialectics is given. The proposed theoretical explanation of economic processes makes it possible to create more adequate applied economic models and develop an effective economic policy.
D50|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide a general non-parametric formula for aggregating microeconomic shocks in general equilibrium economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, and nominal rigidities. We show that the macroeconomic impact of a shock can be boiled down into two components: its “pure” technology effect; and its effect on allocative efficiency arising from the associated reallocation of resources, which can be measured via changes in factor income shares. We also derive a formula showing how these two components are determined by structural microeconomic parameters such as elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and network linkages. Overall, our results generalize those of Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to economies with distortions. To demonstrate their empirical relevance, we pursue different applications, focusing on markup distortions. For example, we operationalize our non-parametric results and show that improvements in allocative efficiency account for about 50% of measured TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also implement our structural results and conclude that eliminating markups would raise TFP by about 40%, increasing the economywide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimates of Harberger (1954).
D50|On The Second Stage Of The Cambridge Capital Controversy|The second stage of the Cambridge capital controversy concerns the neo‐Walrasian theory of value and distribution. Since production is not understood in this theory as employing factors of production but rather commodities, that is goods and services with date and place of delivery, some scholars maintained that it is not affected by the problems that emerged, during the first stage of the controversy, as regards the conception of capital as a factor of production and the rate of interest as the price for its use. The reply of the ‘neo‐Ricardians’ was based on two arguments. The first regarded the relevance of the new notions of equilibrium adopted in the neo‐Walrasian approach, with particular reference to temporary and Arrow–Debreu equilibria, and the second the possibility that the phenomena of re‐switching and reverse capital deepening, by affecting the working of the saving‐investment market, could cause equilibrium multiplicity and instability also in a neo‐Walrasian framework.
D50|Fairness and Efficiency for Probabilistic Allocations with Endowments|We propose to use endowments as a policy instrument in market design. Endowments give agents the right to enjoy certain resources. For example in school choice, one can ensure that low-income families have a shot at high-quality schools by endowing them with a chance of admission. Common policy objectives, such as walkzone or sibling placement can be achieved through endowments (arguably more transparently than via priorities). We introduce two new criteria in resource allocation problems with endowments. The first adapts the notion of justified envy to a model with endowments, while the second is based on market equilibrium. Using either criteria, we show that fairness (understood as the absence of justified envy) can be obtained together with efficiency and individual rationality.
D50|Jean-Michel Grandmont A forthcoming mind|This profile of Jean-Michel Grandmont is based on several interviews we had with him between September 2016 and April 2017. The interviews took place at our CREST offices, located at that time in Malakoff, just south of Paris. The objective of the profile is twofold. First, we trace the career of this highly influential mathematical economist who made seminal contributions to the fields of monetary economics, temporary equilibrium, business cycle theory, and aggregation of individual behavior. Second, we show how Grandmont and his colleagues contributed to changing the French landscape of economic research.
D50|Optimal Taxation of Robots|I study the optimal taxation of robots and labor income. In the model, robots substitute for routine labor and complement non-routine labor. I show that while it is optimal to distort robot adoption, robots may be either taxed or subsidized. The robot tax exploits general-equilibrium effects to compress the wage distribution. Wage compression reduces income-tax distortions of labor supply, thereby raising welfare. In the calibrated model, the optimal robot tax for the US is positive and generates small welfare gains. As the price of robots falls, inequality rises but the robot tax and its welfare impact become negligible.
D50|Some Simple Bitcoin Economics|In a novel model of an endowment economy, we analyze coexistence and competition between traditional fiat money (Dollar) and another intrinsically worthless medium of exchange, not controlled by a central bank, such as Bitcoin. Agents can trade consumption goods in either currency or hold on to currency for speculative purposes. A central bank ensures a Dollar inflation target, while Bitcoin mining is decentralized via proof-of-work. We analyze Bitcoin price evolution and interaction between the Bitcoin price and monetary policy which targets the Dollar. We obtain a fundamental pricing equation, which in its simplest form implies that Bitcoin prices form a martingale. We derive conditions, under which Bitcoin speculation cannot happen, and the fundamental pricing equation must hold. We show that the block rewards are not a tax on Bitcoin holders: they are financed by Dollar taxes imposed by the Dollar central bank. We discuss monetary policy implications and characterize the range of equilibria.
D50|Money Creation in Different Architectures|We examine monetary architectures in which money is solely created by the public and lent by the central bank to the private sector. We compare them to today's fractional-reserve system in which money is created mainly by commercial banks. We use a simple general equilibrium setting and determine under which conditions these architectures yield the same welfare and stability outcomes and under which conditions they do not. We show, in particular, that the decentralized sovereign money system yields the same level of money creation and allocation of commodities as the fractional-reserve monetary system if the central bank solely pursues interest-rate policy.
D50|A General Equilibrium Theory of Occupational Choice under Optimistic Beliefs about Entrepreneurial Ability|This paper studies the impact of optimism on occupational choice using a general equilibrium framework. The model shows that optimism has four main qualitative effects: it leads to a misallocation of talent, drives up input prices, raises the number of entrepreneurs, and makes entrepreneurs worse off. We calibrate the model to match U.S. manufacturing data. This allows us to make quantitative predictions regarding the impact of optimism on occupational choice, input prices, the returns to entrepreneurship, and output. The calibration shows that optimism can explain the empirical puzzle of the low mean returns to entrepreneurship compared to average wages.
D50|A new solution to an old problem: a temporary equilibrium version of the Ramsey model|Convergence toward the optimal capital accumulation path in infinite horizon has always been tackled in the literature by means of the assumption that individuals (or a central planner) are able to select the unique convergent (saddle-)path among the infinitely many paths which satisfy the equi-marginality condition of the intertemporal choice problem (the Euler's condition). This is tantamount to assuming that individuals have 'colossal' rational capabilities. Conversely, any minor deviation from the saddle-path would inevitably lead to a crash on a 0 per-capita consumption path. This paper aims to show that this contraposition is false. An asymptotic convergence result to the optimal equilibrium path will be obtained for an individual who plans myopically, that is, that optimizes his present and future consumption levels under a rudimentary hypothesis about future savings. He then partially readjusts his choices in each subsequent period, like people normally do. A similar result was already proved by the author for the central planner problem. In this paper, a 'market' solution is provided, following a temporary equilibrium approach à la Hicks.
D50|A theory of cooperation in games with an application to market socialism| Economic theory has focused almost exclusively on how humans compete with each other in their economic activity, culminating in general equilibrium (Walras–Arrow–Debreu) and game theory (Cournot–Nash). Cooperation in economic activity is, however, important, and is virtually ignored. Because our models influence our view of the world, this theoretical lacuna biases economists’ interpretation of economic behavior. Here, I propose models that provide micro-foundations for how cooperation is decentralized by economic agents. It is incorrect, in particular, to view competition as decentralized and cooperation as organized only by central diktat. My approach is not to alter preferences, which is the strategy behavioral economists have adopted to model cooperation, but rather to alter the way that agents optimize. Whereas Nash optimizers view other players in the game as part of the environment (parameters), Kantian optimizers view them as part of action. When formalized, this approach resolves the two major failures of Nash optimization from a welfare viewpoint – the Pareto inefficiency of equilibria in common-pool resource problems (the tragedy of the commons) and the inefficiency of equilibria in public-good games (the free rider problem). An application to market socialism shows that the problems of efficiency and distribution can be completely separated: the dead-weight loss of taxation disappears.
D50|Measuring the Equilibrium Impacts of Credit: Evidence from the Indian Microfinance Crisis|In October 2010, the state government of Andhra Pradesh, India issued an emergency ordinance, bringing microfinance activities in the state to a complete halt and causing a nation-wide shock to the liquidity of lenders, especially those with loans in the affected state. We use this massive dislocation in the microfinance market to identify the causal impacts of a reduction in credit supply on consumption, earnings, and employment in general equilibrium. Using a proprietary, hand-collected district-level data set from 25 separate, for-profit microlenders matched with household data from the National Sample Survey, we find that district-level reductions in credit supply are associated with significant decreases in casual daily wages, household wage earnings and consumption. We also find that wages in the non-tradable sector fall more than in the tradable sector (agriculture), suggesting that one important impact of the microfinance contraction was transmitted through its effect on aggregate demand. We present a simple two period, two-sector model of the rural economy illustrating this channel and show that our wage results are consistent with a simple calibration of the model.
D50|Beyond Truth-Telling: Preference Estimation with Centralized School Choice and College Admissions|We propose novel approaches to estimating student preferences with data from matching mechanisms, especially the Gale-Shapley deferred acceptance. Even if the mechanism is strategy-proof, assuming that students truthfully rank schools in applications may be restrictive. We show that when students are ranked strictly by some ex ante known priority index (e.g., test scores), stability is a plausible and weaker assumption, implying that every student is matched with her favorite school/college among those she qualifies for ex post. The methods are illustrated in simulations and applied to school choice in Paris. We discuss when each approach is more appropriate in real-life settings.
D50|An Experimental Comparison of Two Exchange Mechanisms, An Asset Market versus a Credit Market|The Lucas (1978) asset pricing model lies at the heart of modern macro-finance. At its core, it provides an analysis of the equilibrium price of a long-lived financial asset in an economy where consumption is the objective, and the sole purpose of the asset is to smooth consumption through time. Experimental tests of the model are mainly confined to Crockett et al (forthcoming 2019) and Asparouhova et al (2016), both of them using a particular instantiation of the Lucas Model. Here we adopt a different instantiation, extending their analyses from a two-period oscillating world to a three-period cyclical world. We also go one step further, and compare this asset market solution (to a consumption-smoothing problem) with the perhaps intuitively more reasonable solution provided by a credit market, in which agents can directly trade consumption between periods. We find that the latter is more efficient in smoothing consumption, and that prices in the credit market are closer to their equilibrium values than those in the asset market, and also less volatile. We find evidence of uncompetitive trading in both markets.
D50|Computational evidence on the distributive properties of monetary policy|Empirical studies have pointed out that monetary policy may significantly affect income and wealth inequality. To investigate the distributive properties of monetary policy the authors resort to an agent-based macroeconomic model where firms, households and one bank interact on the basis of limited information and adaptive rules-of-thumb. Simulations show that the model can replicate fairly well a number of stylized facts, especially those relative to the business cycle. The authors address the issue using three types of computational experiments, including a global sensitivity analysis carried out through a novel methodology which greatly reduces the computational burden of simulations. The result emerges that a more restrictive monetary policy increases inequality, even though this effect may differ across groups of households. In addition, it appears to be attenuated if the bank's willingness to lend is lower. The overall analysis suggests that inequality can constitute valuable information also for central banks.
D50|From constrained optimization to constrained dynamics: extending analogies between economics and mechanics|Since the beginnings of modern economics, economists sought to emulate the revolution in physics initiated by Newton’s ‘Principia’ (1687). Concepts from mechanics have influenced economic models both in terms of methodology and content. The aim of this theoretical paper is to put forward a novel economic modeling framework that extends the analogies between economics and classical mechanics from constrained optimization to constrained dynamics. We introduce the concepts of economic forces and economic power that bear striking resemblance to physical forces and the reciprocal value of mass. In this setup, the change of a variable is determined by the forces agents employ to change it according to their desire, their power to assert their interest, and constraint forces emerging from system constraints. The approach is based on a genuine dynamic out-of-equilibrium analysis and can incorporate heterogeneous agents, prisoner’s dilemma situations, and behavioral assumptions different from rationality and utility maximization. Thereby, it seeks to overcome some restrictions inherent to approaches based on optimization under constraint and provide an out-of-equilibrium foundation for equilibrium models. We transform a static textbook exchange model into a dynamic model, and reflect on advantages, extensions and caveats of our modeling approach.
D50|Loanable funds vs money creation in banking: A benchmark result|We establish a benchmark result for the relationship between the loanablefunds and the money-creation approach to banking. In particular, we show that both processes yield the same allocations when there is no uncertainty and thus no bank default. In such cases, using the much simpler loanablefunds approach as a shortcut does not imply any loss of generality.
D50|Migration when Social Preferences are Ordinal: Steady-state Population Distribution and Social Welfare| This paper adds three dimensions to the received literature: it models migration when the individuals’ preferences regarding their relative income are ordinal, it works out the resulting spatial steady state distribution of the individuals, and it shows that the aggregate of the individuals’ migration choices in the spatial steady state distribution sums up to the social optimum. This finding does not apply when the individuals’ preferences regarding their relative income are cardinal. We highlight the importance of the assumption about the nature of the individuals’ social preferences (whether ordinal or cardinal) to studying and predicting their migration behavior, and to elucidating the consequences of that behavior for social welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|Foreign capital inflow and its welfare implications in a developing country context|In a small open developing country context, the author considers a three-sector general equilibrium framework and tries to find out the effects of foreign capital inflow on welfare of the country. Comparative-static results show that foreign capital inflow widens the skilled-unskilled wage gap under some reasonable conditions, although it causes an expansion of the foreign enclave and the agricultural sector and contraction of the domestic manufacturing sector. Taking sector specific foreign capital, the author finds that foreign direct investment is beneficial in a small open economy in the absence of tariffs.
D50|Arbitration and Renegotiation in Trade Agreements|We reconsider the theory of Thompson aggregators proposed by Marinacci and Montrucchio. First, we prove a variant of their Recovery Theorem estabilishing the existence of extremal solutions to the Koopmans equation. Our approach applies the constructive Tarski-Kantorovich Fixed Point Theorem rather than the nonconstructive Tarski Theorem employed in their paper. We verify the Koopmans operator has the order continuity property that underlies invoking Tarski-Kantorovich. Then, under more restrictive conditions, we demonstrate there is a unique solution to the Koopmans equation. Our proof is based on $u_{0}-$ concave operator techniques as first developed by Kransosels'kii. This differs from Marinacci and Montrucchio's proof as well as proofs given by Martins-da-Rocha and Vailakis.
D50|A top dog tale with preference complementarities|Abstract The emergence of a winner-take-all (top dog) outcome is generally due to political or institutional constraints or to specific technological features which favour the performance of just one individual. In this paper we provide a different explanation for the occurrence of a top-dog equilibrium in exchange economies. We show that once heterogeneous complementarities (i.e. Scarf’s preferences) are analysed with general endowment distributions, a variety of equilibria different from the well-known symmetric outcome with full utilisation of resources can emerge. Specifically, we show that stable corner equilibria with a winner-take-all (top dog) individual arise that are Pareto optima although the remaining individuals are no better off than with zero consumption and resources can be unused. Because of heterogenous complementarities, market mechanisms are weak and cannot overcome the top dog’s power. Voting mechanisms or taxation policies can reduce the top dog’s privileged position.
D50|No-arbitrage and Equilibrium in Finite Dimension: A General Result|We consider an exchange economy with a finite number of assets and a finite number of agents. The utility functions of the agents are concave, strictly increasing and their suprema equal infity. We use weak no-arbitrage prices a la Dana and Le Van [5]. Our main result is: an equilibrium exists if, and only if, their exists a weak no-arbitrage price common to all the agents.
D50|Dampening General Equilibrium: From Micro to Macro|We argue that standard modeling practices often overstate the potency of general-equilibrium (GE) mechanisms. We formalize the notion that GE adjustment is weak, or that it takes time, by modifying an elementary Walrasian economy in two alternative manners. In one, we replace Rational Expectations Equilibrium with solution concepts that mimic Tâtonnement or Cobweb dynamics, Level-k Thinking, Reflective Equilibrium, and certain kinds of cognitive discounting. In the other, we maintain rational expectations but remove common knowledge of aggregate shocks and accommodate higher-order uncertainty. This permits us, not only to illustrate the broader plausibility of the notion that the GE adjustment may be weak or slow, but also to illustrate the sense in which our preferred approach—the one based on lack of common knowledge—can be seen as a disciplined substitute to certain kinds of bounded rationality. We finally discuss possible applications, including how our results may help reduce the gap between the macroeconomic effects of interest and the micro or local effects estimated in a growing empirical literature.
D50|General Equilibrium Effects of (Improving) Public Employment Programs: Experimental Evidence from India|A public employment program's effect on poverty depends on both program earnings and market impacts. We estimate this composite effect, exploiting a large-scale randomized experiment across 157 sub-districts and 19 million people that improved the implementation of India's employment guarantee. Without changing government expenditure, this reform raised low-income households' earnings by 13%, driven primarily by market earnings. Real wages rose 6% while days without paid work fell 7%. Effects spilled over across sub-district boundaries, and adjusting for these spillovers substantially raises point estimates. The results highlight the importance and feasibility of accounting for general equilibrium effects in program evaluation.
D50|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide a general non-parametric formula for aggregating microeconomic shocks in general equilibrium economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, and nominal rigidities. We show that the macroeconomic impact of a shock can be boiled down into two components: its ``pure'' technology effect; and its effect on allocative efficiency arising from the associated reallocation of resources, which can be measured via changes in factor income shares. We also derive a formula showing how these two components are determined by structural microeconomic parameters such as elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and network linkages. Overall, our results generalize those of Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to economies with distortions. To demonstrate their empirical relevance, we pursue different applications, focusing on markup distortions. For example, we operationalize our non-parametric results and show that improvements in allocative efficiency account for about 50% of measured TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also implement our structural results and conclude that eliminating markups would raise TFP by about 40%, increasing the economywide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimates of Harberger (1954).
D50|Crisis and theoretical methods: equilibrium and disequilibrium once again|The financial crisis of 2007-8 damaged the credibility of macroeconomic analysis based on price-taking Walrasian intertemporal general equilibrium models. This talk explores methodological alternatives, particularly stable Nash-Cournot equilibria of social interaction models that center on agents’ response to other agents’ actions rather than on agents’ forecasts of future paths of prices and production. Social interaction equilibria in conjunction with constraints from information theory highlight the social coordination problems at the root of macroeconomic policy questions. Equilibrium concepts enhance the explanatory power of economic theories in contrast with the limitations of disequilibrium dynamical systems analysis and agent-based modeling. Constrained maximum entropy methods offer a general approach to macroeconomic modeling. Various conceptions of equilibrium in economics arise from distinct conceptions of expectations.
D50|Local Independence, Monotonicity, Incentive Compatibility and Axiomatic Characterization of Price-Money Message Mechanism|To characterize money in a static economic model, it is known to be important to consider the agentcommodity double-infinity settings, i.e., the overlapping-generations framework. There does not seem to exist abundant literature, however, treating the axiomatic characterization problems for such monetary Walras allocations under the social choice and/or mechanism design settings. We show that the monetary Walras allocation for the economy with double infinities is characterized by weak Paretooptimality, individual rationality and local independence or the monotonicity, or the incentive compatibility conditions of social choice correspondence among the allocation mechanisms with messages under the category theoretic approach in Sonnenschein (1974). We utilize Sonnenschein fs market extension axiom for swamped economies that is closely related to the replica stability axiom of Thomson (1988). We can see how these conditions characterize the price-money message mechanism universally among a wide class of mechanisms, and efficiently in the sense that it has the minimal message spaces (pricemoney dictionary theorems). Moreover, by using the category theoretic framework, we can obtain the up-to-isomorphism uniqueness for such a dictionary object (isomorphism theorems).
D50|Stability and Universal Implementability of the Price Mechanism|This paper provides a uni ed viewpoint on some axioms in social choice theory and a setting for the allocation mechanism with messages in the informational efficiency problem. In particular, our arguments are concerned with the category theoretical axiomatic method in Sonnenschein (1974) and the replica stability axiom in the social choice arguments like Thomson (1988) and Nagahisa (1994). The uni ed view enables us to obtain an extension of Sonnenschein's axiomatic characterization of the price mechanism as an agent-characteristics form dictionary property to a utility form economy- dependent universal implementability theorem.
D50|An Empirical Theory of Pure Exchange:Individual Demand and Equilibrium|SUMMARY: Scientists question the ‘scientificity’ of Neoclassical Economic Theory because microeconomics depends on an un-observable utility function, while the modern version of the theory requires that macroeconomics be built on microfoundations. The first step in remedying such an incongruous analytics is to use ‘naïve’ set theory to show that the utility function is indeed a misleading appendage.
D50|Spatially Heterogeneous Effects of a Public Works Program|Most research on labor market effects of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme focuses on outcomes at the district level. This paper shows that such a focus masks substantial spatial heterogeneity: treated villages located near untreated areas see smaller increases in casual wages than treated villages located farther from untreated areas. I argue that worker mobility, rather than spatial differences in implementation or program leakages, drives this spatial heterogeneity. I also present evidence that the effects of the program on private-sector employment display similar intra-district heterogeneity. Finally, by exploiting the difference in wage changes over space, I show that a large portion of consumption increases are driven by wage increases, not program employment. Overall, these results suggest that a district-level focus underestimates the true effect of the program on wages and also support the argument that increasing rural wages is an effective poverty-fighting tool in developing countries.
D50|The Relativity Theory of General Economic Equilibrium|"Abstract Purpose. The purpose of this paper is to propose a new approach to the understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system. Design/methodology/approach. As a result of the dialectical analysis of fundamental economic categories of market economy it appears as the form of a complex, non-linear, functionally closed and causally open system of economic actions. These systems have a number of unique properties that are well studied by second-order cybernetics. This allows in the study of economic processes the unique research and development of this science to be involved in the interdisciplinary format. Findings. The self-organization of a market economy is carried out through the recursive processes. Recursive processes in the economic system, as well as in other complex nonlinear dynamical systems, generate ""eigenvalues"" (""fixed points""). These ""eigenvalues"" are the equilibrium prices to which through the recursive processes tend the actual market prices, thus providing a tendency of the system to the general equilibrium. However, due to constant influence on the system of random external factors, the general equilibrium is never achieved. Research limitations/implications. On the base of the created model the hidden relationships among the gross profit, gross saving, gross investment and gross consumption in debt, as well as the relationships among the other economic parameters are revealed. This is important for adequate understanding of economic reproduction, tendency to general equilibrium, genesis of economic cycles, etc. Practical implications. The proposed understanding of self-regulation mechanism of decentralized economic system will help to improve the applied economic models and to develop the effective economic policy. Originality/value. The original interpretation of economic self-regulation mechanism of market economy is given. The ―Symmetrical model‖ of general economic equilibrium, which shows how economic forces arise, where they are directed and how interact with each other, which provide the homeostasis of a decentralized economic system, is proposed. This model shows the attractor of a real disequilibrium economy."
D50|Trade liberalization, Skilled Intermediate input and Wage Distribution|This paper proposes a simple theoretical model of a small open economy comprising of four sectors including formal and informal ones. One sector produces skilled intermediate input for the importable production. Though other two sectors use labour and capital (land), labour is segregated as skilled or unskilled. Following traditional specification we also assumed that the skilled labours are employed in the formal sector and unskilled labours are employed in the informal sector. One of the distinguishing features of the present paper is the use of skilled intermediate input in import competing sector. So, in a sense import competing sector uses both skilled and unskilled labour. In such backdrop we tried to study the impact of trade liberalization on absolute and relative wage(s). It has been found that irrespective of factor intensity ranking both types of workers lose owing to tariff cut whereas under reasonable condition wage disparity between skilled and unskilled workers is reduced. These results seem to be quite sensible though the structure is slightly different from the conventional set up.
D50|Borrowing in Excess of Natural Ability to Repay|The paper aims at improving our understanding of self-enforcing debt in competitive dynamic economies with lack of commitment when default induces a permanent loss of access to international credit markets. We show, by means of examples, that a sovereign's creditworthiness is not necessarily limited by the ability to repay out of its future resources. Self-enforcing debt grows at the same rate as interest rates. If a sovereign's endowment growth rates are lower than interest rates, then debt limits eventually exceed the natural debt limits. This implies that there is asymptotic borrowing in present value terms. We show that this can be compatible with lending incentives when credible borrowers facilitate inter-temporal exchange, acting as pass-through intermediaries that alleviate the lenders' credit restrictions. (Copyright: Elsevier)
D50|Default Risk, Productivity, and the Environment: Theory and Evidence from U.S. Manufacturing|This paper develops a general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms to analyze the effect of default risk on production-generated pollution emissions. The model analytically divides the effect of default risk into three distinct effects: the market-size, technology-upgrading, and selection effect. Conceptually, an increase in default risk raises equilibrium borrowing costs, thereby precluding investment in a technology upgrade among a subset of firms (technology-upgrading effect). As a consequence, the economy consists of more numerous (market-size effect) but less productive and more pollution-intensive firms (selection effect). Because the effects are confounding in nature, the effect of default risk on aggregate pollution emissions and emissions intensity is an empirical question. To answer this question, this paper estimates the model’s key parameters using a unique dataset with establishment-level credit scores and a composite measure of pollution emissions for a panel of manufacturing firms in the United States. Using a two-step procedure where default risk is estimated in the first stage, the results indicate that the estimated elasticity of emissions intensity and productivity with respect to default risk is 0.89 and -0.16, respectively. Next, I use the theoretical model to leverage the coefficient estimates to estimate the effect of economy wide default risk on aggregate pollution emissions, demonstrating that default risk increases aggregate emissions and emissions intensity, primarily as a consequence of the technology-upgrading effect. Finally, this paper demonstrates that historical changes in economy-wide default risk can generate economically significant changes in pollution emissions.
D50|The Role of Marriage in Fighting HIV: A Quantitative Illustration for Malawi|How might policies that promote marriage and/or dissuade divorce help in the fight against HIV/AIDS? This question is addressed employing a choice-theoretic general equilibrium search model, using Malawi as a case study. In the framework developed, individuals can choose between married and single life. A single person can select among abstinence and sex with or without a condom. The results suggest that marriage-friendly policies can help to abate HIV/AIDS. The policy predictions that obtain from general equilibrium analysis are compared with those that arise from simulated synthetic field experiments and epidemiological studies.
D50|Existence of equilibrium in OLG economies with increasing returns|Abstract We consider a standard overlapping generations (OLG) economy with a simple demographic structure where a new cohort of agents appears at each period and whose economic activity is extended over two successive periods, and finitely many firms may be active. The production possibilities are described by a sequence of production set-valued mappings and the main innovation comes from the fact that we allow for increasing returns to scale of more general type of non-convexities. To describe the behavior of the firms, we consider loss-free pricing rules, which cover the case of the average pricing rule, the competitive behavior when the firms have convex production sets, and the competitive behavior with quantity constraints à la Dehez–Drèze. We prove the existence of an equilibrium under assumptions, which are at the same level of generality than the ones for the existence in an exchange OLG economy.
D50|Ex-ante efficiency in assignments with seniority rights|Abstract We study random assignment economies with expected-utility agents, each of them eventually obtaining a single object. We focus attention on assignment problems that must respect object-invariant (or uniform) weak priorities such as seniority rights in student residence assignment. We propose the sequential pseudomarket mechanism: the set of agents is partitioned into ordered priority groups that are called in turns to participate in a pseudomarket for the remaining objects. SP is characterized by the concept of consistent weak ex-ante efficiency (CWEE), that is, weak ex-ante efficiency complemented by consistency to economy reduction. Moreover, it is shown that CWEE generically implies ex-ante efficiency.
D50|Why do People Get Married? An Inframarginal Perspective|Abstract This paper constructs an economic model to study the emergence of marriage based on a new infra-marginal general equilibrium analysis. By depicting the commonness and complementarity of marriage, we explain how a single person shifts from being single to being married based on the division of labor. Meanwhile, reduced learning costs will make an individual more willing to abandon the single status, and the number of families in the marriage market will increase. The model reveals the necessary conditions for the existence of marriage and marital stability and explains the dynamic changes in the relative population and the prices of parties in the marriage market.
D50|On the equivalence of large individualized and distributionalized games|The theory of large one-shot simultaneous-play games with a bio-social typology has been presented in both the individualized and distributionalized forms, LIG and LDG respectively. Using an example of an LDG with two actions and a single trait in which some Nash equilibrium distributions cannot be induced by the Nash equilibria of the representing LIG, this paper offers three equivalence results that delineate a relationship between the two game-forms. Our analysis also reveals the different roles that the Lebesgue unit interval and a saturated space play in the theory.
D50|Application Costs and Congestion in Matching Markets|A matching market often requires recruiting agents, or ``programs,'' to costly screen ``applicants,'' and congestion increases with the number of applicants to be screened. We investigate the role of application costs: Higher costs reduce congestion by discouraging applicants from applying to certain programs; however, they may harm match quality. In a multiple-elicitation experiment conducted in a real-life matching market, we implement variants of the Gale-Shapley Deferred-Acceptance mechanism with different application costs. Our experimental and structural estimates show that a (low) application cost effectively reduces congestion without harming match quality.
D50|The Passage of Time, Capital, and Investment in Traditional and in Recent Neoclassical Value Theory|With the shift from traditional analyses where capital is a single value factor of variable ‘form’ to the neo-Walrasian versions, general equilibrium theory has encountered new problems pointed out by P. Garegnani (1976, 1990): impermanence problem, price-change problem, substitutability problem radically question the right to consider neo-Walrasian equilibria as approximating the actual path of real economies. The paper briefly summarizes these problems and then concentrates on a fourth problem, the savings-investment problem, arguing that neo-Walrasian general equilibrium models assume that investment is adjusted to full-employment savings but cannot justify this assumption. The treatment of investment in intertemporal general equilibrium is subjected to a new criticism: it is shown that the tâtonnement assumes Says’ Law all along the adjustments, and determines investment in a way that would crumble if it were not assumed that consumers determine their demands for consumption goods on the basis of an assumption of full employment incomes, which is not justified outside equilibrium, and was not assumed in traditional analyses. This reinforces the absence of reasons to view neo-Walrasian equilibrium paths as sufficiently approaching actual paths. It is concluded that behind the reference to intertemporal equilibrium as the microfoundation of macro analyses there is a continuing faith in traditional neoclassical time-consuming adjustment mechanisms, based on the old and untenable conception of capital that the shift to neo-Walrasian equilibria intended to do without.
D50|Hansen and Sargent's Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies: A Review Essay|Lars Peter Hansen and Thomas J. Sargent's book, Recursive Models of Dynamic Linear Economies, exposits, extends, and applies methods for solution and analysis of dynamic stochastic linear quadratic models. The book, which can be used as a monograph or in a graduate course, integrates theory, econometrics, and computation. This essay provides a summary and offers some mild complaints about material not included in what is already a remarkably comprehensive book.
D50|Money creation and destruction|We study money creation and destruction in today's monetary architecture and examine the impact of monetary policy and capital regulation in a general equilibrium setting. There are two types of money created and destructed: bank deposits, when banks grant loans to firms or to other banks and central bank money, when the central bank grants loans to private banks. We show that equilibria yield the first-best level of money creation and lending when prices are flexible, regardless of the monetary policy or capital regulation. When prices are rigid, we identify the circumstances in which money creation is excessive or breaks down and the ones in which an adequate combination of monetary policy and capital regulation can restore effciency.
D50|Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten|"Die Initiative Neue Soziale Marktwirtschaft (INSM) hat das ifo Institut mit der Erstellung einer Studie zum sogenannten Mittelstandsbauch im deutschen Einkommensteuertarif beauftragt. Der Mittelstandsbauch führt bei geringen und mittleren Einkommen zu einem schnell steigenden Grenzsteuersatz, weshalb der Mittelstand in der öffentlichen Debatte oft als derjenige Teil der Gesellschaft angesehen wird, welcher einen besonders großen Teil der staatlichen Abgaben trägt. Das Gutachten „Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten"" – erstellt im ifo Zentrum für öffentliche Finanzen und politische Ökonomie – zeigt konkrete Reformoptionen auf und quantifiziert die Auswirkungen auf Steuerzahler und öffentliche Haushalte mithilfe des ifo-Einkommensteuer-Simulationsmodells (ifo-ESM)."
D50|Productivity and Misallocation in General Equilibrium|We provide non-parametric formulas for aggregating microeconomic shocks in economies with distortions such as taxes, markups, frictions to resource reallocation, financial frictions, and nominal rigidities. We allow for arbitrary elasticities of substitution, returns to scale, factor mobility, and input-output network linkages. We show how to separately measure changes in technical and allocative efficiency, thereby generalizing Solow (1957) and Hulten (1978) to inefficient economies. We also show how to compute the social cost of distortions. We pursue applications focusing on firm-level markups in the US. We find that improvement in allocative efficiency, due to the reallocation over time of market share to high-markup firms, accounts for about half of aggregate TFP growth over the period 1997-2015. We also find that eliminating the misallocation resulting from the large and dispersed markups estimated in the data would raise aggregate TFP by about 15%, increasing the economy-wide cost of monopoly distortions by two orders of magnitude compared to the famous 0.1% estimate by Harberger (1954). These exact numbers should be interpreted with care since the data is imperfect and requires substantial imputation.
D50|A Design for Market Socialism|Socialism is conceptualized as a society in which individuals cooperate, distinguished from capitalism, characterized as involving ubiquitous economic competition. Here, I embed a formal model of cooperation in an Arrow-Debreu model, using the Kantian optimization protocol, and define a Walras-Kant equilibrium, in which firms maximize profits, consumers choose demands for commodities in the usual utilitymaximizing fashion, and the state rents capital to firms. The labor-supply decision of workers, however, is arrived at using the cooperative protocol. Incomes are redistributed through a flat income tax. Walras-Kant equilibria, with any desired degree of income equality exist, are decentralizable, and are Pareto efficient.
D50|Default, Efficiency and Uniqueness|An adequate description of economic dynamics requires the introduction of a monetary system including default penalties and expectations in a society whose economy utilizes money and credit. This essay notes and discusses several of the factors involved in the use of money and credit in a process oriented economy. It links these observations with the general equilibrium treatment of the same underlying economy and formulates a government guidance game where the government sets several key parameters in a monetary economy sufficient to select a unique equilibrium. Low information and error correction are noted. The links to the first and second welfare theorems of GE are also considered as is the setting of the price level.
D50|Embedding Cooperation in General-equilibrium Models|Humans cooperate a great deal in economic activity, but our two major models of equilibrium – Walrasian competitive in markets and Nash in games – portray us as only non-cooperative. In earlier work, I have proposed a model of cooperative decision making (Kantian optimization); here, I embed Kantian optimization in general equilibrium models and show that ‘Walras-Kant’ equilibria exist and often resolve inefficiencies associated with income taxation, public goods and bads, and non-traditional firm ownership, which typically plague models where agents are Nash optimizers. In four examples, introducing Kantian optimization in one market – often the labor market – suffices to internalize externalities, generating Pareto efficient equilibria in their presence. The scope for efficient decentralization via markets appears to be significantly broadened with cooperative behavior.
D50|Implementability, Walrasian equilibria, and efficient matchings|In general screening problems, implementable allocation rules correspond exactly to Walrasian equilibria of an economy in which types are consumers with quasilinear utility and unit demand. Due to the welfare theorems, an allocation rule is implementable if and only if it induces an efficient matching between types and goods.
D50|Externalities in Economies with Endogenous Sharing Rules|Endogenous sharing rules were introduced by Simon and Zame [16] to model payoff indeterminacy in discontinuous games. They prove the existence in every compact strategic game of a mixed Nash equilibrium and an associated sharing rule. We extend their result to economies with externalities [1] where, by definition, players are restricted to pure strategies. We also provide a new interpretation of payoff indeterminacy in Simon and Zame's model in terms of preference incompleteness.
D50|No-arbitrage and Equilibrium in Finite Dimension: A General Result|We consider an exchange economy with a finite number of assets and a finite number of agents. The utility functions of the agents are concave, strictly increasing and their suprema equal infity. We use weak no-arbitrage prices a la Dana and Le Van [5]. Our main result is: an equilibrium exists if, and only if, their exists a weak no-arbitrage price common to all the agents
D50|Small is Beautiful: Motivational Allocation in the Nonprofit Sector|We build an occupational-choice general-equilibrium model with for-profit firms, nonprofit organizations, and endogenous private warm-glow donations. Lack of monitoring on the use of funds implies that an increase of funds of the nonprofit sector (because of a higher income in the for-profit sector, a stronger preference for giving, or an inflow of foreign aid) worsens the motivational composition and performance of the nonprofit sector. We also analyze the conditions under which donors (through linking donations to the motivational composition of the nonprofit sector), nonprofits themselves (through peer monitoring), or the government (using a tax-financed public funding of nonprofits) can eliminate the low-effectiveness equilibrium. We present supporting case-study evidence from developing-country nongovernmental organization sector and humanitarian emergencies.
D50|Dynamic disequilibrium and investment - saving imbalance|Financial crises in the period 2007-2011 put to a serious test the new neoclassical synthesis (NNS) and the sparked sharp criticism by both neoclassical school and the new Keynesians. The idea for dynamic disequilibrium was again placed in the focus of attention and investment-savings imbalance turned out to be the most logical explanation for the pathological deviations from normal development of the economy.The purpose of this publication is to discuss the intertemporal coordination and the opportunities for quantity assessment of this problem in the framework of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSCE). The analysis is presented through the lens of Non-Walarasian disequilibrium, which inherited the main features of Neowalrasian disequilibrium.
D50|Bitcoin 1, Bitcoin 2, ....: An Experiment In Privately Issued Outside Monies|The value of bitcoin depends upon self‐fulfilling beliefs that are hard to pin down. We demonstrate this for the case where bitcoin is the only form of money in the economy and then generalize the message to the case of multiple bitcoin clones and/or a competing fiat currency. Some aspects of the indeterminacy we describe would no longer hold if bitcoin were an interest‐bearing object. (JEL D50, E42)
D50|Distorted monopolistic competition|We characterize the equilibrium and optimal resource allocations in a general equilibrium model of monopolistic competition with multiple asymmetric sectors and heterogeneous firms. We first derive general results for additively separable preferences and general productivity distributions, and then analyze specific examples that allow for closed-form solutions and a simple quantification procedure. Using data for France and the United Kingdom, we find that the aggregate welfare distortion — due to inefficient labor allocation and firm entry between sectors and inefficient selection and output within sectors — is equivalent to the contribution of 6–8% of the total labor input.
D50|Monopoly Power and Endogenous Product Variety: Distortions and Remedies|The inefficiencies related to endogenous product creation and variety under monopolistic competition are two-fold: one static—the misalignment between consumers and producers regarding the value of a new variety; and one dynamic—time variation in markups. Quantitatively, the welfare costs of the former are potentially very large relative to the latter. For a calibrated version of our model with these distortions, their total cost amounts to 2 percent of consumption. Appropriate taxation schemes can implement the optimum amount of entry and variety. Elastic labor introduces a further distortion that should be corrected by subsidizing labor at a rate equal to the markup for goods, in order to preserve profit margins and hence entry incentives.
D50|Money Creation, Monetary Policy, and Capital Regulation|We develop a general equilibrium model to study money creation by private banks and examine the impact of monetary policy and capital regulation. There are two production sectors, financial intermediation, aggregate shocks, safe deposits, and two types of money creation: private deposits when banks grant loans to firms or to other banks and central bank money when the central bank grants loans to private banks. We show that in the baseline model, equilibria yield the first-best level of money creation and lending, regardless of the monetary policy or capital regulation. If we add price rigidities coupled with the zero lower bound, there may be no equilibrium with banks, but under normal economic conditions, an adequate combination of monetary policy and capital regulation can restore the existence of equilibria and efficiency. Finally, we show that Forward Guidance and capital regulation can only avoid a slump in money creation and lending if economic conditions are sufficiently favorable.
D50|Competitive search equilibrium with multidimensional heterogeneity and two-sided ex-ante investments|We analyze a competitive (price-taking) search model where workers and firms make costly investments (e.g. in education and physical capital, respectively) before they enter the labor market. The environment features transferable utility and symmetric information. A key novelty with respect to existing work is that we allow for multidimensional heterogeneity on both sides of the market. The probabilities of finding and filling different jobs and the corresponding wages are determined endogenously in equilibrium. We show that constrained efficient allocations can be determined as optimal solutions to a linear programming problem, whereas the prices supporting these allocations and the associated expected payoffs for workers and firms correspond to the solutions of the ‘dual’ of that linear program. We use this characterization to show that an equilibrium exists and is constrained efficient under very general conditions. The fact that linear programming techniques are used for the structural estimation of frictionless matching models suggests that our framework is potentially useful for empirical studies of labor markets and other markets where search frictions are prevalent.
D50|Three Essays on the Theory of Money and Financial Institutions Essay 2: The Exchange Economy, Money, and Markets|This essay is the second of three. The first is nontechnical and in part autobiographical describing the evolution of my approach to developing a micro economic theory of money and financial institutions. This essay is devoted to a mathematical sketch of a closed economic exchange system with general equilibrium GE and rational expectations RE viewed game theoretically. It squeezes the last drop out of statics and an illusory dynamics in the form of the RE extension of GE with no other externalities beyond money and markets. The third essay builds on process models adding uncertainty,innovation, an active government, nonsymmetric information and other externaties that all lead away from a static equilibrium model to an evolving entity where competition involving finance and innovation is part of a dynamic non-equilibrium process.
D50|Three Essays on the Theory of Money and Financial Institutions Essay 3: The Economy with Innovation, Externalities and Context|This essay is the third of three. The first is nontechnical and in part autobiograhpical describing the evolution of my approach to developing a microeconomic theory of money and.financial institutions. The second essay was devoted to a more formal sketch of a closed economic exchange system with no other externalities beyond money and markets. This essay builds on the existence of monetary exchange but also context, and active government with nonsymmetric information and many externaties indicate that the views of Keynes, Hayek and Schumpeter are all consistent with the next stages of complexity as the logic requires many different arrays of institutions to provide the necessary economic functions and adjust to the variety of socio-economic contexts.
D50|On the emergence of scale-free production networks|We propose a simple dynamical model for the formation of production networks among monopolistically competitive firms. The model subsumes the standard general equilibrium approach à la Arrow–Debreu but displays a wide set of potential dynamic behaviors. It robustly reproduces key stylized facts of firms׳ demographics. Our main result is that competition between intermediate good producers generically leads to the emergence of scale-free production networks.
D50|Social objectives in general equilibrium|I consider an exchange economy in which each agent’s preferences are given by Ui=ui+θF, where ui is a standard utility function, F is a social objective function and θ is the weight F receives. Both F and θ are common to all individuals. I show that F’s equilibrium value may be a decreasing function of θ. I also show that if F is a social welfare function whose arguments are the ui’s, then the economy’s equilibria are independent of θ.
D50|Striving for balance in economics: Towards a theory of the social determination of behavior|This paper is an attempt to broaden economic discourse by importing insights into human behavior not just from psychology, but also from sociology and anthropology. Whereas in standard economics the concept of the decision-maker is the rational actor, and in early work in behavioral economics it is the quasi-rational actor influenced by the context of the moment of decision, in some recent work in behavioral economics, the decision-maker could be called the enculturated actor. This actor's preferences, perception, and cognition are subject to two deep social influences: (a) the social contexts to which he has become exposed and, especially, accustomed; and (b) the cultural mental models—including categories, identities, narratives, and worldviews—that he uses to process information. The paper traces how these factors shape behavior through the endogenous determination of preferences and the lenses through which individuals see the world—their perception and interpretation of situations. The paper offers a tentative taxonomy of the social determinants of behavior and describes the results of controlled and natural experiments that only a broader view of these determinants can plausibly explain. The perspective suggests more realistic models of human behavior for explaining outcomes and designing policies.
D50|Market design and the stability of general equilibrium|We employ laboratory methods to study the stability of competitive equilibrium in Scarf's economy (Scarf, 1960). Tatonnement theory predicts that prices are globally unstable for this economy, i.e. unless prices start at the competitive equilibrium they oscillate without converging. Anderson et al. (2004) report that in laboratory double auction markets, prices in the Scarf economy do indeed oscillate with no clear sign of convergence. We replicate their experiments and confirm that tatonnement theory predicts the direction of price changes remarkably well. Prices are globally unstable with adverse effects for the economy's efficiency and the equitable distribution of the gains from trade.
D50|Arbitrage and asset market equilibrium in infinite dimensional economies with short-selling and risk-averse expected utilities|We consider a model with an infinite number of states of nature, von Neumann–Morgenstern utilities, where agents have different probability beliefs and where short sells are allowed. We show that no-arbitrage conditions, defined for finite dimensional asset markets models, are not sufficient to ensure existence of equilibrium in presence of an infinite number of states of nature. However, if the individually rational utility set U is compact, we obtain an equilibrium. We give conditions which imply the compactness of U. We give examples of non-existence of equilibrium when these conditions do not hold.
D50|Augusto Graziani's Equilibrio generale ed equilibrio macroeconomico: a key milestone in a long journey out of the neoclassical mainstream|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Integrated model of computable general equilibrium and social cost benefit analysis of an Indian oil refinery: Future projections and macroeconomic effects|Social Cost Benefit Analysis has long been used as a useful tool to appraise and evaluate the value to a society of a range of investment projects. Various important aspects of this method have been subject to scrutiny over the decades, such as the appropriate discount rate, whether the Ramsey Rule of `pure time preference' should be applied as impatience with a positive rate or zero-rated with concern for future generations; these are important concerns since the choice of discount rates deeply affect the valuations of future income streams. Other aspects concerning financial flows and appropriate `shadow prices' have also undergone considerable attention. However, when a mega-project with the character of a `universal intermediate' is considered, its multiplier effects may be wide-ranging and permeate several economic and social layers, and may be captured only in the aggregates. This study, a sequel to a paper that ignores such macro-aggregative benefits, examines the costs and benefits of Vadinar refinery in Gujarat with a focus on this welfare dimension on society for the project. The study allows for this large scale benefit accrual and examines the net economic benefit of refining at Vadinar by Essar Oil to the region, the state and the country by Social Cost Benefit Analysis. The framework thus explores a methodological breakthrough in SCBA studies. In constituting the macroeconomic effects of expansion of the mega oil refinery, the economic impact is estimated using the Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model and incorporated into the cost benefit analysis. This assimilation of CBA with macroeconomic externality obtained from the CGE model framework is perhaps only one of its kind in economic analysis of major infrastructure projects of any country. SCBA when combined with CGE as an analytical tool can be gainfully employed to appraise or evaluate large scale projects like oil refineries, especially when they make a splash with their mega-sizes as the Essar Oil refinery is.
D50|Energy Tax Reform in Time of Crisis - The Case of Energy-Dependent and Open Economies|Many arguments against higher energy taxes and environmental pricing assume that a unilateral reform will necessary harm the production costs and the purchasing power of households, and therefore, in the aftermath of the crisis, exacerbate the economic downturn. This paper considers the most extreme arguments which assume that no substitution possibilities away from energy are available in the short to medium run. Unemployment is due to non-clearing wages in the labour market and a shortage of demand in the product market. Under such circumstances, however, a tax shift from labour to energy can increase employment if external trade is sufficiently sensitive to production costs and if the reform succeeds in shifting the tax burden away from production costs to the final consumers’ incomes. When external trade is less sensitive to production costs, what matters the most is the domestic market. In that case, the effect is positive only if wages adjust to compensate the higher final energy bills of consumers, and thus, maintain the level of internal demand.
D50|Dynamic Properties and Pareto Efficiency of Equilibria in OLG Models|"In this paper, we discuss the problem of Pareto efficiency/inefficiency in a family of two-period, pure exchange model of overlapping generations models (OLG). Making use of a known necessary and sucient condition for efficiency of an intertemporal OLG equilibrium, the so-called ""Cass Criterion"", we establish a systematic relation between efficiency/inefficiency of equilibria and the dynamical properties of the forward-in-time dynamics characterizing the different types of OLG models belonging to the generalclass considered in the paper. In so doing, we discuss two generally neglected questions, namely: (i) the ""backward dynamics"" problem arising in OLG models of the Samuelson type; and (ii) for OLG models yielding multiple intertemporal equilibria of different types, the problem of determining which of them are typical or exceptional."
D50|Kurz Kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert<BR>[Concise Comments]|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert<BR>[Concise Comments]|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert<BR>[Concise Comments]|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz Kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert<BR>[Concise Comments]|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Can international migration ever be made a pareto improvement?|The following sections are included:IntroductionOn CompensationComparing Capital Movements and MigrationPareto Improvement: An Impossibility TheoremConclusionsReferences<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|Can International Migration Ever be Made a Pareto Improvement?|Combining both academic and practitioner perspectives, this book provides authoritative insights into the integration of European labour markets against the background of increasing international labour mobility.
D50|Exploring the Intensive and Extensive Margins of World Trade|"World trade evolves at two margins. Where a bilateral trading relationship already exists it may increase through time (intensive margin). But trade may also increase if a trading bilateral relationship is newly established between countries that have not traded with each other in the past (extensive margin). We provide an empirical dissection of post-World War II growth in manufacturing world trade along these two margins. We propose a ""corner-solutions version"" of the gravity model to explain movements on both margins. A Tobit estimation of this model resolves the so-called ""distance puzzle"". It also finds more convincing evidence than recent literature that WTO-membership enhances trade.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
D50|Immigration And Native Welfare| This article unifies two approaches for identifying the welfare and wage effects of immigration, one emphasizing the immigration surplus, the other stressing a potential welfare loss due to a terms-of-trade effect. We decompose the native welfare effect into a standard complementarity effect, augmented by a Stolper-Samuelson effect, and a terms-of-trade effect. We illustrate the welfare and wage effects of endogenous goods prices in a stylized-specific factors model. Finally, we calibrate this model to a generic OECD economy and provide simulation results. The key insight is that endogenous goods prices play a quantitatively important role, sometimes even overturning received results. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.
D50|Kurz kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|You can't have a CGE recession without excess capacity|Simulations with dynamic, single country, CGE models typically imply that reductions in domestic demand, e.g. a cut in investment, generate increases in exports and reductions in imports facilitated by real depreciation. However, currently in the U.S. a large reduction in investment is occurring simultaneously with a contraction in exports and little movement in the real exchange rate. We show that to describe this situation it is necessary to drop the standard CGE assumption that capital is always fully employed in every industry. After introducing an excess capacity specification, we simulate the U.S. recession with and without the Obama stimulus package.
D50|You can't have a CGE recession without excess capacity|Simulations with dynamic, single country, CGE models typically imply that reductions in domestic demand, e.g. a cut in investment, generate increases in exports and reductions in imports facilitated by real depreciation. However, currently in the U.S. a large reduction in investment is occurring simultaneously with a contraction in exports and little movement in the real exchange rate. We show that to describe this situation it is necessary to drop the standard CGE assumption that capital is always fully employed in every industry. After introducing an excess capacity specification, we simulate the U.S. recession with and without the Obama stimulus package.
D50|Kurz Kommentiert|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Strategy-proof Cardinal Decision Schemes|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Scale invariance and similar invariance conditions for bankruptcy problems|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Scale invariance and similar invariance conditions for bankruptcy problems|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Insurer’s insolvency risk and tax deductions for the individual’s net losses|Using the representative agent approach as in Kaplow (Am Econ Rev 82:1013–1017, 1992b), this paper shows that providing tax deductions for the individual's net losses is socially optimal when the insurer faces the risk of insolvency. We further show that the government should adopt a higher tax deduction rate for net losses when the insurer is insolvent than when the insurer is solvent. Thus, tax deductions for net losses could be used to provide an insurance for individuals against the insurer's risk of insolvency. These findings could also be used to explain why a government provides supplementary public insurance or government relief. Finally, we discuss that, if the individuals are heterogeneous in terms of loss severity, loss probability, or income level, providing a tax deduction for the individual's net losses may not always achieve a Pareto improvement, and cross subsidization should be taken into consideration. The Geneva Risk and Insurance Review (2007) 32, 129–145. doi:10.1007/s10713-007-0006-0<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|Insurer's insolvency risk and tax deductions for the individual's net losses|Using the representative agent approach as in Kaplow (Am Econ Rev 82:1013–1017, 1992b), this paper shows that providing tax deductions for the individual's net losses is socially optimal when the insurer faces the risk of insolvency. We further show that the government should adopt a higher tax deduction rate for net losses when the insurer is insolvent than when the insurer is solvent. Thus, tax deductions for net losses could be used to provide an insurance for individuals against the insurer's risk of insolvency. These findings could also be used to explain why a government provides supplementary public insurance or government relief. Finally, we discuss that, if the individuals are heterogeneous in terms of loss severity, loss probability, or income level, providing a tax deduction for the individual's net losses may not always achieve a Pareto improvement, and cross subsidization should be taken into consideration. The Geneva Risk and Insurance Review (2007) 32, 129–145. doi:10.1007/s10713-007-0006-0
D50|Fairness and voting|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Fairness and voting|No abstract is available for this item.
D50|Consistent Voting Systems with a Continuum of Voters|Voting problems with a continuum of voters and finitely many alternatives are considered. The classical Arrow and Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorems are shown to persist in this model, not for single voters but for coalitions of positive size. The emphasis of the study is on strategic considerations, relaxing the nonmanipulability requirement: are there social choice functions such that for every profile of preferences there exists a strong Nash equilibrium resulting in the alternative assigned by the social choice function? Such social choice functions are called exactly and strongly consistent. The study offers an extension of the work of Peleg (1978a) and others. Specifically, a class of anonymous social choice functions with the required property is characterized through blocking coefficients of alternatives, and associated effectivity functions are studied. Finally, representation of effectivity functions by game forms having a strong Nash Equilibrium is studied.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|Consistent voting systems with a continuum of voters|Voting problems with a continuum of voters and finitely many alternatives are considered. The classical Arrow and Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorems are shown to persist in this model, not for single voters but for coalitions of positive size. The emphasis of the study is on strategic considerations, relaxing the nonmanipulability requirement: are there social choice functions such that for every profile of preferences there exists a strong Nash equilibrium resulting in the alternative assigned by the social choice function? Such social choice functions are called exactly and strongly consistent. The study offers an extension of the work of Peleg (1978a) and others. Specifically, a class of anonymous social choice functions with the required property is characterized through blocking coefficients of alternatives, and associated effectivity functions are studied. Finally, representation of effectivity functions by game forms having a strong Nash Equilibrium is studied.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|An Inframarginal Analysis of the Ricardian Model| This paper shows that a 2 x 2 Ricardian model has a unique general equilibrium, and the comparative statics of the equilibrium involve discontinuous jumps. If partial division of labor occurs in equilibrium, the country producing both goods would impose a tariff, whereas the country producing a single good would prefer unilateral free trade. If complete division of labor occurs in equilibrium, both countries would negotiate to achieve free trade. In a model with three countries, the country which does not have a comparative advantage relative to the other two countries, and/or which has low transaction efficiency, may be excluded from trade. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
D50|Specialization, Information, and Growth: A Sequential Equilibrium Analysis| Pricing costs and information problems are introduced into a framework with consumer-producers, economies of specialization, and transaction costs, to predict the endogenous and concurrent evolution of the division of labor and of information concerning economic organization acquired by society. Concurrent evolution generates endogenous growth based on the tradeoff between gains from information about the efficient pattern of the division of labor--which can be acquired via experiments with various patterns--and experimentation costs, which relate to the costs of discovering prices. The concept of Walras sequential equilibrium is developed to analyze the social learning process which is characterized by uncertainties in the direction of the evolution and by a certain trend of the evolutionary process. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd
D50|The Division of Labor, Investment and Capital|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionModelDynamic Equilibrium and Comparative DynamicsEndogenous HorizonConclusionAppendix: Proof of Comparative Dynamics of EquilibriumReferences<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
D50|Das Walras-Gesetz bei Mengenrestriktionen|The article discusses the validity of Walras' Law in case of quantity constraints.
